from tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen)
subject re hercules graphite \?
organization software metrics inc.
lines 56

tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes
has anyone used a hercules graphite adapter \? it looks good on paper , and
steve gibson gave it a very good review in infoworld. i 'd love to get a
real world impression , though how is the speed \? drivers \? support \?

ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib) writes
the pc world reviewers found out that the herc people had hard coded
winbench text into the driver. clever , no \? in any case , the winbench
results are pretty much inflated.

two things that annoyed me about the pc magazine review

1. their benchmarking technique is seriously flawed , as was clearly shown
by the graphite and 9gxe 's cheating . ca n't they just admit that
their benchmark is to easy to optimize for and or cheat on \? wintach
is much harder to beat...

2. the big cheat that hercules iit used was overlappipping bitblit and
polyline optimization , and hercules sent them a new driver which did n't
do this but produced almost identical scores. yet , the only thing
pc magazine says is that scores are not legitimate could n't they
at least make some comment about its real world performance \?

i'm not so much going by winbench for performance , but , rather , by steve
gibson 's results , which are more real world based (like using micrografx
draw to benchmark). if you believe gibson , that is ... ) he writes

despite these documented cheats , i have to say that in real world
applications the hercules graphite adapter actually draws faster than
any other display adapter in the industry. ... even though it 's
just a modest isa bus card , it outperformed every local bus adapter i
have , including the stealth 24 vlb , the fahrenheit 1280va vlb , the
ati vlb mach32 and even the weitek p9000 based diamond viper vlb.

this kind of praise is enough for me to be interested in it , bogus winbench
or not ! )

when and if you get one send me mail.. i might buy that ati gu off
you.. 9 )

i already returned the ati gu . my dealer had sold eight of them , and
seven were returned to him. i'm now (temporarily) back to running an
original ati gu , until i get my graphite. and , yes , the gu is faster in
my 16 mb system than the gu , especially in bitmap handling (that 's where
you use bitblits).

hercules has a promotion available for vars and software developers you
can buy one graphite or graphite vlb for 50 off list to try it out. at
just 199 for graphite or 249 for the vlb version i decided it was worth
trying (i'm supposed to get the vlb board within two weeks). i 'll post
my impressions when i get it...


tom haapanen tomh@metrics.com software metrics inc waterloo , ont
stick your index fingers into both corners of your mouth. now pull
up. that 's how the corrado makes you feel. car , january '93

subject roman.bmp 04 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 958


from rttimme@emory.edu (dr. richard timmer)
subject approach for windows \?
organization emory university , atlanta , ga
lines 21
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3

article crossposted from comp.os.ms windows.apps
author was dr. richard timmer
posted on 24 apr 93 23 11 16 gmt


hello winnetters

i have seen a great deal of discussion herein on the relative merits of
ms access and borland paradox win. however , are there any users out there
with experience with the database package called approach . it has gotten
a number of very good reviews from the various mags. and it seems like it
would require less hardware overhead than paradox. i have ruled out access
because some aspects of it are extremely non intuitive , e.g. requiring a
field to always have a value. i like what i 've seen of paradox , but it
seems like the resource requirements are greater than what i have (386 25 mhz ,
6 mb ram).

so , please provide me with your thoughts are approach , good and bad. thanks.


richard timmer

from anik@crhc.uiuc.edu (sadun anik)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
organization center for reliable and high performance computing
lines 45
rick.734972416@silver 2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com
nntp posting host lyra.crhc.uiuc.edu
in reply to reimert@.etdesg.trw.com 's message of fri , 16 apr 93 21 34 28 gmt

in article 2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com reimert@.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert) writes

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that windows nt (tm) is a
multi user os , as well as multi threading , etc. i certainly have n't
seen this to be the case. there are seperate accounts for each person ,
and even seperate directories if that is desired. i do n't see an
implentation of simultaneuos use though.

scott

it certainly is multi user. what i have seen from the march beta is
that it does n't yet come with the stuff which exploits multi user
features. i remember somebody from ms stating that it does n't allow
two users share one gui. my interpretation of this was that one user
per console but all the networking and rpc based stuff you want.

i believe ftp and rlogin deamons for nt systems will come from third
party. somebody already has a beta version of an unsecure ftpd on the
net. there is no reason why one cannot write a posix based shell like
csh on unix for remote logins.

in general i liked nt when i checked it out. it slow compared to
win3.1 (just like any other real os). the beta version , although being
slow , botts up much faster than my sun workstation. windows subsystems
also start up a lot faster than x windows. i believe bill gates was
right when he stated that nt was not for everybody. after playing
around with it for a while i was convinced. if i owned a busines using
a business computer from ibm or some other established vendor , i
would consider moving to nt platform because it would provide a much
cheaper solution (if you are running sql servers etc.). it provides
the robustness such an application requires.

on the other hand if you like your dos games , more or less forget
about nt. you can always boot to dos but in general that defeats
the purpose of using nt. most of nt 's features are visible in a
networked environment and in such an environment you ca n't reboot your
machine at will. for personal use , i would rather wait for the win32
based windows release (whatever you name it) than jump to nt bandwagon.
i expect most applications will keep on using win16 until win32
becomes widely available.


sadun anik , u of illinois at urbana champaign
center for reliable and high performance computing
e mail anik@crhc.uiuc.edu

from mscha@ctp.com (michael schaap)
subject re windows speaker sound driver
organization ctp inc.
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 16

tony s annese (claebaur@shell.portal.com) wrote
in article 1993apr19.235430.6097@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu alee@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (alec lee) writes
is there an ftp site where i can get the ms speaker sound driver \? there 's
a sound.exe file that claims to be the driver but i'm suspicious since
it 's not a .drv file.

thats the file...
it 's a self extracting archive. (run it and it extracts a .drv file.)

michael


groeten uit o michael schaap
o nederland t p mscha@ctp.com ctp
() sherrif inc.
dept. damn good coffee ! and hot !

from narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu
subject need help with wordperfect for windows...
distribution usa
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa
lines 19

i have two questions

1) i have been having troubles with my wordperfect for windows.
when i try to select and change fonts , etc. some of the text
disappears. i tried to center two lines once , and the second
line disappeared. i can not find the error , and i do not
know how to correct it.

2) is this the right newsgroup \? where should i go \?

e mail prefered...

who else is still waiting for naked gun part (pi)

'' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ''
' '' 'nathan'narloch'' '' '' ' alumn122@whscdp.whs.edu '' '' '' '
'' '(enforcer'burp)' '' '' ''or' ' narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu ' '' ''
'' '' milw , wi 53207 '' ' joi n'the'official'psycho team... '' ''
' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '

from sp@odin.fna.no (svein pedersen)
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
organization university of tromsoe , norway
lines 11

sorry , i did`nt tell exactly what i need.

i need a utility for automatic updating (deleting , adding , changing) of .ini files for windows.
the program should run from dos batchfile or the program run a script under windows.

i will use the utility for updating the win.ini (and other files) on meny pc`s.

do i find it on any ftp host \?

svein


from ccastco@prism.gatech.edu (constantinos malamas)
subject re how do i quickly switch between windows screen resolutions \?
distribution na
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 18

in article c5qlr8.djl@cbnewsl.cb.att.com slg@slgsun.att.com (the idealistic cynic) writes
can someone out there tell me how to switch window 's screen resolution
quickly and easily \? i know that i can go back into install to do it ,

sean l. gilley


take a look at ftp.cica.indiana.edu at pub pc win3 (util \? misc \? )
for a program caleld vswitch.zip.it 's as close to want you want as you can
get in win3.1 ...
hope it helps...



costas malamas
georgia institute of technology
oit ua opinions expressed are not necessarily oit 's...
internet ccastco@prism.gatech.edu

from wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom)
subject re mathcad 4.0 swap file
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 12
nntp posting host access.digex.net

baseball@catch the fever.scd.ucar.edu (gregg walters) writes

i have 16mb of memory on my 386sx. i have been running windows
without a swap file for several months. will mathcad 4.0 be
happy with this , or insist on a swap file \?

presumeably , you mean without a permanent swap file. if windows needs a
swap file , it will upo and create one if a permanent one does n't exist.
permanent is generally faster though. i do n't know why mathcad would n't
be happy with either type ver. 3.0 is and so should any program conforming
to the win specification.


subject what about smartdrv double buffer \?
from psweeney@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu
organization miami university academic computer service
lines 9

i am curious what does the double buffer parameter in smartdrv actually do
for me \? i seem to have less problems in windows when i leave it out.

using a ps 2 with an esdi drive , but also a ps 2 with a scsi.

any response is welcome.

peter sweeney
psweeney@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu

from wefiii@axion.uucp (warren e. fridy iii)
subject re program manager two questions
reply to wefiii axion@palan.palantir.com
organization private
lines 17

in 1993apr22.204406.20330@vpnet.chi.il.us lisbon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gerry swetsky) writes

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program manager \?
i know ctl esc , esc will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt f1 .

you might try the recorder and make a micro. i done that to do certain operations
in a windows app that did n't have the ability to use a micro. it should be in the
accessories window. the only problem is that it has to be runing for it to work.
but , good luck.



warren e. fridy iii
250 61st. street north
st. petersburg , fl 33710 internet wefiii axion@palan.palantir.com
(813)384 0584 uucp ...palan ! deep6 ! axion ! wefiii

from sat@eng.tridom.com (stephen thomas)
subject mouse jumpiness solved !
nntp posting host nut.eng.tridom.com
reply to sat@eng.tridom.com
organization at t tridom
lines 24

ca n't guarantee that it 'll work for everyone , but i finally fixed my mouse
jumpiness problems i installed a bus mouse. (sorry , i did n't say the solution
was free.) in the past i 'd tried everything with my microsoft serial mouse.
(cleaning it , unloading all kinds of tsrs , turning off smartdrv write
cacheing , changing com ports , ...) nothing worked. yesterday i finally broke
down and bought a mouse systems bus mouse. the improvement is even better
than i had imagined ! so much so that my old mouse must have been jumpy
all the time (i just thought it was jumpy sometimes) , and i had gotten so
used to it i did n't notice. my wife , who uses the computer about once a
month , noticed the improvement literally within a second !

i ca n't say anything about other bus mice , but with the mouse systems
one you 'll have to give up either com2 or lpt2 to an irq. also , if you
do n't know , mouse systems mice have three buttons. the driver includes
a utility that lets you assign keystrokes to the middle button.

hope this helps someone else. if you 're anywhere near as frustrated as i
was , it 's well worth the 80.



stephen thomas at t tridom (404 514 3522)
email sat@eng.tridom.com , attmail ! tridom ! sat


from reimert@anthrax.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert)
subject re win nt file systems
organization trw inc. , redondo beach , ca
lines 26

in article 1993apr26.103230.10618@spider.co.uk keiths@spider.co.uk (keith smith) writes
ok will some one out there tell me why how dos 5
can read (i hav n't tried writing in case it breaks something)
the win nt ntfs file system.
i thought ntfs was supposed to be better than the fat system

keith

dos 5.0 6.0 cannot read the ntfs file system , although the ntfs file system
can read the fat file system of dos. i have windowsnt on a seperate
partition on my machine at home , and i can read my dos disks from windows nt ,
but not vice versa.

as far as the robustness of the file system , it seems to be very fast , and
i have yet to have a single problem with it. that does n't prove it 's better
than the fat system though. read the book 'inside windows nt , ' it will give
you all the info you 're looking for.

scott




scott reimert reimert@mamacass.etdesg.trw.com standard disclaimer
redondo beach , ca blah blah blah ...
always store beer in a cool dark place

subject eps display software \?
from hadam@bcsc02.gov.bc.ca
organization bc systems corporation
nntp posting host bcsc02.gov.bc.ca
lines 4

does any one know of any shareware freeware software which lets one display
eps files on a pc with dos and or windows \? \? \?
your reply would be much appreciated. thanks.
hal adam , hadam@bcsc02.gov.bc.ca

from bjorndahl@augustana.ab.ca
subject re document of .rtf
organization augustana university college , camrose , alberta
lines 10

in article 1993mar30.113436.7339@worak.kaist.ac.kr , tjyu@eve.kaist.ac.kr (yu taijung) writes
does anybody have document of .rtf file or know where i can get it \?

thanks in advance. )

i got one from microsoft tech support.


sterling g. bjorndahl , bjorndahl@augustana.ab.ca or bjorndahl@camrose.uucp
augustana university college , camrose , alberta , canada (403) 679 1100

from dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina)
subject more diamond ss 24x
nntp posting host dil.adp.unc.edu
organization unc office of information technology
lines 11

has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.
i had a ati ultra but was getting genral protection fault errors
in an spss application. these card manufactures must have terrible
quality control to let products on the market with so many bugs.
what a hassle. running on gateway 2000 dx2 50.
thx dave l



from eialbur@sgies9.sdrc.com (ron albury)
subject re procomm plus for windows problems....
organization sdrc
lines 14

you have a lot more problems keeping up with hardware interrupts in windows than
in dos regardless of what communication software you are using.

try the following
1) turn off disk write cache for the disk you are downloading to. the
cache will save up so much that when it grabs control of the machine
it takes too long to write to disk and you loose characters.

2) use a different uart for your serial line. the old uart 's (8250 or 16450)
can only buffer one character internally. the new uart 's (16550) can
buffer 16 , which should be plenty for most situations. you can run
windows msd.exe to find out what uart is on the machine.

ron

from silver@fraser.sfu.ca (craig silver)
subject format a s under win. dos6 \? \?
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
distribution na
lines 13

has anyone experienced problems formatting a system floppy in the file
manager under dos 6 \? i get a formatted disk but when i boot with it ,
my hard drive is n't recognized. i did install doublespace. also , i
was able to make a good working system floppy from the dos 6 command
shell (no windows).

let me know if you 've had this problem too and if you 've heard what 's
going on.



craig silver computer science at simon fraser university
silver@sfu.ca (internet) burnaby , b.c. , canada

from jroberts@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (robertson)
subject ati ultra pro drivers \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 4

does anybody know the ftp site with the latest windows drivers for the ati
gup \?
thanks


from mveraart@fel.tno.nl (mario veraart)
subject re help importing .eps files into word 2.0
organization tno physics and electronics laboratory
lines 32

jburke@abacus.bates.edu (jburke) writes

i was wondering if anyone knew how to view a .eps in ms word 2.0a..
here are the first couple of lines if it helps...
! ps adobe 3.0
creator prowrite
title tcwn
orientation portrait
pages 12
pageorder ascend
can any one help \?


james burke by reading this you agree not to hold
the writer responsible for any evil
jburke@abacus.bates.edu happening that may befall you at any time.


we had a similar problem in converting a .eps file. the solution was simple.
we changed the first line from ! ps adobe 3.0 to

! ps adobe 2.0

this fouled the converter , the .eps file only contained very simple
move and draw statements.

mario

mario veraart tno physics and electronics laboratory
email rioj7@fel.tno.nl the hague the netherlands
if all else fails , show pretty pictures and animated videos ,
and do n't talk about performance , david bailey

from bca@ece.cmu.edu (brian c. anderson)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
originator bca@packard.ece.cmu.edu
lines 11
reply to bca@ece.cmu.edu (brian c. anderson)
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon
distribution cmu


in article 1qmc7e g1b@access.digex.net , wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom) writes
from wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
date 16 apr 1993 09 27 10 0400
much stuff deleted

what is win32 \? i upgraded to mathcad 4.0 and it installed a directory for
win32 under windows system . during the upgrade it told me that win32 was
required.


from masika@bnr.ca (nicholas masika)
subject filemanager strange sizes in summary line
lines 25
reply to masika@bnr.ca
organization bell northern research

i have just noticed my filemanager doing something strange recently.
usually , the line at the bottom of the filemanager (the status bar , i
guess) displays the total disk space and the total number of bytes for
the current selection. if i select a whole bunch of files , i will get
an exact byte count.

recently , i notice it incorrectly displays this count it 's truncating !
if i select a file that is , say , 532 bytes , it correctly displays '532 bytes'.
if i select select a file that is 23 , 482 bytes , it displays '23 bytes' ,
not 23 kbytes , just 23 bytes ! if i select 893 , 352 it will report only
893 bytes in the selection. if i select over a meg worth of files , say
3 , 356 , 345 it reports 3 bytes ! it 's as if it 's got a problem with displaying
more than 3 characters !

my system 486dx 33 , 8m memory , stacker 3.0 , dos 5 , win 3.1. i 've run
the latest virus scanners (scan102 , f prot) and they did n't report anything.
could i have unknowingly altered something that controls the formatting
of the status bar in the filemanger \?

nicholas masika , masika@bnr.ca
bell northern research , ottawa
(613) 765 4893 fax 765 4309

opc development operations


from randy@msc.cornell.edu (randy ellingson)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
keywords printer
organization cornell university
lines 43


in article 1993apr18.041741.6051@csd newshost.stanford.edu kayman@csd d 3.stanford.edu (robert kayman) writes

hello fellow 'netters.

i am asking for your collected wisdom to help me decide which printer i
should purchase , the canon bj200 (bubblejet) vs. the hp deskjet 500. i
thought , rather than trust the salesperson , i would benefit more from
relying on those who use these printers daily and use them to their fullest
potential. and , i figure all of you will know their benefits and pitfalls
better than any salesperson.

now , i would greatly appreciate any information you could render on the 360
dpi of the canon bubblejet vs. the hewlett packard deskjet 500 (300 dpi).
which is faster \? is there a noticeable print quality difference ,
particularly in graphics \? which will handle large documents better (75
pages or more) any personal experience on either will be appreciated
here \? which works better under windows 3.1 (any driver problems , etc) \?
cost of memory , font packages , toner cartridges , etc \? basically , your
personal experiences with either of these machines is highly desirable ,
both good and bad.

advance kudos and thanks for all your input. e mail or news posting is
readily acceptable , but e mail is encouraged (limits bandwidth).


sincerely ,

robert kayman kayman@cs.stanford.edu or cpa@cs.stanford.edu

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not.
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision
revised \? ! \? !


sorry for the followup , but i couldn'y get email through on your addresses.
i , too , am trying to decide between these two printers , and i would like to
hear what users of these printers have to say about the questions above.

thank you.

randy randy@msc.cornell.edu


from ac151@freenet.carleton.ca (david clarke)
subject dos 6 emm386 windows 3.1 prob
reply to ac151@freenet.carleton.ca (david clarke)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 22


has anyone else experienced problems with windows hanging
after the installation of dos 6 \? i have narrowed the
problem down to emm386.

if if remove (or disable) emm386 , windows is ok. if emm386
is active , with noems , windows hangs. if i use auto with
emm386 , the system hangs on bootup.

dave.




david clarke ...the well is deep...wish me well...
ac151@freenet.carleton.ca david clarke@mtsa.ubc.ca clarkec@sfu.ca


from rick@silver.sjsu.edu (richard warner)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
nntp posting host silver.sjsu.edu
organization san jose state university math cs dept.
lines 12

rmohns@vax.clarku.edu writes

windows nt is a giant windows operating system. unline win3.1 , it does not
run on top of dos. it is its own os , with (billy gates assures us) true
multi tasking multithreading , meets dod security specs , will run win3.1
programs as well as dos programs , has multi processor support , and is
primarily a server program. it 's overhead is too high for it to be
economical for most users.

correction all billy is promising is that it will run 'most' windows 3.1
programs and the 'major' dos programs. do not expect everything you
have to run under nt unless all you have are current ms apps.

from swyatt@bach.udel.edu (stephen l wyatt)
subject re winbench
nntp posting host bach.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 12

ok , so if everyone is cheating.. is there any tests that run some
macro (to load a huge drawing , etc...) on the same machine that might
then tell us what the real world results are \?

i mean , run the tests on the same machine with different video cards
running word , excel , or something like that to see how fast the cards are \?



swyatt@brahms.udel.edu ! ! ! no disclaimer...i blame everything on someone else



from ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar)
subject re winqvt net v3.4 \?
article i.d. biochemi.ashok.661.0
distribution usa
organization cwru school of medicine
lines 19
nntp posting host axa12 slip.dialin.cwru.edu

in article 354@lorien.ocf.llnl.gov dave@angmar.llnl.gov (dave fuess) writes

an earlier article in this newsgroup made reference to
winqvt net version 3.4. realy \? where \? i tried archie
with no luck. it 's probably just a typo.

not a typo. it was uploaded to ftp.cica.indiana.edu a couple days back.

but i sure would like to get one if it 's real as i too
have a printer problem in winqvt.

version 3.4 uses standard windows printer drivers.

ashok


ashok aiyar mail ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu
department of biochemistry tel (216) 368 3300
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax (216) 368 4544

from hwrvo@kato.lahabra.chevron.com (w.r. volz)
subject re norton desktop for windows 2.2
organization chevron oil field research company
lines 18

in article 1993apr2.180451.15428@exu.ericsson.se , ebuwoo@ebu.ericsson.se (james woo 66515) writes
hi ,
i wonder if anyone has had a chance try out norton desktop for windows
version 2.2 yet. i understand the upgrade cost from 2.0 to 2.2 is about
20.00 but i have no idea what the new version has.

i got the offer to upgrade this weekend. it 's 19 8.50 shipping and
handling. the s h seem way too steep for just a couple of disks. sounds
like ripoff city. can this purchased at vendors \?




bill volz
chevron petroleum technology co.
earth model interpretation analysis division.
p.o. box 446 , la habra , ca 90633 0446
phone (310) 694 9340 fax (310) 694 7063

from daa7365@tamuts.tamu.edu (diego a. aranda)
subject windows shareware monthly (information)
article i.d. tamsun.1ps35rinnfpd
organization texas a m university , college station
lines 100
nntp posting host tamuts.tamu.edu


windows shareware monthly (wsm) is an on line forum for information about the
newest and best windows 3.x and nt shareware freeware software.

wsm is a compilation of submissions from shareware freeware authors in a single
windows .hlp (help system) file. all types of software may be submitted for
entry in wsm utilities , applications , games , programming tools , etc.

wsm benefits windows shareware freeware authors by allowing them to publicize
their software releases , inform users of updated versions , and to increase
their installed base of users. those searching for specific windows software
will benefit by having a complete list of available software available at their
fingertips complete with feature lists , current prices , and any other
relevant information.

windows software authors may submit entries to windows shareware monthly in the
following manner

1. compose a short summary of the function of the software. include all
special features which are unique to your product and which set it apart
from other programs in the genre. be sure to include specific details
such as the current release version , where the software is available ,
how much the registration fee costs , how much disk space is required , any
special requirements (e.g. sound card , or vbrun200.dll , etc.) , how the
author may be contacted , etc. because text is highly compressible , the
summary may be as long as is necessary , however , it is best to keep it
short. a good guideline is a single screenful of 12 point text at 640x480
resolution. order forms and other such addendum may be included if desired.
all submissions whould be in plain text (ascii) format. formatting will
be exactly as it is submitted i will simply cut and paste text files
into a help authoring system. if you require special formatting
conventions such as boldface text or italics , or a larger font size ,
indicate so clearly within the text file. for best results , use windows
notepad to create the .txt file.

2. include up to 100k of windows format .bmp (bitmap) screen shots which
display the workings or special features of each program. special cases
(rendering applications for example) which require 256 color bitmaps may
submit up to 250k of .bmp files all other should observe the 100k limit
and use 16 color format. for maximum compatiblity with the software which
will be used to create the wsm .hlp file (stefan olson 's help writer 's
assistant for windows) , please save the bitmaps with windows paintbrush or
wingif.

3. include a 16 color .bmp of the program 's icon (.ico file). many programs
are available to convert .ico to .bmp format , or windows paintbrush may be
used. the .bmp will be embedded in the summary text.

4. double check for spelling errors , formatting corrections , etc.

5. compress the .txt file , the .bmp of the program icon , and any additional
.bmps into a single file using pkzip (any version).

6. submit the entry by uuencoding the .zipfile , and e mailing it to

daa7365@tamuts.tamu.edu

if submitting via the internet or compuserve. if submitting via america
online , send a brief message indicating submission , and append the .zip
file , then e mail to

diegoaa

7. if any changes are required , or a new version is released , complete
the above procedures again. send all submissions to the @tamuts address ,
and any comments , suggestions , criticisms , to daa7365@rigel.tamu.edu.

all entries received before the deadline will be included in the subsequent
edition of wsm. the editor will not be held responsible for any errors , and
we reserve the right to make changes to the entries.

wsm is not limited to shareware freeware software. a special area will be
devoted to commercially available windows 3.x and nt software. commercial
software authors should follow the same steps above , with the exception of
the limitations on size the .txt file and .bmps may be as large as required
(and as large as is practical for transmission over phone lines). there
is no charge for the publishing of either shareware freeware or commercial
product entries.

advertisements for computer hardware , software , bulletin boards , etc. may
be submitted as well. again , the same procedures apply , with the exception of
the size limitations. there is no charge for advertising space. the first
ten advertisements submitted each month will be included subsequent
submissions will not be included due to size constraints.

wsm is currently looking for persons willing to devote the time to author
columns within wsm. a c c programing section , a visual basic section , and
two windows specific opinion advice columns are envisioned. all work will
be on a voluntary basis. if you wish to aid wsm and author a monthly column
on one of the above topics , please send us mail at daa7365@tamuts.tamu.edu or
diegoaa on america online.

the first edition of wsm will be distributed may 1st via america online ,
compuserve , and the internet. the deadline for submissions is april 28th.
the first edition filename will be wsm 1.zip , with each subsequent monthly
release continuing in the series naming convention (wsm 2.zip , etc.). each
edition will be released on the first of each month , and the deadline for
submission will be at least three days before release.



from axa12@po.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar)
subject re beta testers required for winsock version of windows trumpet
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 19
reply to axa12@po.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , peter@psychnet.psychol.utas.edu.au (peter r. tattam) says

contact me for details.

peter@psychnet.psychol.utas.edu.au

peter

this is posted on behalf of peter tattam. there is a north american
mirror with the beta test version of wintrumpet for winsock. please
contact me or peter for details.

ashok

ashok aiyar department of biochemistry , cwru axa12@po.cwru.edu
for internet access (telnet ftp) in cleveland , contact info@wariat.org
telnet to wariat.wariat.org and login as bbs
dial (216) 481 9425 9445 (v.32bis) or (216) 481 9436 (2400 bps)

from mmccolli@comanche.ess.harris.com (mike mccollister)
subject faster oak vga drivers \? \? \?
nntp posting host su100l.ess.harris.com
reply to mmccolli@comanche.ess.harris.com
organization harris corporation , government aerospace systems division
lines 21

i'm using an oak based vga card on my computer (640x480x256). i 've
downloaded the driver from ftp.cica.indiana.edu and i 've had good luck
with it. however , does anyone know if a faster driver is available for
this card \?

thanks ,

mike





michael j. mccollister phone (407) 729 7054
harris corporation email
p.o. box 94000 mmccolli@su100l.ess.harris.com
mailstop 100 4823
palm bay , florida 32905 i'm not going to say anything
stupid today. not !



from ob00@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (olcay boz)
subject re how do i make ghostscript work \?
organization lehigh university
lines 40


you need gs252ini.zip and 24 .zip , and 25 .zip font files. you can get these
from wuarchive.wustl.edu mirrors msdos postscript. i also advice you to get
gs252gui.zip from cica. it is a nice interface for ghostscript. ghostscript is
very user unfriendly. this interface makes it user friendly. for using this
interface you have to get vbrun100.dll (from risc.ua.edu pub network misc)
copy this to your windows directory. copy gui executables and other files to
your ghostscript directory. and anter the line below to your autoexec.bat.

set gs lib c your ghostscript and gui directory

now you are ready to use it. enjoy it.



in article 1993apr16.114432.1@ulkyvx.louisville.edu , cl238405@ulkyvx.louisvill
e.edu (steve w brewer) writes
what files do i need to download for ghostscript 2.5.2 \? i have never used
ghostscript before , so i do n't have any files for it. what i do have is
gs252win.zip , which i downloaded from cica. unfortunately , it does n't seem to
work on it 's own , but needs some more files that i do n't have. i want to run
ghostscript both in windows 3.1 and in ms dos on a 386 pc (i understand there 's
versions for both environments). what are all the files i need to download and
where can i get them \? any info would be appeciated.



steve w brewer rewerb w evets
cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu ude.ellivsiuol.xvyklu@504832lc







m
0



from apland@mala.bc.ca (ron apland)
subject re w4wg novell
organization malaspina college
lines 29

in article 1993apr27.102626.1@csc.canterbury.ac.nz , cctr132@csc.canterbury.ac.nz (nick fitzgerald , pc software consultant , csc , uoc , nz) writes
in article 1rh2mi ea4@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu , bilan@cps.msu.edu (thomas j
bilan) writes

if i put lastdrive z in my config.sys , netx will run but i ca n't access
drive f to log in to novell.
if i do n't put lastdrive z in my config.sys i ca n't access other w4wg
drives from the file manager.

it seems that there should be a way to make netx work with the lastdrive
statement in my config.sys.

first off , i have n't used w4wg (but i think that 's about to change ! ).

the problem is the lastdrive command and the way netware in general (and
in this case netx in particular) adds drives to the device chain.
setting lastdrive z means there are no unassigned (as opposed to
unused ) drive letters for netware to use , as it tacks its drive
mappings onto the end of the existing list of drives. w4wg obviously
attaches its network drives to existing , unused drive letters.

i 'd guess the next thing i 'd try is something like lastdrive m , which on
most machines will leave a fair swathe of drives for w4wg and still
allow up to 13 netware drive mappings as well.

w4wg requires dos drives. i use lastdrive j which makes my first novell drive
k and leaves me drives g , h , i and j for w4wg. my local dos drives use a f.

ron

from mcbride@ohsu.edu (ginny mcbride)
subject re trumpet for windows other news readers
article i.d. ohsu.mcbride.126
organization oregon health sciences university
lines 31
nntp posting host 137.53.60.24

in article ashok.653.0@biochemistry.cwru.edu ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar) writes

in article 1993apr21.082430@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder) writes

what the status of trumpet for windows \? will it use the windows sockets \?

stuff deleted

currently wintrumpet is in very late beta. it looks like an excellent
product , with several features beyond the dos version.

wintrumpet supports the trumpet tcp , novell lwp , and there is also a direct to
packet driver version that some people are using with the dis pkt shim.

ashok


ashok aiyar mail ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu
department of biochemistry tel (216) 368 3300
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax (216) 368 4544

what 's it gonna cost \?

ginny mcbride oregon health sciences university
mcbride@ohsu.edu networks technical services


the purpose of writing is to inflate weak ideas , obscure poor reasoning ,
and inhibit clarity. with a little practice , writing can be an intimidating
and impenetrable fog. (academia , here i come) calvin hobbes


from reimert@.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
organization trw inc. , redondo beach , ca
lines 14

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that windows nt (tm) is a
multi user os , as well as multi threading , etc. i certainly have n't
seen this to be the case. there are seperate accounts for each person ,
and even seperate directories if that is desired. i do n't see an
implentation of simultaneuos use though.

scott




scott reimert reimert@mamacass.etdesg.trw.com standard disclaimer
redondo beach , ca blah blah blah ...
always store beer in a cool dark place

from sam4628@chensun2m.tamu.edu (arglebargle iv)
subject re how can i use the mouse in non windows
organization dept. of chemical engineering , texas a m university
lines 34
distribution world
reply to sam4628@chensun2m.tamu.edu
nntp posting host chensun2m.tamu.edu

in article 5iq@netcom.com , kasajian@netcom.com (kenneth kasajian) writes
wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (oliver kretzschmar) writes



hey ,

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the mouse
in a non windows application , which runs in an window. we use
ms windows 3.1 and have clipper applications. exists there any
routines or something else \? please mail me your informations.

thanks for your efforts ,

oliver

name o.kretzschmar inst.ike university stuttgart
phone 49 711 685 2130 pfaffenwaldring 31
fax 49 711 685 2010 7000 stuttgart 80
email wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de

very simple. you have to have the mouse.com or mouse.sys loaded in dos
before you run windows. note that you do n't need to have these files loaded
to use the mouse in windows.


... and you need a video driver which is completely windows 3.1 compatible , and
your mouse driver has to be completely compatible as well. not quite so simple.
(i never could get my logitech mouse to work 100 in a dos window with my
old paradise card now i have a diamond ss24x and the 6.2 mouse drivers , and
everything works perfectly).

steven m.


from hfeldman@infoserv.com (howard mitchell feldman)
subject re need longer filenames
organization mind 's eye , inc.
lines 18
x mailer tmail version 1.13

in 1993apr19.211044.28763@guinness.idbsu.edu , lhighley@gozer.idbsu.edu (larry paul highley) wrote


is there a utility out there that will let me use filenames longer than
the standard 8.3 format. if so please email me.

please e mail me too ,

thanks

...howard
hfeldman@infoserv.com



howard feldman
mind 's eye , inc.

from ncmoore2@netnews.jhuapl.edu (nathan moore)
subject re bernoulli drives disks...
organization jhu applied physics laboratory
lines 22

nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu (nilay patel) writes

i am looking for bernoulli removable tapes for the 20 20 drive..

do n't laugh ... i am serious...

if you have any 20 mb tapes lying around that you would like to get rid of ,
please mail me ...

nilay patel
nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu

you do mean disks , do n't you , not tapes \? you forgot to say whether you
were looking for the old 8 or the newer 5.25 .

sorry , just use them at work and do n't think they would appreciate it.


nathan c. moore
the johns hopkins university applied physics laboratory
ncmoore2@aplcomm.jhuapl.edu cis 70702 , 1576
please note above address for email replies.

from bca@ece.cmu.edu (brian c. anderson)
subject trnasfering binary files from terminal to unix
originator bca@packard.ece.cmu.edu
keywords terminal , kermit , unix
lines 15
reply to bca@ece.cmu.edu (brian c. anderson)
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon
distribution cmu


i'm attempting to transfer files from my home computer running
windows 3.1 terminal to a workstation at school. the file transfer protocol
at home is kermit for binary files. i'm running kermit on the workstation at school and
setting the file transfer protocol to binary. i am unable to upload files
to school but can download files from school to home. during download ,
terminal displays ther retrying message several times then the message '
verify you 're using the correct protocol'.
anyone have any ideas on how to fix \? either e mail or post to this
group.

thanks , in advance ,

brian anderson go pens make it 14 in a row


from dericks@plains.nodak.edu (dale erickson)
subject telix problem
nntp posting host plains.nodak.edu
organization north dakota higher education computing network
lines 9

when i use telix (or kermit) in win 3.1 , or use telix after exiting windows
to dos , telix can not find the serial port. if you have some ideas on how
to solve this problem or where i can find further information , send me email
or send it to the news group. thanks.

dale erickson
dericks@plains.nodak.edu



from cca20@keele.ac.uk (j. atherton)
subject serial printing
lines 16
distribution world
nntp posting host seq1.cc.keele.ac.uk
summary output to serial printer garbles with windows app. (e.g. works)
keywords works handshaking serial
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

hi ,
we 've been having problems on a few setups when printing to a
serial printer (dmp or laser). i have used works and windows write. the
output is ok from dos and if i send plain text output , but anything
fancy garbles or just does n't output. the exception is outputting to a
lserjet 4 which 'appears' to be fast enough receiving data , not to
bother about handshaking messages. i'm sure i'm not alone in this. i 've
tried most of the print network manager options i can think of. anyone
had similar problems they 've cured and would like to tell me 'bout it \? \?
thanks

john atherton





from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject re wallpaper in windows 3.1
organization george washington university
lines 22

in article 1qvpdo q7i@bigboote.wpi.edu bigal@wpi.wpi.edu (nathan charles crowell) writes
hi there ,

is there any utility available that will make windows
randomly select one of your windows directory 's .bmp
files as the wallpaper file \?

nate
nate 's sig

there are a couple. i am personally using screenpeace , which is a
screen saver which will also select your wallpaper from a specified
directory (not necessarily the windows dir.). let me know if you want
info. i 've been pretty happy with screenpeace , and the latest version
(3) is not at cica , but oak , windows3 scrpc3or.something

mickey

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

organization university of central florida computer services
from mark woodruff cda90038@ucf1vm.bitnet
subject many people on one machine
lines 9

i have several people sharing my machine and would like to set up separate
environments under windows for each of them. is there some way of setting
things up separate desktops directories for each of them \? ideally ,
i 'd like totally separate virtual machines. i 'd be willing to settle for
less , and may end up having batch files that copy .ini files around
depending on who wants to use the machine.

mark
alas , setup n does n't work if you do n't have a network.

from ekalenda@netcom.com (edward j kalenda)
subject re overlapped window without a title bar
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution usa
lines 18

from article 1rc07h ern@olivea.atc.olivetti.com , by manu@oas.olivetti.com (manu das)

i have a overlapped window(say v) which has few child windows (a , b , c , etc)
the window shows up with all it 's children fine. now , i create another
child(t) with a ws thickframe style and placed on top of one or more of
it 's siblings. style ws thickframe is used so that i can resize it. how do
i make sure that the child 't' will always be at the top of it 's siblings.
i used setwindowpos() and bringwindowtotop() without success. what 's happening
is that while i am resizing 't' it shows up but as soon as i let go , it goes
behild it 's siblings.

the window is probobly on top but the lower windows are drawing over it.
try using ws clipsibling to keep the lower siblings from drawing on the
top sibling 's space.


ed
ekalenda@netcom.com

from mark.whalley@uk.co.gec mrc (mark whalley)
subject windows backgrounds
reply to mark.whalley@uk.co.gec mrc (mark whalley)
organization gec marconi research centre , great baddow , essex
lines 21

help , i'm bored with the current windows backgrounds we have here and am
looking for some nifty pictures to use instead. i 've seen from previous posts
that many sites exist that store pictures available through anonymous ftp.
except that i ca n't ftp to remote sites from my machine , what i can do is use
'ftpmail' mail a list of commands to a server and receive a mail of files ,
and or data back.
does anyone know of sites , with windows compatible pictures , that can be
accessed in such a way \? \? \?
if you do would you please post them.
tia
mark.

ps. maybe this would make a useful faq


mark.whalley@gec mrc.co.uk 'only in silence the word ,
phone 44 245 473331 exn. 3114 only in darkness light ,
the views expressed here are mine , only in dying life ,
all mine , and nothing whatsoever to bright the hawk 's flight on the
do with gec mrc. empty sky' ursula k. le guin


from carlf@panix.com (carl fink)
subject re panasonic kx p1091i driver \?
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 13

in 1993apr16.040946.26896@netnews.noc.drexel.edu brzyckmj@dunx1.ocs.drexel.edu (mike) writes

does anyone out there know if there are print drivers for windows for the
panasonic kx p1091i 9 pin dot matrix printer \?

i 've been told that panasonic has uploaded some to compu erve , but i
do n't have a cis account. i just use the epson fx 80 driver myself ,
and it comes out very pretty (if very slowly) on my 1080i.

carl fink carlf@panix.com , c.fink4(genie) , or cf427620i@liuvax.bitnet
facts are stubborn things and whatever may be our wishes , our
inclinations , or the dictates of our passions , they cannot alter
the state of facts and evidence john adams

from richk@grebyn.com (richard krehbiel)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
in reply to ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 06 28 02 gmt
lines 22
organization grebyn timesharing , inc.

in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

risc used to mean reduced instruction set computer , true. they
still use the same acronym , but only to be familiar. what risc really
means is a recently designed cpu. )

in general , most risc cpus are like this

a large number (32 or more) of general purpose registers
a fixed instruction size , usually 32 bits
an instruction may make only one memory reference
memory references must be aligned
there are delayed branches (branch after the next instruction) or
a target prediction bit (probably will wo n't branch)
instructions may complete out of order relative to the instruction
stream

richard krehbiel richk@grebyn.com
os 2 2.0 will do for me until amigados for the 386 comes along...

from mhembruc@tsegw.tse.com (mattias hembruch)
subject re telix problem
article i.d. tsegw.c5w3hd.jiv
organization toronto stock exchange
lines 20

dericks@plains.nodak.edu (dale erickson) writes

when i use telix (or kermit) in win 3.1 , or use telix after exiting windows
to dos , telix can not find the serial port. if you have some ideas on how
to solve this problem or where i can find further information , send me email
or send it to the news group. thanks.

you may have to define your serial ports under windows (i think it 's the
control panel , ports options..)

dale erickson
dericks@plains.nodak.edu



mattias

mattias hembruch
my views do not necessarily reflect those of the tse.
e mail mhembruc@tse.com

from jmeyers@ecst.csuchico.edu (jeff meyers)
subject re procomm plus for windows problems....
organization california state university , chico
lines 20
nntp posting host psycho.ecst.csuchico.edu

in article 1qkqrhinnobc@matt.ksu.ksu.edu kentiler@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (kent p. iler) writes
.
.
i have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here
using it , but the screen seems to have a problem keeping up with the
modem....he has a 14 , 400 modem on a 486 50 mhz machine.

tell him he probably needs to upgrade to a faster video card ! my 9600 baud
modem was one of the reasons i sought out the diamond speedstar 24x. i get
about 7 million winmarks on my 386 25 and it just about keeps up with the
modem speed (using procomm plus for windows , too). he should get over
10 million on his machine with the same card. anything 10 should yield
acceptable speed...




jeff meyers jmeyers@ecst.csuchico.edu 39x43'n 121x48'w
chico , ca 95926 kd6dis@ke6lw. nocal.ca.usa.na grid cn80 cm99 \? \?


from downs@helios.nevada.edu (lamont downs)
subject re windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
lines 18
nntp posting host cat.lv lib.nevada.edu
organization unlv

in article 1993apr16.155637.15398@oracle.us.oracle.com ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco) writes
from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 56 37 gmt

as the subjects says , windows 3.1 keeps crashing (givinh me gpf) on me of
late. it was never a very stable package , but now it seems to crash every
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash consistently ie i

have you tried setting files in your config.sys file to a fairly high
number \? (i 've got mine set to 100 i 've seen numbers from 40 to 100
recommended). also check your stacks statement , stacks 9 , 256 is a good
starting point. try increasing it if it 's already set there (such as
to stacks 12 , 256 , etc.). both stacks and files have been identified as
one cause of frequent win3.1 crashes.

lamont downs
downs@nevada.edu

from gay@venice.sedd.trw.com (lance gay)
subject out of environment space running bat files from windows
article i.d. venice.1993apr23.005117.21582
organization trw systems engineering development division , carson , ca
lines 17

i have a .bat file that i run under a windows icon. i have set up a pif
file to run the bat file in exclusive mode and to use the entire screen.
the first line of the bat file sets an environment variable.

my problem is that on some of our machines (running ms dos 5.0 and windows
3.1 in enhanced mode) , the set command in the bat file fails with the
out of environment space error. i have raised the amount of environment
space to 2048 bytes using the shell command in config.sys so i know that
i am nowhere near to running out. if i just click on the ms dos icon ,
i can create a bunch of environment varibles from the dos shell. the problem
is that on some machines , setting the value of an environment variable in
a bat file fails. has anyone seen such behavior before \? i see no place in the
pif fail to configure environment space.

lance j. gay internet gay@venice.sedd.trw.com
trw systems engineering development div. phone 310 764 3988
carson , ca 90746

from kschang@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (kuo sheng (kasey) chang)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
organization san francisco state university
lines 29

in article c64n5k.l45@vcd.hp.com robertt@vcd.hp.com (bob taylor) writes
justin whitton (ma90jjw isis@ajax.rsre.mod.uk) wrote
in article c60eki.kvp@vcd.hp.com edmoore@vcd.hp.com (ed moore) writes

thomas.d.fellrath.1@nd.edu@nd.edu wrote

i think the ink now used in the deskjet family is water fast.

i 've had pictures ruined by a few drops of rain. these were colour pictures
from a deskjet 500c. mind you , it could have been acid rain )

the black ink is waterfast , but the color is n't


i use a bj10ex. ink dries fast , but it really does n't like getting wet.



justin whitton at ma90jjw hermes@uk.mod.relay where no man has gone before..
after august mail ma90jjw@brunel.ac.uk.
disclaimer my opinions count for nothing , except when the office is empty.
i'm a student intelligence 0.


bob taylor
hp vancouver




from tedm@tsoft.net (ted matsumura)
subject re windows gripe...
organization tsoft bbs and public access unix , 1 415 969 8238
lines 37

in article 1ppmvf qnh@bigboote.wpi.edu bigal@wpi.wpi.edu (nathan charles crowell) writes

hi there ,

there 's one thing about windows that really frosts me.
i have 20mb of ram installed in my system. i use a 5mb (2.5mb
under windows) disk cache , and a 4mb permanent swap file.

while i can never fill the memory up , i still have problems
sometimes because i run out of gdi resources. what gives \?
i think windows could manage these resources a little better.

does anyone have any input on how to conserve these resources
so that i can avoid this problem \?

nate

nathan c. crowell , dept. of mechanical engineering acrl

worcester polytechnic institute e mail bigal@wpi.wpi.edu

costing the net hundreds if not thousands of dollars

nathan ,
win31 has a fixed limit of 64k gdi memory , regardless of physical ram
installed , this is twice that of win30 , but not nearly robust enough for
many developers and power users.

using amish launch as your shell , you can reduce gdi memory usage by as
much as 15 over progman , ndw 2 , dashboard , and other graphical type icon
based and other shells. also , nesting , and full hot key global support
is offered , something no other shells have at this time.

ted matsumura , president
amish software , inc.

wq

from etape@cwis.unomaha.edu (elizabeth harris tape)
subject re winqvtnet with ndis on token ring \?
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 0


from slc@a2.cim.cdc.com (steve chesney x4662)
subject re more diamond ss 24x
reply to slc@.cdc.com
organization metaphase technology , inc.
lines 20

in article 1993apr23.170922.1911@odetics.com , dale@odetics.com (dale pischke) writes
in article 1993apr20.195853.16179@samba.oit.unc.edu dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina) writes
has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.

i had the exact same failure with the 24x and word for windows.
a quick call to microsoft indicated it was problem with the
24x drivers. you need to call diamond and get the new drivers ,
i think version 2.03 fixes the above problem , there may be later
versions that i'm unaware of...


version 2.03 drivers are current.

steve chesney slc@catherine.cim.cdc.com
metaphase technology inc. 612 482 4662 (voice)
4233 north lexington avenue 612 482 4001 (fax)
arden hills , mn 55126

from jfb@cci632.cci.com (john bruno)
subject ms windows access for the blind \?
organization computer consoles , inc. , rochester , ny

we are developing an ms windows based product that uses a full screen window
to display 24 rows of textual data. is there any product for microsoft windows
that will enable blind individuals to access the data efficiently (quickly) \? \?

please email responses and i will post a summary to this group.

thanks for any help
john bruno


from franklig@helium.gas.uug.arizona.edu (gregory c franklin )
subject re mouse on com3 om3 or com4 in windows
organization university of arizona , tucson
lines 23

in article c4v5p3.jyf@bcstec.ca.boeing.com isbell@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert isbell) writes
jpaparel@cs.ulowell.edu (joseph paparella) writes

i am having a problem configuring the mouse in windows to use com3
with irq5.

com1 and com2 are being used to support two 24 hour bbs lines ,

there you go. com1 and com3 use the same irq , therefore you ca n't use
a mouse on com3 and a modem on com1 , or vice versa. it 's a limitation
of dos.

and in fact windows will not see a mouse on anything other than com1
or com2. accept this fact , and either get a bus mouse , or get a new
computer.

i would also like to know if it is possible to use the mouse on ports other
than com1 or com2.

no. the advice above applies....

greg franklin
franklig@gas.uug.arizona.edu

from make@cs.tu berlin.de (m. kerkhoff)
subject re using microsoft foundation classes with borland c 3.1
organization technical university of berlin , germany
lines 17
distribution usa
nntp posting host troll.cs.tu berlin.de
mime version 1.0
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1
content transfer encoding 8bit

hi all ,

has anybody tried to compile ctrltest from the mfc samples directory ,
after compiling the mfc libs with bwc \?

seems to me , that bwc is n't able to distinguish pointers to overloaded
functions.
for example , imagine the following 2 (overloaded) functions
void same name ( void )
void same name ( int )

after trying the whole day , i think , with bwc its impossible to take the
adress of one of the above two functions and assign it to a properly defined
function pointer.
am i right \? has anybody else had this problem \?

thanx

from mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon)
subject rfd comp.databases.access
organization uunet communications
lines 25
nntp posting host rodan.uu.net
oganization uiowa.edu

this is an official rfd for the creation of a new newsgroup for the
general discussion of the microsoft access rdms.

name comp.databases.access

moderation unmoderated. at this time , no need for a moderator has been
assertained. future evaluation will determine if one is needed.

purpose
access is a new rdbms for the windows operating system. it includes wysiwyg
design tools for easy creation of tables , reports , forms and queries and a
database programming language called access basic.
the purpose of the group will be to provide help to people who use access 's
wysiwyg design tools to create simple databases as well as to people who use
access basic to create complex databases.

rationale
eventhough access is a new rdbms , it is very popular because of its graphical
development enviroment and its initial low price.
been a version 1.0 product means that all access users are novices.
for that reason a newsgroup is needed where access users can discuss
their experiences with the product and answer each other 's questions.

napoleon
mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu

organization arizona state university
from james cassidy ifjxc@asuacad.bitnet
subject norton desktop smartcan vs. norton util 's ep
lines 22

i just purchased the norton desktop for windows , and i also have
norton utilities. when i installed ndw , it wanted to rem out the line
that installed ep (ep on) and the command to invoke the image utility.
it replaced the image command with a new image command that invokes the
version of image that came with ndw. this makes sense , as presumably the
image version with ndw is newer than the one with nu. it did not , however ,
install smartcan in the autoexec. now two questions
1 will nu use the image data saved by the newer version of image invoked.
i.e. are the two version of image compatable \?
2 will erase protect use the info from smartcan , and vice versa \?
i use both dos and windows , and i want to make sure that when i
erase files in either environment , they are going to be protected.

from the experiments i have run , the two programs (erase protect and
smart erase) do n't use each others info.
i currently have both ep and smartcan loading within my autoexec , and
i do n't see any conflicts

fyi norton desktop for windows version 2.2
norton util 's version 6

thanks for any help.

from gmills@chemical.watstar.uwaterloo.ca (phil trodwell)
subject cica mirror \?
lines 10
organization university of waterloo


is there a ftp.cica.indiana.edu mirror anyware that is n't so ! @ @ busy \?

thanks

phil trodwell

this space i 'd be happy to ram a goddam 440 volt cattle
for rent. prod into that tub with you right now , but not
(cheap) this radio ! hunter s. thompson

from neff123@garnet.berkeley.edu (stephen kearney)
subject re is ms windows a mature os \?
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 10
nntp posting host garnet.berkeley.edu

why is it that i find the mac desktop incredibly annoying
whenever i use it \?

because you are uptight \?

many computer literate people see advantages in each system.

you act like a mac ate your cat.

lighten up !

from spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de (richard spitz)
subject re windows for workgroups and lan workplace
reply to spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de (richard spitz)
organization inst. f. anaesthesiologie der lmu , muenchen (germany)
lines 33

flint.waters@uwyo.edu (flint waters) writes

now does anyone know if it is possible to use w4wg and lan workplace
for dos at the same time.

yup. we 're using both and they work just fine. hopefully , someday wfwg
will communicate over lwp tcpip. right now we have to load netbeui.

i use odi with odinsup and all works well.

hey , sounds great. does that mean that w4wg works with odi \? i thought it
uses ndis.

my problem is that lan workplace with all its drivers uses up most of my
umbs , so i 'd hate to have to load many more drivers to make w4wg work
along.

i read in a german computer magazine that tcp ip support for w4wg is just
around the corner. anybody have any news about this \?

regards , richard

ps i possibly caused a dupe with this message. if this message was spread
twice outside of munich , please send me a short note. it would help
me debug my news application.



dr. richard spitz internet spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de
edv gruppe anaesthesie tel 49 89 7095 3421
klinikum grosshadern fax 49 89 7095 8886
munich , germany


from kentiler@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (kent p. iler)
subject procomm plus for windows problems....
organization kansas state university
lines 10
nntp posting host matt.ksu.ksu.edu

hi ,
i have normal procomm plus for dos , but i 've been considering buying
the windows version....it got really great reviews in computer shopper.
i have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here
using it , but the screen seems to have a problem keeping up with the
modem....he has a 14 , 400 modem on a 486 50 mhz machine. i ca n't
see it having trouble keeping up. his pcplus for dos works great ,
but the windows just seems to always screw up....is this common
and is there a fix \? or is something just screwed with his machine \?
kent

subject roman.bmp 09 14 part 9 of 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 958


keywords



from dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh)
subject re diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
organization national library of medicine
lines 21

in article 1993apr15.204845.24939@nlm.nih.gov dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes

anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256 driver \?
sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the menus) but it 's a recently
delivered gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered
if anyone else had seen this.


as a followup , this is a co worker 's machine. he has the latest 2.03 drivers.
it only happens using the 1024x768x256 driver. sometimes it takes a minute
or so for the cursor to wig out , but it eventually does in this mode. i
susect something is stepping on memory the video card wants. i excluded
a000 c7ff in the emm386 line and in system.ini the problem persisted.
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components.
it is a 66mhz dx 2 eisa bus with an ultrastore (24xx \? ) controller. ah well ,
i was hoping this was some kind of 'known problem' or somebody had seen it
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here
usually are far more in the know.

don lindbergh
dabl2@lhc.nlm.nih.gov

from rbarclay@trentu.ca (ross barclay)
subject twain drivers for logitech scanman
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization trent computing and telecommunications department
lines 11

hi ,
i was wondering if anyone knew whether or not logitech had
windows twain drivers for the scanman. if so , are the drivers on the
net somewhere \? my scanman is the model one down from the scanman 256.

thanks in advance.

ross barclay


ross barclay rbarclay@trentu.ca peterborough , ontario

from theroo@med.unc.edu (bron d. skinner ph.d.)
subject re why is my mouse so jumpy \? (ms mouse)
nntp posting host pelham.med.unc.edu
organization unc ch school of medicine
lines 33

in article 1993apr23.140123.5018@cti.com rlister@cti.com (russell lister) writes
ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton) writes

i have a microsoft serial mouse and am using mouse.com 8.00 (was using 8.20
i think , but switched to 8.00 to see if it was any better). vertical motion
is nice and smooth , but horizontal motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click
on something because my mouse jumps around. i can be moving the mouse to
the right with relatively uniform motion and the mouse will move smoothly
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move smoothly for a bit then jump
again (maybe this time to the left about .5 inch ! ). this is crazy ! i have
never had so much trouble with a mouse before. anyone have any solutions \?

does microsoft think they are what everyone should be \? just venting steam !

i had the same problem. at first , i thought it was the video driver and
made sure i had the most current drivers , because the problem was most
evident at svga resolution modes. it did n't help and after a bit of
experimentation , determined that the problem existed in standard vga
resolution mode. it was just much less noticeable.

my mouse was an older ms serial version i bought second hand in 1990. it
worked just fine in dos and dos based graphic applications. on the
guess that the problem was with the resolution of the mouse , i borrowed
a new mouse (a ms bus model) and tried it. that solved the problem.
so , if your mouse is old , you may want to try replacing it for a newer
one.


another alternative is to clean the mouse you 've got. sometimes the
rollers inside the mouse pick up a ball of lint or other debris. open the
bottom of the mouse , take out the ball and use some alcohol on a q tip to
clean it out. inspect the inside for any hairs or fuzz. i have had my
mouse get real jumpy and cleared up the problem with this procedure.

from rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols)
subject re moving icons
organization at t
distribution na
lines 15

in article 1bp0rahpbh107h@viamar.uucp rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry writes
i remember reading about a program that made windows icons run away
from the mouse as it moved near them. does anyone know the name
of this program and the ftp location (probably at cica)

there 's a program called icon frightener included with the book stupid
windows tricks by bob levitus and ed tittel (addison wesley , 1992). it 's
freeware. if it 's not on the net anywhere , i 'll happily email a copy to
someone who 's willing to upload it (i ca n't upload through our internet
firewall).


bob nichols
at t bell laboratories
rnichols@ihlpm.ih.att.com

organization penn state university
from dls128@psuvm.psu.edu
subject fall comdex '93
lines 8

does anyone out there have any info on the up and coming fall comdex '93 \? i was
asked by one of my peers to get any info that might be available. or , could
anyone point me in the right direction \? any help would be appreciated.


dave stevens dls128@psuvm.psu.edu
training and multimedia services dls128@psuvm
penn state university

from narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu
subject last
distribution usa
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa
lines 20

i have two questions

1) i have been having troubles with my wordperfect for windows.
when i try to select and change fonts , etc. some of the text
disappears. i tried to center two lines once , and the second
line disappeared. i can not find the error , and i do not
know how to correct it.

2) is this the right newsgroup \? where should i go \?

e mail prefered...


who else is still waiting for naked gun part (pi)

'' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ''
' '' 'nathan'narloch'' '' '' ' alumn122@whscdp.whs.edu '' '' '' '
'' '(enforcer'burp)' '' '' ''or' ' narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu ' '' ''
'' '' milw , wi 53207 '' ' joi n'the'official'psycho team... '' ''
' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '

from cui@maccs.mcmaster.ca (jun cui)
subject how to hold the control to a window object \?
nntp posting host maccs.dcss.mcmaster.ca
organization mcmaster university , hamilton , ontario.
lines 28

hope i am in the right group ! i'm using bc 's objectwindows (version 3.1) ,
trying to get some date processed in a window object. however , when invoking
the window object , the calling program gives up the control to the window
object , and keeps executing the next statement. the source code may look
like the following

class mywindow public twindow

...


void mycallingprog(...) could the calling program be a c function \?
...
mywindow mywinobj
mywinobj new mywindow(...)
getapplication() makewindow(mywinobj)
mywinobj show(sw shownormal)

next statement i want the program to wait here until mywinobj is closed
... so that i can get some data back from mywinobj.
... i specified the window style to be ws popupwindow , did n't
... help. is there any other way to execute the window object
... so that the calling program wo n't give up the control \?
any help would be appreciated. thanks ! jun
to talk to the lord with ps 2 through ms windows




subject roman.bmp 12 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 956

from joel@tekgen.bv.tek.com (joseph look)
subject bar code fonts
organization tektronix , inc.
lines 3

i am looking for some bar code fonts especially code 3 of 9. did anybody
know any ftp sites or bbs that i can download these types of fonts \?
please email to me if you have any info. thanks !

from peter@psychnet.psychol.utas.edu.au (peter r. tattam)
subject beta testers required for winsock version of windows trumpet
organization psychology department , university of tasmania
lines 11

contact me for details.

peter@psychnet.psychol.utas.edu.au

peter


p.tattam international phone 61 02 202346
programmer , psychology department australia phone 002 202346
university of tasmania , hobart , tasmania , australia


from marshalk@mercury.berkeley.edu (kevin marshall)
subject re grey scale while in windows \?
organization motorola ltd. , european cellular infrastructure division
lines 6
distribution world
reply to marshalk@mercury.berkeley.edu (kevin marshall)
nntp posting host mercury.swindon.rtsg.mot.com



kevin marshall , operational support , motorola ecid , swindon , uk.
e mail marshalk@zeus
phone 44 793 545127 (international) (0793) 545127 (domestic)


from mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon)
subject 2nd rfd comp.databases.ms access
article i.d. rodan.1qkma9innmbn
organization cs.uiowa.edu
lines 31
nntp posting host rodan.uu.net

this is the 2nd reguest for discussion ( rfd ) for the creation of
comp.databases.ms access

the discussion period started on april 6 and it will last until april 28 ,
( 22 days ).

this is an official rfd for the creation of a new newsgroup for the
general discussion of the microsoft access rdms.

name comp.databases.ms access

moderation unmoderated. at this time , no need for a moderator has been
assertained. future evaluation will determine if one is needed.

purpose
access is a new rdbms for the windows operating system. it includes wysiwyg
design tools for easy creation of tables , reports , forms and queries and a
database programming language called access basic.
the purpose of the group will be to provide help to people who use access 's
wysiwyg design tools to create simple databases as well as to people who use
access basic to create complex databases.

rationale
eventhough access is a new rdbms , it is very popular because of its graphical
development enviroment and its initial low price.
been a version 1.0 product means that all access users are novices.
for that reason a newsgroup is needed where access users can discuss
their experiences with the product and answer each other 's questions.

napoleon
mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu

from ()
subject re quicken 6 vs. tobias' managing your money
organization purdue university
lines 27

in article 1993apr20.040449.19649@twg.com , q@twg.com (michael wiesenberg)
wrote

i just got a copy of tobias' managing your money v9.0. i have quicken 6 ,
and it 's wonderful for some things , but mym seems to have some features
that q6 does n't. for example , q6 does n't seem to be able to handle
monthly automatic deductions from a checking account (you know , a
monthly payment that gets electronically deducted every month from
my checking account). or is there something that i'm not doing right ,
and q6 can actually do that \?


hi
i have never used mym so i can not help you with the comparison of the
two products. i am , however , a devoted quicken user , and i can tell you
how to set up the weekly , monthly , quarterly , yearly transactions. first
use the memorize feature (ctrl m) to record the recurring transactions.
next , define a transaction group which uses these memorized transactions
and specify the frequency that it should be used (i.e. monthly). quicken
will can not automatically make the transactions for you , but now all you
do is recall the group and all of the individual transactions will be
entered at once. additionally if you are using the bill minder , it will
remind you when each transaction group is due. for example , you could have
three transaction groups. one for payments at the beginning of the month ,
middle of the month , and one for quarterly payments. i hope this helps.

mike

from pierson@phakt.usc.edu (harry pierson)
subject embedded truetype fonts
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 16
nntp posting host phakt.usc.edu

ok...i 've heard rumors about this...i might have even seen it in a few places.
and i 'd like some info...is it possible to embed fonts in a document (like
write , word , or ami pro \? ) so the file can be printed on another machine that
does n't have the font \? if possible , how is it done \?

i'm sorry if this is a faq...i could n't find a faq list...i would also
apreciate knowing where that is...if a windows faq exsists.

thanks in advance




harry pierson come and be with me , live my twisted dream
the audio mercenary pro devoted pledge , time for primal concrete sledge
pierson@usc.edu pantera

from holland@ug.cs.dal.ca (shane a holland)
subject comments on xtree for windows \? \? \? \?
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 15
nntp posting host ug.cs.dal.ca


i am looking for comments on xtree (pro \? \? ) for windows. i am
thinking of buying the product but i have not even seen it yet.

thank you...

shane holland

holland@ug.cs.dal.ca





holland@ug.cs.dal.ca maurack@ac.dal.ca

from tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen)
subject hercules graphite \?
organization software metrics inc.
lines 11


has anyone used a hercules graphite adapter \? it looks good on paper , and
steve gibson gave it a very good review in infoworld. i 'd love to get a
real world impression , though how is the speed \? drivers \? support \?

(looking for something to replace this ati ultra with...)


tom haapanen tomh@metrics.com software metrics inc waterloo , ont
stick your index fingers into both corners of your mouth. now pull
up. that 's how the corrado makes you feel. car , january '93

from leebr@ecf.toronto.edu (lee brian)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
organization university of toronto , engineering computing facility
lines 33

in article 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au writes
in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.



some people say it 's fun , but i think it 's very serious.
eugene@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au


theoretically supposed to be reduced.... not any longer. that 's why everyone
is arguing about risc v.s. cisc. personally , i think cisc will win out.
just take a look at the pentium ! (not that i like intel architectures either ,
but that 's another story...)

bye !



brian hojo lee hey , excuse me miss , could i have a .gif of you \?
leebr@ecf.toronto.edu
leebr@eecg.toronto.edu (try linux... the best and free un x clone ! )


from terryh@cae.wisc.edu (terry henning)
subject help with a windows drum machine !
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 21

hello ,

i'm trying to get a drum program to work that i downloaded from
ftp.cica.indiana.edu in the pub pc win3 sounds directory. it 's called
drum.zip.

i have an ati stereo fx card with the latest windows drivers installed.
when i try to run the drum program , it reports that a midi device is not
installed , however the drivers utility in the control panel reports that it
is installed.

anyone have any idea how to set up the midi device so that the drum program
will work with my setup \? what i'm trying to do is use my computer as a
metronome. someone suggested that i try one of the drum machines that are
circulating around out there. any help would be appreciated.

thanks ,

terry

terryh@cae.wisc.edu

from tapscott@adoc.xerox.com (peter tapscott)
subject for sale harvard graphics for windows
keywords harvard graphics , sale
organization xerox parc
distribution us
lines 17


for sale
brand new , shrinkwrapped

harvard graphics for windows

list price 500
cheapest pince in computer shopper (mail order) 315
my price 250

this is really a slick package , but i won it in a bike race so i
ca n't return it for credit. my dilemma is your fire sale.


peter tapscott , xerox palo alto research center
internet tapscott.adoc@xerox.com xns net tapscott parc xerox
415 813 6885

from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
nntp posting host monica.us.oracle.com
reply to ebosco@us.oracle.com
organization oracle corp. , redwood shores ca
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.
lines 41


as the subjects says , windows 3.1 keeps crashing (givinh me gpf) on me of
late. it was never a very stable package , but now it seems to crash every
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash consistently ie i
ca n't reproduce crashes , and they are not always gpf 's in the same
application. sometimes i can recover by simply closing the application
that caused an error , but other times , windows acts very strange , and i
need to re boot.

some background i have a leading edge 486sx25 with phoenix bios. when i
first got it it had 4mg of memory. it ran windows fine (not too many
gpf 's). then , a couple of weekends ago , i installed lotus 123 for windows
(with atm) , a game card and an additional 4 1mg simms. the leading edge
machine is kind of strange , in that it has the ide controler built into
the motherboard , the cpu is actually on a sparate board that plugs into
the motherboard and the simms it uses are macintosh simms ! apparently i
was told that the leading edge had the parity bit built into the mother
board. the original 4mg 80ns simms where of the 2 chip variety from
samsung , and the ones i installed are 8 chip simms. they are recognized
fine by the bios ram check. the game card is a generic 20 gamecard.

the reason why i mention the hardware like this is that sometimes
rebooting the machine using the reset button or ctl alt del still leaves
the machine kind of flaky , but turning it on and off does n't.

i have n't tried taking out the ram or the game card , because as i said
these gpf are not reproducible at will. i have gone through and entire
day using the computer with no problems and then i might get 5 or so gpf 's
in the sppace of 20 minutes \?

what can i do. this situation is most annoying... are there any good
diagnostic tools for hardware \? do you think that this might be a software
problem (ie emm386 etc.) \? if it helps , i have manage to get gpf 's on after
dark , quicken , paint shop pro. a lot of them have been in user.exe or
gdi.exe.

any help is truly appreciated.....

eric

ebosco@us.oracle.com

from mlipsie@rdm09.std.com (mike lipsie mpu)
subject re atm
organization mitsubishi electric research laboratories , inc.
lines 27

in article 1r1jq4 af5@network.ucsd.edu adean@weber.ucsd.edu (anthony v. dean) writes

i 've been reading , with much confusion , about whether or not to use
atmanager. lately , all the packages i 've been buying have all
included atmanager as a bonus

adobe has been doing this for years.

i do some desktop publishing using pagemaker and coreldraw.
coreldraw comes with a nifty laser disk that contains over 200 diff
types. add that to the ttfonts that come with win31 and you have a
decent amount of fonts. i print my creations out on an hp4
postcript , at 600 dpi resolution with the resolution enhancement
technology and .. well ... i get some darn good copies.
so good that there is n't any diff whether or not atmanager is turned
on or not. is it worth it to run atm at all \? especially with these
better printer technologies ... and tt \?

there are some fonts that are only available as ps fonts. if you
have a ps font that you want to use , use atm. otherwise , it is
a waste of system resources.

personally , i use both.


mike lipsie (work) mlipsie@ca.merl.com
mitsubishi electronic research laboratory (home) mikel@dosbears.uucp

from chera bekker bekker@tn.utwente.nl
subject wanted xterm emulator for windows 3.1
keywords xterm
reply to bekker@tn.utwente.nl
organization university of twente , enschede , the netherlands
lines 14

hello ,

i am looking for a xterm emulator which runs under windows 3.1.

please reply via e mail.

thanks.

chera bekker

h.g. bekker e mail bekker@tn.utwente.nl
faculty of applied physics voice 3153893107
university of twente fax 3153354003
the netherlands

from ls116@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (lei shao)
subject re truetype fonts that display but do not print.
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ls116@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (lei shao)
organization columbia university
distribution na
lines 31

in article 1993apr17.134725.15882@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu avinash@silver.lcs.mit.edu (avinash chopde) writes
i just installed a new truetype font under ms windows 3.1
but though all the applications display the font correctly on the
screen , quite a few of them fail to print out the document correctly
(on a laserjet 4 non postscript printer).

when i use the font in coreldraw , the document prints correctly , so i assume
coreldraw knows that the font has to be downloaded to the printer.

but when i use the windows accessory write , the printer prints square
boxes in place of the characters of the new font. yet , write does
display the font correctly on the screen.

i looked through all the windows and laserjet manuals , but got nowhere.
all of them just make the statement that truetype fonts will print
exactly as you see them on the screen so i assume windows knows that a font
has to be downloaded automatically but , how to make it do that \? \? \? \?

appreciate any help....

i assume you 're using the driver available from cica (hp4 v108.zip).
bring up the setup screen of the printer through control panel. click on the
options button brings up another screen of choices. change the graphics
mode from hp gl 2 to raster and check the box print truetype as graphics
(this is only available when you choose raster ). now you should be able to
print all your truetype fonts correctly. good luck.


lei shao
ls116@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu


from dsou@btma57.nohost.nodomain
subject speedstar 24x windows enhanced mode
reply to dsou@btma57.nohost.nodomain ()
lines 17
nntp posting host 7.597


hi ,

i have a 486 66mhz sys based pc with 8m ram and a problem.

what is the best way to configure high memory with qemm 386max \? \?
i have a speedstar 24x video card and use hyperdisk disk cache
software. the problem is running windows 3.1 in enhanced mode and
having any high memory to load stuff high \?

note
i tried , as recommended to exclude the region a000 c7ff but windows
insists on starting in standard mode.

any suggestions \?

dan

from gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw (tony g. wu)
subject re need video drivers for tseng true color
organization national tsing hua university (hsinchu)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 26

tony g. wu (gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw) wrote

hello.

i purchased a video card called et 4000 true color card which
can provide about 1700k colors. but the question is i ca n't find
the corresponding drivers for windows 3.1 , i am now using 65k
colors driver for win31. it works fine , but i think it will be
better if i use 1700k driver. so , please tell me whether such a
driver is available !

thanks in advance.


i am sorry. my card can display about 17000k colors not 1700k colors.

i hope some one could answer my question !

thanks.



( forever 23 , michael jordan.)
tony g. wu gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw
cae rheology lab. nthu. tony@che.nthu.edu.tw


from dmmatt@cajun
subject re need windows logo
lines 19
organization monsanto company

in article 1qjqed 1ft@access.digex.net , holland@access.digex.com (brian holland) writes
markus maier (s maier m@rzmain.rz.uni ulm.de) wrote
hi ,

well i'm searching for the ms windows logo , u know the picture when u
start windows , in some suitable grafics format , like gif or jpg , ...

c windows system vgalogo.rle. if my memory serves me correctly ,
.rle is a compressed .bmp format.

an is readable by wingif , paintshop pro , paint , and god knows how
many other programs.


mike mattix
agricultural group of monsanto
p.o. box 174
luling , la 70070
internet address dmmatt@bigez.monsanto.com

from samuell@cis.uab.edu ( 's)
subject winhelp.exe virus \?
organization cis , univ of alabama at birmingham
lines 15


is anyone familiar with a virus that infects the winhelp.exe file \?

i have recently noticed some unusual system behavior and ran
norton antivirus for windows. it indicated a possible unknown
virus in the winhelp.exe file in both the mwindows and winos2
directories. neither file changed since i installed my os 2
system in january as far as i know.

any information about this possible virus and suggestions on
remedies would be greatly appreciated.


bobb samuell
samuell@cis.uab.edu

organization penn state university
from azmi hashim axh113@psuvm.psu.edu
subject re trident 8900 cl 1280x1024 driver \?
lines 18

in article c5qkua.chn@da vinci.it.uswc.uswest.com ,
dfeldman@lookout.mtt.it.uswc.uswest.com (david feldman) says

please excuse if faq but...
new trident 8900cl based card claims to have 1280x1024 support.
drivers with card indicate several 1280x1024 drivers on diskette.
windows 3.1 does not make all drivers on diskette available to
configuration dialog box. any suggestion \?
thanx please e mail.
dfeldman@uswest.com


since we are in the subject , i have one more question. i have a trident
8900c video card. i want to know what is the latest video driver for it.
so far , all i can find is that an old driver dated aug. 92 in garbo.uwasa.fi
anyone have any info \? please e mail me at axh113@psuvm.psu.edu

az.

from leebr@ecf.toronto.edu (lee brian)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
organization university of toronto , engineering computing facility
lines 67

in article c5w9j7.jll@nyongwa.cam.org angcl@nyongwa.cam.org (claude angers) writes
in article c5rx8b.kzp@ecf.toronto.edu leebr@ecf.toronto.edu (lee brian) writes
in article 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au writes
in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.



theoretically supposed to be reduced.... not any longer. that 's why everyone
is arguing about risc v.s. cisc. personally , i think cisc will win out.
just take a look at the pentium ! (not that i like intel architectures either ,
but that 's another story...)

bye !


do you mean that the pentium is better than a risc \? or that it will outsell
them all \? if the first , you have to remember that intel cisc (like the
pentium) are a always a generation away from the best riscs... also riscs
cpu are more costly because they are not sold in the same quantities (not
even on the same order)... but i remember reading about 3 years (maybe 2)
about a t800( \? ) from hypercube that did a 100 mips , was superscallar and
reordered its instruction itself so

i'm not 100 sure , but i think the t800 was a 25mhz transputer \? so ya tie
a gazillion of them together to get 100mips. (the newest is the t9000
which kicks anyone 's butt )... have n't seen them used much though).

anyway , to respond , i think the pentium (cisc) is better than the more advanced
risc (e.g. , like the alpha , etc. the 66mhz pentium has approximately the
same performance as the superduper 133mhz alpha here , performance is the
weird specint92 that everyone refers to \? this is what i heard the
alpha still kicks in the p5 's butt in fp again , this is what i heard ).
and in the computing world , if you sell lots of chips (like intel) , and
make it faster (like intel) , you are the winner (like intel) , even though
you have a sucky architecture from over 10 years ago (like intel 0).

if you can make a cisc chip (superscalar , superduperpipelined , superfast)
with the ideas behind the risc ideology , you got a cisc chip. and then
i admit i ca n't see the advantages of risc over cisc...

if the latest technology is a generation behind , then it sucks (relatively
speaking).

now i may sound like i like intel , but i 'll have to say that the p5 is some
real kick butt pile of si and sio2...

but i hope that motorola really catches up with the 68k line... or i'm gonna
start crying...

brian


brian hojo lee hey , excuse me miss , could i have a .gif of you \?
leebr@ecf.toronto.edu
leebr@eecg.toronto.edu (try linux... the best and free un x clone ! )


from leono@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (leon olszewski )
subject dde frustrations can you help \?
summary need help to get dde to work
keywords dde
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 24

i am starting to work on a project using dde to transfer data. the
application came with an excel macro which can transfer the data.
i need to 'port' it to 1 2 3w. 1 2 3w uses a very different setup
for dde macros.

does anyone have any suggestions as to good references \? i have
downloaded ww01117 windows dynamic exchange (dde) the ms
application note . any books worth getting \?

the specifics are

server application dionex ai 450 chromatography data system
client application 1 2 3 for windows v1.1

except for the macro , dionex did not provide any documentation
for dde. also , i am having problems because i am trying to develop
the application on my pc , but to actually get data , you need to be
connect to the instrument. any help here would be appreciated , too.

thanks ,


leon m. olszewski nothing is worse than having an itch you can
internet leono@uiuc.edu never scratch. leon bladerunner

from hayesj@rintintin.colorado.edu (hayes james michael jr)
subject windows disk drive test availabel \?
nntp posting host rintintin.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 28




is their a pd freeware hard drive utility that can handle
a compressed ide drive without screwwing it up \?

need to document occasional failures in reading writing ,
check overall integrity of disk 's hardware and sectors.

i believe that all of my problems with dos windows can
be isolated to my drive. getting occasional corrupted
files , even with smartdrive , 32 bit access turned off.
had these problems under dos 5. only with drive c.
drive d may have had one failure , but that file was
under the control of win winword on drive c.

all utilities available to me report no problems.
dos , ndd (nu4.5). another symptom , sd took forever
on c , and kicked me out with a suspension till ndd run
6 to 8 times.

thanks.


mike hayes knowledge is good. faber college motto
www knowledge and thoroughness rensselear poly motto
unemployed tech , no , thank you ! groucho marx , 'a day at the races'
driven to banging my head against engineering physics for 4 years.

from 10748539@eng2.eng.monash.edu.au (charles choong)
subject 486 33 win3.1 hang
lines 12
organization faculty of engineering , monash university

help , problem 486 33mhz hangs in extended mode trying to
access drives a or b , sometimes it will do dir , sometimes will hang
on access sometimes will when tying a text file.

hardware
american megatrend motherboard
ami bios 91
conner 85mb hard drive
trident 1 meg svga

please help ! ! !
its ok in standard mode ! ! !

from frode@zevs.ifi.unit.no (frode kvam)
subject ftp site for .wav files
organization institutt for informatikk , universitetet i tr.heim , avh
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 27

hello everybody...

are there any ftp sites with wav files available \? \? \?
frode kvam )










(c)

name frode kvam
univ university of trondheim , dept of informatics
e mail frode@ifi.unit.no
snail mail lademoens kirkealle 8
7042 trondheim
voice 47 7 50 45 06


beware of programmers who carry screwdrivers.



from ldr@mv.mv.com (lee rothstein)
subject re is ms windows a mature os \?
keywords ms windows
organization mv communications , inc.
distribution usa
lines 24

to get hierarchical icon groups in ms windows use norton desktop for windows.

ms windows in not mature. it 's lousy. but its supposed to be lousy. it 's
goal is to be ubiquitous not good. ms windows is the
course for the masses in it infrastructure 102. (dos 102 , cp m 101.)

unix was the course for the cogniscenti in it infrastructure 101. together
they prove that there is good effect of good it , and there is good effect
of ubiquitous it. what we need , now is both at a significiantly higher
level of function. posix dce corba \? \? \? \? \? \? see the problem \?

nt may be it infrastructure 103 , but it will also be it monopoly 102. (101
was ibm.)

we have a conundrum , gentlepeople. what are we going to do about it \?

dubious

lee


lee d. rothstein veritech 7 merrymeeting drive
merrimack , nh 03054 2934 603 424 2900 fax 603 424 8549
information technology verification leadership

subject re postscript view for dos or windows \?
from hjstein@sunrise.huji.ac.il (harvey j. stein)
distribution world
organization home staff hjstein .organization
nntp posting host sunrise.huji.ac.il
in reply to paladin@world.std.com 's message of thu , 8 apr 1993 21 40 44 gmt
lines 6

i 've been using version 2.5.2 of ghostscript , and i'm quite satisfied
with it. there are , actually , 3 versions a plain dos version , a 386
version , and a windows version.

harvey stein
hjstein@math.huji.ac.il


from sra@idx.com
subject help w greenleaf commlib 4.0 \?
organization idx corporation , s. burlington , vt
lines 8

has anyone had experience with the new greenleaf commlib 4.0 \? i ca n't even
get their demo winterm to run at 4800 baud without dropping characters.

tnx , steve


steve alpert (w1ggn) idx systems corp. boston , massachusetts
sra @ idx.com

from ffritze@hpwad.wad.hp.com (fromut fritze)
subject re need help writing ms excel macro
organization hewlett packard waldbronn , germany
lines 20

for each student do
begin
lowest score found max possible value
for i 1 to number of assignments do
begin
if score i lowest score found then
lowest score found score i
end
total score sum(all scores) lowest score found
end

could n't you simply use min() as you use sum() and than subtract it
from sum() \? \?


internet ffritze@hpwbe007.wad.hp.com
phone germany 7243 602296
address fromut fritze , waldbronn analytic division r d ,
hewlett packard str , d 7517 waldbronn 2 , germany


from (joseph d. barrus)
subject utility to expand dos file descriptions in directory listing \?
organization naval ocean systems center , san diego , ca
lines 16


i am looking for a windows utility that would give me a listing of files
in a directory , but also display a description of the file. this utility
would allow me to enter and edit file descriptions of , hopefully , any
length (maybe a small window with a scroll bar \? ). i would then be able
to browse my directories and be able to see what is in a file without
having to open or execute it. any such beast out there \? if not , anyone
want to write one \?

joe barrus
barrus@nosc.mil






from krh@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (kenneth.r.hackbarth)
subject re quicken 6 vs. tobias' managing your money
organization at t
distribution usa
keywords quicken tobias
lines 19

i 've never had quicken but i did use mym in it 's early days. i have ms money
for windows now and a financial planning package called wealthbuilder by
reality technologies and money magazine. p.s. i also do my taxes with turbo
tax. all of these packages are good in their own way but none of them
really support me in doing what i really need to do manage my finances.

the first company that comes along with a windows based package that
manages budgets and accounts
manages loans
calculates taxes
uses all of the above and knowledge about my investing philosophy to
help me invest in the right investment vehicles , and
integrates it all together

will have my business for life.

ken
khackbarth@attmail.com


from bernstei@shrike.und.ac.za (simon bernstein)
subject boca xga3 woes
organization university of natal (durban) , south africa
lines 25
nntp posting host shrike.und.ac.za
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

hi. i am having some interesting problems with my boca graphics card , which
is based on the cirrus logic chipset (i am not sure exactly which one). the
problem is as follows

if i use any windows driver at 800x600 except for the 64k colour driver (ie
16 colour or 256 colour) , the image on screen becomes too tall no amount of
resizing on the monitor will make it fit. and if i use excel with the 64k
colour driver , it hangs as soon as it loads. anyone out there used this
card experienced anything similar.

please reply by mail , and i will post any solutions here.

regards

simon






simon bernstein man is condemned to be free (sartre)
university of natal , durban
bernstei@shrike.und.ac.za simonfish on irc


from downs@helios.nevada.edu (lamont downs)
subject re atm
lines 15
nntp posting host cat.lv lib.nevada.edu
organization unlv

so good that there is n't any diff whether or not atmanager is turned
on or not. is it worth it to run atm at all \? especially with these
better printer technologies ... and tt \?

there are some fonts that are only available as ps fonts. if you
have a ps font that you want to use , use atm. otherwise , it is
a waste of system resources.

or , if you need to use a service bureau and they 're only set up to use
type 1 fonts. from what i 've heard (pure hearsay) the results of outputting
tt fonts as type 1 is not as good as using high quality type 1 fonts in
the first place.

lamont downs
downs@nevada.edu

from er @cs.cmu.edu (ekkehard rohwedder)
subject re help ! disappearing groups ! ! !
nntp posting host kurt.tip.cs.cmu.edu
cc ewoo@unixg.ubc.ca
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 11

in article 1r8anlinn60g@skeena.ucs.ubc.ca ewoo@unixg.ubc.ca (emile woo) writes
program manager but it seems that everytime i install something new that
makes a new group , it promptly disappears after i turn of windows !

(1) did you check that a new .grp file was actually created in your windows
directory \?
(2) are you turning off your computer when windows is running rather than
closing program manager \?


ekkehard

from mike@drd.com (mike.rovak)
subject workaround for citizen drivers
summary workaround
keywords printer driver citizen pn48 gsx 140
organization drd corporation
lines 38

i have been experiencing several end user problems with various commercial
software packages (wordperfect 5.2 win , publish it ! win 3.1) and printing
landscape mode on a citizen pn48 (the little guy) or the citizen gsx 140 .

in a nutshell the problem is that i lose the first 0.625 inches of
information from my left margin , be it white space or truetype font
output , and margins are not preserved on subsequent pages past the
first.

wordperfect had a workaround consisting of using the default location
for the printers instead of tractor or manual . they have also filed
this as a bug and are continuing to investigate it.

ms write , of course , has no problem with these printer drivers , proving that
microsoft knows something the rest of us do n't ! are you surprised \? i'm
not.

publish it ! win is still investigating this problem , and while i was consider
my options (rejecting the one about buying an 800 dtp package , for surely
they would n't have this problem , right \? ) i stumbled onto a global workaround.

workaround

go into the windows 3.1 control panel , select printers , select your citizen
printer driver , select setup , and select a custom size of 850 x 1132. like
magic , all of your problems will go away.

ask me no questions and i 'll tell you no lies !

mike



disclaimer my opinions do not necessarily reflect those of my employer.


mike.rovak@drd.com


from jamie@zikzak.apana.org.au (jamie scuglia)
subject workspace managers for win 3.1 a small review
organization zikzak public access unix , melbourne australia
lines 56
nntp posting host zikzak.apana.org.au

thanks to all those people who recommended workspace managers for
windows 3.1. i found 3 shareware workspace managers , from australia 's
ms windows archive (monu6.cc.monash.edu.au) , which mirrors some
sites in the u.s. the three i found were

1. workspaces 1.10 (wspace.zip)
this was the smallest and simplest
of the workspace managers that i found. it is very easy to use.
it displays a small window , containing 6 buttons , plus an extra
button for configuration purposes. one annoying feature was the
title window that is first presented when it is run you must press
a key (not a mouse button ! ) for the thing to go away. also , it would
have been nice if there was an always on top setting for the little
window containing the workspace buttons. maybe some user specified
strings on the buttons instead of the numbers one to six might be
a nice feature. the simplicity and ease of use of this workspace
manager makes it an attractive package.

2. workshift 1.6 (wrksft16.zip)
while this workspace manager offered a
few features that workspaces 1.10 lacked , it was quite time consuming
to set things up. with workspaces 1.10 , all but the first workspace
is initially empty. with workshift 1.6 , you need to take snapshots
of how you want each of your workspaces to look like i.e. what
applications they contain. also , the main window is quite large ,
but this does allow you to have a small view of what is in each workspace.
with workspaces 1.10 , there was no facility for viewing what was in
a workspace without switching to it. workshift 1.6 provides this
viewing functionality which is quite useful.

3. bigdesk 2.30 and backmenu (backdesk.zip)
this is an interesting package , which contains
a few other goodies as well as a workspace manager. other goodies
include backmenu , which provides a pop up root menu when you
press a certain mouse button just like in x windows. the menu
is totally configurable , offering unlimited depth of cascading menus ,
which is provides quite handy access to applications. you could
say it is a menu based alternative to the program manager. also
bundled in backdesk.zip is a program called wrun , which allows
you to run windows applications from a dos shell under windows
instead of using the file manager to run applications.
the actual workspace manager is called bigdesk 2.30. bigdesk works quite
differently to the other two workspace managers in that it
does n't provide a certain number of disjoint and separate workspaces.
in fact , it basically enlarges your desktop by a configurable amount ,
and you choose which region of the desktop you want your screen to
focus in on. this means you can have windows overlapping between different
viewing regions , unlike the first two workspace managers in which
each workspace was isolated from the other one. the bigdesk control window
allows to to move windows around your enlarged desktop. basically
the control window provides a small scale view of your viewing area
while your actual computer screen provides a large scale or blow up
of a particular section.

try each of them out for yourself. i was impressed with all of them ,
so find out which one suits your needs the best.

from colburn@caesar (alex colburn)
subject re gui application frameworks for windows \? \?
nntp posting host caesar.iaf.uiowa.edu
organization university of iowa , image analysis facility
lines 38

in article 1993apr12.154418.14463@cimlinc.uucp bharper@cimlinc.uucp (brett harper) writes
hello ,

i'm investigating the purchase of an object oriented application framework. i have
come across a few that look good
zinc

has a platform independent resource strategy. (not too important for me right now)


brett.harper@cimlinc.com


just a thought on resources , it is very important if you do use a
multiplatform toolkit to check on how it uses resources. i have
used glockenspeil commonview under motif and os2. i wrote a resource
converter from os2 to motif , but it really was n't too easy , especially
the naming scheme. in motif you cannot rename controls widgets.
with windows you can call the ok button id ok in every instance ,
this does n't work for motif , you 'd have to call it dialog1 ok ,
and motif expects a text string rather than a number. so
your constructor should know how to convert a define into the
proper resource identifier.
i 'd check on how the toolkit expects names , and that if it does
use resources , that is uses resources for all platforms you intend to
port to. ( by the way , i would never use commonview or glockenspiel
for anything )



alex.



alex colburn
image analysis facility
university of iowa
colburn@tessa.iaf.uiowa.edu

from begolej@csgrad.cs.vt.edu (james begole)
subject wincmd trouble with string variables
organization vpi su computer science department , blacksburg , va
lines 19

has anyone else been playing with that wincmd utility from pc magazine \?
if so , i am having trouble concatenating string variables together and
need your help. for example
temp path
temp2 file.ext
fullpath temp
say fullpath output 'th '
fullpath fullpath temp2
say fullpath output 'h file.ext'

so , it seems to be dropping the first few characters with each
concatenations. is it that i am out of memory i only have maybe 20
variables total the article did n't mention memory limits.

email me if you have an idea or would like to see the actual source and
output. thanks for your help.
bo

james bo begole begolej@csgrad.cs.vt.edu

from farley@access.digex.com (charles u. farley)
subject help with changing startup logo
organization express access online communications usa 800 546 2010
lines 21
distribution usa
nntp posting host access.digex.net
summary help with changing startup logo


i know this is probably a faq , but...

i installed the s w for my ati graphics card , and it bashed my windows
logo files. when i start windows now , it has the 3.0 logo instead of
the 3.1 logo.

i thought the files that controlled this were

windows system vgalogo.rle
windows system vgalogo.lgo

i restored these files , but it did n't change the logo. anyone know what
the correct files are \?

thanks.



farley@access.digex.com charles u. farley
average iq of calgary board of ed. employee 65

from rruther@watts.tansu.com.au (ralf rutherford)
subject re workgroup questions (conven. ram and licensing)
organization aotc cssc
lines 59
distribution world
reply to rruther@watts.tansu.com.au
nntp posting host watts.cssc melb.tansu.com.au

in article 0ra6abh107h@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca , aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca (alan walford) writes
i would be very appreciative if someone would answer a few
questions about windows for workgroups.

i currently have novell netware lite which does not work with
windows very well and is a conventional memory hog (ver. 1.1).
i am considering moving all our machines to w4wg.

q1 how much conventional ram does w4wg use over and above the
driver for the network card \?

about 2.5kbyte without novell 3.11 support.

q2 if i have a novell ne2000 card , are the lsl and ipx drivers
still needed \?

no.

q3 does w4wg do a license check over the network to ensure each
machine is running its own licenced copy of w4wg \? (note i do
not want to break the license agreement and i will buy a copy
of w4wg for each of our machines , it is just that i would like
to try it out first to see if it meets our needs. returning one
opened copy is much easier than returning n opened copies.)

no.
q4 if you buy the upgrade to windows 3.1 for w4wg does it replace
all of win 3.1 as you install it or does it depend on current
win 3.1 files \?

nearly all.

q5 if i install windows nt on my server when it comes out , will i have
any troubles with the w4wg machines \?

we run mixed wnt beta and w4wg , no problem apart from printer sharing( beta problem)

when i started this message , i was going to ask only 2 questions but i got carried
away. i 'll stop now ).

we had problems with mouse drivers using w4wg where windows 3.1 did n't , seems to be
more critical about it. it was actualy a port problem with the network card running on 0x2e0 , we changed it to 0x300 , now everything is allright , i think it has to do with the ami bios as well.

i look forward to your replies.

al


alan walford eos systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 604 734 8655
aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca or ...uunet ! wimsey.bc.ca ! eosvcr ! aew




ralf rutherford telecom aust mhsnet rruther@cssc melb.tansu.com.au
network services snail 700 blackburn rd , clayton vic 3168
customised software solutions australia
center melbourne phone 61 3 253 8910 fax 61 3 265 6669


from gcook@horus.cem.msu.edu (greg cook)
subject re word 2.0 help !
organization michigan state university
lines 12
nntp posting host horus.cem.msu.edu

from article 0096b11b.08a283a0@vms.csd.mu.edu , by 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
can anyone tell me if and how they have printed spanish characters \? i know wp 5.1 has this built in , but i do not recall ever seeing this option on wfw2. help !

try using the extended character set (alt sequences) . .
look in character map in the accessories group and see the alt sequence
for the font you want !


gregory r. cook internet gcook@horus.cem.msu.edu
department of chemistry cookgreg@student.msu.edu
michigan state university cook@cemvax.cem.msu.edu
east lansing , mi 48824 bitnet cook@msucem.bitnet

from aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca (alan walford)
subject summary ati graphics ultra questions etc
reply to aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca
organization eos systems inc , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 147


to those interested in the new ati ultra cards

i had posted some questions regarding the new ati ultra pro cards and
had asked confirmation of some opinions.

this message is a summary of the responses. thanks to all of you that
replied.


1) the card does not work in a system with 32m ram.

a) the higher memory limits apply to isa cards only , as far as i know. the vlb
and eisa version should have no problems.

b) i'm pretty sure from my experience that the isa version does n't
work in systems with over 16m ram. there is supposed to be way
of switching the memory aperture feature off to prevent this ,
but apparently it does n't work. i posted some help me messages
on the net and people indicated that the eisa card did n't have this
problem.

c) false

d) the vlb card , which i have , allows you to set memory aperture over 32m
by using their configuration software. no messing with jumpers necessary.

the 32m problem is probably valid only for isa cards.


2) the card works in a 32m system with some switches
set but it is much slower.

a) again , the memory aperture need only be disabled if you have more than 124m ram
(eisa and vlb) or 12 m (isa). 32m should not be a problem for you.

b) dunno.

c) depends on the bus. yes if isa , no if eisa or localbus


3) the card is interlaced in its 24bit (true colour) modes.

a) nope. i can use 640x480 at 72hz , 24 bit and 800x600 at 70hz , 24 bit , all
non interlaced.

b) yes according to pc magazine , they 've tested a local bus version
that does 1024x768 in 24 bit which may or may not be interlaced.

c) not for the pro. sometimes for the plus.

some modes may run only interlaced on certain monitors. this has nothing to
do with 24 bits ... only with screen size. note that for 24 bit color
and windows you must have 2 megs , memory size calculations notwithstanding.


4) the latest build 59 drivers still do not work in many
cases.

a) they are n't perfect , but are much improved. i do n't recall the last time which
i had to leave mach 32 mode (ati gup mode) and switch to 8514 or vga mode due
to software incompatibility.

b) true. many people recommended going back to build 55 or 54.

c) they appear to be excellent , but have a few bugs. for example , certain
graphs with dashed lines in mathcad 3.1 do not print correctly , though they
do display ok on the screen. they are about par for fancy cards ..
other accelerated cards also have bugs.

d) overall , i like the card , even if driver performance is somewhat less than
satisfactory. i am running the 1024 768 16 color mode as that is all my
nt driver for october nt version seems to allow.

i will say this that color performance is not quite as nice as a diamond
stealth vram , but i have not been able to try out a lot of the options on
the old driver.


5) this card is the fastest full colour card for the money.

a) it 's quite fast , but whether or not its the fastest is open to debate.

b) yes i 'll admit it was very very fast in 16 bit mode , which is what
i wanted to use it for. too bad it crashed (in many different ways)
every 20 minutes or so...

c) depends on many many things.


6) this card is the greatest thing since sliced bread. )

a) i like it.

b) well pc magazine seems to think it is.

c) yes , this appears to be true )

d) as to greatest thing since sliced bread , i doubt it. better cards are
coming out. who knows , maybe ati will come out with something faster yet.
several reviews i read rated one pycon winjet card as a superior performer
at a cheaper price except for availability of drivers , which pycon was
developing at that time. (pc magazine , about two months or so back)

overall , the card has a lot of potential , but you have to be able to use it.



that is the end of the questions. these were the most discussed items in this
group so i thought they needed confirmation. for those of you not familiar
with the card i have included a summary here (from an ati ad since i do n't have
an graphics ultra yet.)

ati graphics ultra plus
accelerated 1024x768 at 65k colours
true colour(16.7m) at 800x600
multimedia video acceleration (for indeo video , rle and video 1 compressed)
stretch full motion video windows to full size
fast vga
includes 3 button mouse (isa versions only)
anti aliased fonts (ed. avail in 16 colour mode only , i think)
real time pan and zoom across large virtual windows desktop
around a 1 2 length card size
priced from 400 u.s.

ati graphics ultra pro
everything in graphics ultra plus
faster performance with vrams
accelerated 1280x1024 at 256 colours 74hz non interlaced
available in isa , eisa and microchannel
priced from 600 u.s.

ati technologies
(416) 756 0718

i hope this summary can be of use to you.

al

p.s. i am not associated with ati technologies in any way other
than having used their previous ati ultra card for a few
years (which i generally liked).



alan walford eos systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 604 734 8655
aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca or ...uunet ! wimsey.bc.ca ! eosvcr ! aew

from rmohns@vax.clarku.edu
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
organization clark university
lines 52

in a previous article , alanchem@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (alan scott olson) wrote
two part question

1) what is windows nt a 'real' windows os \?

2) this past weekend , a local 'hacker' radio show metioned a new product
from microsoft called 'chicago' if i recall. anyone know what this is \?

that is it

thanks a heap.

alan

windows nt is a giant windows operating system. unline win3.1 , it does not
run on top of dos. it is its own os , with (billy gates assures us) true
multi tasking multithreading , meets dod security specs , will run win3.1
programs as well as dos programs , has multi processor support , and is
primarily a server program. it 's overhead is too high for it to be
economical for most users.
speaking of overhead , it requires at least a 386 with 16 megs of ram.
it iwll run with 12 , but that 's like running os 2 2.0 with 4 megs. and that 's
just to run it. also , i have heard that the system files take up 30 50 megs ,
and it is recommended that your drive be a half gig ! the skd is distributed
on cd rom.

chicogo is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true os with thrue
multitasking and multithreading , but has much smaller hardware requirements ,
and does not meet dod security specs (but that 's okay since it will probably
be more of a client os). there are a few otehr differences , but those are the
main ones. there was an article about chicogo in pc week last august.
the chicogo and nt development groups at micro oft are in intense
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will
arise nt will be the server ( n etowrk t echonology) , chicogo will be the
client machine. it is entirely possible for different os 's to work together ,
partly because chicogo is just a small nt (think of it that way , anyway).
(novell netware creates an os on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't
scorn the concept.)
anyway , do n't expect it soon. windows 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be
released next year (read see it in 95) , so i expect that chicogo wo n't be out
til '96.
with luck , i 'll be proven wrong ! )

rob


rmohns@vax.clarku.edu

rob mohns

annoy rush limbaugh. think for yourself.


from fl2g@gandalf.fl.bs.dlr.de (reiner suikat)
subject truetype font mix up times cyrillic
organization dlr insitute of flight guidance
lines 13
nntp posting host frodo.fl.bs.dlr.de

hi
i'm having a problem with truetype fonts in windows 3.1. i have installed
the cyrillic fonts i found on cica and now a strange thing happens
sometimes windows uses cyrillic when its supposed to use times roman.
examples the pc tools backup (version 7.1) has one line of cyrillic text
in its opening banner , the next to last line. importing a word for windows
text written in times into wp5.2 also results in cyrillic.
does anyone have an idea where to look for the problem \?
thanks

reiner suikat institute for flight guidance
fl2g@gandalf.fl.bs.dlr.de german aerospace research establishment (dlr)


from ccastco@prism.gatech.edu (constantinos malamas)
subject re is ms windows a mature os \?
keywords ms windows
distribution usa
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 46

in article cyen.735139934@ponder jesse writes
hi ,
have you used mac system 6.x or 7.x \? if the answer is positive , you would
know if ms windows is a mature os.

days ago people doubted that ms windows is not a real os. i can see why
they have such question. ms windows confuses many people. microsoft

common complaints about ms windows deleted...

jesse
e mail cyen@cs.unt.edu ic43@sol.acs.unt.edu

hmmmm , why do i get the feeling that this is gonna start one of
those endless threads 'mac vs win and might even end up as os 2 vs win .
well , i dont know if windows is a mature os , if i have seen one (in which
case that has to be x windows ) ) , but dont be so quick to judge...
first of all to try to use plain vanilla windows is as courageous as to try
to use plain vanilla dos. there are lots of very nice commercial and
shareware packages utilities that will boost up windows past what ms itself
thought possible )... for example , norton desktop for windows 2.0 (a replace
ment for progman) will give you group within a group capability and will
even change group icons , it will launch progs by association (well , fileman
does that too) or by dragging the file in the apps icon (now mac doesnt do
that , huh \? ) )... and the list goes on and on... now , windows is kinda
hard to finetune , boost and configure , but thats trhe price to pay for not
paying to get a mac or an os 2 capable machine (an entirely differet
story ...)... on the other hand if you dont like the idea of pm 's icons
not correspnding to the files themselves , well they are not supposed to )..
pm is a program launching utility not a file manager... modify your
settings to have fm as your shell and not pm , or get a couple of utilities
from cica that supposedly give you a 'mac feel'... i dont wanna get in the
discussion which is a better system mac 's are good in their own way they
are different not better or worse than win pcs (actually i am writing
this from a mac lab as a user assistant so dont think i am partial to win ) )
by all means check out the stuff in cica (ftp to ftp.cica.indiana.edu under
the pub pc win3 subdir user anonymous) , or wait for startrek (mac 's os on
a pc ! ! ! the threads we are gonna have then ! ! ! ) )...
just trying to avoid another mac win war...



costas malamas
georgia institute of technology
oit ua opinions expressed are not necessarily oit 's...
internet ccastco@prism.gatech.edu

from pmhudepo@cs.vu.nl (hudepohl pmj)
subject re searching for a phonetic font
organization fac. wiskunde informatica , vu , amsterdam
lines 23

weidlich@arb phys.uni dortmund.de (weidlich) writes
i'm searching for a phonetic truetype font for windows 3.1. if
anybody knows one , please mail me !

thanks.

dw



dipl. inform. dietmar weidlich ifado , ardeystr. 67
weidlich@arb phys.uni dortmund.de d 4600 dortmund 50
phone 49 231 1084 250 dr. b. koennten sie das
fax 49 231 1084 401 mal eben erledigen \?

yes , i'm looking for phonetic font(s) too ! so if you know one ,
please mail me too !

thanks in advance
patrick hudepohl
vu amsterdam
the netherlands


from dcoleman@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu (daniel m. coleman)
subject re mathcad 4.0 swap file
lines 28
nntp posting host blonde.cc.utexas.edu
organization the university of texas at austin
lines 28

in article 1993apr20.175608.23949@ncar.ucar.edu , baseball@catch the fever.scd.ucar.edu (gregg walters) writes
i have 16mb of memory on my 386sx. i have been running windows
without a swap file for several months. will mathcad 4.0 be
happy with this , or insist on a swap file \?

i just got mathcad 4.0 , and the manual is not clear on the matter. on page 8




at least 4 megabytes of memory. all memory about 640k should be configured
as xms.



at least 8 megabytes of virtual memory....

common sense suggests that you should be able to run it (4 8 12 16) but the
new mathcad is kinda kooky , and thus is not subject to the laws of common
sense...

dan


daniel matthew coleman internet dcoleman@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu
dcoleman@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
the university of texas at austin decnet utxvms dcoleman
electrical computer engineering bitnet dcoleman@utxvms .bitnet

from keith.w.johnson@tek.com (keith w. johnson)
subject re viewsonic 17 experience sought (vs 17 vs. nec 5fg)
organization tektronix , gpi nd info services
lines 42
distribution world
nntp posting host keithj.wv.tek.com

i 'd appreciate if you can email or post you positive
or negative experience with this monitor , especially
compared to to nanao 550i.
i 'd summarize if i got multiple responses.

i bought a viewsonic 17 for use at home but after a week i took it back. i
felt for the money my nec 5fg that i use at work was a much better monitor.
the nec is sharper , flatter , less distorted , and more stable. i have heard
complaints from people about the nec fg series having some quality control
problems but mine has been in use for about a year with no problems at all.

there was nothing really broken with the viewsonic but overall it did not
match up. i used my ati graphics ultra in setup mode to push the
frequencies to their limits and the viewsonic exhibited some problems that
the nec did not. i personally like the non etched nec with the ocli filter
and the tube on the 17 was not as nice. the 17 had some uncorrectable
pincusion and edge distortion problems. also , it would change brightness
when i switched modes and i was constantly having to fiddle with the
controls. and the yoke was crooked and i had no way to compensate for the
raster that tilted downhill. on the postive side , although not as handsome
as the nec , the 17 had a smaller footprint and was not as heavy.

i have heard that panasonic owns viewsonic and the model 17 is being sold
through oem channels with a panasonic label on it. if it 's available that
way at a lower cost i could get more serious about it. for now the nec has
my vote but i'm searching for one of the new , cheaper , nec 5fge 's to see if
it 's just as good as its older brother the 5fg before i decide which one to
buy.

i have no experience with the nanao. i can never keep the nanao models
straight and do n't have any place i can walk in to get a good comparison of
all models.



standard employer disclaimers apply




keith w. johnson tektronix , gpi nd info services , wilsonville , or , usa
internet keith.w.johnson@tek.com voice 503 685 2953 fax 503 682 3595

from cca20@keele.ac.uk (j. atherton)
subject serial printing in windows
lines 12
distribution world
nntp posting host seq1.cc.keele.ac.uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

i am getting garbled output when serial printing thru windows works
etc. this has occurred on several systems and goes if a laserjet 4 is
used. i suspect that there is no need for handshaking in this case due
to the capacity (memory speed) of it. there is no problem printing from
dos. are there any obvious tweaks i'm missing. i'm sure its not just
me with this problem. thanks for reading.... john atherton







subject sigma designs video sound card
from srini@shannon.tisl.ukans.edu (srini seetharam)
reply to srini@shannon.tisl.ukans.edu (srini seetharam)
distribution world
organization elec. comp. eng. , univ. of kansas
nntp posting host morse.tisl.ukans.edu
originator srini@morse
lines 10


does anyone out there use a sigma designs video sound card \?
the model is called win storm pc .
they also have one model the legend 24lx

any info on these like performance and compatibility ,
or even problems encountered will be appreciated.

thanks
srini.w.seetharam

from goo@cup.hp.com (mike goo)
subject re visual c
distribution usa
nntp posting host hpingoo.cup.hp.com
organization hewlett packard , cupertino , ca
lines 30

in article 1rgr7v 6ga@lll winken.llnl.gov david a. fuess writes

it is correct that vc is not considered an upgrade for c7. c7 is
basically a dos product , vc is a windows product. as windows is not
an upgrade for dos , it is a separate operating system product line , its
utilities cannot be upgrades for dos utilities. however , i have also
been told that it is not an upgrade for qcwin , which it should be !

you can upgrade msc 7.0 and qcwin to the visual c products as follows

standard edition
list price 199
upgrade from qcwin 79
competitive upgrade 99

professional edition
list price 499
upgrade from msc 7.0 139
competitive upgrade 199

includes upgrades from other ms language products like qcwin


michael goo
hewlett packard i never try to cover my ass...
information networks division but i certainly support your right to do so !
19420 homestead road ms 43lt
cupertino , ca 95014 9974
goo@hpinddh.cup.hp.com


nntp posting host fac csr.byu.edu
lines 24
from ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton)
subject why is my mouse so jumpy \? (ms mouse)
organization fine arts and communications brigham young university

i have a microsoft serial mouse and am using mouse.com 8.00 (was using 8.20
i think , but switched to 8.00 to see if it was any better). vertical motion
is nice and smooth , but horizontal motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click
on something because my mouse jumps around. i can be moving the mouse to
the right with relatively uniform motion and the mouse will move smoothly
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move smoothly for a bit then jump
again (maybe this time to the left about .5 inch ! ). this is crazy ! i have
never had so much trouble with a mouse before. anyone have any solutions \?

does microsoft think they are what everyone should be \? just venting steam !



sean eckton
computer support representative
college of fine arts and communications

d 406 hfac
brigham young university
provo , ut 84602
(801)378 3292

hfac csr@byu.edu
ecktons@ucs.byu.edu

from bryan@src.sbs.utah.edu
subject okidata 2410 printer driver
organization university of utah computer center
lines 16


i have an okidata 2410 printer for which i would like to have a printer driver.
has anyone seen such a thing \? there is not one on the microsoft bbs.
i can print to it from windows but i have no fonts available and with
paradox for windows i ca n't print labels on it unless there is a proper printer
defined.


thanks ,

bryan k. ward
survey research center
university of utah

i mail bryan@src.sbs.utah.edu


from sp@odin.nosubdomain.nodomain (svein pedersen)
subject utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
organization university of tromsoe , norway
lines 6

i nead a utility for updating (deleting , adding , changing) .ini files for windows.

do i find it on any ftp host \?

svein


from alanchem@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (alan scott olson)
subject win nt what is it \? \? \?
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 18
distribution usa
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator alanchem@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

two part question

1) what is windows nt a 'real' windows os \?

2) this past weekend , a local 'hacker' radio show metioned a new product
from microsoft called 'chicago' if i recall. anyone know what this is \?

that is it

thanks a heap.

alan


alan s. olson swanson environmental , inc.
e mail to alanchem@csd4.csd.uwm.edu or alan@alchemy.chem.uwm.edu
want some good music \? check out milwaukee 's own bodeans


from osburn@halcyon.com (tim osburn)
subject netware 3.11 win 3.1 fileman
organization northwest nexus inc.
lines 12
nntp posting host nwfocus.wa.com


is there a update or something that will allow a person when
using novell 3.11 and windows 3.1 file manager to view the files with
the name of the person who created it or changed it like the novell
command ndir \?

tim osburn
osburn@halcyon.com



tim osburn kb7gbq osburn@halcyon.com bellevue , washington

from jeffj@krfiny.uucp (j. jonas)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
summary there are so many refill kits now ...
organization jeff 's house of computer pieces
lines 18

thomas.d.fellrath.1@nd.edu@nd.edu wrote

the key issue that i bought my bj 200 on was ink drying speed.

i was at the trenton computer fest and there were many sources of
ink refills for the hp and canon , so if you do n't like the ink you 're using ,
you have a choice. there is a frequently asked question (faq) list
that 's reposted occasionally that reports how to refill the cartridges
yourself with inks that are available from the stationery store
instead of a specialty ink with the specialty price.

i'm not sure , but i think i found another legal source of cheap
hypos for injecting ink into the cartridges.
more on that when my mail order succeeds.

jeffrey jonas

jeffj@panix.com

from neff123@garnet.berkeley.edu (stephen kearney)
subject re is microsoft windows really and operating system \?
article i.d. agate.1pr6rm t7f
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 19
nntp posting host garnet.berkeley.edu

well , you may think that , but you are wrong.

ah... the joys of networking. i just hope that you forgot the

if you do n't like the file manager , don't use it !

i do n't. i use ndw.

i like the more modular nature of windoze.

if you like things to be modular , i think you would love system 7.
instead of adding a line to your autoexec.bat , you just drop the
icon into the extensions folder.

just because one has had ignorance sold to one by the evil
fruit empire , one is not forbidden to learn about one 's file
system below the level of the gui.

i'm still working on that one

from chrisa@hpwarr.hp.com ( chris almy)
subject re ( \? ) speedstar vga card win. drivers
reply to chrisa@hpwarr.uucp
keywords vga speedstar drivers video card
lines 6


these drivers (updated) are available directly from diamond.
they will even ship them to you at no charge.(at least they
did for me.)



from carols@ohsu.edu (carol suelzle)
subject re windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
article i.d. ohsu.1993apr19.213505.2883
organization oregon health sciences university
lines 23
nntp posting host 137.53.130.7


in article 1qur7h qrl@access.digex.net wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom) writes


in article 1993apr16.155637.15398@oracle.us.oracle.com ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco) writes
from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 56 37 gmt

as the subjects says , windows 3.1 keeps crashing (givinh me gpf) on me of
late. it was never a very stable package , but now it seems to crash every
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash consistently ie i

there is a way in sys.ini to turn off ram parity checking (unfortunately ,
my good windows references are at home , but any standard win reference
will tell you how to do it. if not , email back to me.) that weird memory
may be producing phony parity errors. danger is , if you turn checkling off ,
you run the slight risk of data corruption due to a missed real error.

i had this very same problem , and did 'work around' by turning parity checking off , but that only
worked while i was in windows , and the parity error would occur immediately after exiting
windows , however , the problem turned out to be 3 chip simms vs 9 chip simms. i ca n't use 3 chip simms in my
computer , and when i replaced them , the problem vanished , forever.

from paladin@world.std.com (thomas g schlatter)
subject re bernoulli drives disks...
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 30

in article 1rhm0j 6cg@agate.berkeley.edu nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu (nilay patel rc38) writes
in article c62onk.f7a@netnews.jhuapl.edu ncmoore2@netnews.jhuapl.edu (nathan moore) writes
nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu (nilay patel) writes

i am looking for bernoulli removable tapes for the 20 20 drive..
do n't laugh ... i am serious...
if you have any 20 mb tapes lying around that you would like to get rid of ,
please mail me ...

nilay patel
nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu

you do mean disks , do n't you , not tapes \? you forgot to say whether you
were looking for the old 8 or the newer 5.25 .

well...i need the old 8 disks ... you are right , disks is a better word ,
but they are so big and calling them disks is kind of funny ... but the
appropriate word is disks ...

gee , i remember the old 8 floppy disks we used on an s 100 cp m system
back in high school. not to mention those old 24 multi platter disk
packs that held about 15mb that went in the big washing machine
drives at the local college i took some programming classes at.
and this was even in the early '80 's....

tom
paladin@world.std.com

a disk is a disk , no matter how great or how small...
paraphrasing gulliver 's travels

from vestman@cs.umu.se (peter vestman)
subject 768x1024 trident driver wanted !
keywords trident driver
organization dep. of info.proc , umea univ. , sweden
lines 12

is there a 768x1024 trident driver for windows anywere.
this mode is supported by the drivers fo os 2 but i have
not been able to find it for windows.

(768x1024 means 768 wide and 1024 high as opposed to 1024x768)

any help is appreciated.


peter vestman
dep of computing science
university of umea , sweden

from grantk@nosc.mil (kelly j. grant)
subject strange 386 enhanced behavior...
keywords 386 enhanced , paradox
organization computer sciences corporation
lines 45

howdy

we have been having a real problem with an ast 386sx 16 machine with
4mb of ram. we installed paradox for windows , (but i do n't think
paradox is the real problem here) , and the installation went ok
(windows is installed on a local drive , paradox installed on a novell
network (netware 386 v3.26 or greater) , dos 5 , win 3.1) but the program
will not load in 386 enchanted mode. the thermometer bar goes to 60
and we then either get a 'invalid command.com' or a windows nastygram
talking about an illegal instruction. i 've checked out the command.com
thing , but as a long time c programmer , i 've crashed my share of machines
with pointer problems and this is a standard behavior )

anyway , paradox will run in standard mode , but not enhanced. we also have
quattro pro windows , exhibiting the same behavior. spent about 2 hours
with borland 's tech people , with no avail. the guy i talked to a microsoft
did n't want to really dig in and help , as he gave up pretty quickly.
somewhat disappointing , really. i expected more from microsoft. you 'd think
with all the millions of windows installations that they would have seen all
the possible problems , but i guess not...

microsoft had sent us a 13 page fax on fixing uae and general
protection faults (sorry , i ca n't fax anything out of here so please
do n't ask , try microsoft) , which we tried. we did everything they
said , and still no luck.

so. if you can help , please mail me. this problem is driving us nuts.
i will greatly appreciate any information anyone can pass on.

thanks

kelly

this is the real signature...please ignore the following demon signature..

kelly j. grant grantk@nosc.mil
4045 hancock st (619) 225 2562 the next time someone asks you if you
san diego , ca 92110 are a god , you say yes ! )



kelly grant grantk@manta.nosc.mil (619) 553 0850
computer sciences corp important manta.uucp wo n't get to me
4045 hancock street if you are given lemons.....see if you can trade for
san diego , ca 92110 chocolate me

from rwag@gwl.com (rodger wagner)
subject running c exe under windows 3.1
reply to rwag@gwl.com
organization the great west life assurance company.
x disclaimer the views expressed in this message are those of an
individual at the great west life assurance company and do
not necessarily reflect those of the company.
lines 17

preface i am a novice user at best to the windows environment.

i am trying to execute a ms c 7.0 executable program which accesses a btrieve
database to build an ascii file.

when i execute it under windows the screen goes blank and my pc locks up. the only
way for me to return is to reset the machine.

does anyone have any insight on what i may have to do in order for the program to
correctly under windows \? (by the way it runs fine in dos 5.0)

system gateway 486 dx250
ati graphics ultra card 640x480

any help would be greatly appreciated.

rodger

from phoenix.princeton.edu ! carlosn (carlos g. niederstrasser)
subject reboot when i start windows.
originator news@nimaster
nntp posting host week.princeton.edu
organization princeton university
lines 21

recently the following problem has arrisen. the first time i turn on my
computer when windows starts (from my autoexec) after the win31 title screen
the computer reboots on its own. usually the second time (after reboot) or
from the dos prompt everything works fine.

s far as i remember i have not changed my config.sys or autoxec.bat or
win.ini. i ca n't remember whether this problem occured before i
optimized defragmented my disk and created a larger swap file (thank you
mathcad 4 ( )

system 386sx , 4mb , stacker 2.0 , win31 , dos 5



carlos g. niederstrasser only two things are infinite ,
princeton planetary society the universe and human
stupidity , and i'm not sure
about the former. einstein
carlosn@phoenix.princeton.edu
space@phoenix.princeton.edu ad astra per ardua nostra


from hjhong@ev004.ev.nctu.edu.tw (h. j. hong)
subject ftp tool for windows
organization national chiao tung university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 8

is there any one know

what is the ftp tool for windows and where to get the tool \?

thanks for any help ! !

h.j. 1993 , 4 , 19


from syshtg@gsusgi2.gsu.edu (tom gillman)
subject re please refresh on internet access to compuserve
organization georgia state university
lines 22

cheong@solomon.technet.sg (scstech admin) writes

hi ,

sometime ago there are some discussions on gaining compuserve access thru
the internet. but i seem to misplace those articles. can someone please
refresh me where (which site) i can telnet to to gain access.

hopefully i can download files as well.

this should be in the faq , it only get asked about twenty times a month

there is no , that 's right , no telnet access to compuserve , no ftp access ,
no gopher access....no internet services except e mail.

you can telnet to hermes.merit.edu , but that routes you through sprintnet ,
which is horrendously expensive.

tom gillman , systems programmer aaaaagggghhhh
wells computer center ga. state univ. any classic star trek security
(404) 651 4503 syshtg@gsusgi2.gsu.edu officer sometime during the show
gsu does n't care what i say on the internet , why should you \?

subject re windows for workgroups and lan workplace
from flint.waters@uwyo.edu (flint waters)
distribution comp.os.ms windows.apps , comp.os.ms windows.misc , world
organization university of wyoming
nntp posting host sheriff.uwyo.edu
lines 18

hey , sounds great. does that mean that w4wg works with odi \? i thought it
uses ndis.

wfwg does use ndis but it cooperates well with the ndis shim for odi.
(i 've heard that it is as fast as ndis direct)


my problem is that lan workplace with all its drivers uses up most of my
umbs , so i 'd hate to have to load many more drivers to make w4wg work
along.

the additional tsr load is minimal. i think i eat another 20k total.
this is worth it to me since it allows me to get to my windows nt
box. novell has n't released a decent nt novell client yet so i share
through my wfwg box.

this solution is very usable.


from dmsilev@athena.mit.edu (daniel m silevitch)
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host w20 575 72.mit.edu

in article 1993apr20.180234.18192@oz.plymouth.edu , oddjob@oz.plymouth.edu (andrew c. stoffel) writes
in article 1993apr20.151912.18590@midway.uchicago.edu am37@midway.uchicago.edu writes

unless i am completely misunderstanding you , try using either notepad or
sysedit.exe (found in your system subdirectory) to edit you .ini files.
you can add sysedit ( regedit) to a program group... they are windows
programs.
the sysedit.exe program is cool because it automatically opens you win.ini ,
system.ini , autoexec.bat and config.sys files to be edited.

is it possible to get it to load other .ini files \? \? \? \?


no. when the program is run , it loads 4 configuration files autoexec.bat ,
config.sys , win.ini , and system.ini. there is no open entry on the file
menu. you can only edit these four files. if you need to edit some other
program 's .ini file , use notepad or some other ascii editor.

i wonder whether microsoft intended for sysedit to be used , or if it was
just a holdover from the testing period and they forgot to take it out. the
reason i think this is because there is absolutely no mention in the manuals
about this program , and there is no online help for it (just an about entry
under the file menu). the program looks like something that was intended for
internal use only. it 's kind of a shame , though. it would have made a nice
multi file replacement for notepad.

daniel silevitch dmsilev@athena.mit.edu
massachusetts institute of technology

from davidw@auck.irl.cri.nz (david white)
subject re how do i quickly switch between windows screen resolutions \?
organization industrial research ltd , auckland , new zealand
lines 16
distribution na
nntp posting host kauri.auck.irl.cri.nz

in 93721@hydra.gatech.edu ccastco@prism.gatech.edu (constantinos malamas) writes

in article c5qlr8.djl@cbnewsl.cb.att.com slg@slgsun.att.com (the idealistic cynic) writes
can someone out there tell me how to switch window 's screen resolution
quickly and easily \? i know that i can go back into install to do it ,

take a look at ftp.cica.indiana.edu at pub pc win3 (util \? misc \? )
for a program caleld vswitch.zip.it 's as close to want you want as you can
get in win3.1 ...

i think george is referring to switch.zip in the ftp pub pc win3 drivers video
directory. description reads switcher windows video mode switcher.


david white (engineer , goon fan son of my dad)
internet davidw@auck.irl.cri.nz fax 64 9 443 4737

from mitchell@nodecg.ncc.telecomwa.oz.au (clive mitchell)
subject dataproducts lzr1260 not printing correctly
organization regional network systems group , perth
lines 9

just an apology in advance for posting a binary to this newsgroup.
i 've had several attempts to mail it to the original poster but
it 's not getting through intact.


clive mitchell ph 61 9 4916384
regional network systems mitchell@telecomwa.oz.au
. . perth , western australia
v

from steffi.beckhaus@newcastle.ac.uk (s. beckhaus)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
nntp posting host turing
organization computing laboratory , u of newcastle upon tyne , uk ne1 7ru.
lines 47


in article 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au , eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au writes
in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.


i hope this will clear it up

(taken from one of my lecture notes)

... the alternative approach (to cisc) ,
which has been adopted by many in
recent years , has come to be known as risc the reduced
instruction set computer. this can be characterised simply as
simpler is faster by simplifying the design (e.g. by reducing
the variety of instructions addressing modes) , the hardware can be
designed to run faster. even at the cost of needing more
instructions , the same task can be done more quickly by the simpler ,
faster design.

a typical risc processor will

o provide a large number of registers (e.g. 32)

o perform all data operations on registers

o provide few addressing modes (e.g. immediate or 'register offset')

o only allow load store operations to access memory

o only use a few instruction formats

o only support a few data types (e.g. integer , unsigned , floating).

steffi beckhaus janet steffi.beckhaus@uk.ac.newcastle
if the odds are a million to one against something occurring , chances
are 50 50 it will.

from rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols)
subject re simple windows question
organization at t
lines 15

in article 1993apr23.214110.15315@sarah.albany.edu jr0930@eve.albany.edu (diamond) writes
when running dos 5.0 under windows 3.0 , i lose the ability to do a
print screen.
i have no problem with this when i'm running dos not under windows.
...

open up the .pif file with the pif editor , click on the advanced button ,
and then reserve the prtsc key for the application. any keys that you
select in this section will be passed along to the application rather than
being processed by windows.


bob nichols
at t bell laboratories
rnichols@ihlpm.ih.att.com

from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject help object appears thrice !
summary after editing win.ini embedding.. , and leaving only 1 entry
organization george washington university
lines 40


hey all...i got an equation editor , and since it did n't automagically
appear in my object dialog box (i.e. insert object equation) , i
decided to manually place it there. so i went into win.ini (is there
another way to do this \? ) , the embedding section , and added

equation equation , equation , path filename , picture.

did n't work.
quit windows , go back. aha mistake. correct it. it looks fine.
start windows...does n't work. play with it for a while , at one point
having two entries to see if one works and th'other do n't , and finally i
get it to work. the only thing i can see that 's different now is that
it 's now the first item on the list , and it used to be the last. but
now i end up with three equation entried , and all of them working.
(and only one entry in win.ini).

so does any netian know what 's wrong \? or rather , how to correct this \?
(i.e. make equation appear but once \? ).

also , all the entries in the embedding appear as above.
it 's obvious that path filename is the executable , or whatever , and
picture has something to do withthe way it appears
(picture description \? )

but what are the others \?
i.e. , in

soundrec sound , sound ,
whate 's the difference between the 1st sound and the 2nd \?
and what is soundrec \? \? (i do n't think it 's the name of the executable ,
as other entries (e.g. msworkschart ...) are n't)

thanks , i.a.
mickey

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

from mlipsie@rdm09.std.com (mike lipsie mpu)
subject re permanent swap file
organization mitsubishi electric research laboratories , inc.
lines 26

in article 1qlja7 i6b@usenet.ins.cwru.edu ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler) writes

when i first setup windows using the self load mode it grabbed about
20 megs of swap file space , my 120 meg hd was nearly empty at that time.
i deleted windows for a time and recently reloaded , now my hd is nearly full
and windows just took 4 megs.

one of the rules for a permanent swap file is that it must be contiguous
(non fragmented) space. i suspect that is more responsible for the
difference than the amount of free disk , in your case.

i have read somewhere that the best rule of thumb is have your
permanent swap file the same size as your regular ram size. i have 4 megs
of ram and windows took 4 meg perm swap file. works very well.
in fact with my available hd space , about 20 megs it wo n't let me make
the swap file any bigger.
you should change your virtual mem swap file to 8 megs i think
that is what you said your ram was.

it depends on what you are running. we had to increase our swap
file (i think it is now 20mb) when some applications could n't
run without everything else closed.


mike lipsie (work) mlipsie@ca.merl.com
mitsubishi electronic research laboratory (home) mikel@dosbears.uucp

from 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
organization marquette university computer services
lines 12
reply to 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
nntp posting host vmsa.csd.mu.edu


ok , then where is the info for the licensing kept \? which file \? in the
organization box i put my address , and when i moved , i wanted to change it , but
could n't find it. i could find my name , but not the organization.


robert s. dubinski aliases include robb , regal , sir , mr. , and i

marquette university math computer science double major

internet address 2a42dubinski.vms.csd.mu.edu milwaukee , wi


from baseball@catch the fever.scd.ucar.edu (gregg walters)
subject mathcad 4.0 swap file
organization scientific computing divison ncar boulder , co
lines 3

i have 16mb of memory on my 386sx. i have been running windows
without a swap file for several months. will mathcad 4.0 be
happy with this , or insist on a swap file \?

from servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu (brian k servis)
subject re how redirect print manager to file \?
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 33

u7911093@cc.nctu.edu.tw ( by swh ) writes

who can tell me which program (pd or shareware) can redirect windows 3.1 's
output of printer manager to file \?

i want to capture hp laser jet iii 's print output.

though postscript can setup print to file , but hp ca n't.

i use dos 's redirect program , but they ca n't work in windows.

thankx for any help...

internet address u7911093@cc.nctu.edu.tw

english name erik wang
chinese name wang jyh shyang

national chiao tung university , taiwan , r.o.c.

try setting up another hpiii printer but when choosing what port to connect it
to choose file instead of like lpt1. this will prompt you for a file name
everytime you print with that hpiii on file printer. good luck.


brian servis

servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu it happened this way
actual quotes from insurance claims
what i say may not be what i
think. what i say may not be the pedestrian had no idea which
what purdue thinks. way to go , so i ran him over.


from e324ngon@credit.erin.utoronto.ca (ngo nguyen)
subject re speeding up windows
keywords speed
organization university of toronto , erindale campus
lines 25

in article 972@thunder.lakeheadu.ca djserian@flash.lakeheadu.ca (reincarnation of elvis) writes
i have a 386 33 with 8 megs of memory

i have noticed that lately when i use programs like wpfw or corel draw
my computer boggs down and becomes really sluggish !

what can i do to increase performance \? what should i turn on or off

will not loading wallpapers or stuff like that help when it comes to
the running speed of windows and the programs that run under it \?

thanx in advance

derek


you can try defraging your disk more often. it definitely will
help speed things up. a 2 megs smartdrv is also a good idea with
the amount of memory you have , and use fastdisk (32bit access) if
you not already. hope that help..

n. ngo




from paladin@world.std.com (thomas g schlatter)
subject looking for tom haapanen
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 11

i'm trying to find tom haapanen , formerly tom@wes.on.ca
who was the keeper of the faq for this newsgroup.
he was working at watrerloo engineering software ,
but netfind ca n't even find that (but it may have
been a uucp connection). if anyone knows how to
contact tom , please let me know.

thanks ,
tom schlatter
paladin@world.std.com


from wkwinkel@ibm.rz.uni passau.de
subject re color or monochrome \?
organization university of passau germany
lines 14
nntp posting host ibm.rz.uni passau.de

walther ,
i 'd have a look at the maximum resolution the combination of the video card
and screen would have without flickering. i 'd only suggest using the color
screen if it does 800 600 without flickering. if this is not too small for
your tastes at a 14 ....
personally i 'd prefer the mono screen as i always have quite a few windows
open. if you only run one program at a time or rarely switch maybe the
color 'surplus' is worth trading in the smaller size. if you want to
develop programs you will always have to check the colors. i used a
14 mono screen (worst of both worlds) and was surprised how the colors looked
i choose on a color screen.

regards ,
olaf winkelhake

from sguerke@ravel.udel.edu (stephen guerke)
subject re how can i use the mouse in non windows applications under ms windows \?
nntp posting host ravel.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 22

in article 1993apr22.153959.12328@ucsu.colorado.edu gonzaled@ucsu.colorado.edu (lgv mc) writes


one addition to this... i do n't know if it applies to everybody. for my
(microsoft 400dpi) mouse to work with windowed dos apps , i had to use the
driver that came with windows (version 8.20). 8.1 did n't allow me to do
it for some reason.


for logitech rodents use the lmouse driver that comes with windows....
also you need to be using a video driver that supports use of the mouse ,
both the vga and supervga that come with windows 3.1 will support it.
both of these are 16 color drivers , if you 're lucky the manufacturer of
your video card might have a driver that is compatable and will support a
mouse.

steve


stephen guerke , coord. computer resources sguerke@brahms.udel.edu
university of delaware parallel program stephen.guerke@mvs.udel.edu
georgetown , de 19947 ilv20078@udelvm.udel.edu

from rick@sundance.sjsu.edu (richard warner)
subject re atm or truetype which to choose \? (tt for true effects for windows)
organization san jose state university math cs dept.
lines 41

games@max.u.washington.edu writes

in article 1993apr3.174759.15377@seas.gwu.edu , lai@seas.gwu.edu (william y. lai) writes
in article 1ov6rj gev@gabriel.keele.ac.uk csd25@keele.ac.uk (c.m. yearsley) writes
i 've just bought a pc which came with a bundle of lotus stuff , including
adobe type manager version 1.15. as a newcomer to windows , i'm
confused about which i should be using , atm or truetype.

...

there is a program called true effects for windows , that allows you to define
attributes for true type fonts , and have them look like new fonts. it will
give your font different backgrounds , or shadows , or reverse , etc...

it only works with tt fonts.

yes , and the idea was ripped off from adobe , which has had a program
called typealign for a few years now. typealign does the same thing
for adobe type 1 fonts and adobe has said that the next version
will work with both adobe type 1 and truetype.

and typealign does some things that trueeffects does not including
some things you apparently want ...

if you want to use it , you best not want to use it with an atm type font.

(oh , yeah... lest you think this is a really cool program , none of the
effects are scalable (like the brick background pattern is the same size
whether your font is 10 point of 100 point.) , and it is not extensible ,
i.e. you can not add pattern of your own.
and you ca n't rorate the background pattern...
and you ca n't make the pattern extend beyond one character
(every character in that new font has the entire pattern in it ,
as opposed to having the same pattern run contiguously through
a couple of characters)

it is however cheap.
maybe i will buy a copy when the next version comes out , if they fix some of
these gripes...

john.

nntp posting host 134.58.96.14
from wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder)
distribution world
organization k.u.leuven applied economic sciences department
subject winqvtnet with ndis on token ring \?
lines 13

is it possible to use winqvt net on a machine that uses ndis to connect to a
token ring \? i tried it with older versions ( 3.2) but got an invalid packet
class error or something the like...

regards ,

wim van holder
katholieke universiteit leuven tel 32 (0)16 28.57.16
departement t.e.w. fax 32 (0)16 28.57.99
dekenstraat 2
b 3000 leuven e mail wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be
belgium fdbaq03@cc1.kuleuven.ac.be


from ksl@engin1.nosubdomain.nodomain (kiseok lee )
subject re does dos6 defragment \? \?
article i.d. cs.1993apr6.040254.8443
organization brown university center for fluid mechanics
lines 17

in article c51h9m.46p@news.cso.uiuc.edu , rhc52134@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (richard) writes
geoffrey s. elbo writes

yes , and it is the fastest defrag i 've ever watched. it did a 170mb
hard disk in 20 minutes.

i found the ms defrag looks very much like norton speedisk.
is it just a strip down version of the later \?

i have both norton speedisk and backup , so i was wondering
if i need to install ms backup \?

richard


yes , defragger is come from norton.
if you have norton utility , do n't bother.

from dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina)
subject more diamond ss 24x
nntp posting host dil.adp.unc.edu
organization unc office of information technology
lines 9

has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.
i had a ati ultra but was getting genral protection fault errors
in an spss application. these card manufactures must have terrible
quality control to let products on the market with so many bugs.
what a hassle. running on gateway 2000 dx2 50.
thx dave l

from hzhang@compstat.wharton.upenn.edu (hao zhang)
subject re x emulator
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 12
nntp posting host compstat.wharton.upenn.edu

a posting in another news group i read a while ago said that
pc xview and pc xremote allow you to use xterm.
call ncd @ 503 641 2200 for more info.

hope it helps ,

hao


hao zhang , dept. of stat. , wharton school , univ. of penn.
zhang48@wharton.upenn.edu hzhang@compstat.wharton.upenn.edu


from aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca (alan walford)
subject workgroup questions (conven. ram and licensing)
reply to aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca
organization eos systems inc , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 37

i would be very appreciative if someone would answer a few
questions about windows for workgroups.

i currently have novell netware lite which does not work with
windows very well and is a conventional memory hog (ver. 1.1).
i am considering moving all our machines to w4wg.

q1 how much conventional ram does w4wg use over and above the
driver for the network card \?

q2 if i have a novell ne2000 card , are the lsl and ipx drivers
still needed \?

q3 does w4wg do a license check over the network to ensure each
machine is running its own licenced copy of w4wg \? (note i do
not want to break the license agreement and i will buy a copy
of w4wg for each of our machines , it is just that i would like
to try it out first to see if it meets our needs. returning one
opened copy is much easier than returning n opened copies.)

q4 if you buy the upgrade to windows 3.1 for w4wg does it replace
all of win 3.1 as you install it or does it depend on current
win 3.1 files \?

q5 if i install windows nt on my server when it comes out , will i have
any troubles with the w4wg machines \?

when i started this message , i was going to ask only 2 questions but i got carried
away. i 'll stop now ).

i look forward to your replies.

al


alan walford eos systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 604 734 8655
aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca or ...uunet ! wimsey.bc.ca ! eosvcr ! aew

from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject ctrl alt del locks the computer fafter windows
reply to ebosco@us.oracle.com
organization oracle corp. , redwood shores ca
lines 9
nntp posting host monica.us.oracle.com
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.



whenever i exit windows , i ca n't use control alt del to reboot my
computer , because the system hangs when i do this. i can still reboot
using the reset key , but i would like to know why this happens..

eric

ebosco@us.oracle.com

from gtoye@pssparc2.mitek.com (gene toye)
subject re workaround for citizen drivers
keywords printer driver citizen pn48 gsx 140
organization openconnect systems , dallas , tx
lines 8

for windows 3.1 , i have had the best luck using the epson lq 2550 drivers
with my citizen gxs 140 . be sure to download the updated version from
microsoft that allows margin settings.

gene toye , senior software engineer gtoye@pssparc2.oc.com
openconnect systems , 2711 lbj freeway , dallas , tx 75234
214 888 0454
disclaimer my employer had no idea i was going to say that.

from cac2g@virginia.edu ( the wing commander )
subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
organization university of virginia
distribution usa
lines 4

has anybody gotten this bmp to work \? i try to uudecode it , but
i get input file error and no picture. anybody \?

casey

from ytkuo@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (eugene y. kuo)
subject any updated canon bj 200 driver
organization dis
lines 7
distribution world
nntp posting host hal.ai.mit.edu

hi ... can anyone tell me where i can get a copy of updated canon bj 200
printer driver for windows 3.1 , if any \? i have ver 1.0 which comes with
my bj 200 printer , i just wonder if there is any newer version.

thanks very much , please email.



from hein@eurom.rhein main.de (hein roehrig)
subject windows nt und x windows \?
lines 15
organization free software association of germany


i am not sure whether i am here in the right area , but does
anybody here know whether windows nt does will include a x
windows server so that it can run x window applications
remotely \? this is because we are considering at our university
to use pc 's for word processing and program development ,
whereas the bigger jobs are to be run either on sun
workstations or on fujitsu super computers.

thank you very much in advance ,
hein.

eurom free multiline unix bbs home of the fsag
frankfurt main , germany data 49 69 6312934

from doug ward
subject drivers for stealth 24
reply to doug@sun.sws.uiuc.edu
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 7

i recently purchased a diamond stealth 24 video card and received
the wrong drivers. does anyone know where i can ftp the proper
drivers \? the dstlth file at cica does not work with
this video card. please respond to doug@sun.sws.uiuc.edu

thank you
doug ward

from aaron herskowitz aherskow@alleg.edu
subject for sale borland c w application frameworks 3.1
reply to aherskow@alleg.edu
organization allegheny college

please excuse me if this is inappropriate to post here , but i do not read
these groups normally and i did not see any pc related marketplace
newsgroups

for sale borland c with application frameworks 3.1 (full professional
developer kit)

borland c programming package including unopened software , unopened
manuals , and registration card.

software includes
1. still plastic wrapped high density 5.25 inch disks for borland c
total of 18 diskettes in 2 individually wrapped packages , each
disk has borland c and bc app. frameworks 3.1 on label
2. amish system utilities for windows (one 5.25 high density disk)
amish launch
amish desk utilities for windows
3. phar lap 's 286 dos extender lite version 2.5 (one 5.25 hd disk)

manuals include
1. still plastic wrapped manuals include (i.e. unopened)
a. boland windows api volumes
i reference guide
ii reference guide
iii windows 3.1 reference guide
b. borland turbo debugger 3.0 user 's guide
c. borland turbo profiler 3.0 user 's guide
d. borland turbo assembler 3.0 users guide
e. borland c 3.1 user 's guide
integrated environment
optimization
command line compiler
installation
f. borland c 3.1 programmer 's guide
language structure , class libraries , advanced prgramming
techniques , anci c implementaion
g. borland c 3.1 library reference
runtime library , global variables , cross reference
h. borland c 3.1 tools and utilities guide
error messages , winsightm make , help resource compilers ,
tlink
i. borland object windows for c user 's guide
tutorials , class reference

2. opened (no plastic wrapping , but unread) manuals include
a. borland turbo assembler 3.0 quick reference guide
b. borland turbo vision for c user 's guide
c. borland resource workshop user 's guide

this package was purchased by a former employee of my father 's and my
father has asked me to try and sell it since neither of us have any use
for it.

retails for 749 , most software houses have it for approx. 480. i am
asking 400.

if you are interested , please e mail me directly because i do not normally
read this newsgroup.


aaron herskowitz aherskow@alleg.edu
allegheny college , meadville , pennsylvania

from adean@weber.ucsd.edu (anthony v. dean)
subject atm
organization university of california at san diego
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host weber.ucsd.edu


i 've been reading , with much confusion , about whether or not to use
atmanager. lately , all the packages i 've been buying have all
included atmanager as a bonus
i do some desktop publishing using pagemaker and coreldraw.
coreldraw comes with a nifty laser disk that contains over 200 diff
types. add that to the ttfonts that come with win31 and you have a
decent amount of fonts. i print my creations out on an hp4
postcript , at 600 dpi resolution with the resolution enhancement
technology and .. well ... i get some darn good copies.
so good that there is n't any diff whether or not atmanager is turned
on or not. is it worth it to run atm at all \? especially with these
better printer technologies ... and tt \?

avdean

from keiths@spider.co.uk (keith smith)
subject win nt file systems
organization spider systems limited , edinburgh , uk.
lines 6
nntp posting host trapdoor.spider.co.uk

ok will some one out there tell me why how dos 5
can read (i hav n't tried writing in case it breaks something)
the win nt ntfs file system.
i thought ntfs was supposed to be better than the fat system

keith

from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject realizing colours win.ini setting changes to y automatically
organization george washington university
lines 32

mornin' all. i was wonderin'.....
i got screenpeace (the screensaver , which i think is very
good) , and i got a problem with it...
there is an option there , realize colour table , and if it 's
switched on , some wallpapers' colours will get ucked up with
some screensavers (e.g. the flashlight one). if i turn it off ,
however , it works well , and it 's faster , so i have it off. all 's
nice and well. however , if i turn it off , then it will be on
again next time i start windows. all the setting are set in the
win.ini file , and i do have save settings on exit selected.

also , i tried manually changing the setting in the win.ini file
to n (for no realize colour table) , and started windows. it
will be fine for that session , but the next session will again
turn the option on.

i tried adding a r (read only) attribute to my win.ini file , and
it worked , but my bitmap (wallpaper) saver did n't work then.
actually , it 's the same application. anywya , it did n't work ,
since it must change the setting at the win.ini file.

so anyone out there got any answers suggesions comments for me \?

thanks , i.a.

mickey
aka mp

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

subject re gui application frameworks for windows \? \?
from stefan@olson.acme.gen.nz (stefan olson)
lines 32

in 1993apr12.154418.14463@cimlinc.uucp bharper@cimlinc.uucp (brett harper) writes
hello ,

i'm investigating the purchase of an object oriented application framework. i have
come across a few that look good

zapp 1.1 from inmark
zinc 3.5 from zinc software
c views from liant
win from blaise

some considerations i'm using

being new to windows programming (i'm from the unix x world) , the quality and
intuitivness of the abstraction that these class libraries provide is very
important. however , since i'm not adverse to learning the internals of windows
programming , the new programming methodology should be closely aligned with
the native one. i do n't believe arbitrary levels of abstraction , just for the
sake of changing the api , are valuable.

the microsoft founation classes (afx) that come with c c 7.0 (and
visual c ) are very good , they already have a version for nt ,
it comes with source code , and is very close to the navtive api.
it also as some classes to manage data structures...

...stefan



stefan olson mail stefan@olson.acme.gen.nz
kindness in giving creates love.


from gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw (tony g. wu)
subject need video drivers for tseng true color
organization national tsing hua university (hsinchu)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 18


hello.

i purchased a video card called et 4000 true color card which
can provide about 1700k colors. but the question is i ca n't find
the corresponding drivers for windows 3.1 , i am now using 65k
colors driver for win31. it works fine , but i think it will be
better if i use 1700k driver. so , please tell me whether such a
driver is available !

thanks in advance.



( forever 23 , michael jordan.)
tony g. wu gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw
cae rheology lab. nthu. tony@che.nthu.edu.tw


from bharper@cimlinc.uucp (brett harper)
subject gui application frameworks for windows \? \?
organization cimlinc , inc. engineering
lines 63

hello ,

i'm investigating the purchase of an object oriented application framework. i have
come across a few that look good

zapp 1.1 from inmark
zinc 3.5 from zinc software
c views from liant
win from blaise

some considerations i'm using

being new to windows programming (i'm from the unix x world) , the quality and
intuitivness of the abstraction that these class libraries provide is very
important. however , since i'm not adverse to learning the internals of windows
programming , the new programming methodology should be closely aligned with
the native one. i do n't believe arbitrary levels of abstraction , just for the
sake of changing the api , are valuable.

since we will be developing for the 32bit windows nt system the
memory management issues and issues particular to the windows 3.1 api are less
important.

we will probably buy another c class library (something like tools.h or booch
components from rational) to handle data structures and other miscellaneous stuff
(allocators etc...). so those features are not that important for this toolkit to have.

the two that i have narrowed it down to are zapp and zinc , they seem to be the two
toolkits that have received the most attention from the media. i was wondering if
anyone had any first hand experience with any of these toolkits (especially zapp and zinc).

a couple of observations about these toolkits that seem particularly noteworthy are

zapp

seems to have the most extensive coverage of windows functionality and
also includes some other miscellaneous useful classes.
has new fancy 3d style controls available , and support for custom controls.
has a windows nt version (essential)
redirectable graphics display output architecture (useful for printing)
sizer class for automatically managing control layout after resize.
seems to be the newcomer , this could be an advantage in designing a better system.

zinc

has a platform independent resource strategy. (not too important for me right now)
comes with a interface builder tool
has a windows nt version (essential)
seems to have been around longer (more mature) , but grew up out of a dos version.
had a better demo )

both have source code availability options
both are lacking ole support
neither seem to have any particular support for multimedia type stuff


any thoughts anyone has on this would be much appreciated ,

thanks ,
brett harper


brett.harper@cimlinc.com

from ccastco@prism.gatech.edu (constantinos malamas)
subject re \? \? dos font size in windows \? \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 25

in article 1993apr18.024128.9119@ncsu.edu ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (s. alavi) writes
(normal 8514 a font , not small). in the 386 enhanced mode
the dos window font is too small for my 14 monitor. is there a
way to spacify the font size for the dos window \? you 'll have to
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to
ms windows world.
thanks.
s. alavi ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (919)467 7909 (h)

first of all , without wanting to sound nagging and bossy , yes it is
a trivial answer and that 's perfectly fine ( otherwise how is one supposed
to move up to the complicated and challenging questions , we net readers so
much enjoy ) \? ) , and the massive crossposting of your article was not
justified...
please refer to appropriate newsgroups next time (by the way c.o.msw.misc is
ok ) ). now as far as your problem is concerned try playing around with
the settings in the 'fonts... dialog box under the window control menu (that
little square at the top left corner of the window..).



costas malamas
georgia institute of technology
oit ua opinions expressed are not necessarily oit 's...
internet ccastco@prism.gatech.edu

from mitchell@nodecg.ncc.telecomwa.oz.au (clive mitchell)
subject dataproducts lzr1260 not printing correctly
organization regional network systems group , perth
lines 948


clive mitchell ph 61 9 4916384
regional network systems mitchell@telecomwa.oz.au
. . perth , western australia
v

from leo@cae.wisc.edu (leo lim)
subject fast dos'vga and 1024x768x256 windows video card info needed.
organization college of engineering , univ. of wisconsin madison
lines 24

ok , i have a 486dx50(isa) w diamond stealth vram 1mb.
i was really satisfied w its performance in windows.
but now more and more games needs higher frame rates in dos' vga ,
especially this new strike commander. )
this stealth vram can only give me 17.5 fps. ( (i use 3dbench).
my winmark was 6.35 million , i think.

so right now i'm considering to replace it w a new card , which hopefully
can perform approx same w my current vram in windows and also
can perform dos' vga preferably 30fps.

i also saw the 3dbench benchmark list from someone who compiled it
in csipg and it looked that speedstar 24x and orchid prodesigner 2d s
ware the fastest for non local bus motherboard.
both can give 30fps in dos' vga w 486dx2 66.
does anyone have a winmarks for both of those cards above with the processor
type \? which one is the worthiest(not necessarily fastest) \?
any other card recommendation is welcomed too.

also , if possible , where can i get 'this' card for the cheapest \? )

thanks in advance , folks !

martin

from gt2617c@prism.gatech.edu (brad smalling)
subject re help with changing startup logo
distribution usa
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 24

in article farley@access.digex.com (charles u. farley) writes
i installed the s w for my ati graphics card , and it bashed my windows
logo files. when i start windows now , it has the 3.0 logo instead of
the 3.1 logo.
i thought the files that controlled this were
windows system vgalogo.rle
windows system vgalogo.lgo
i restored these files , but it did n't change the logo. anyone know what
the correct files are \?

for a vga card these are the correct files but you ca n't just copy them
back and expect it to work. you have to create a new win.com file. try
the command (you will have to worry about what directories each file is in
since i do n't know your setup)

copy b win.cnf vgalogo.lgo vgalogo.rle win.com

(i grabbed this from supercharging windows by judd robbins great book)
this is also how you can put your own logo into the windows startup screen.
an rle file is just a specially compressed bmp file.

hope this helps

brad smalling jr.ee ga tech atlanta , ga gt2617c@prism.gatech.edu

from russ@deakin.oz.au (russ sharp)
subject character missing in ttf
organization deakin university , victoria , australia
lines 22
nntp posting host ariel.eng.deakin.oz.au

word 2.0c does n't show the period centred character to indicate
spaces if i use the ttfonts from coreldraw. our editors need to
be able to see how many spaces are in text but the character
displayed is a large hollow box. they overlap each other and
characters on each side , which is useless.

i believe the character used by w4w is the period centred (0183).
this character shows up with the windows charmap display as the
hollow box which tends to confirm this. i have edited the corel
font with fontmonger and changing the font graphics for the 0183
character makes no difference to the font output in charmap or w4w.
altering the paragraph (0182) or cedilla (0184) does alter their font
graphics displayed however ! !

is the w4w character used to indicate spaces the period centred
character \? has anyone been able to get this character displayed
from a coreldraw ttf \?



russ sharp russ@deakin.edu.au ph (052)27 1141 fax (052)27 2015
deakin university , school of engineering technology , geelong , australia

from jeremi@ee.ualberta.ca (william jeremiah)
subject re looking for printer driver
nntp posting host bode.ee.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
lines 12

jeremi@ee.ualberta.ca (william jeremiah) writes
i'm looking for a c.itoh printer driver for windows 3.1. does anybody
happen to know where i could find such a beast \?
uh... slight clarification that should be a printer driver for the
c.itoh lips10 laser printer.
thanks again

thanks in advance ,
jerry


look ma ! no .signature !

from guyd@austin.ibm.com (guy dawson)
subject re hercules graphite \?
originator guyd@pal500.austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
lines 38


in article c5jbkf.9b8@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu , ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib) writes
in article 1993apr06.185638.12139@metrics.com tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes

has anyone used a hercules graphite adapter \? it looks good on paper , and
steve gibson gave it a very good review in infoworld. i 'd love to get a
real world impression , though how is the speed \? drivers \? support \?

the pc world reviewers found out that the herc people had hard coded


i think it was the iit people who make the chip the card is based on who hard coded
the string.

one of the weeklies looked into this an came to the conclusion that the iit chip
was still pretty fast.

winbench text into the driver. clever , no \? in any case , the winbench
results are pretty much inflated.

when and if you get one send me mail.. i might buy that ati gu off
you.. 9 )





iskandar taib the only thing worse than peach ala
internet ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu frog is frog ala peach
bitnet ntaib@iubacs !


guy


guy dawson hoskyns group plc.
guyd@hoskyns.co.uk tel hoskyns uk 71 251 2128
guyd@austin.ibm.com tel ibm austin usa 512 838 3377

from claebaur@shell.portal.com (tony s annese)
subject re windows speaker sound driver
nntp posting host jobe
organization portal communications company 408 973 9111 (voice) 408 973 8091 (data)
lines 11

in article 1993apr19.235430.6097@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu alee@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (alec lee) writes
is there an ftp site where i can get the ms speaker sound driver \? there 's
a sound.exe file that claims to be the driver but i'm suspicious since
it 's not a .drv file.

thats the file...


tony annese claebaur@shell.portal.com
or claebaur@cup.portal.com


from carols@ohsu.edu (carol suelzle)
subject re help with winqvt
article i.d. ohsu.1993apr15.164424.465
organization oregon health sciences university
lines 17
nntp posting host 137.53.130.7



this is the qvthost.rc file.
137.112.5.2
137.112.199.50




the host file requires the names that you 'll be using in addition to the ip address

sucb as

100.0.0.1 name.server.name
100.2.2.1 name.router.name

carols@ohsu.edu

from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject exit codes (dos sorry for wrong group (
organization george washington university
lines 19


hey now. first of all , sorry to post this dos question in a windows
group , but i'm in kinda a hurry , so i ca n't scramble to find the dos
groups' names.

anyway , anyone know where i ccan find the exit codes to dos commands \?
the manual does n't seem to have all of them. i'm particularly looking
for copy , in order to make a move batch file , such that if the file
was n't coppied properly , it wo n't be deleted.


please e'mail louray@seas.gwu.edu
thanks , i.a ,
mickey

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

from tittle@ics.uci.edu (cindy tittle moore)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
keywords printer
article i.d. ics.2bd73621.3894
reply to tittle@ics.uci.edu (cindy tittle moore)
organization ics dept. , uc irvine
lines 22
nntp posting host alexandre dumas.ics.uci.edu

i edited a few newsgroup from that line (do n't like to crosspost that
much). i ca n't compare the two , but i recently got an hp deskjet 500.

i'm very pleased with the output (remember that i'm used to imagens ,
laser and postscript printers at school looks very good. you have
to be careful to let it dry before touching it , as it will smudge.

the deskjet is slow. this is in comparison to the other printers i
mentioned. i have no idea how the bubblejet compares.

the interface between win3.1 and the printer is just dandy , i 've not
had any problems with it.

hope that helps some.

cindy


cindy tittle moore

internet tittle@ics.uci.edu bitnet cltittle@uci.bitnet
uucp ... ! ucbvax ! ucivax ! tittle usnail po box 4188 , irvine ca , 92716

from pwoodcoc@sms.business.uwo.ca (c. patrick woodcock)
subject page numbering problem with wfw canon bj10e
organization university of western ontario
nntp posting host sms.business.uwo.ca
lines 11

i am using wfw 2.0c with a canon bj10e. the printer driver is that
which comes with windows 3.1. unfortatunately , i am having a problem with
printing page numbers on the bottom of the page. i can print page number
on the top of the page , but not on the bottom. has anybody had a similar
problem and or does anybody have a solution for such a problem.

thanks
pwoodcoc@business.uwo.ca

pwoodcoc@sms.business.uwo.ca (c. patrick woodcock)
western business school london , ontario

from msk9@po.cwru.edu (mahesh s. khot)
subject quattro pro file format
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 12
reply to msk9@po.cwru.edu (mahesh s. khot)
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu




we are trying to write a program which can read files created by quattro
pro 3.0 and above. would anyone know where to find information regarding
the format in which quattro pro stores its files.

thanks in advance
mahesh

famous dummies madam tussade 's wax museum.
still at case msk9@po.cwru.edu

from mb4008@ehibm6.cen.uiuc.edu (morgan j bullard)
subject hard drive compression ie , stacker.superstor etc.
summary looking for comparsions between the various hard drive compression utilitys
keywords stacker superstor doubledisk doublespace
article i.d. news.c5w8r9.ebu
distribution comp.os.ms windows comp.os.ms windows.apps
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 6


i was wondering if any one knew how the various hard drive compression utilities work. my hard
drive is getting full and i do n't want to have to buy a new one. what i'm intrested in is speed
, ease of use , amount of compression , and any other aspect you think might be important as i 've never
use one of these things before. thanks morgan bullard mb4008@coewl.cen.uiuc.edu
or mjbb@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu

from paladin@world.std.com (thomas g schlatter)
subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
distribution usa
lines 22

in article 1993apr24.062055.7123@seas.gwu.edu louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis) writes


begin cut here
begin 666 ntreal.bmp
m0dtv5p 8 h ( , @ ! @
m ! @@p ! ( @ ! a ! f cd , 56 d. ! d
m4pa 4h@p l , 1 u) n l0 ( ! @ 4wa ! , j.0 b h 9tj3 kkzp 0
m , , td4i zgb0 ! ) uh (0a. 6e@ i ! @ 4b ! i ! ! bbzx ! e1 )bv

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! !
how do you convert this to a bit map \? \? \?

you 're supposed to delete everything above the cut here mark , and
below the lower cut here mark , and uudecode it. but
i was not able to unexpected end of file encountered at the last line.

could you please re post it , or tell be what i'm doing wrong \?

sounds like the original poster of the bitmap uuencoded the file
on a dos machine , and you tried to uudecode it on a un x machine , and your
uudecode program balked at the carraige returns.

from calloway@hplvec.lvld.hp.com (frank calloway)
subject re windows 3.1 slower using dos 6 \? \? \? \?
organization hewlett packard co. , loveland , co
lines 3

not on my system.

frank calloway

from 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
organization marquette university computer services
lines 19
reply to 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
nntp posting host vmsd.csd.mu.edu

in article 1993apr15.180633.3437@trintex.uucp , charles@tinman.dev.prodigy.com () writes
have you tried re installing the software \? otherwise i would be dubious about
simple ways to change that screen. is it not designed to be an embarassment to
would be pirates \?


ahh , yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is incribed on the
disk , that is it , it is encoded. not even a hex editor will find it. you can
write over the licensed to , but you ca n't change the name underneth it. i
think if you wish to change this you would have to be a pirate , and we 're not
going to promote that here.


robert s. dubinski aliases include robb , regal , sir , mr. , and i

marquette university math computer science double major

internet address 2a42dubinski.vms.csd.mu.edu milwaukee , wi


from bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu (greg bishop)
subject re diamond ss 24x
organization physics department , fsu
news software vax vms vnews
reply to bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu
lines 25

has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.
i had a ati ultra but was getting genral protection fault errors
in an spss application. these card manufactures must have terrible
quality control to let products on the market with so many bugs.
what a hassle. running on gateway 2000 dx2 50.
thx dave l

i have used both version 1.17 drivers for win 3.1 and the new 2.03 drivers.
i have had none of these problems. no gpf 's at all. i have a feeling that
your problems are not with the card or drivers. the ati ultra drivers are
considered some of the most reliable on the market , and the ss 24x ones
seem quite good as well. maybe you should check bios problems in your
gateway. i know a few people with gateway dx2 's , and all of them have
found some problem or other with compatibility especially with graphics.

the only gpf 's i have ever had can be directly attributable to using
abusing applications. i even got the newest drivers from diamond when
people started complaining. i still only have one small problem with
them , and it is that the hardware cursor is slightly jumpy during writes
reads to the swap file.

greg bishop.

from ob00@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (olcay boz)
subject re postscript view for dos or windows \?
organization lehigh university
lines 21


where can i find the ms windows version of ghostscript \? thanks..


in article hjstein.93apr15145240@sunrise.huji.ac.il , hjstein@sunrise.huji.ac.i
l (harvey j. stein) writes
i 've been using version 2.5.2 of ghostscript , and i'm quite satisfied
with it. there are , actually , 3 versions a plain dos version , a 386
version , and a windows version.

harvey stein
hjstein@math.huji.ac.il





m
0



from gloege@informatik.tu muenchen.de (andreas gloege)
subject ottomenu ... where can i get it \?
originator gloege@hphalle0a.informatik.tu muenchen.de
organization technische universitaet muenchen , germany
lines 22



i 've heard about ottomenu which should be a good desktop
on windows 3.0 3.1 .
can anybody tell me where i can get it \?
it should be on cica in pub pc win3 util but it is not.

it is also not an wustl , simtel and a great number of other
sites.

just post it or mail me.


andreas gloege
kazmaierstr.48 (bei klarmann)
8000 muenchen 2
089 508336
email gloege@informatik.tu muenchen.de





from kris@circ.upenn.edu (kris gupta)
subject re ndw norton desktop for windows
reply to kris@circ.upenn.edu
organization cardiothoracic imaging research center
lines 20
nntp posting host katsuru.circ.upenn.edu

in article 2773@leland.stanford.edu , shiva@leland.stanford.edu (matt jacobson) writes
...

i have taken it out of win.ini , but it still pops up running with windows.
i did a big search and found reference to it in ndw.ini , system.ini and
progman.ini. removing it here causes a failure when starting up windows
(progrman.ini has a group 7 ...ndw.exe... which ca n't be deleted.)

is there anyone familiar with ndw who can tell me how to turn it off \? \?


one of the items in the group folder (typically called norton desktop applications)
is labelled norton desktop uninstall . need i say more !


kris b. gupta cardiothoracic imaging research center
dept radiology hospital of u of pennsylvania
internet kris@gynko.circ.upenn.edu



from acifuent@isluga.puc.cl (alejandro cifuentes)
subject q change icons forever \? \? \?
nntp posting host isluga.puc.cl
organization pontificia universidad catolica de chile
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 8

hi !
anyone knows how can i change an icon forever and ever \? \? \? \? \? \?
i mean , not only in the program manager...

thanks in advance !

alejandro cifuentes h.
acifuent@isluga.puc.cl

from downs@helios.nevada.edu (lamont downs)
subject re windows gripe...
article i.d. helios.downs.189.734061833
organization unlv
lines 19
nntp posting host cat.lv lib.nevada.edu

there 's one thing about windows that really frosts me.
i have 20mb of ram installed in my system. i use a 5mb (2.5mb
under windows) disk cache , and a 4mb permanent swap file.

while i can never fill the memory up , i still have problems
sometimes because i run out of gdi resources. what gives \?
i think windows could manage these resources a little better.

are you using windows 3.0 or 3.1 \? if you 're still on 3.0 , 3.1 devotes about
twice as much memory to these and runs out much less frequently. if 3.1 ,
you might use one of the resource monitors (such as the one that comes with
the windows 3.1 resource kit or one of the many shareware ones available)
to see which programs are hogging the resources (every icon , internal
graphics brush , etc. in every program running uses a certain amount of
this limited memory area. also , some do n't give it back when they 're
finished).

lamont downs
downs@nevada.edu

from dfeldman@lookout.mtt.it.uswc.uswest.com (david feldman)
subject trident 8900 cl 1280x1024 driver \?
nntp posting host lookout
organization u s west information technologies
lines 8

please excuse if faq but...
new trident 8900cl based card claims to have 1280x1024 support.
drivers with card indicate several 1280x1024 drivers on diskette.
windows 3.1 does not make all drivers on diskette available to
configuration dialog box. any suggestion \?
thanx please e mail.
dfeldman@uswest.com


from dcoleman@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu (daniel m. coleman)
subject re ati ultra pro confirmation
lines 41
nntp posting host blonde.cc.utexas.edu
organization the university of texas at austin
lines 41

in article fn 0razbbh107h@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca , aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca (alan walford) writes
i have heard many things about the ati ultra pro card. some have
been positive but most are negative. could people please confirm
these \? (i am interested in the eisa version in particular).

1) the card does not work in a system with 32m ram.

the higher memory limits apply to isa cards only , as far as i know. the vlb
and eisa version should have no problems.

2) the card works in a 32m system with some switches
set but it is much slower.

again , the memory aperture need only be disabled if you have more than 124m ram
(eisa and vlb) or 12 m (isa). 32m should not be a problem for you.

3) the card is interlaced in its 24bit (true colour) modes.

nope. i can use 640x480 at 72hz , 24 bit and 800x600 at 70hz , 24 bit , all
non interlaced.

4) the latest build 59 drivers still do not work in many
cases.

they are n't perfect , but are much improved. i do n't recall the last time which
i had to leave mach 32 mode (ati gup mode) and switch to 8514 or vga mode due
to software incompatibility.

5) this card is the fastest full colour card for the money.

it 's quite fast , but whether or not its the fastest is open to debate.

6) this card is the greatest thing since sliced bread. )

i like it.


daniel matthew coleman internet dcoleman@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu
dcoleman@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
the university of texas at austin decnet utxvms dcoleman
electrical computer engineering bitnet dcoleman@utxvms .bitnet

from kayman@csd d 3.stanford.edu (robert kayman)
subject canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
originator kayman@csd d 3.stanford.edu
keywords printer
organization computer science department , stanford university
lines 35


hello fellow 'netters.

i am asking for your collected wisdom to help me decide which printer i
should purchase , the canon bj200 (bubblejet) vs. the hp deskjet 500. i
thought , rather than trust the salesperson , i would benefit more from
relying on those who use these printers daily and use them to their fullest
potential. and , i figure all of you will know their benefits and pitfalls
better than any salesperson.

now , i would greatly appreciate any information you could render on the 360
dpi of the canon bubblejet vs. the hewlett packard deskjet 500 (300 dpi).
which is faster \? is there a noticeable print quality difference ,
particularly in graphics \? which will handle large documents better (75
pages or more) any personal experience on either will be appreciated
here \? which works better under windows 3.1 (any driver problems , etc) \?
cost of memory , font packages , toner cartridges , etc \? basically , your
personal experiences with either of these machines is highly desirable ,
both good and bad.

advance kudos and thanks for all your input. e mail or news posting is
readily acceptable , but e mail is encouraged (limits bandwidth).


sincerely ,

robert kayman kayman@cs.stanford.edu or cpa@cs.stanford.edu

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not.
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision
revised \? ! \? !





from ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib)
subject re is ms windows a mature os \?
keywords ms windows
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
reply to comp.os.ms windows.advocacy
organization indiana university
distribution usa
lines 66

in article cyen.735139934@ponder jesse writes
hi ,

have you used mac system 6.x or 7.x \? if the answer is positive , you would
know if ms windows is a mature os.

this is silly. is unix a mature os \? depends on who you ask , and how
you define mature. system 7 is , if anything , less mature than windows 3.1.

days ago people doubted that ms windows is not a real os. i can see why
they have such question. ms windows confuses many people. microsoft
simulated mac , but it did a lousy job. for example

(1) you can not create hierarchy groups. there is no way to create a group
in a group. (if you know how , please tell me.)

so why do you need something like behierarchic to create groups under
the apple menu \? everyone knows that apple menu items are a ripoff of
the program manager. if you want a hierarchic program launcher there
are lots available.

(3) uncomplete documentation. it 's not easy to find the reason why causes
an unpredictable error.

and this is easy on a mac \? give me a break. having spent hours moving
system extensions around and restarting the mac to see why a certain
app crashes all the time , i find this laughable.

(4) group deleting file deleting
after deleting a group , users have to use file manager to delete files.
but if users forget to delete some related files , the disk will be full
of nonsense files.

oh great. ever hear of aliases \? wonder why apple implemented them.

(5) share problem
once you create two windows doing compilation and editing in some
language (w o good editor) , there will be a sharing problem. you just
can not open or save the program if it is loaded. it makes sense to
prevent from saving , but not opening.

eh \? \? i do n't follow.

it 's by no means easy to satisfy everybody , but if microsoft want to
keep their reputations , they should evaluate the user interface more
carefully before products distribute.

why is it that i find the mac desktop incredibly annoying whenever i
use it \?

no flame , please.

yeah right. you post flame bait , yet ask for no flames.










iskandar taib the only thing worse than peach ala
internet ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu frog is frog ala peach
bitnet ntaib@iubacs !

from fosterr@nickel.ucs.indiana.edu (raymond w. foster)
subject re windows speaker sound driver
nntp posting host nickel.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 14

in article c5req8.eq2@unix.portal.com claebaur@shell.portal.com (tony s annese) writes
in article 1993apr19.235430.6097@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu alee@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (alec lee) writes
is there an ftp site where i can get the ms speaker sound driver \? there 's
a sound.exe file that claims to be the driver but i'm suspicious since
it 's not a .drv file.

thats the file...


to clarify a little more sound.exe is a self expanding archive which
contains the driver (which is actually called speaker.drv , i think).

ray


from lisbon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gerry swetsky)
subject program manager two questions
organization vpnet public access
lines 16


(1) is it possible to change the icons in the program groups \? i 'd like
to give them some individuality.

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program manager \?
i know ctl esc , esc will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt f1 .

any and all help is welcomed.



help stamp out stupid .signature files ! gerry swetsky wb9ebo
vpnet public access unix and usenet
home (708)833 8122 vpnet (708)833 8126 lisbon@vpnet.chi.il.us


subject roman.bmp 01 14in response to the requests for cool bitmaps i am posting one.
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 978


due to the resolution and size it is in 14 parts.

this is a uuencoded bitmap. 960x600 256 colors.
the picture is a marbled gazebo on a desert with blue sky background.
the size is just right for centered wallpaper on a 1024x768 display
because it leaves a border at the bottom just big enough for icons
to fit in without being on top of the picture. reguarding image
quality and resolution i have not seen much better.

for those of you who have n't worked with pieced image files , here
is how to put it back together.
1. save the 14 parts to 14 individual files
2. use a text editor to remove the header and footer
in each file.
3. concatinate all the parts into a single file
4. uudecode the file
there are tools available to do this without the hassle such as
uuconvert (unix) and uucoder (windows). if neccesary i could post
these tools or where to get them by ftp let me know.

keywords bitmap , wallpaper



from btbg1194@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (bradley t banko)
subject save my hard disk \? ! (allocation error , cross linked)
reply to b banko@uiuc.edu
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 150

hi.

while running the ms quick c compiler in a dos window under windows 3.1
this evening , i got a program has violated system integrity... close all
applications , exit windows and restart your computer error.

i started to do this when i immediately got a serious disk error message
from windows. hit return to retry . i did that about 5 times and then
rebooted to find that quite a few files have been corrupted somehow.
(i am including the chkdsk output below.)

questions

1) is there an easy way to restore everything to working order \?
what might be some better approaches \?

2) what might have caused this \? does the smartdrv cache make me more
vulnerable \? (i'm suspicious of hard drive caches especially when they
cache data writing.)

the straightforward approach would be to run chkdsk with the f option to
fix the disk and then it looks like i would probably have to reinstall windows
and a few other things.

thanks for your comments and suggestions.

brad banko

ps this is a 386sx machine with a 40mb hard drive and 2 mb of ram.


chkdsk output

volume serial number is 1159 09d3
errors found , f parameter not specified
corrections will not be written to disk

c gfx vpic46 cvpic.exe
allocation error , size adjusted
c gfx vpic46 vpic.txt
allocation error , size adjusted
c gfx vpic46 video7.cfg
allocation error , size adjusted
c gfx vpic46 orcpro2.cfg
allocation error , size adjusted
c gfx vpic46 vga.cfg
allocation error , size adjusted
c game goose bird2.x
allocation error , size adjusted
c winmisc adv21 winadv.exe
allocation error , size adjusted

316 lost allocation units found in 224 chains.
647168 bytes disk space would be freed

c gfx vpic46 cvpic.exe
is cross linked on allocation unit 16133
c gfx vpic46 geno5400.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16138
c gfx vpic46 tri8800b.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16139
c gfx vpic46 ts4000hi.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16140
c gfx vpic46 config.doc
is cross linked on allocation unit 16141
c gfx vpic46 vpic.txt
is cross linked on allocation unit 16146
c gfx vpic46 video7.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16151
c gfx vpic46 defincon.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16152
c gfx vpic46 atiwondr.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16153
c gfx vpic46 geno6400.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16154
c gfx vpic46 oak.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16155
c gfx vpic46 hires.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16156
c gfx vpic46 aheada.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16157
c gfx vpic46 vpic.doc
is cross linked on allocation unit 16208
c gfx vpic46 orcpro2.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16184
c gfx vpic46 everx673.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16185
c gfx vpic46 wait.com
is cross linked on allocation unit 16186
c gfx vpic46 maxxon.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16187
c gfx vpic46 wait.doc
is cross linked on allocation unit 16188
c gfx vpic46 everx678.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16189
c gfx vpic46 ega.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16190
c gfx vpic46 config.exe
is cross linked on allocation unit 16191
c gfx vpic46 readme.1st
is cross linked on allocation unit 16199
c gfx vpic46 vga.cfg
is cross linked on allocation unit 16201
c game goose bird2.x
is cross linked on allocation unit 16382
c windows system sound.drv
is cross linked on allocation unit 16380
c windows games0.grp
is cross linked on allocation unit 16367
c windows mad79 11.bmp
is cross linked on allocation unit 16341
c mage demo2 2a.kin
is cross linked on allocation unit 16151
c mage demo2 2b.kin
is cross linked on allocation unit 16257
c mage pkin 2 2.exe
is cross linked on allocation unit 16339
c winmisc games dialword.exe
is cross linked on allocation unit 16184
c winmisc games dialword.txt
is cross linked on allocation unit 16201
c winmisc adv21 winadv.wri
is cross linked on allocation unit 16257
c winmisc adv21 adv.key
is cross linked on allocation unit 16265
c winmisc adv21 adv.rec
is cross linked on allocation unit 16275
c winmisc adv21 freezer
is cross linked on allocation unit 16339
c 386spart.par
is cross linked on allocation unit 16133
c bng2.mbx
is cross linked on allocation unit 16146

42366976 bytes total disk space
3958784 bytes in 4 hidden files
153600 bytes in 67 directories
36042752 bytes in 1496 user files
1564672 bytes available on disk

2048 bytes in each allocation unit
20687 total allocation units on disk
764 available allocation units on disk

655360 total bytes memory
579712 bytes free

brad banko dept of physics u of illinois b banko@uiuc.edu

see one. do one. teach one. 73 de kb8cne @ n9lnq.il

from nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu (nilay patel rc38)
subject re bernoulli drives disks...
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 20
nntp posting host violet.berkeley.edu

in article c62onk.f7a@netnews.jhuapl.edu ncmoore2@netnews.jhuapl.edu (nathan moore) writes
nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu (nilay patel) writes

i am looking for bernoulli removable tapes for the 20 20 drive..
do n't laugh ... i am serious...
if you have any 20 mb tapes lying around that you would like to get rid of ,
please mail me ...

nilay patel
nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu

you do mean disks , do n't you , not tapes \? you forgot to say whether you
were looking for the old 8 or the newer 5.25 .

well...i need the old 8 disks ... you are right , disks is a better word ,
but they are so big and calling them disks is kind of funny ... but the
appropriate word is disks ...

nilay patel
nilayp@violet.berkeley.edu

subject bungee after dark module uploaded
from ajbennett@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu (andrew bennett)
organization spandex admirers intl.
lines 17

hey folks !

just moments ago , i uploaded the bungee jumper after dark module that
was widely talked about on here some time ago.

it 's at ftp.cica.indiana.edu , in pub pc win3 uploads , titled simply
bungee.zip.

be sure to set your ftp connection to binary mode before downloading.
if you have any other after dark shareware freeware modules , please
upload them too. the more the merrier.


andrew


andrew bennett ajbennett@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu what planet are you from \?

from jonni@rhi.hi.is (jon ingi thorvaldsson)
subject can i only insert 16 color pics in wfw2.0
lines 9
nntp posting host hengill.rhi.hi.is


well , the subject says just about all i intended to ask

is there no way to insert a 256 color into wfw 2.0 \?

when i try it , the picture turns into a 16 color pic.


jonni.

from herrod@cs.stanford.edu (stephen herrod)
subject dos window macros
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution usa
lines 6

does anyone know a program that will record keyboard sequences that i
do in a windowed dos box \? i would like to have something that starts a
telnet program and then logs me into my accounts. windows recorder does n't
seem to be able to record the key sequences.

thanks , steve

nntp posting host 134.58.96.14
from wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder)
distribution world
organization k.u.leuven applied economic sciences department
subject trumpet for windows other news readers
lines 18

i'm looking for a decent windows news reader. i 've given up on winvn 0.76
since it does n't work very well with the winsock.dll of the ibm tcp ip for
dos 2.1.

what the status of trumpet for windows \? will it use the windows sockets \?
i liked it in dos but had to abandon it since i started using ndis to access
our token ring (results in invalid class error (


bye !

wim van holder
katholieke universiteit leuven tel 32 (0)16 28.57.16
departement t.e.w. fax 32 (0)16 28.57.99
dekenstraat 2
b 3000 leuven e mail wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be
belgium fdbaq03@cc1.kuleuven.ac.be


from david a. fuess
subject re visual c
organization ucllnl
lines 29
distribution usa
nntp posting host talon.llnl.gov

it is correct that vc is not considered an upgrade for c7. c7 is
basically a dos product , vc is a windows product. as windows is not
an upgrade for dos , it is a separate operating system product line , its
utilities cannot be upgrades for dos utilities. however , i have also
been told that it is not an upgrade for qcwin , which it should be !

in article 735708181.aa00457@therose.pdx.com don.hancock@f303.n105.z1.fidonet.org (don hancock) writes
my understanding is that visual c is msc8.0. is it not \? what i mean is ,
it is intended as a logical upgrade to msc7 (which i own). i am very
interested in vc , but i ca n't find anything about it. tell me more.
how 's the editor \? is it a true windows app (msc7 which i love is not).
how are compile times \? .exe sizes \? how smart is the linker \? how well does it
do dos apps \? i would like to be one of the few programmers still pumping out
stuff for the dos users out there even though i run win3.1 (i like the
multitasking and i could n't afford desqview). will it link 3rd party libs
easily \? i use lots of 3rd party libs in my dos programs (too lazy to do my
own interfaces). how is the debugger i make lots of mistakes ( ) \?
thanx.....

.... if it was n't for c , we would be using basi , pasal and obol !
blue wave qwk v2.10


david a. fuess
dir , center for eecs
phone (510)423 2436
fax (510)422 9343
lawrence livermore national laboratory


from bkph@kauai.ai.mit.edu (berthold k.p. horn)
subject re atm or truetype which to choose \?
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 50
distribution usa
nntp posting host kauai.ai.mit.edu
in reply to davidgl@microsoft.com 's message of 06 apr 93 02 37 30 gmt


`in article 1993apr06.023730.5094@microsoft.com davidgl@microsoft.com (david glenn) writes

...

again , not true. the characters in a tt or type 1 font depend on the
maker. if someone converts a type 1 font to tt they 'll only get the
characters in the font of orgin. tt allows for much more flexibility
in this area as well. you can have thousands of glyphs in a tt font
file (mac ps windows unicode char set) and use the characters
appropriate for the particular platform you are running the font on.

well , yes , both type 1 and truetype fonts can contain lots of characters.
and in both cases plain text fonts will be reencoded to windows ansi
in windows , and to mac standard roman encoding on the mac.
no difference there between t1 and tt !

and as for fonts with thousands of glyphs , right know these are a liabiliaty
rather than a great new thing. reason is that a font with 3000 characters
is very large , and if you can only access 224 of them you are paying a heavy
price in downloading time and printer storage. (and at the moment there
is only one program of that uses `partial font downloading')

for instance , all or our fontpack 2 tt fonts have the mac windows
char set in them. the metrics of the fonts are such that if the font
is brought over to the mac the user will have access to the full mac
char set.

yes and t1 text fonts all have the `iso adobe' character set , which is
a superset of windows ansi and macintosh standard roman enocding.

the question is whether you can get at the glyphs. in windows , for example ,
you cannot get at the ligatures `fi' anfd `fl' (both t1 and tt)even though a
font may very well have them.

and , while it is somewhat painful to reencode a type 1 font and to create a
new windows metric file (pfm) for it , there are utilities out there to allow
you do this. how do i reencode a truetype font \? how can i get at the
`fi' and `fl' ligatures in windows (or on the mac) \? are there utilities
that make it possible to circumvent the hard wired windows ansi encoding \?


regards , 1001 a east harmony road
bob niland suite 503
internet rjn@csn.org fort collins co 80525
compuserve 71044 , 2124 (303) 223 5209


berthold k.p. horn
cambridge , massachusetts , usa

from neff123@garnet.berkeley.edu (stephen kearney)
subject re is microsoft windows really and ope
article i.d. agate.1pr6r2 t7c
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 9
nntp posting host garnet.berkeley.edu

all icons in program manager are aliases. is that explicit
enough \? \?

apparently not. many people complain about the confusion that
results from the filemanager progman split. it 's just a basic
flaw.

besides , what about the control panel icons \? where are all those
little files \?

from rlister@cti.com (russell lister)
subject re why is my mouse so jumpy \? (ms mouse)
organization comprehensive technologies int. , inc.
lines 49

ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton) writes

i have a microsoft serial mouse and am using mouse.com 8.00 (was using 8.20
i think , but switched to 8.00 to see if it was any better). vertical motion
is nice and smooth , but horizontal motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click
on something because my mouse jumps around. i can be moving the mouse to
the right with relatively uniform motion and the mouse will move smoothly
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move smoothly for a bit then jump
again (maybe this time to the left about .5 inch ! ). this is crazy ! i have
never had so much trouble with a mouse before. anyone have any solutions \?

does microsoft think they are what everyone should be \? just venting steam !

i had the same problem. at first , i thought it was the video driver and
made sure i had the most current drivers , because the problem was most
evident at svga resolution modes. it did n't help and after a bit of
experimentation , determined that the problem existed in standard vga
resolution mode. it was just much less noticeable.

my mouse was an older ms serial version i bought second hand in 1990. it
worked just fine in dos and dos based graphic applications. on the
guess that the problem was with the resolution of the mouse , i borrowed
a new mouse (a ms bus model) and tried it. that solved the problem.
so , if your mouse is old , you may want to try replacing it for a newer
one.


sean eckton
computer support representative
college of fine arts and communications

d 406 hfac
brigham young university
provo , ut 84602
(801)378 3292

hfac csr@byu.edu
ecktons@ucs.byu.edu

signoff

russ lister rlister@cti.com or well connected systen ! uunet ! cti1 ! rlister
comprehensive technologies int'l inc. , arlington , va


from news@leland.stanford.edu (mr news)
subject re i hate to make a decision !
organization dso , stanford university
lines 30


in article 1993apr26.030204.27417 gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw (tony g. wu) writes

hi.

well , i really hate to make a decision , but recently , i have to choose
whether stacker 3.0 or dos 6.0 with double space for my poor hd.
i am using windwos 3.1 and i hope what i choose will live with windows.

any help will be appreciated.




( forever 23 , michael jordan.)
tony g. wu gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw
cae rheology lab. nthu. tony@che.nthu.edu.tw


stacker achieves better compression ratio than dos6 , yet the
latter comes with virus detection , memory manager , and multiple
booting. each of them are not so good as the nav , qemm or ndos
in my opinion , but with a package of only 45 , it 's nice if
have n't yet installed all of those stuffs.

both certainly work with win31.

rensheng horng



from domet@ucbeh.san.uc.edu
subject windows nt , help ! please help !
distribution world
organization univ of cincinnati academic it services
lines 26

windows nt


i need some information on the new windows nt.
anything you have would be appreciated. i know nothing about it.
(well , except that it exists.)
some questions...

memory requirements , hard drive space , release date \? is it out \?
how is ibm reacting \? intel \?
can it replace other lan os 's \?

anything else like specs , speed , etc..

thanks in advance !

luke

email me at internet address domet@ucbeh.san.uc.edu
bitnet address domet@ucbeh







from mlin@pdx222.nosubdomain.nodomain (ming t. lin)
subject word byte \? \?
reply to mlin@ichips.intel.com
organization workgroup computing division , pdx , intel
lines 15


i just moved from borland c 3.0 to visual c today. when i tried
to compile my c program , it complained a function prototype problem.
it turned out that the typedef word in ms c is a byte , not unsigned int.

could anyone shine some light on this subject \? why a word is a byte \?


ming t. lin



mlin@ichips.intel.com
(503) 696 4806


from jls@antares. (jon sweet)
subject re x windows for windows
organization lesc nasa larc
lines 11
distribution world
reply to jls@antares.
nntp posting host antares.larc.nasa.gov

pc xview from ncd , hcl exceed from hummingbird software !


all opinions expressed are
my own because nobody else
wants them !
jls@antares.larc.nasa.gov
jon l. sweet




from caldwell@brahms.udel.edu (david l caldwell)
subject re borland 's paradox offer
nntp posting host brahms.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
distribution usa
lines 19

i am considering buying borland 's paradox for windows since i
would like to use a database with windows (i do n't have use
one yet) for both work home use. i would like to advantage
of borland 's 129.95 until april 30 offer if this package
is everything that borland claims it to be. so , i was
wondering ... has anybody used this and or have any opinions \?

tom belmonte

i 've been using ms access (still available from some stores for 99.00)
and i am quite pleased with it. it 's relatively easy to learn , very easy
to use and somewhat easy to program. i highly recomend it , particularly
at 99.00 ! i have not used paradox for windows , but i do n't expect it to
be 30.00 better than access (imho).


dave



from ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
organization computer sci. information eng. , chiao tung u , taiwan , roc
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 7

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw form r.o.c taiwan

from moore@email.ncsc.navy.mil (jim moore)
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
organization coastal systems station
lines 27


in article 16apr93.02280936@vax.clarku.edu rmohns@vax.clarku.edu writes
this is in relation to a question concerning changing the registered to
information of ms windows...

in a previous article , 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu wrote

ahh , yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is incribed on the
disk , that is it , it is encoded. not even a hex editor will find it. you can
write over the licensed to , but you ca n't change the name underneth it. i

i can find it with a hex editor , although i have not tried to overwrite it.
are you sure it ca n't be \? you may be mistaken about this. ( \? \? \? )

you can change it. as part of a continuously downsizing government
organization , my code (branch) changes about once a year. i just
finished changing the registration information using norton utilities.
i sent the original requester the hex offset into user.exe containing
the information , and his reply indicated he got several similar answers.

and it 's not encoded in any way. as for the legality , there 's nothing
that keeps me from changing the information it certainly does n't reach
out and alter the serial number printed on the inside of my manual.


jim moore
panama city , fl

from ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib)
subject re hercules graphite \?
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 20

in article 1993apr06.185638.12139@metrics.com tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes

has anyone used a hercules graphite adapter \? it looks good on paper , and
steve gibson gave it a very good review in infoworld. i 'd love to get a
real world impression , though how is the speed \? drivers \? support \?

the pc world reviewers found out that the herc people had hard coded
winbench text into the driver. clever , no \? in any case , the winbench
results are pretty much inflated.

when and if you get one send me mail.. i might buy that ati gu off
you.. 9 )





iskandar taib the only thing worse than peach ala
internet ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu frog is frog ala peach
bitnet ntaib@iubacs !

from jenkinch@ccmail.orst.edu
subject re adaptec scsi device driver for win3.1
organization university computing services osu
lines 1
distribution world
nntp posting host jenkinsc.ads.orst.edu



from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject re windows speaker sound driver
nntp posting host monica.us.oracle.com
reply to ebosco@us.oracle.com
organization oracle corp. , redwood shores ca
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.
lines 15

in article 1993apr19.235430.6097@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu
alee@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (alec lee) writes
is there an ftp site where i can get the ms speaker sound driver \?
there 's
a sound.exe file that claims to be the driver but i'm suspicious since
it 's not a .drv file.

thanks

alec lee

the sound.exe is actually a self extracting script which includes the .drv
file. works great !

eric

from jwjohn@ecst.csuchico.edu (jerry w. johnson)
subject how to transfer to video tape \?
organization california state university , chico
lines 11
nntp posting host corpse.ecst.csuchico.edu

hi all ,
i'm asking for info on behalf of a friend. is there , what would
be , the best way to copy the output of a monitor on to video
tape \? any ideas \? please prescribe additional hardware and or
software \? (i'm just assuming an intel windows environment).
thanks in advance. jerry

help support dam
jerry w. johnson struggling csci grad student
jwjohn@ecst.csuchico.edu (is there any other kind \? )
mothers against dyslexia

from tdarugar@cs.ucsd.edu (tony darugar)
subject fahrenheit 1280 problems , help !
organization cse dept. , u.c. san diego
lines 37
nntp posting host tartarus.ucsd.edu


hi ,

i recently bought an orchid fahrenheit 1280 . it 's a real nice card ,
but i'm having very big problems with it.

the basic problem is that vertical lines are missing from the display
in windows. something like every other line or so.
also , when i use a dos gif viewer , namely vpic 6.0c , in fahrenheit 1280
mode , vertical lines are swapped. it 's very strange looking.
if it uses vesa standards , however , it works great ! only it thinks there 's
only 512k on the card. (there 's 1mb on there).

i have contacted orchid support , and they tried to be helpful , but did n't
have the answer. i do n't think the card is the problem , since it works great
on my friend 's computer.

here is my setup
fahrenheit 1280 , 1mb , bios 1.1
386 25 , opti chipset2 , ami bios 1990 , 5mb ram.
maxtor 120mb harddrive , (slave)
maxtor 40mb harddrive (master)
panasonic c1381 monitor ,
version 4.6 windows drivers.
windows 3.1
i tried taking all memory managers , etc off , and took all other cards
(besides disk controller) off.

my friend 's setup is 386sx 16 , shamrock monitor.

if anyone has seen anything like this , or can otherwise help , i will be very
greatful.

please send e mail to tdarugar@tartarus.ucsd.edu or
tdarugar@ebon.ucsd.edu

tony.

from dewinter@prl.philips.nl (rob de winter)
subject wanted address symantec
originator dewinter@prl.philips.nl
organization philips research laboratories , eindhoven , the netherlands
lines 17

i am looking for the exact address of the symantec coporatoin , which
distributes norton desktop and other windows software.

the information i am looking for is

mail address
phone number
fax number
e mail address

thanks in advance.


nothing beats skiing , if you want to have real fun during holidays.
rob de winter philips research , ist it , building wl 1
p.o. box 80000 , 5600 ja eindhoven. the netherlands
tel 31 40 743621 e mail dewinter@prl.philips.nl

from jls@atglab.atg.com (jerome schneider)
reply to jls@atg.com
distribution world
subject re out of environment space running bat files from windows
organization aspen technology group
x mailer uupc bsnews 2.1 modified
lines 42


i have a .bat file that i run under a windows icon. i have set up a pif
file to run the bat file in exclusive mode and to use the entire screen.
the first line of the bat file sets an environment variable.

my problem is that on some of our machines (running ms dos 5.0 and windows
3.1 in enhanced mode) , the set command in the bat file fails with the
out of environment space error. i have raised the amount of environment
space to 2048 bytes using the shell command in config.sys so i know that
i am nowhere near to running out.

(from the windows resource toolkit (for win4workgroups)) , add an entry to
your system.ini file under the nonwindowsapp section

commandenvsize nnnn

this sets the command.com env size , where nnnn must either be 0 or
between 160 and 32768. a value of 0 disables the setting. if this
value is too small or too big , it is rounded up to 160 or down to 32768.
if the value is less than the current size of the actual environment ,
this setting is disabled , as if it were 0. if you specify the
environment size in a pif file for command.com , the pif setting
overrides this setting. the default is 0 with msdos versions earlier
than 3.2. otherwise , the default value is the e option in the
shell command in config.sys. to set this value , you must edit your
system.ini and reboot .


i have used this entry , as well as relied on the default e from
the config.sys shell line , and both give larger environments. if
you do n't use one of these , then the environment passed by windows
to each new dos box is just a little bit bigger than the environment
variables present when windows was started. (no matter how big
the dos env was , when windows starts , it truncates all unused space
except for a few bytes.) this should allow your batch file to run ,
but your mileage may vary.


jerome (jerry) schneider domain jls@atg.com
aspen technology group uucp uunet ! csn ! atglab ! jls
po box 673 , ft. collins , co 80522 voice (303) 484 1488


from claebaur@shell.portal.com (tony s annese)
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
nntp posting host jobe
organization portal communications company 408 973 9111 (voice) 408 973 8091 (data)
lines 10

in article 1993apr20.130933.26571@lut.ac.uk a.d.bailey@lut.ac.uk (adrian d.bailey) writes
in windows 3.0 there is a built in called sysedit.exe that is just what you
need. windows 3.1 i do n't know......

it 's there.....


tony annese claebaur@shell.portal.com
or claebaur@cup.portal.com


from brown@ncoast.org (stan brown)
subject re program manager two questions
organization oak road systems , cleveland ohio usa
lines 25

in article 1993apr22.204406.20330@vpnet.chi.il.us lisbon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gerry swetsky) writes

(1) is it possible to change the icons in the program groups \? i 'd like
to give them some individuality.

do you mean the icons of the program groups , or the icons of the
individual programs in the program groups \? i assume you mean the
latter , and the answer is sure you can. just click once (not double)
on the application icon , then alt f p (file properties). click on the
change icon box and tell it the icon filename. or use the browse
sub selection.

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program manager \?
i know ctl esc , esc will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt f1 .

i use alt tab. hold the alt key and repeatedly press tab until you see
program mangler up. then release the alt key.



stan brown , oak road systems brown@ncoast.org
english is my native language and i love it. but do n't try to tell me
that it 's easy to learn or that it makes sense. if it were , baseline
would rhyme with vaseline .

from ma90jjw isis@ajax.rsre.mod.uk (justin whitton)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
in reply to edmoore@vcd.hp.com 's message of sat , 24 apr 1993 22 31 30 gmt
nntp posting host hayle
organization dra malvern , worcs. , uk
lines 24

in article c60eki.kvp@vcd.hp.com edmoore@vcd.hp.com (ed moore) writes

thomas.d.fellrath.1@nd.edu@nd.edu wrote

the key issue that i bought my bj 200 on was ink drying speed. you really
have to try awful hard to get the bj 200 ink to smear. the hp deskjets need
10 15 seconds to completely dry. in both cases , however , do not get your
pages wet. unlike laser printers , the material on your pages is ink , not
toner. but that should go without saying.

i think the ink now used in the deskjet family is water fast.

i 've had pictures ruined by a few drops of rain. these were colour pictures
from a deskjet 500c. mind you , it could have been acid rain )

i use a bj10ex. ink dries fast , but it really does n't like getting wet.



justin whitton at ma90jjw hermes@uk.mod.relay where no man has gone before..
after august mail ma90jjw@brunel.ac.uk.
disclaimer my opinions count for nothing , except when the office is empty.
i'm a student intelligence 0.


from csd25@keele.ac.uk (c.m. yearsley)
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host seq1.cc.keele.ac.uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

write over the licensed to , but you ca n't change the name underneth it. i
think if you wish to change this you would have to be a pirate , and we 're not
going to promote that here.


not so ! my computer was supplied with my name in an 'interesting'
mix of upper and lower case , and my workplace mis typed. i'm
getting fed up with being 'cmyearsley' at 'keel unversity' !
it took me 20 ( ! ) phone calls to the supplier to get the computer
working at all. i really ca n't face tackling them again....


chris

subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
from aengus lawlor rbyaml@rohvm1.rohmhaas.com
distribution usa
organization rohm and haas company
lines 36

in article c61yhr.n1i@world.std.com , paladin@world.std.com (thomas g
schlatter) says

in article 1993apr24.062055.7123@seas.gwu.edu louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael
panayiotakis) writes


begin cut here
begin 666 ntreal.bmp
m0dtv5p 8 h ( , @ ! @
m ! @@p ! ( @ ! a ! f cd , 56 d. ! d
m4pa 4h@p l , 1 u) n l0 ( ! @ 4wa ! , j.0 b h 9tj3 kkzp 0
m , , td4i zgb0 ! ) uh (0a. 6e@ i ! @ 4b ! i ! ! bbzx ! e1 )bv

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! !
how do you convert this to a bit map \? \? \?

you 're supposed to delete everything above the cut here mark , and
below the lower cut here mark , and uudecode it. but
i was not able to unexpected end of file encountered at the last line.

could you please re post it , or tell be what i'm doing wrong \?

sounds like the original poster of the bitmap uuencoded the file
on a dos machine , and you tried to uudecode it on a un x machine , and your
uudecode program balked at the carraige returns.
well , my newsreader shows the uue file as having lots of spaces , which
means it 's broken before i even try to download it. did anyone get it
to uudecode successfully \?

aengus

rbyaml@rohmhaas.com aengus lawlor
rbyaml@rohvm1.bitnet (who used to be alawlor@dit.ie)
how about some of that famous dublin wit , barman \?
certainly , sir. would that be dry or sparkling \?

from rem@buitc.bu.edu (robert mee)
subject diamond speedstar driver for v3.1
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 16


i am looking for a win31 driver (or set) for my diamond
speedstar 1mb video card. does anybody know of an archive
site that has these \? i looked at cica and it had drivers for
the stealth card and for generic et4000 cards but not one
specifically for the speedstar. is there one \? or has diamond
dropped the speedstar out of the driver development loop.

thanks for any info ,

rob


robert mee boston university information technology (rem@bu it.bu.edu)



from duncans@hotlips.princeton.edu (duncan smith)
subject question about localtalk appleshare on ms dos system
summary how do i make appleshare pc run properly under windows or os 2 \?
originator news@nimaster
keywords windows , os 2 , appleshare pc , localtalk
nntp posting host hotlips.princeton.edu
organization princeton university
lines 13

is anyone out there running a ms dos system with a localtalk board \? i am on an
appletalk network , hooked up with a daystar digital lt200 mc localtalk
interface board , running on a ps 2 model 70. i'm using the appleshare pc
software for file server and network access. it works fine under dos or the
window or os 2 dos box. but when i try to load it before windows , so that
every application i run could get access to it , the machine crashes hard as
soon as i start up an application. and of course , things look pretty hopeless
for os 2 (but who knows).

so , does anyone have experience with this bizarre and obsolete setup \?

duncan
duncans@phoenix.princeton.edu

from csyphers@uafhp..uark.edu (chris syphers)
subject re \? \? dos font size in windows \? \?
organization kansas state university
lines 20
nntp posting host uafhp.uark.edu

ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (s. alavi) writes


i have an 8514 a card , and i am using windows in 1024x768 mode
(normal 8514 a font , not small). in the 386 enhanced mode
the dos window font is too small for my 14 monitor. is there a
way to spacify the font size for the dos window \? you 'll have to
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to
ms windows world.

thanks.

(please include this message for reference)
s. alavi ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (919)467 7909 (h)
(919)515 8063 (w)
the control box of the window itself (upper left corner of the window , single
click , am i being too simplistic \? ) has a font option. the 8 x 12 is about the
biggest one i can use without the characters turning funky.

hpoe this helps.

from wil@shell.portal.com (ville v walveranta)
subject re fall comdex '93
nntp posting host jobe
organization portal communications company
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 20

dls128@psuvm.psu.edu wrote
does anyone out there have any info on the up and coming fall comdex '93 \? i was
asked by one of my peers to get any info that might be available. or , could
anyone point me in the right direction \? any help would be appreciated.

it 's in las vegas (as always) between november 16th and 20th.

for more information contact the interface group
300 first avenue
needham , ma 02194 2722

sorry , no phone number available. consult directory service
in massachusetts for the number (617 , 508 or 413).

willy

ville v. walveranta tel. fax.... (510) 420 0729
96 linda ave. , apt. 5 from finland 990 1 510 420 0729
oakland , ca 94611 4838 (faxes automatically recognized)
usa email....... wil@shell.portal.com

from mike@drd.com (mike.rovak)
subject re workaround for citizen drivers
keywords printer driver citizen pn48 gsx 140
organization drd corporation
lines 43

in article 1993apr26.185033.12279@drd.com mike@drd.com (mike.rovak) writes
i have been experiencing several end user problems with various commercial
software packages (wordperfect 5.2 win , publish it ! win 3.1) and printing
landscape mode on a citizen pn48 (the little guy) or the citizen gsx 140 .

in a nutshell the problem is that i lose the first 0.625 inches of
information from my left margin , be it white space or truetype font
output , and margins are not preserved on subsequent pages past the
first.

wordperfect had a workaround consisting of using the default location
for the printers instead of tractor or manual . they have also filed
this as a bug and are continuing to investigate it.

ms write , of course , has no problem with these printer drivers , proving that
microsoft knows something the rest of us do n't ! are you surprised \? i'm
not.

publish it ! win is still investigating this problem , and while i was consider
my options (rejecting the one about buying an 800 dtp package , for surely
they would n't have this problem , right \? ) i stumbled onto a global workaround.

workaround

go into the windows 3.1 control panel , select printers , select your citizen
printer driver , select setup , and select a custom size of 850 x 1132. like
magic , all of your problems will go away.

ask me no questions and i 'll tell you no lies !

mike


excuse me , that 's 850 x 1163.

mike


disclaimer my opinions do not necessarily reflect those of my employer.


mike.rovak@drd.com


from carolan@owlnet.rice.edu (bryan carolan dunne)
subject re program manager two questions
organization rice university
lines 4

actually , with several sharware utilities , you cn change both. my fav is
plug in.

bryan dunne

subject roman.bmp 10 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 956

from charles@tinman.dev.prodigy.com ()
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
nntp posting host tinman
organization prodigy services company , white plains , ny
lines 11

have you tried re installing the software \? otherwise i would be dubious about
simple ways to change that screen. is it not designed to be an embarassment to
would be pirates \?

charles


charles emmons charles@trintex.uucp these opinions are
prodigy services co. charles trintex@uunet.uu.net mine alone , unless
white plains ny 10601 voice 914 993 8856 you would like to
prodigy id kjrd82a fax 914 993 8659 share them.

subject black screen of death , windows , novell
from psweeney@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu
organization miami university academic computer service
lines 23

hi there ,

we are running a 120 node token ring with windows 3.1 and novell 3.11.

every once in a while , we run into the black screen of death , a phrase
coined by robert x. cringely in a recent infoworld column.

basically , sometimes when you quit windows , the screen goes black and
you get a nice little flashing cursor in the top left corner of your
screen. also , sometimes when you exit to dos , the same effect occurs.
cringely hints that microsoft and or novell has a patch for windows'
virtual interrupt controller that may solve this. neither company
seems to know what i am talking about when i call them.

has anyone else noticed this phenomenon \?

is there a fix for it \?

any response is welcome.

peter sweeney
psweeney@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu


from aruit@idca.tds.philips.nl (anton de ruiter)
subject \? \? \? top 30 windows applications \? \? \?
organization digital equipment enterprise bv , apeldoorn , the netherlands.
lines 36


hello everybody ,

i am searching for (business) information of windows application , to create a
top 30 of most used wordprocessors , spreadsheets , drawing programs , schedulers
and fax programs , etc..

please mail me all your information or references. i will summaries the
results on this media.


thank you in advance ,

anton de ruiter.


digital equipment corporation
) . workgroup products (wgp)
( ( ) ( ( ' ( ( ( ' objectworks (obw)
ing. anton de ruiter mba
software product manager
post office box 245
' 7300 ae apeldoorn , the netherlands
( ) ( ( )( ) oude apeldoornseweg 41 45
7333 nr apeldoorn , the netherlands

) mail hlde01 ruiter a
( )( ( ( ( dtn 829 4359
location apd f1 a22

internet aruit@idca.tds.philips.nl
) ) . uucp .. ! mcsun ! philapd ! aruit
( ) ( '( ( ( ) phone 31 55 434359 (business)
phone 31 5486 18199 (private)
fax 31 55 432199


from gw18@prism.gatech.edu (greg williams)
subject re many people on one machine
distribution git
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 23

in 93111.154952cda90038@ucf1vm.bitnet cda90038@ucf1vm.bitnet (mark woodruff) writes

i have several people sharing my machine and would like to set up separate
environments under windows for each of them. is there some way of setting
things up separate desktops directories for each of them \? ideally ,
i 'd like totally separate virtual machines. i 'd be willing to settle for
less , and may end up having batch files that copy .ini files around
depending on who wants to use the machine.

you could use dos 6 to do this partly. you can set up different config.sys
and autoexec.bat commands for each user , and they just have to select their
menu option on bootup. then you can have the autoexec.bat copy the win.ini
and system.ini files and change directories for them. when they exit windows ,
it can copy back generic .ini files if you want.

this is the only way i can think of. there may be some programs somewhere
that allow you to do this better , though using dos 6 allows each person to
have a custom config.sys and autoexec.bat.

greg williams
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332
uucp ... ! decvax , hplabs , ncar , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! gw18
internet gw18@prism.gatech.edu

from cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gordon hlavenka)
subject re save my hard disk \? ! (allocation error , cross linked)
organization vpnet public access
lines 137



brad banko writes
while running the ms quick c compiler in a dos window under windows 3.1
this evening , i got a program has violated system integrity... close all
applications , exit windows and restart your computer error.

gawd , i love windows )

1) is there an easy way to restore everything to working order \?
what might be some better approaches \?

you 'll probably want to delete any damaged executables and reload them
fresh. data files should be examined and repaired.

2) what might have caused this \? does the smartdrv cache make me more
vulnerable \? (i'm suspicious of hard drive caches especially when they
cache data writing.)

you 're not stupid. smartdrive caches things , and windows also runs a
swap file which may contain data also. all of this is pretty risky
stuff in a pc environment.

the straightforward approach would be to run chkdsk with the f option to
fix the disk and then it looks like i would probably have to reinstall windows
and a few other things.

a reasonably accurate prediction...


here 's a brief description of how dos stores files

there are three pieces to a file. the directory entry , the fat chain ,
and the data area. you can think of these as a sheet of lined
notebook paper , a sheet of graph paper , and a stack of 3x5 cards.

the directory entry (notebook paper) holds the file name , actual size ,
and first cluster number. it also holds some other information that 's not
important right now.

the file allocation table (fat) chain (graph paper) tells where to find
the actual data. each square of graph paper holds a number. if the
number is zero , the cluster associated with this box is available. if it
holds a magic number , it is either the last piece of a file or a bad
(unuseable) spot on the disk. any other number tells which cluster
contains the next section of the file.

the data area (3x5 cards) is where the actual information is stored.
the data area is organized as clusters of a fixed size storage is
doled out in chunks of one cluster each. (in your case , one cluster
is 2048 bytes.) as a cluster is filled , another is allocated.

to read a file , you first look at the directory entry to get the
starting cluster number. now you read the data from that cluster.
next , look at the fat entry for the cluster you just read. this will
tell you the cluster number for the next chunk of the file.
naturally , these numbers are usually sequential , but they can jump
around and even go backwards. continue reading , one cluster at a
time , as you walk this chain through the fat , until you hit the marker
which says it 's the last cluster in the file.

chkdsk is the dos utility that checks the sanity and coherence of
the directories and the fat and can bludgeon most flaws into
submission. it does n't have any intelligence , so you have to
double check anything it fixes .

now let 's do a bit of a post mortem

c gfx vpic46 cvpic.exe
c gfx vpic46 vpic.txt
c gfx vpic46 video7.cfg
c gfx vpic46 orcpro2.cfg
c gfx vpic46 vga.cfg
c game goose bird2.x
c winmisc adv21 winadv.exe
allocation error , size adjusted

all of these files have sizes (according to the fat) which do n't match
the size reported in their directory entries. chkdsk f will alter
the directory entries to match the fat size. (in other words , the
directory entry for cvpic.exe may say the file is 64 , 877 bytes long.
but chkdsk found a fat chain of 43 clusters attached to it. (my numbers ,
obviously , are made up.))

316 lost allocation units found in 224 chains.
647168 bytes disk space would be freed

disk space was found which is allocated in the fat , but is not attached
to any directory entry. chkdsk f gives you the option of converting these
lost chains to files. you can then examine the files (file0000.chk
through file0223.chk) and rename or discard them. or , if you tell
chkdsk not to convert them to files , then those clusters will simply
be marked available in the fat.


c gfx vpic46 cvpic.exe
is cross linked on allocation unit 16133

...

c 386spart.par
is cross linked on allocation unit 16133

these files are both referencing the same data cluster. obviously ,
one of them (at least) must be wrong. it 's interesting to note that
c 386spart.par is your windows swap file...

to fix this , you should copy each cross linked file to a new name.
this will fix the cross link by giving the files unique data spaces.
now delete the cross linked files. examine the copies and try to
assemble them properly. good luck. (hint missing pieces are
likely to be found in those lost chains at the top...)

42366976 bytes total disk space
3958784 bytes in 4 hidden files
153600 bytes in 67 directories
36042752 bytes in 1496 user files
1564672 bytes available on disk

your disk is pretty close to full. this may be the actual cause of
the problem perhaps windows needed to expand its swapfile by an
amount which exceeded available disk space...

in any case , the short summary is that something trashed your fat.
there are utilities that can mirror your fat and help repair damage
after something like this , but you have to run them before the
problem occurs. sorry.




gordon s. hlavenka cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us
vote straight ticket procrastination party dec. 3rd !


gordon s. hlavenka cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us
vote straight ticket procrastination party dec. 3rd !

from ken@austin.ibm.com
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
originator ken@daedalus.austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
lines 50


in article c5qofw.3aa@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu , ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib) writes
in article 2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com reimert@.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert) writes

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that windows nt (tm) is a
multi user os , as well as multi threading , etc. i certainly have n't
seen this to be the case. there are seperate accounts for each person ,
and even seperate directories if that is desired. i do n't see an
implentation of simultaneuos use though.

since running any gui over a network is going to slow it down by a
fair amount , i expect windows nt will be multiuser only in the sense
of sharing filesystems. someone will likely write a telnetd for it so
one could run character based apps , but graphics based apps will have
to be shared by running the executables on the local cpu. this is how
things are shaping up everywhere client server architectures are
taking over from the old cpu terminal setups.

note that the next does this you can always telnet into a next and
run character based apps but you ca n't run the gui. (yeah , i know
about x windows , just have n't been too impressed by it...)..








iskandar taib the only thing worse than peach ala
internet ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu frog is frog ala peach
bitnet ntaib@iubacs !



i read this in an electronic magazine about nt

and for all the hoopla about nt , one would
think the thing would be multi user but it 's not. it supports
only one user at a time. it can support multiple clients but
only one actual user.


your mileage may vary !


this posting does not represent the opinions of my employers.

i'm afraid i 'll have to ask you to leave the store , mam ash , aod


from baseball@catch the fever.scd.ucar.edu (gregg walters)
subject mathcad 4.0 swap file \?
organization scientific computing divison ncar boulder , co
lines 119

reposting and summarizing , for your information or additional comment.

this is long

i have 16mb of memory on my 386sx (25 mhz) , an intel math coprocessor , and
a 120mb hard drive with 20mb free (no compression). i have been running
mathcad 3.1 , under windows 3.1 in enhanced mode , with a 5mb ram drive ,
2mb 1mb smart drive , and no swap file (permanent or temporary) for
several months.

i am interested in the faster mathcad 4.0 , but i am concerned about reported
swap file requirements and the legitimacy of mathsoft 's claim about increased
speed.

to 386sx users

will mathcad 4.0 run without a swap file , or insist that i use a swap file \?

so far , in response to a less detailed description of my setup , or in
unrelated postings , the more informed answers , on the net or by e mail ,
appear to be

1) by fuess@llnl.gov (david a. fuess)

according to mathsoft , no. mathcad uses the swap file extensively so as
not to overburden the physical resources. they say this is actually a
win32s feature. a figure of 10mb was indicated to me as a minimum. but
you might try anyway !

2) by bert.tyler@satalink.com (bert tyler)

i'm not all that certain that mathcad is the culprit here.

i have a 486 66dx2 with 16mb of main memory (less 2mb for a ramdisk and
a bit for a dos session that is opened as part of the startup process) ,
which i have been running without any swapfile. when i installed the
win32s subsystem from the march beta of the nt sdk , the win32s subsystem
itself demanded the presence of a swapfile. the only win32s program
i 've run to date is the 32 bit version of freecell that came with that
subsystem.

i gave windows a small temporary swapfile (i'm leery of files that must
remain in fixed locations on my hard disk) , and all seems well.

3) by bca@ece.cmu.edu (brian c. anderson)

what is win32 \? i upgraded to mathcad 4.0 and it installed a directory for
win32 under windows system . during the upgrade it told me that win32
was required.

4) by case0030@student.tc.umn.edu (steven v case 1)

mathcad 4.0 makes use of the win32s libraries. you 've probably
heard about win32s , it is a 32 bit windows library that provides
much of the windows nt functionality (no support for threads and
multitasking and such) but can be run under windows 3.1.

5) by rhynetc@zardoz.chem.appstate.edu (thomas c. rhyne)

i also have 16 mb of ram , and indeed mathcad 4.0 insisted on a permanent
swapfile it would not run otherwise.

6) by bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu (greg bishop)

3) mathcad absolutely requires 4mb ram (with 12mb swap file) or 8mb ram
(with 8mb swap file). it will give you a not enough memory error if the
swap file is less than 8mb. it is a major resource hog. if you do not
load the symbolic processor or the smart math , it takes about 5mb of ram
(real or virtual) just to load (again , due to the win32s libraries.



so it seems that in addition to the system requirements shown on mathsoft 's
advertisement for 4.0 , that you need a swap file , possibly as big as 12mb.
looks like i would just need an 8mb swap file , and would need to choose (or
can i \? ) between a faster permanent swap file , or a slower temporary swap file

apparently a win32 subsystem ships with mathcad 4.0 how much disk space
does this require \?



i also received these answers

1) by mfdjh@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (dale hample)

if you 've got 16 megs of ram , why not configure 10megs as a ram disk for
mathcad \? dos 6 permits different bootup configurations.



can mathcad 4.0 win32 be configured to use such a ram drive instead of a
swap file \? if not , i do n't see how using dos 6.0 for an alternate bootup
would provide windows with this swap file. some time back i remember a
discussion about the issues of using a ram drive to support a swap file ,
but i thought this involved slower , 8mb systems.

i have dos 6.0 but for various reasons have not yet done a full installation.

by the way , is a full installation of dos 6.0 required to avail oneself of
the alternate bootup feature \? which files from the installation disks are
required \?



2) by wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom)

presumeably , you mean without a permanent swap file. if windows needs a
swap file , it will upo and create one if a permanent one does n't exist.
permanent is generally faster though. i do n't know why mathcad would n't
be happy with either type ver. 3.0 is and so should any program conforming
to the win specification.



so far , 16mb has been enough ram to avoid the overhead of running any swap
file i have been running mathcad 3.1 under windows 3.1 without one.



from steve frampton frampton@vicuna.ocunix.on.ca
subject is kermit available for windows 3.0 3.1 \?
summary looking for windows kermit.
keywords windows kermit comm app
reply to frampton@vicuna.ocunix.on.ca
distribution world
organization vicuna systems , kingston , ontario , canada
lines 16
content type text plain charset us ascii

hello all

i was wondering , is the kermit package (the actual package , not a
different program with kermit file transfers) available for microsoft
windows 3.0 3.1 \?

any information would be greatly appreciated. please e mail or post.

thanks in advance !

unabashed shabba ranks fan !
steve frampton frampton@vicuna.ocunix.on.ca steve frampton
i collect postcards ! if you send me one from 501 a princess st.
your area , i 'll send one in return. send to kingston , ontario
(do n't forget both email and mailing address) canada k7l 1c3


from lcornell@stein.u.washington.edu (linda d. cornell)
subject any video gurus feel like attacking this quirk... \?
article i.d. shelley.1qsce9inngd0
distribution world
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 37
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu

hi there ,
i'm having a bizarre video problem within windows 3.1. i have a 286 with
a gvga 16 video board. i 've been using the standard windows vga driver
with other similarly configured computers.

i am thinking that my problem is with the way windows refreshes it 's screen.

the problem is that once windows has been envoked , the colors start
changing themselves. at first i thought it was hardware , but if you open
a full screen dos program from within the windows session , you do n't have
any problems until you get back to windows however , when you initially
return to windows , the original colors get refreshed properly.

also , it is not a uniform color change so if you are in solitaire , the
design on the back of the card maintains it 's original color scheme , but
the white fronts of the cards will turn grey , then blue , etc.

the color changes keep getting darker until finally everything is a dark
purple ish black. if you pop out to dos and exit back to windows the
screen gets refreshed again.

if i do n't log into windows and just do dos things from the novell
network , everything is fine.

i originally loaded the software by bouncing it down to the net from the
other machine i had just finished configuring , then from the net to this
machine. when i ran into problems , i deleted everything on this machine
and the net , and tried bouncing it again. when that did n't work , i tried
reloading windows to no avail.

any thoughts on things to check out \? i am totally baffled !

thanks in advance for any assistance and instruction !

linda cornell
lcornell@u.washington.edu
uw office of research

subject roman.bmp 06 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 958


from miket@empros.com (mike tipton)
subject character codes problems
reply to miket@empros.com
nntp posting host sbb1.empros.com
organization empros power systems control , a division of siemens ea
lines 15

help !
i am working on a project that involves using text with foreign language
characters (in this case norwegian). i have been manipulating the data
with excell 4.0 and then exporting the data as comma seperated variable
files to an rs6000 workstation. the norwegian characters show up fine
under windows , but appear as funny characters on the workstation. the
workstation is setup for national language support and we have problem
entering the norwegian characters from the workstation keyboard.
on further investigation i found that the character codes used by
windows are different (for these characters) than those specified by the
msdos code page. the msdos codes seem to be the same as the
workstation. what gives , and how can get around it.
please reply by e mail as i will be out of the office the next few days
and will not be reading the news.
thanks.

from dbarker@spang.camosun.bc.ca (deryk barker)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
organization camosun college , victoria b.c , canada
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 47

leebr@ecf.toronto.edu (lee brian) writes
in article 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au writes
in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.

the original riscs had small instruction sets , and simple ones. the
idea was that a) every instruction should be completable in a single
clock cycle and b) to have no microcode and c) extensive pipelines.

a few comparisons (from patterson reduced instruction set computers.
cacm v28. 1 , 1985)

cpu year instructions microcode

ibm 370 168 1973 208 420kb
dec vax 11 780 1978 303 480kb
ibm 801 1980 120 0
ucb risc 1 1982 39 0
stanford mips 1983 55 0

while researching for the vlsi vax , dec discovered that 60 of the vax
microcode is there to support 20 of the instruction set which
accounted for a mere 0.2 of all instructions executed. the uvax 32
subsetted the architecture onto a single chip and used a software
emulator for these very complex instructions , the full vlsi uvax
included the entire instruction set , was 5 10 times more copmlex but
only ranm 20 faster.

cpu chips microcode transistors

uvax 32 2 64k 101k
vlsi uvax 9 480k 1250k


real deryk barker , computer science dept. , camosun college , victoria b.c.
email (dbarker@camosun.bc.ca)
phone 1 604 370 4452

from pittam@fencer.cis.dsto.gov.au
subject wordbasic sdk
organization defence science and technology organisation
lines 19
reply to pitt@cis.dsto.gov.au
nntp posting host fencer.cis.dsto.gov.au


request for information

i have been reading about an organisation called winword developer 's relations
group . i believe they have produced publications called winword software
development kit (or wordbasic sdk) and 'the proceedings of the windows
developers' tools conference , wordbasic' sessions assembled by steve wexler.

would you be able to help me with a contact name and address for this
organisation or these publications.

thank you



adrian pitt systems administrator
dsto corporate information systems unit (melbourne)
506 lorimer street , fishermens bend , vic 3207 australia
phone (03) 647 7881 fax (03) 646 6061 email pitt@cis.dsto.gov.au

from 55526@brahms.udel.edu (oliver p weatherbee)
subject new windows drivers for cirrus gd5426 graphic cards !
article i.d. news.c5x27u.d4f
organization university of delaware
lines 42
nntp posting host brahms.udel.edu


i have uploaded the most recent windows drivers for the cirrus gd5426
chip based display cards to the uploads directory at ftp.cica.indiana.edu
(file is 5426dr13.zip). they 're very recent , i downloaded them from the
cirrus bbs (570 226 2365) last night. if you are unable to get them there ,
email me and maybe i can upload them to some other sites as well.
i have a local bus based card (vl24 bitblaster from micron) but i think
the drivers work with isa cards (or at least includes drivers for them).

i found the new drivers to be a significant improvement over the 1.2 version ,
improving my graphic winmarks (v3.11) by about 2 million (7.77 to 9.88)
although this could be the result of intentional benchmark cheating on
cirrus 's part but i do n't think so.

from steve gibson 's (columnist for info world) graphic card comparisons
(also found at the cica ftp site under the name winadv.zip) i extracted the
following for the sake of comparison

wintach
winbn3.11 word sprsht cad paint overall
steve 's system
486 33 vlb
ati graphics ultra pro 9.33 10.34 20.78 8.28 14.90 13.58

my system
486sx 33 vlb
vl24 bitblaster 9.88 8.65 11.71 18.84 15.40 13.65


its no viper , but i think its a hell of a deal at about a third of the cost of
the ati card and when compared to the other cards included in gibson 's review.

micron system owner 's , i would be interested to hear your opinions on the
dtc 2270vl local bus disk controller. my system came with a maxtor 7120
drive (120 mb) and at first was only giving me disk winmarks of about 16 kb s ,
i am now at 22 kb s. is this about as good as it gets \? i ca n't get a norton 's
sysinfo disk reading because the contoller intercepts the calls , at
least that was what the program said.


oliver weatherbee
oliver@earthview

from dpugsle@nswc wo.nswc.navy.mil (donald pugsley)
subject c7 link segment problem (calling run time functions)
summary need help with incorrect linking of run time lib functions
keywords c7 link runtime segment
organization naval surface warfare center
lines 40

i have a small windows program which i can not get to work
the program looks vaguely like this


char f1 80

int winmain(...

lstrcpy ((lpstr)f1 , hello )
...


long far pascal wndproc(...

lstrcpy ((lpstr)f1 , hello )
...



i am using large model under windows 3.1 after linking without
errors , the rc program said

sorting preload segments and resources into fast load section
copying segment 1 (53679 bytes)
rc fatal error rw1031 segment 1 and its
relocation information is too large for load
optimization. make the segment loadoncall or
rerun rc using the k switch if the segment must
be preloaded.

using the k switch seems to interfere with the proper function of
the second lstrcpy call... can anybody explain what is going on and or
how to fix it \?


thanks...
pugsley (dpugsle@nswc wo.nswc.navy.mil)




from sat@eng.tridom.com (stephen thomas)
subject re how can i use the mouse in non windows applications under ms windows \?
nntp posting host nut.eng.tridom.com
reply to sat@eng.tridom.com
organization at t tridom
lines 42

in article 12328@ucsu.colorado.edu , gonzaled@ucsu.colorado.edu (lgv mc) writes
kasajian@netcom.com (kenneth kasajian) writes

wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (oliver kretzschmar) writes



hey ,

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the mouse
in a non windows application , which runs in an window. we use
ms windows 3.1 and have clipper applications. exists there any
routines or something else \? please mail me your informations.

thanks for your efforts ,

oliver

name o.kretzschmar inst.ike university stuttgart
phone 49 711 685 2130 pfaffenwaldring 31
fax 49 711 685 2010 7000 stuttgart 80
email wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de

very simple. you have to have the mouse.com or mouse.sys loaded in dos
before you run windows. note that you do n't need to have these files loaded
to use the mouse in windows.

one addition to this... i do n't know if it applies to everybody. for my
(microsoft 400dpi) mouse to work with windowed dos apps , i had to use the
driver that came with windows (version 8.20). 8.1 did n't allow me to do
it for some reason.


i could never find the microsoft mouse driver on my windows 3.1 installation
disks , but dos 6.0 also has version 8.20 of mouse.com.




stephen thomas at t tridom (404 514 3522)
email sat@eng.tridom.com , attmail ! tridom ! sat


from robertsa@unix2.tcd.ie (andrew l. roberts)
subject what does the .bmp format mean \?
nntp posting host unix2.tcd.ie
organization trinity college , dublin
lines 7

what exactly does the windows bitmap format look like \? i mean , how is
the data stored width , height , no. of colours , bitmap data \? i could n't
find anything in ths user manual , is there any other reference material
which would give me this information \?

thanks ,
andrew

from herrod@xenon.stanford.edu (stephen herrod)
subject mewin latex help
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 9

i posted this to the apps group and did n't get any response , so
i 'll try here. i am trying to use the latex help feature
available in emacs for windows and read that you need a separate
latexhlp.zip file along with a vms2hlp.zip file to convert this
to windows help. has anyone found these files or gotten this
command help to work \?

thanks , steve herrod


from ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
subject re permanent swap file
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 39
reply to ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , mlipsie@rdm09.std.com (mike lipsie mpu) says

in article c54yfd.6ld@sunfish.usd.edu pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff) writes

your swap file is purged every time you exit windows. if you shut off your
computer without exiting windows your swap file remains. 20 mb is on the large
side , are you running more applications than you really need to at the same time \?

this is , of course , not true. the temporary swap file is purged
every time you exit windows. the permanent file is permanent and
can only be changed by adjusting the virtual memory.

i suspect that either the original poster was tinkering and
adjusted the swap file to 20mb (and then forgot about it) or
somebody helped him.


mike lipsie (work) mlipsie@ca.merl.com
mitsubishi electronic research laboratory (home) mikel@dosbears.uucp

when i first setup windows using the self load mode it grabbed about
20 megs of swap file space , my 120 meg hd was nearly empty at that time.
i deleted windows for a time and recently reloaded , now my hd is nearly full
and windows just took 4 megs.
i have read somewhere that the best rule of thumb is have your
permanent swap file the same size as your regular ram size. i have 4 megs
of ram and windows took 4 meg perm swap file. works very well.
in fact with my available hd space , about 20 megs it wo n't let me make
the swap file any bigger.
you should change your virtual mem swap file to 8 megs i think
that is what you said your ram was.

c ya..... artin

this communication is sent by artin university of arizona tucson

ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu mlinsenb@ccit.arizona.edu mlinsenb@arizvms
death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings

from carter@photon.cem.msu.edu (tom carter carter@photon.cem.msu.edu )
subject re winqvt net v3.4 \?
organization michigan state university , chemistry department , e. lansing , mi
lines 28
nntp posting host exciton.cem.msu.edu


in article ashok.661.0@biochemistry.cwru.edu ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar) writes
in article 354@lorien.ocf.llnl.gov dave@angmar.llnl.gov (dave fuess) writes

an earlier article in this newsgroup made reference to
winqvt net version 3.4. realy \? where \? i tried archie
with no luck. it 's probably just a typo.

not a typo. it was uploaded to ftp.cica.indiana.edu a couple days back.

but i sure would like to get one if it 's real as i too
have a printer problem in winqvt.

version 3.4 uses standard windows printer drivers.

ashok


it 's still in the pub pc win3 uploads directory as qvtnet34.zip.


note new email address !

tom carter carter@photon.cem.msu.edu
michigan state university carter@msucem.bitnet
chemistry department



from bjcon@cs.mcgill.ca (brendan newman)
subject trident vga drivers
organization socs mcgill university , montreal , canada
lines 8


hi , i have a trident tvga 8900 video card and need the updated
drivers for win3.1 where can i get them from an ftp site.


thanks

bj.

from dshanks@nyx.cs.du.edu (david shanks)
subject re diamond speedstar driver for v3.1
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 10

in article 116005@bu.edu rem@buitc.bu.edu (robert mee) writes
i am looking for a win31 driver (or set) for my diamond
speedstar 1mb video card.

the diamond bbs has these. their 2400 baud bbs phone number is (408)
730 1100. their 9600 baud bbs phone number is (408) 524 9335. sorry ,
i do n't know of any ftp site that has these (though i 'd be surprised if
there was n't one).



from brzyckmj@dunx1.ocs.drexel.edu (mike)
subject panasonic kx p1091i driver \?
organization drexel university , phila. pa.
lines 2

does anyone out there know if there are print drivers for windows for the
panasonic kx p1091i 9 pin dot matrix printer \?

from yeoy@a.cs.okstate.edu (yeo yek chong)
subject re is kermit available for windows 3.0 3.1 \?
organization oklahoma state university
lines 7

from article a4fm3b1w165w@vicuna.ocunix.on.ca , by steve frampton frampton@vicuna.ocunix.on.ca
i was wondering , is the kermit package (the actual package , not a

yes ! in the usual ftp sites.

yek chong


from davidr@davidr.mentorg.com (david ransier)
subject dos6 w4wg problem \? \? \?
nntp posting host davidr.mentorg.com
organization mentor
keywords
lines 20


i am running windows 3.1 , windows for work groups and just loaded dos 6.

what`s happening appears as a graphics problem with file manager. i 've
added some menubar buttons but there appears to be a gray boxed region
that covers the top 2 3'rds of the button row.

these buttons are in a row below the pulldown menus. the pulldown menus
look fine , and the disk label region looks fine , but you only see the bottom
few pixels of the task buttons.

anyone else experience this \?

thanks.


david ransier davidr@pdx.mentorg.com these comments are my own. i paid for
office (503) 685 1528 them. i own them. they 're not my
fax (503) 685 7704 employers , and you ca n't have them.


from jemartin@nyx.cs.du.edu (john martin)
subject setting up three user accounting system with wfwg
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 30

i am a novice (at best) in working with pc networks , and am in the
process of planning a small accounting system for a small business.

the particular need in this case is for three machines , each in a
different office of the same building , each having access to a
windows based accounting system.

my first thought is to set up ms windows for workgroups on each of the
machines (likely a 486 and two 386 's) along with the appropriate ethernet
cards and cabling that come with the windows for workgroups starter kit (one
additional user kit will be necessary). it then seems logical to purchase
a simple multi user accounting system , along the lines of daceasy or
m.y.o.b. , and fire it all up ! the 486 will more or less act as server with
a report check printer attached to it.
cable runs of 30 40 feet will be necessary for this setup.

well , this all seems too easy to me. would any of you network gurus out
there tell me if i am out of my mind here \? any and all suggestions , however
trivial , will be immensely appreciated. my apologies if this has been
brought up before.

thanks !

john

john e. martin jemartin@nyx.cs.du.edu university of puget sound '92
kent , wa (formerly martin@ups.edu) seinfeldsupersonicsrushbelafleck

john e. martin jemartin@nyx.cs.du.edu university of puget sound '92
kent , wa (formerly martin@ups.edu) seinfeldsupersonicsbc rushdweckl

from rene@hardy.u.washington.edu (rene magritte)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
article i.d. shelley.1qnaesinnemf
organization university of washington
lines 30
nntp posting host hardy.u.washington.edu

wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom) writes

rmohns@vax.clarku.edu writes

chicogo is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true os with thrue
multitasking and multithreading , but has much smaller hardware requirements ,
and does not meet dod security specs (but that 's okay since it will probably
be more of a client os). there are a few otehr differences , but those are the
main ones. there was an article about chicogo in pc week last august.
the chicogo and nt development groups at micro oft are in intense
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will
arise nt will be the server ( n etowrk t echonology) , chicogo will be the
client machine. it is entirely possible for different os 's to work together ,
partly because chicogo is just a small nt (think of it that way , anyway).
(novell netware creates an os on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't
scorn the concept.)
anyway , do n't expect it soon. windows 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be
released next year (read see it in 95) , so i expect that chicogo wo n't be out
til '96.
how does chicago differ from the (sort of) announced windows 4. my understand
ing , at least from the inbfoworld accound of windows 4 is that it 's sort
of nt lite a full fledged operating system but lacking server and security
features that make nt such a bear. is w4 not true multithreading \?


can anyone tell me how chicago windows 4 would differ from
os 2 2.x \? believe it or not , i'm not trying to start a flame war ,
here. i'm simply curious if there is going to be any feature
advantage in either of these products (i do not consider the fact that
it has uncle bills seal of approval much of a feature...)

from gay@selkirk.sfu.ca (ian d. gay)
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 10

kudla@acm.rpi.edu (robert kudla) writes

stuff about changing windows registration omitted

the damned thing anyway. this technique should work with just about
any obnoxious corporate product that tries to write to the original
floppies when you install in some extreme cases you may not be able

huh \? \? \? my copy of win 3.1 came on permanently write protected
diskettes. (no sliding tabs).

from grohol@novavax.uucp (john grohol)
subject re 2 atm
organization nova university , fort lauderdale , fl
lines 35

rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols) writes


1. truetype font files are at least 1 3 larger than their type 1
equivalents. if you are using a disk compressor , though , be aware
that truetype fonts will compress , whereas type 1 fonts will not
(they are encrypted).

this is n't entirely true. it is true that truetype fonts are
larger than their atm counterparts , but atm fonts do get minimal
compression. running stacker 3.0 report generator , i get

file type compression ratio

.ttf (truetype) 1.4 1.0
.pfb (atm) 1.1 1.0
.pfm (atm metric) 11.8 1.0

although the metric files are small , they compress quite largely.
and , as you can see , even the regular .pfb files have some compression.

so , doing the math on one such comparitive font file

ttf times 83260 bytes 1.4 59471 bytes (compressed)
pfb times 51549 bytes 1.1 46862 bytes (compressed)

you still win out , even if the atm times font is n't compressed.

your mileage may vary depending on compression program.


when heroes go down , they go down fast john m. grohol , m.s.
so do n't expect any time to center for psychological studies
equivocate the past. nova univ , ft. lauderdale , fl
suzanne vega grohol@novavax.nova.edu

from jesse
subject is ms windows a mature os \?
originator cyen@ponder.csci.unt.edu
keywords ms windows
organization computer science dept. of unt
distribution usa
lines 39

hi ,
have you used mac system 6.x or 7.x \? if the answer is positive , you would
know if ms windows is a mature os.

days ago people doubted that ms windows is not a real os. i can see why
they have such question. ms windows confuses many people. microsoft
simulated mac , but it did a lousy job. for example

(1) you can not create hierarchy groups. there is no way to create a group
in a group. (if you know how , please tell me.)
(2) too many system parameters to take care of.
(3) uncomplete documentation. it 's not easy to find the reason why causes
an unpredictable error.
(4) group deleting file deleting
after deleting a group , users have to use file manager to delete files.
but if users forget to delete some related files , the disk will be full
of nonsense files.
(5) share problem
once you create two windows doing compilation and editing in some
language (w o good editor) , there will be a sharing problem. you just
can not open or save the program if it is loaded. it makes sense to
prevent from saving , but not opening.

microsoft try to compromise between dos and windows , but they just make
ms windows a graphical dos with capacity doing mutiple dos jobs
the worst thing is they complicate the environment. the orginal purpose
of ms windows should be to simplify the environment , and make pc easier
to use.

it 's by no means easy to satisfy everybody , but if microsoft want to
keep their reputations , they should evaluate the user interface more
carefully before products distribute.

no flame , please.

jesse
e mail cyen@cs.unt.edu ic43@sol.acs.unt.edu



subject ms windows sound system , text to speach \?
from hadam@bcsc02.gov.bc.ca
organization bc systems corporation
nntp posting host bcsc02.gov.bc.ca
lines 4

hi all news group users
does anyone know whether there is some software which will let one do
text to speach like the sound blaster does \?
hal adam , hadam@bcsc02.gov.bc.ca

from bsmith@access.digex.com (barry smith)
subject program manager kills my group files !
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 3
nntp posting host access.digex.net

any clue \? some times when i enter win 3.1 progman says that i need to rebuild
a group ! it 's quite annoying !


from kuehnel@rvs.uni hannover.de (stefan kuehnel , swl)
subject re nt questions
reply to kuehnel@rvs.uni hannover.de
organization rvs , universitaet hannover , germany
lines 38

in article 5802@news.yale.edu , adriene nazaretian@qm.yale.edu (adriene nazaretian) writes
in article 1993mar26.020427.29119@samba.oit.unc.edu , tclark@med.unc.edu (thomas b. clark) says

...

2. is the driver support as seamless as program support \?
e.g. , will my soundblaster , scanner , cd rom , tape backup
continue to work even if there are no specific nt drivers \?

there is a hardware compatibility guide to answer these questions.
there are many drivers for cd rom and there are midi and other

sound drivers installed , i dont do a lot with sound digitizing on this
platform , but recall seeing items for their configuration in the control
panel applet. there is built in support for tape backup systems as well.

...

my problem i was n't aware of the fact that i would need an scsi cd rom for
windows nt when ordering the beta sdk package. so my question is there any driver
available that will allow me to use my mitsumi (non scsi) cd rom for installation \?
if there is one , from which place (ftp site) can i get it \?

many thanks in advance

stefan kuehnel



stefan k uhnel

kuehnel@rvs.uni hannover.de
kuehnel@swl.uni hannover.de (neu ab. 17.04.1993)

die oben wiedergegebene meinung ist meine private und nicht die
des rrzn , des lg rvs der uh oder einer anderen institution.



from a.d.bailey@lut.ac.uk
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
reply to a.d.bailey@lut.ac.uk (adrian d.bailey)
organization loughborough university , uk.
lines 11

in article 1993apr20.085638.29338@news.uit.no sp@odin.nosubdomain.nodomain (svein pedersen) writes
i nead a utility for updating (deleting , adding , changing) .ini files for windows.

do i find it on any ftp host \?

svein



in windows 3.0 there is a built in called sysedit.exe that is just what you
need. windows 3.1 i do n't know......

from kmembry@viamar.uucp (kirk membry)
subject pixel font
reply to rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry
organization private system
lines 9

i'm looking for a font that looks like pixels off of a monitor
(not the lcd kind of font though)
does anyone know where i can get one \?



kirk membry our age is the age of industry
rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry alexander rodchenko


from servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu (brian k servis)
subject books for writing thesis in wfw \? \? \?
keywords wfw , thesis
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 23

hi , i was wondering if anyone out there knows of any books that give helpful
hints and tips on writing thesis papers in wfw. i know about the dissertation
template that comes with word but i want more. i would like to have tips on
how to use all the seq ... , bookmark ... , index ... , chapter ... ,
fields that are available in word. i have looked through the help files , etc.
but they really do n't explain a whole lot. i will post the results(that means
email me first) if i get a lot of different suggestions since i think this
might be of help to lots of crazy grad students such as myself. thanks.


brian servis

p.s. how do you change the font that help uses when printing a topic \? the
default is so choppy and hard to read.


servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu it happened this way
actual quotes from insurance claims
what i say may not be what i
think. what i say may not be the pedestrian had no idea which
what purdue thinks. way to go , so i ran him over.



from mitchell@nodecg.ncc.telecomwa.oz.au (clive mitchell)
subject dataproducts lzr1260 not printing correctly
organization regional network systems group , perth
lines 951


clive mitchell ph 61 9 4916384
regional network systems mitchell@telecomwa.oz.au
. . perth , western australia

from sdoran@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (steven d marcotte)
subject data corruption
organization kansas state university
lines 31
nntp posting host matt.ksu.ksu.edu


i quit windows normally to run a special dos app , got done with it
and tried to start windows. ok got the title screen , windows
background , dos with an error about loading progman.exe. hum , yep
progman.exe is still there. must be bad , ok pull off progman.exe
from a backup tape , start windows , get the windows title screen ,
windows background , dos with the same error. hum ! fire up the
good ol' norton disk doctor , test , 500 lost clusters ! ok , fix them ,
and look through them , does n't look important. remove the windows
directory , and reinstall from disks. fire up windows , title screen ,
background , program manager , success !

i have a 486 50 (amy) with 4 meg of ram , 120 meg hd , svga , running under
dos 5.0 , no special memory managers or stuff , just the basic windows 3.1
a 12 meg permanent swap file using 32 bit access. i mainly use windows
to run more that one dos app at a time. (ie downloading with qmodem
with a dos window open , and possibly pov running in the background.)

i 've noticed that since i started using windows a few months ago , lost
clusters have gotten more and more common. although i do n't like
having data just disappear , it really have n't been a problem except
for today. has anyone else had any problems with lost clusters while
running windows \? and what could i do to fix the problem , i 'd sleep
better knowing amy was n't loosing her marbles. )

steven

steven marcotte sdoran@matt.ksu.ksu.edu




from tonyd@ssc60.sbwk.nj.us (tony debari)
subject re filemanager strange sizes in summary line
organization lost in space
lines 32

in 1993apr21.143250.14692@bmers145.bnr.ca masika@bnr.ca (nicholas masika) writes
i have just noticed my filemanager doing something strange recently.
usually , the line at the bottom of the filemanager (the status bar , i
guess) displays the total disk space and the total number of bytes for
the current selection. if i select a whole bunch of files , i will get
an exact byte count.

recently , i notice it incorrectly displays this count it 's truncating !
if i select a file that is , say , 532 bytes , it correctly displays '532 bytes'.
if i select select a file that is 23 , 482 bytes , it displays '23 bytes' ,
not 23 kbytes , just 23 bytes ! if i select 893 , 352 it will report only
893 bytes in the selection. if i select over a meg worth of files , say
3 , 356 , 345 it reports 3 bytes ! it 's as if it 's got a problem with displaying
more than 3 characters !

my system 486dx 33 , 8m memory , stacker 3.0 , dos 5 , win 3.1. i 've run
the latest virus scanners (scan102 , f prot) and they did n't report anything.
could i have unknowingly altered something that controls the formatting
of the status bar in the filemanger \?

it sounds like something one may have set the 1000 's separator to . in
contol panel (under international). this makes 23 , 482 look like 23.482
and file manager is chopping off what it thinks is the decimal part of
the file size. 3 , 356 , 345 becomes 3.356.345 , and again , file manager is
confused by the decimal points where there should be commas , chopping
off everything to the right of the first period.


tony debari fqdn tonyd@ssc60.sbwk.nj.us ci 73117 , 452
uucp ... ! uunet ! ssc60 ! tonyd p ghrw14b

a.k.a. skip bowler , captain of usenet fantasy bowling league team 9.

from wong@cs.tu berlin.de (wolfgang jung)
subject cirrus logic 5426 graph card
organization technical university of berlin , germany
lines 23
nntp posting host athene.cs.tu berlin.de
mime version 1.0
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1
content transfer encoding 8bit
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

after setting up windows for using my cirrus logic 5426 vlb graphicscard
it moved a normal window from one place to another.
my parameters where just the following 486 dx 33 vlb
the card is equipped with 1 mb dram (not vram , there are 8 sockets for vram)
and the moving of the window just looked like it looked at a friends
386dx 25 (387dx) and an normal isa et4000

what i was wondering why is it not using the bitblt engine which
is suuposed to be on the chip.

how are the experiences here..
have i done something wrong \?
(i installed the mswin 3.1 multiresolution drivers which where supplied
with the card \? ! )
would be nice if somebody could tell about his experience with this card
also if there are new(hopefully faster) drrivers around i would love to
how to get hold of them ) (ftp or whatsoever ) )

gruss
wolfgang




from moor9881@mach1.wlu.ca (dwayne moore u)
subject sound blaster ver 1.5 under windows 3.1
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
organization wilfrid laurier university
lines 35

article crossposted from comp.speech , comp.sys.ibm.pc.soundcard , comp.os.linux
author was mario lauretti
posted on mon , 5 apr 1993 21 44 24 gmt

i have a sound blaster ver 1.5

when i try to install driver ver 1.5 (driver that comes with window 3.1)
it tell me to upgrade my card first ! ! ! \? \? \? \?

now , i have found new drivers from creative labs.

but i have problems installing it

after removing the vsbd.386 (old version that come in windows)
after installing creative sound blaster midi synthesizer

i try to install creative sound blaster 1.5 wave...

but when i am in the menu add unlisted or updated driver
and double click on this driver , i have this error

driver error

cannot load creative sound blaster 1.5 wave and midi driver. the driver file
may be missing. try installing the driver again , or contact your system
administrator.

yes , yes , yes , i have read the readme.1st and try every thing !

can somebody help me \? \?


mario laureti

internet laurm00@tohi.dmi.usherb.ca

from chakaw@stein.u.washington.edu (chak yoon aw)
subject is there any documentation for microsoft diagnostics \?
article i.d. shelley.1qk9uqinnh0s
distribution na
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 10
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu

hi ,

i found what i believe is an undocumented feature in my windows directory ,
microsoft diagnostics , ver 2.00. i am specifically interested in a more
in depth explanation of the legends in the memory mapping report.

thanks.

chak aw
chakaw@u.washington.edu

from ardie@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (ardie mack)
subject re does dos6 defragment \? \?
article i.d. ux1.ardie.272.734097933
organization department of plant pathology
lines 30

in article 1993apr6.040254.8443@cs.brown.edu ksl@engin1.nosubdomain.nodomain (kiseok lee ) writes
from ksl@engin1.nosubdomain.nodomain (kiseok lee )
subject re does dos6 defragment \? \?
date tue , 6 apr 1993 04 02 54 gmt
in article c51h9m.46p@news.cso.uiuc.edu , rhc52134@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (richard) writes
geoffrey s. elbo writes

yes , and it is the fastest defrag i 've ever watched. it did a 170mb
hard disk in 20 minutes.

i found the ms defrag looks very much like norton speedisk.
is it just a strip down version of the later \?

i have both norton speedisk and backup , so i was wondering
if i need to install ms backup \?

richard


yes , defragger is come from norton.
if you have norton utility , do n't bother.


do n't bother if you have cpbackup or fastback. they all offer options
not available in the stripped down ms version (from cps ! ). examples no
proprietary format (to save space) , probably no direct dma access , and no
tape drive !

you need ms defrag if you use doublespace to work on the compressed
volume.

from david a. fuess
subject mathcad 4.0 vs ndw 2.2
organization uc llnl
lines 23
distribution usa
nntp posting host talon.llnl.gov


i just got off the phone with mathsoft technical service. they
are now admitting a problem of unknown nature with maple and
norton desktop for windows. they have no clue at this time
and are collecting configuration information on the systems
which exhibit the problem. anyone having problems loading the
maple solver in mathcad 4.0 under ndw shoud call technical
support at 617 577 1017. they made no schedule promices ,
but are actively working on the problem.

in the meantime , the workaround is to provide a configuration
selection in autoexec.bat to use progman (yuk , pew) whenever
you plan to use the maple solver and ndw otherwise. i am using
norton be to place a little menu on the screen with a 5 second
timeout to auto boot ndw.


david a. fuess
dir , center for eecs
phone (510)423 2436
fax (510)422 9343
lawrence livermore national laboratory


from mogul@uclink.berkeley.edu (bret mogilefsky)
subject re any good sound formats conversion program out there \? \?
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 34
nntp posting host uclink.berkeley.edu

in article edd392h.733700028@mings2.cc.monash.edu.au edd392h@mings2.cc.monash.edu.au (ywi. li) writes
hi all ,

does anyone know if there is a good sound formats conversion program out

there \? \? \? (like paintshoppro for picture formats conversion)

please send me a copy of your reply ! ! !

thanks a lot

bel


hi...

the best sound conversion program i 've ever seen is soundtool , which
is shareware from germany. i found a copy somewhere in wuarchive.wustl.edu
a long time ago , but i do n't know offhand what directory it was under. it 's
great at converting files of all types , including mac , next , sun , and
various pc formats... it 's also a great player and editor , with various
special effects that put windows' sound recorder to shame. it requires a
driver for various sound cards... the only builtin one is for the pc speaker
(and even that sounds pretty good) , but if you 're just using it to convert
things , you can convert them in soundtool and then play them in sound
recorder.

give it a try !

bret

why , that 's the second mogul@soda.berkeley.edu
biggest monkey head i 've mogul@ocf.berkeley.edu
ever seen ! guybrush mogul@uclink.berkeley.edu

from am37@ellis.uchicago.edu (drewster)
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
reply to am37@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago computing organizations
lines 16

in article 1993apr20.085638.29338@news.uit.no sp@odin.nosubdomain.nodomain (svein pedersen) writes
i nead a utility for updating (deleting , adding , changing) .ini files for windows.

do i find it on any ftp host \?

svein


unless i am completely misunderstanding you , try using either notepad or
sysedit.exe (found in your system subdirectory) to edit you .ini files.

the sysedit.exe program is cool because it automatically opens you win.ini ,
system.ini , autoexec.bat and config.sys files to be edited.

drewster (am37@kimbark.uchicago.edu)


from mcglob@usissc.daytonoh.ncr.com (brian.mcgloin)
subject re does dos6 defragment \? \?
reply to mcglob@usissc.daytonoh.ncr.com (brian.mcgloin)
organization daytonoh.ncr.com
lines 14

in article 1993apr5.060929.7806@seas.gwu.edu louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis) writes

well , the subject saysit all does dos 6 do defragmentation \? \?

yes , both dblspaced and non dblspaced drives can be defragmented. i believe
they use norton 's speedisk.




brian t. mcgloin lift your glasses , friend , with mine
ncr corp. and raise your hand with me
usg iss ols i'm england stole , i'm ireland spent
miamisburg , oh 45342 i'm an outlawed rapparee

from jon@trust.anu.edu.au (jon gough)
subject windows and multiple monitors 10m apart
organization cslab , autralian national uni.
lines 16
distribution world
nntp posting host 150.203.15.182

hi ,
i am working on gathering data on the way that users use
computers. this involves getting subjects to type and use a
mouse. i want to be able to watch what they are doing without
being in the same room. it would be ideal if i could watch
the session on another monitor without the subjects knowledge.
i believe that spliting the monitor cable will only work for
short distances , ie 5m. i will need to be approx 10m away , as
the cable travels.
the pc 's are connected to a tcp ip network and run windows 3.1.
is there any software that will allow me to watch what is
happening on another pc \?
thanks
regards
jon gough
trust project

from nagel@ucsu.colorado.edu (kurt nagel)
subject re ami pro 3.0 and equation mode
nntp posting host fido.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 37

nagel@ucsu.colorado.edu (kurt nagel) writes

hi ,

i'm having a problem with amipro when writing equations. if the
equation extends past a certain point on a line , the whole thing disappears.
if i then try to delete the equation or cursor beyond the equation , ami
goes nuts. the line counter at the bottom of the screen increments
repeatedly and the only way out is to ctrl atl del. if i have been
unfortunate enough to save a document with one of these screwed up
equations , the document is basically trashed. (although i have been
able to fix them by going into an ascii editor and deleteing large
chunks of the document)

has anyone else experienced this \? does lotus know about it
and or have a patch \? \? \? \? \? \? \? .

thanks in advance ,

kurt
nagel@fido.colorado.edu

i contacted lotus about this problem today. it has been reported previously
and there is a fix. apparantly the problem only occurs when tab characters
are used immediately preceding the equation frame. the work around when
equations are expected to touch the right margin is to delete at least one
preceding tab and use space to align the frame (or use set frame where
placed w no text wrap around). unforutnately , once the page run on has
occured you are hosed. so the moral of the story is use only space characters
to align equation frames.

hope this helps the rest of you who have already contacted me with this
problem.

kurt
nagel@fido.colorado.edu


from liuxu@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (xudong liu)
subject file downloading
originator liuxu@cmr1
nntp posting host cmr1
organization vanderbilt university school of engineering , nashville , tn , usa
distribution usa
lines 9

as a beginer , i just wonder how to transfer files from the sun
system (which is on the network) to my pc at home (not connected
to the network). i tried to use 'comit' to do so , but it was very
slow and it seemed that getting multiple files at the same time
was impossible. could anybody give me some hints infomation \?

thank you in advance.

liu

subject re cirrus logic 5426 graph card
from gardner a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz (andy gardner)
reply to gardner a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
organization wellington city council (public access) , wgtn , nz
nntp posting host kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
lines 37

in article 1qms3c 37t@news.cs.tu berlin.de , wong@cs.tu berlin.de (wolfgang jung) writes
after setting up windows for using my cirrus logic 5426 vlb graphicscard
it moved a normal window from one place to another...

...what i was wondering why is it not using the bitblt engine which
is suuposed to be on the chip.

how are the experiences here..
have i done something wrong \?

the 5426 has its own set of drivers. you may be using the
drivers intended for the 5420 or 5422 by mistake.

be sure you have the 5426 driver version 1.2

(i installed the mswin 3.1 multiresolution drivers which where supplied
with the card \? ! )

do n't quote me on this one , but i 'd steer clear of the
multi resolution driver that allows you to change resolution
without exiting windows. i think it 's buggy.

also if there are new(hopefully faster) drrivers around i would love to
how to get hold of them ) (ftp or whatsoever ) )

version 1.3 drivers are due to be release by cirrus soon.
unfortunately , their not available via ftp , you have to dial
up their bbs in the usa. i do this from nz using a 14.4k modem
to cut down on phone bills. it took me around 7 minutes to
download the v1.2 driver.


good luck ,

andy gardner ,
wellington , new zealand
te whanga nui a tara , aotearoa

from gking@cymbal.calpoly.edu (gregory s king)
subject ss 24x questions
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo
distribution usa
lines 17

just got a ss24x based on its good ratings , but am a little
under impressed. first , is it 's performance in 16.7 mill. supposed
to be comparable to a trident 8900 (or other unaccelerated vga) \? i
came up with only ok performance on winspeed. in 256 , it was between
good and great. second , does anyone know where to get that jpg viewer
for the ss24x . i saw it on cica or something. does it work better.

thanks for any help.

greg



i i
i gregory s. king i the quality of life is i
i aeronautical engineering i directly proportional to i
i cal poly slo i how fast you drive i

from hodge@iccgcc.decnet.ab.com
subject re tidying up after removing an ole server
lines 25

in article c5y121.kz3@liverpool.ac.uk , qq43@liverpool.ac.uk (chris wooff) writes
a while ago i installed spss for windows as part of an evaluation. once
the evaluation was complete i duly deleted the software from my pc.

unfortunately there is still a ghost of spss left when i run
something like write and go to embed an object then spss chart
appears on the list of objects i'm offered. i looked around all
the obvious ini files without success. the next thing i tried
was looking for the string spss chart in every file in the
windows directory. it turned up in a file called req.dat (or
reg.dat). unfortunately the file was binary and so i did n't feel
inclined to edit it.

i 'd welcome a solution for removing spss from the list of ole servers.

chris wooff
(c.wooff@liverpool.ac.uk)

you can edit that file with a utility that comes with windows 3.1 called
regedit (registration info editor)


bob hodge
i'm going fishing. you got worms \? yeah , but i'm going anyway !


from rcs1@crux3.cit.cornell.edu (r craig stevenson)
subject w4w printing envelops on dj550c (not 500c ! )
nntp posting host crux3.cit.cornell.edu
organization cornell university
lines 19

i 've got a probelm with printing envelops on my deskjet 550c from word
for windows.

history when i had a deskjet 500 , i had to modify the macro so that
it would disable reverse printing since there seemed to be a bug that
interferred with printing envelops. that bug is still present , however...

now the problem i have is that my deskjet 550 print driver (came with
the printer i bought in december) still wants to print the envelops in
portrait mode. however , the deskjet 550 feeds envelops the from the
narrow end (i.e. landscape mode). how do i get the printer to print
the envelops in the correct orientation \?

please please please do not post this to the net since
(a) due to end of the semester cruch , i ca n't keep up on these groups ,
and (b) i will summarize the best answer(s) to the net anyhow !

thanks in advance ,
craig stevenson

from mmeltzer@wam.umd.edu
subject re diamond speedstar driver for v3.1
nntp posting host next02cville.wam.umd.edu
reply to mmeltzer@wam.umd.edu
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park
lines 21

in article 116005@bu.edu rem@buitc.bu.edu (robert mee) writes

i am looking for a win31 driver (or set) for my diamond
speedstar 1mb video card. does anybody know of an archive
site that has these \? i looked at cica and it had drivers for
the stealth card and for generic et4000 cards but not one
specifically for the speedstar. is there one \? or has diamond
dropped the speedstar out of the driver development loop.


i just looked at cica yesterday and noticed that they did n't have
anything , but i seem to remember seeing something at wuarchive in the
mirrors msdos windows3 directory. i think i got my 3.1 drivers from
america online though.


mmeltzer@wam.umd.edu is

marc meltzer
president of the meltz inc
our job is to play games. our hobby is to consult.

from claborne@npg sd.sandiegoca.ncr.com (chris claborne)
subject anyone use number 9 gxe video card \?
summary anyone use number 9 gxe video card \?
keywords video adaptor hardware graphics
distribution world
organization ncr corp. , network products san diego
lines 5

has anyone used the number nine ( 9) video graphics adaptor with windows
or windows nt \? what do you think \? \? \?

2
c

from taylor@mail (tim taylor)
subject re pkunzip2.04g
nntp software pc tcp nntp
lines 12
organization loral data systems

in article 1pn6tr l70@dekalb.dc.peachnet.edu kenneth@dekalb.dc.peachnet.edu (kenneth palmertree) writes

hey ,

does anyone know of an ftp site where i can get pkunzip2.04g from.
i tried using archie with no such luck. this version of pkunzip is suppose
to correct some promblems when using pkunzip within windows. thanks in
advance ! )


you can get pk.... from ftp.cica.indiana.edu



from charles@trintex.uucp (charles emmons)
subject version control for mac and pc lan
organization prodigy services co.
lines 28

we have a lan where we are doing development on product for multiple platforms.
for the moment we are only working on mac and dos windows. the department has
always used sneaker net to transport files to the mac , since it requires a
filter to strip out the lf characters.

until recently no one concidered using any version control to mediate , and as
a result , the 5 programmers spent a great deal of time merging files together
at the end of each week so that a new system could be build. we are now trying
to streamline this process , but are hampered by the lack of software that will
allow us to share files across pc and mac platforms.

i understand that pvcs used to do this , but that they no longer support the mac
product (anyone know why \? \? polytron \? ).

i have seen people ask about development in multiple platforms , so i assume that
ours is not a new problem. who has had to deal with it \? what solutions have
you come up with \?

thanks in advance for any and all suggestions via posting or email. if there are
enough email responses then i will post a synopsis of the knowledge.

charles emmons


charles emmons charles@trintex.uucp these opinions are
prodigy services co. charles trintex@uunet.uu.net mine alone , unless
white plains ny 10601 voice 914 993 8856 you would like to
prodigy id kjrd82a fax 914 993 8659 share them.

from pmhudepo@cs.vu.nl (hudepohl pmj)
subject re windows hangs on 486dx33 \? \? \?
organization fac. wiskunde informatica , vu , amsterdam
lines 49

wlieftin@cs.vu.nl (liefting w) writes
hello all you windows freaks out there.

i bought windows 3.1 (dutch version) some time ago , and run it on a
286. i recently upgraded my computer to a 486dx33 , 256k cache , 4m memory ,
212m maxtor hd. works real fine , but not with windows.

when playing patience (sol) or minesweeper , suddenly the system hangs
i just ca n't move my mouse anymore.
or
screen goes blank , nothing further
or
screen goes blank , computer seems to reboot , but stops before reaching
the end of the memory test.

once (or maybe even twice) i got a message about some illegal kernel call
or something (accompanied by a hex adress) and a close button. when pressing
it , the application would n't close , though.

i have n't experienced this problem with other programs than these , but that 's
mainly because i have n't really used other programs. i suspect them to hang
too.

anything known about this problem. (or , better , any patches available \? )


oh , forgot to tell , if , in cmos ram , i make the computer faster (higher
bus speed , less wait states , enable both caches etc) , the crash comes
faster (after 10 min. or so). if i deliberately slow the system down
(slow bus speed , wait states , disable internal external cache , no
shadowing) the crash comes later , but comes.

hope anyone can help.

wouter.



hi ,

i got a problem too , with a 486dx2 66 vlb , 4 mb ram , 170mb disk.
sometimes , when i switch on the computer , it starts windows (3.1 dutch)
windows switches to 1024x768 , switches back to text mode and exits
to dos. after one or two resets , the system works fine...

thanks
patrick
vu amsterdam


from lei@rtsg.mot.com (peter p. lei)
subject dos 6 vfintd.386 and windows sys.ini
nntp posting host accord4
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group
lines 11


does anyone know what the vfintd.386 device is used for in windows 3.1 \?
it 's under the 386enh section as
device c dos vfintd.386

after upgrading to dos 6 on several machines (different types) , some include
it , some do n't.

any ideas \?

pl

from ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
subject re emm386.exe and windows and dos6
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 37
reply to ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , rudim@cs.kuleuven.ac.be (rudi maelbrancke) says

in windows i created a permanent swap file of 7771kb as win3.1
recommended me to do that (32bit access).
if i use emm386.exe , after win3.1 startup i have 6689k of memory
free , if i leave emm386.exe out of my config.sys i have 9935k
of memory free , and windows recommends me a swap file of 11769k.


i think you need the emm386.exe noems
this will let the expanded mem be active but not use any , therefore
this will give you more extended mem for windows yet have all the
bases covered.


i use dos6 , with memmaker , have 4mb of internal memory and a 486dx ,


i do not use dos6 so i am not familiar with this.

does anybody knows why this is happening (possibly win needs
some umb 's to manage virtual memory \? , if true , which umb 's , those
that emm386 can find without including suspicious parts \? )

i need an optimized dos environment , because i develop applications for
dos using a windows programming environment.


rudi

c ya..... artin

this communication is sent by artin university of arizona tucson

ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu mlinsenb@ccit.arizona.edu mlinsenb@arizvms
death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings

from mhembruc@tsegw.tse.com (mattias hembruch)
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
organization toronto stock exchange
lines 35

rmohns@vax.clarku.edu writes

this is in relation to a question concerning changing the registered to
information of ms windows...

in a previous article , 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu wrote

ahh , yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is incribed on the
disk , that is it , it is encoded. not even a hex editor will find it. you can
write over the licensed to , but you ca n't change the name underneth it. i

i can find it with a hex editor , although i have not tried to overwrite it.
are you sure it ca n't be \? you may be mistaken about this. ( \? \? \? )

rob

rmohns@vax.clarku.edu

on a similar note , has anyone found out a way to do this with ms foxpro for
windows \? my setup.ini file was modified on disk 1 (all encrypted).. well ,
of course i forgot about microsoft 's stupid arrangement when i got the
software , and used my name (it was paid for by the company i'm doing
consulting for. when my job is done , it 's their software).. any ideas before
i start doing dumb things to a copy of that file \? \?

mattias
ps no i do n't want to pirate this software. i just want to avoid having
to buy a new copy in order to change the registration information and then
having a copy lying around i do n't use...

maybe i can get a new disk 1...

mattias hembruch
my views do not necessarily reflect those of the tse.
e mail mhembruc@tse.com

from cheong@solomon.technet.sg (scstech admin)
subject please refresh on internet access to compuserve
nntp posting host solomon.technet.sg
organization technet , singapore
lines 15

hi ,

sometime ago there are some discussions on gaining compuserve access thru
the internet. but i seem to misplace those articles. can someone please
refresh me where (which site) i can telnet to to gain access.

hopefully i can download files as well.


thanks ,


arthur lim
email arthur@mailhost.scs.com.sg


from dpiaseck@jarthur.claremont.edu (derek a. piasecki)
subject ami pro 3.0 and pctools compress \? ! \? does n't like being moved \?
keywords ami pro 3.0 pctools compress
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 24



has anyone had problems with ami pro 3.0 after running pctools (v7.1)
compress \? i have not corrupted data due to having caches other than
pc cache running , so that is not it. the first time i try to run ami
pro after loading windows , it loads , but causes (i think it was a)
segmentation fault in amipro.exe right before it finishes , with all times
after that only managing to get to the logo box that first pops up when
it begins loading , and then causes a general protection fault in module
amiproui.dll at 0002 1147. i have not been able to fix this problem except
by reinstalling ami pro. this has happened twice , with both times being
after having ran compress on my hard drive. btw , i am not running stacker
or any other disk compression programs , and if you do n't already know ,
pctools compress is actually a defragger , despite it 's name. my system is
a 386 40mhz , with 16mb of ram and a nec (oem) hard drive , etc , but that
should n't make a difference.

please email me as i ca n't keep up with the newsgroup , and it will cut down
on net traffic anyways. thanks.

derek

dpiaseck@jarthur.claremont.edu


from spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de (richard spitz)
subject re windows for workgroups and lan workplace
reply to spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de (richard spitz)
organization inst. f. anaesthesiologie der lmu , muenchen (germany)
distribution comp.os.ms windows.apps , comp.os.ms windows.misc , comp.os.ms , world
lines 30

flint.waters@uwyo.edu (flint waters) writes


now does anyone know if it is possible to use w4wg and lan workplace
for dos at the same time.

yup. we 're using both and they work just fine. hopefully , someday wfwg
will communicate over lwp tcpip. right now we have to load netbeui.

i use odi with odinsup and all works well.

hey , sounds great. does that mean that w4wg works with odi \? i thought it
uses ndis.

my problem is that lan workplace with all its drivers uses up most of my
umbs , so i 'd hate to have to load many more drivers to make w4wg work
along.

i read in a german computer magazine that tcp ip support for w4wg is just
around the corner. anybody have any news about this \?

regards , richard



dr. richard spitz internet spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de
edv gruppe anaesthesie tel 49 89 7095 3421
klinikum grosshadern fax 49 89 7095 8886
munich , germany


subject re winbench 3.11 help graphics comparison \? ! \?
from franklig@helium.gas.uug.arizona.edu (gregory c franklin )
organization university of arizona , tucson
lines 32

in article 1pqd9hinnbmi@zephyr.grace.cri.nz srg3sir@grv.grace.cri.nz writes


in article c4zogd.c56@news.udel.edu swyatt@bach.udel.edu (stephen l wyatt) writes
i have a question about winbench (pc labs thing) 3.11..

i have a 386 33 and a ahead b (512k) card and got these results

windows vga driver 2.44 million
ahead b (640 480 256) driver 455 , 000 winmarks
windows svga (800 600 16) driver 1.68 million winmarks...

i was thinking about upgrading to a diamond 24x card.. i read it had about
8 million winmark..

on my 386dx 33mhz 4mb ram
winbench 2.5
24x v2.02 16.7m 1 , 668 , 274
v2.03 16.7m 1 , 668 , 985
v2.03 16 4 , 602 , 428
v2.03 256 7 , 635 , 278

be very careful with these results ! as i recall , numbers from winbench
2.5 are calculated differently from 3.1 , and so these figures are not
comparable.

however , to answer stephen 's question , replacing the ahead b card with
a diamond 24x will yield a cost effective , dramatic speed increase for
windows. that or the ati graphics ultra plus....

greg franklin
franklig@gas.uug.arizona.edu

from adriene nazaretian@qm.yale.edu (adriene nazaretian)
subject re win nt
nntp posting host gorgon.cis.yale.edu
organization yale university new haven , connecticut usa
lines 22

in article 1pq66v kkt@gazette.bcm.tmc.edu , raymaker@bcm.tmc.edu (mark raymaker) says

is anyone aware of existing ipx netx software for windowsnt or
is attachment to netware a future release \?
please respond to internet mail raymaker@bcm.tmc.edu
thanks


i believe the beta version of the service is available via ftp on
ftp.cica.indiana.edu
in pub pc win3 nt called something like nwnt.zip

there is an index ascii file there , which lists the programs in that directory
and what they do.

unfortunately this beta will also disable netbeui and tcp ip over your
primary nic , so if you really want to run it , get yourself an extra nic and
bind it to that.

otherwise wait for next release , like i am.

adriene

from ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 30

in article 2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com reimert@.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert) writes

somewhere in this thread , it has been said that windows nt (tm) is a
multi user os , as well as multi threading , etc. i certainly have n't
seen this to be the case. there are seperate accounts for each person ,
and even seperate directories if that is desired. i do n't see an
implentation of simultaneuos use though.

since running any gui over a network is going to slow it down by a
fair amount , i expect windows nt will be multiuser only in the sense
of sharing filesystems. someone will likely write a telnetd for it so
one could run character based apps , but graphics based apps will have
to be shared by running the executables on the local cpu. this is how
things are shaping up everywhere client server architectures are
taking over from the old cpu terminal setups.

note that the next does this you can always telnet into a next and
run character based apps but you ca n't run the gui. (yeah , i know
about x windows , just have n't been too impressed by it...)..








iskandar taib the only thing worse than peach ala
internet ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu frog is frog ala peach
bitnet ntaib@iubacs !

from joel@jach.hawaii.edu (joel aycock)
subject re page setup in notepad
in reply to krh@cbnewsh.cb.att.com 's message of tue , 13 apr 1993 20 05 08 gmt
organization uk infrared telescope , joint astronomy centre , hawaii
x news reader vms news 1.20
lines 22

in 1993apr13.200508.5167@cbnewsh.cb.att.com krh@cbnewsh.cb.att.com writes
i often use notepad to view and print read.me type files. i often find
myself rushing to get to print manager to stop the printer and delete
the file from the print queue because i 've forgotten to reset the print
margins from .75 inches (left and right) to 0 inches. the resulting printed
text looks all chopped up because of the hard returns in the source file.

...

i struggled with the margin problem for ages as well , until i
finally got hold of the shareware binary editor beav133 , and dug into
notepad.exe (there is no setup facility to force notepad to default to
0.0 margins it 's hardwired into code ! ! ! ).

do a search for .75 , then change the offending bytes to .00 ,
et viola. who are the guys who hardcode these options anyway \?

i'm interested in whether the problem only rears it 's ugly head for
certain printers i'm using an old epson lx 800 (or is that ex 800 \? never can
remember).

aloha.

from cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu (steve w brewer)
subject how do i make ghostscript work \?
lines 12
nntp posting host ulkyvx.louisville.edu
organization university of louisville

what files do i need to download for ghostscript 2.5.2 \? i have never used
ghostscript before , so i do n't have any files for it. what i do have is
gs252win.zip , which i downloaded from cica. unfortunately , it does n't seem to
work on it 's own , but needs some more files that i do n't have. i want to run
ghostscript both in windows 3.1 and in ms dos on a 386 pc (i understand there 's
versions for both environments). what are all the files i need to download and
where can i get them \? any info would be appeciated.


steve w brewer rewerb w evets
cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu ude.ellivsiuol.xvyklu@504832lc


subject dos 6.)
from darren.lavallee@cld9.sccsi.com (darren lavallee)
distribution world
organization c 9 comm. (cloudnine bbs) 713 855 4382
lines 11

@eid b486 85210000
i have a 120 mb hard drive. what should i set the compression ratio at
using dos's double disk \? do i have to format erase everything to double
the full 120 mb to 240 \? can i just make a mirror of my hard drive \? thanx
4 the help !

darren lavallee


wm v2.08 92 0279
origin 705 256 csrn 35 , 000 files , 6 lines , internet usenet , 1(1 222

from clintp@world.std.com (clinton a pierce)
subject need help setting pif for games
summary ca n't seem to get the settings right for a few things
keywords windows pif
organization versyss incorporated , westwood ma
lines 29

hi there ! i have a few games that i 'd like to run under windows 3.1 and ca n't
get the pifs adjusted right. for example wing commander. in my dos prompt , i
have more than 620k available for programs. this is enough to run wc.
so i build a pif giving wc a couple of megs of extended memory etc.. and run
it. wc prompts loading wing commander... and then a message about
using extended memory... etc... and then my screen goes black (just before
the opening scene the orchestra would have appeared.)

i also have a pool game that does almost the same thing. it opens up and
prompts me for what kind of video driver i have. (cga , ega , etc...) i
respond ega and the screen goes black.

on both of these a ctrl alt del getss me back to windows.

has anyone run wing commander under windows \? or has had the problems i
describe and fixed them \? here 's the rest of my setup

400mb disk free
8mb memory 5 free during win session
386dx 25

respond here or on e mail. if anyone else needs this info , send me mail in
a couple of days , and i 'll forward the replies to you.



clinton a. pierce cartesian bear polar bear after coordinate transform
clintp@world.std.com


from rudim@cs.kuleuven.ac.be (rudi maelbrancke)
subject emm386.exe and windows and dos6
nntp posting host piaget.cs.kuleuven.ac.be
organization dept. computerwetenschappen
lines 17

in windows i created a permanent swap file of 7771kb as win3.1
recommended me to do that (32bit access).
if i use emm386.exe , after win3.1 startup i have 6689k of memory
free , if i leave emm386.exe out of my config.sys i have 9935k
of memory free , and windows recommends me a swap file of 11769k.

i use dos6 , with memmaker , have 4mb of internal memory and a 486dx ,

does anybody knows why this is happening (possibly win needs
some umb 's to manage virtual memory \? , if true , which umb 's , those
that emm386 can find without including suspicious parts \? )

i need an optimized dos environment , because i develop applications for
dos using a windows programming environment.


rudi

from jr0930@eve.albany.edu (diamond)
subject simple windows question
organization state university of new york at albany
lines 15

ok , here 's a nice easy question for all you out there.

when running dos 5.0 under windows 3.0 , i lose the ability to do a
print screen.
i have no problem with this when i'm running dos not under windows.
if it 's relavant , i'm using 'quarterdeck 6.0' expanded memory manager for
my 386.
please e mail any responses , since i do n't get to read the news too often.
thanks in advance.



jr0930@eve.albany.edu
jr0930@albnyvms.bitnet
go heavy or go home

subject fortran library for ms windows
from traversmorgan@swell.actrix.gen.nz (guan lye chua)
organization actrix information exchange
lines 13


hi ! i will like to know if there is a fortran library for ms windows v3 out
there.

i have several lots of source code written by past a ps in ms fortran , and
recently have needed to port them to ms windows... i would like to avoid a
major code rewrite if possible maybe a windows library is all i need \?

please help reply by e mail to traversmorgan@swell.actrix.gen.nz

guan lye chua
c travers morgan (nz) ltd , p o box 11 525 , wellington , nz.
tel. 64 4 471 0303 fax. 64 4 471 0353

subject re need longer filenames
from maystonr@grace.cri.nz (richard mayston)
distribution world
organization industrial research ltd. , new zealand.
nntp posting host rmayston.grace.cri.nz
lines 10



in article 765461d518325t9@infoserv.com hfeldman@infoserv.com (howard mitchell feldman) writes
in 1993apr19.211044.28763@guinness.idbsu.edu , lhighley@gozer.idbsu.edu (larry paul highley) wrote


is there a utility out there that will let me use filenames longer than
the standard 8.3 format.

yep , it 's called os2 !

from cui@maccs.mcmaster.ca (jun cui)
subject how to hold the control to a window object \?
keywords objectwindows , ms windows , sdk
nntp posting host maccs.dcss.mcmaster.ca
organization department of computer science , mcmaster university
distribution comp.os.ms windows.misc comp.windows.ms
lines 30

i'm using bc 's objectwindows (version 3.1) and trying to get some data
processed in a window object. however , when the calling program invokes
the window object , it gives up the control to the window object , and keeps
executing the next statement. i would like the calling program , after
invoking the window object , to wait until the window object is closed.
can i do that \? my program may look like

class mywindow public twindow

...


void mycallingprog(...) could the calling program be a c function \?
...
mywindow mywinobj
mywinobj new mywindow(...)
getapplication() makewindow(mywinobj)
mywinobj show(sw shownormal)

next statement i want the program to wait here until mywinobj
... is closed so that i can get some data back from
... mywinobj. i specified the window style to be
... ws popupwindow , did n't help. is there any other way
... to execute the window object so that the calling
... program wo n't give up the control \? any help would
be appreciated. thanks. jun
to talk to the lord with ps 2 through ms windows




from taybh@hpsgm2.sgp.hp.com (beng hang tay)
subject re cirrus logic 5426 graph card
organization hp singapore notes server
lines 17

in comp.os.ms windows.misc , gardner a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz (andy gardner) writes

in article 1qms3c 37t@news.cs.tu berlin.de , wong@cs.tu berlin.de (wolfgang jung) writes

version 1.3 drivers are due to be release by cirrus soon.
unfortunately , their not available via ftp , you have to dial
up their bbs in the usa. i do this from nz using a 14.4k modem
to cut down on phone bills. it took me around 7 minutes to
download the v1.2 driver.

could you please upload to any of the ftp sites (such as
ftp.ciaca.indiana.edu) and announce it here \? this will benefit
people does not have access to their bbs in usa (like me )) \?

thanks a lot.

beng hang tay

from farley@access.digex.com (charles u. farley)
subject where to get ati card video drivers fonts \?
organization express access online communications usa 800 546 2010
lines 8
distribution usa
nntp posting host access.digex.net
summary where to get ati card video drivers fonts \?
keywords ati , windows

does anyone know where i can ftp or somehow else acquire the latest
video drivers fonts for an ati svga adapter \? the only floppy i have
is for windows 3.0. does anyone know if ati is still in business \?

thanks !

farley@access.digex.com charles u. farley
average iq of calgary board of ed. employee 65

from thomas@datamark.co.nz (thomas beagle)
subject re winqvtnet with ndis on token ring \?
organization datamark international ltd.
lines 14

in article 1993apr21.082152@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder) writes
is it possible to use winqvt net on a machine that uses ndis to connect to a
token ring \? i tried it with older versions ( 3.2) but got an invalid packet
class error or something the like...

how are you attempting to do that \?

are you using the dis pkt9 program \? this provides a packet driver on
top of the ndis driver.


thomas beagle thomas@datamark.co.nz work 64 4 233 8186 o
technical writer thomas@cavebbs.welly.gen.nz home 64 4 499 3832 ,
wellington , nz hound for hire. will work for dog biscuits. ( ) ( )

from ytkim@ucsvax.ucs.umass.edu (yong t kim)
subject winnls.dll \?
organization university of massachusetts amherst
lines 7
distribution world
nntp posting host deimos.ucs.umass.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24


i tried to install a foreign language windows application
that required a file named winnls.dll. i checked all of my
windows 3.1 installation disks for this file , but could not
find it. does anybody have any idea what this file is for and
where one could get it from \?


from dshanks@nyx.cs.du.edu (david shanks)
subject re quicken 6 vs. tobias' managing your money
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
keywords quicken tobias
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 89

in article 1993apr20.040449.19649@twg.com q@twg.com (michael wiesenberg) writes
anyway , is anyone aware of a comparitive study of the two programs \?
or can someone just give me their own personal impressions \? maybe

pc magazine , january 12 , 1993 had a review of several personal finance
management programe , as did pc computing , january 1993. pc world ,
december 1992 also had articles about quicken and managing your money.
i can email you copies of these articles if you ca n't find them at your
library.

i 've been using managing your money for several years , and i have
several friends who use quicken , though i 've not used it myself. my
overall impression is that quicken is a financial accounts manager
while managing your money will help you more completely manage your
finances.

here are some features that i believe managing your money and quicken share

the ability to keep records for each of your financial accounts
checking , savings , charge , cash , or brokerage. you can reconcile
your account statements with the records the program keeps.

the ability to make a budget and track your spending against that
budget.

a checkfree module which will allow you to use the checkfree bill
paying service to pay your bills via your modem.

the ability to print checks on your printer.

the ability to keep loan records and set up automatic loan payments.

the ability to import stock quotations to keep your brokerage accounts
up to date. i know managing your money can do this automatically
via modem. quicken probably can as well , but i'm not sure about it.

the ability to export tax information to popular tax preparation
programs.


here are some features that i believe managing your money has that
quicken does not

a tax prediction module. this looks at your accounts and budget to
predict your tax liability for the coming year. it 's usefull to fine
tune your withholding so uncle sam does n't get his due too early.

an insurance and vital records module. this is a place to keep
records of your insurance policies as well as other vital records.
it can also compute your life expectancy.

a financial analysis module. this computes compound interest ,
effects of inflation , loan payments term or interest , yield to
maturity for bonds , savings account yields , days between dates , and
loan amortization schedules. it also has functions to help you
decide whether to refinance your mortgage , whether you can afford
a particular home , whether a particular rental property is a good
investment , whether you should buy lease or rent , and whether
a particular investment 's cash flow is adequate for your situation.
this module can also help you plan for retirement and for helping
your kids with their tuition.

a net worth module. this is a place to record all your assets
and liabilities. your net worth can be computed from this
information. any assets or liabilities recorded in other modules
are automatically included here.

a desk module. this includes a small word processor , a card file
you can use to store names , addresses , phone numbers and other vital
information about friends and associates , a perpetual calander , a
rudimentary calculator , a to do list , a reminder list , an appointment
list , and a place to record your phone calls (for those who need to
track such things). your appointments , reminders and to do list
can be made to display automatically when you start the program.

there are probably some things listed above that quicken has , but i'm almost
sure that quicken does n't do everything i 've listed. if i'm wrong , i'm sure
hordes of quicken devotees will flame me to a crisp.

one thing that quicken has that managing your money does not yet have is a
windows version. meca software is rumored to be working on a windows version
of managing your money for release late this year.

i hope this information is of use to you. i 've found managing your money to
be a very usefull program for keeping my financial records. on the other hand
i know many people who are equally as happy with quicken. if quicken has all
the features you need or want , i 'd go with it. if you find any of the managing
your money features that quicken does n't have to be useful , i think it 's well
worth the price.

from dave@angmar.llnl.gov (dave fuess)
subject winqvt net v3.4 \?
article i.d. lorien.354
distribution usa
organization uc llnl
lines 11
nntp posting host angmar.llnl.gov

an earlier article in this newsgroup made reference to
winqvt net version 3.4. realy \? where \? i tried archie
with no luck. it 's probably just a typo.
but i sure would like to get one if it 's real as i too
have a printer problem in winqvt.


david a. fuess
dir , center for eecs
phone (510)423 2436
fax (510)422 9343

subject cornerstone dualpage driver wanted
from tkelder@ebc.ee (tonis kelder)
nntp posting host kask.ebc.ee
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 lines 13
lines 13




i am looking for a window 3.1 driver for
cornerstone dualpage (cornerstone technology , inc)
video card. does anybody know , that has these \? is there one \?

thanks for any info ,

to nis

to nis kelder estonian biocentre (tkelder@kask.ebc.ee)


organization penn state university
from azmi hashim axh113@psuvm.psu.edu
subject re trident vga drivers
lines 12

in article c5y66r.fgp@cs.mcgill.ca , bjcon@cs.mcgill.ca (brendan newman) says

hi , i have a trident tvga 8900 video card and need the updated
drivers for win3.1 where can i get them from an ftp site.


i have the same card , tvga 8900c. when i checked , the latest driver for
windows 3.1 is dated aug. 92 in garbo.uwasa.fi in win31 drivers video.
if you find a better version (updated) please let me know , thanks.


azmi axh113@psuvm.psu.edu

from bkph@kauai.ai.mit.edu (berthold k.p. horn)
subject re atm
article i.d. life.1r6m6hinng6b
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 29
nntp posting host kauai.ai.mit.edu
in reply to downs@helios.nevada.edu 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 20 20 28 gmt


in article downs.220.735423628@helios.nevada.edu downs@helios.nevada.edu (lamont downs) writes

so good that there is n't any diff whether or not atmanager is turned
on or not. is it worth it to run atm at all \? especially with these
better printer technologies ... and tt \?

there are some fonts that are only available as ps fonts. if you
have a ps font that you want to use , use atm. otherwise , it is
a waste of system resources.


or , if you need to use a service bureau and they 're only set up to use
type 1 fonts. from what i 've heard (pure hearsay) the results of outputting
tt fonts as type 1 is not as good as using high quality type 1 fonts in
the first place.

unless you `print' to file with the correct resolution set for the
final output device (image setter). a problem with tt fonts in windows
is that they do get converted to t1 format ok , and the hinting is even used
while this is done , but the resulting t1 fonts are not hinted. the result
is that they will work fine on a device of the resolution assumed by the
printer driver when the ps file is generated , but they will not look
good when printed at a different resolution.

so when you print to an attached ps printer , with the ps driver set up for
this printer results , may be quite good. but if you take a ps file made for
that printer and run it on a device of different resolution (such as an
image setter) , then the results may not be so good.

from hamish@cloud.apana.org.au (hamish moffatt)
subject re mouse on com3 om3 or com4 in windows
organization cloud nine bbs , melbourne , australia.
lines 53

jpaparel@cs.ulowell.edu (joseph paparella) writes

i am having a problem configuring the mouse in windows to use com3
with irq5.

i do n't believe irq5 is the problem. i tried a mouse on com3 , irq4 (the
usual place) and it still did not like it. simply , windows seems to only
support mice on com1 or com2. the funny part is , though , that
microsoft 's own mouse driver (8.xx) was quite happy with my mouse
sitting on com3. why ca n't windows use the mouse driver , or at least
support com3 \? )

com2irq 3
com3irq 5
com4irq 7
maxcomport 4

i 've tried this too. actually , i wanted to be able to use my second
modem (com3 irq5) from windows. it still will not talk to that modem. i
created two profiles , amstrad (for my amstrad modem on com1 irq4) and
maestro (for my maestro on com3 irq5). it will not talk to the maestro
at all.

(1 , 5106830617) that their driver does not support com3 and com4 in windows.
their suggestion was that the 'microsoft or ps 2' setting in windows
setup would work. it does not.

nor here. (windows 3.0).

i can not believe that it is not possible. at worst , you would need a special
version of 'a' mouse driver that looked at com3 and com4 instead of com1
and com2. i know that irq5 and irq7 are normally printer port irqs , but i

i 've seen nothing like that. i 've experimented with logitech 's mouse
driver too , with no sucess.

have no printers attached. a side note is that i would really like to assign
com4 to some higher irq , because my soundblaster board uses irq7 (right now ,
i'm not using com4) , but no modem that i know of allows settings other than
irqs 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 7.

if you have a soundblaster pro , it should support irq10 as well.
finally , a board that supports irqs 9. the only one i have (except my
ide controller).

hamish


hamish moffatt , hamish@cloud.apana.org.au apana the australian public
cloud nine bbs , 3 635 552@fidonet access network association.
melbourne australia 58 4100 43@intlnet mail info@apana.org.au
titanic software. voice 61 3 803 1326 for information.


from srowe@fulcrum.co.uk (simon rowe)
subject re exit codes (dos sorry for wrong group (
organization fulcrum communications
lines 13

internal dos commands (certainly 3.3 and before) do not set the exit
code. this is a royal pain if you want to do anything which checks for
successful deletions etc. the best suggestion is to use 4dos which
does return you exit codes. it also has move command ,

simon.


simon rowe , srowe@fulcrum.co.uk
fulcrum communications ltd ,
birmingham , condition brain overload raised at
england. 5412(0) 12234


from oecjtb@oec4.orbital.dialix.oz.au (john bongiovanni)
subject summary borland microsoft database c libraries
organization orbital engine company
lines 384

well , i'm amazed at how successful this exercise was. i received 20
responses and 4 requests for summary. thanks to everyone who made it
possible.

on my own i was able to find out about codebase , accsys , and q e. codebase
and accsys are c libraries without sql. q e is a windows application
that can be communicated through windows dde calls , where you send a sql
string and receive the results.

most people wrote to tell me about the paradox engine from borland. other
products mentioned were microsoft 's odbc , accsys , quadbase , codebase ,
rbase , and q e. only odbc , quadbase , rbase , and q e have sql.

for myself , i decided on codebase , mostly because it has an ansi c
portability version that runs under dos , unix , etc , and includes the
source code , and portability is important in my application. it works
with dbase , foxpro , or clipper files.

however , i feel that microsoft 's odbc looks very promising.
it 's mostly a formalisation of building and submitting sql queries , and
formatting query results. as the responses say , it 's available via ftp ,
except it 's effectively unusuable without two manuals
the odbc programmer 's reference and the odbc sdk guide . moreover ,
odbc does n't actually interpret sql and liase with databases , that 's
up to drivers that should be provided by database manufacturers. also ,
it 's windows only (it 's actually an extension to the windows sdk).
nevertheless , it 's a start at a sql interface standard , and should
make life interesting in the future.

here 's my original post , followed by the responses , separated by
a line of asterisks ( ).

does anyone know if borland or microsoft have libraries for accessing
their respective databases (paradox , foxpro) from within c programs \?
i 'd really like to be able to build a sql query string and pass it
to a function which returns the query results in some format. failing
that , any other access would still be better than nothing.

i 'd also like to hear of third party libraries for doing the same thing.

if other people are interested , i 'll prepare a summary of what i'm
told and post it.

thanks to all.



borland has a product called paradox engine that does just what you want.
the current version is 3.0 , which is fully compatible with (ack) paradox
4.0. (why the versions are different , i do n't know. pd engine 2.0 was
compatible with pdox 3.0 and 3.5...). it consists of a rather broad
library of functions for accesing database files from both pascal (i think
turbo pascal 5.5 and up) and c (i think either microsoft or borland).

now.. reading the box... it 's borland paradox engine database
frameworks . works with any borland c c , mocrosoft c 6.01 or later ,
turbo c for windows , turbo pascal 6.0 or later , tp for windows 1.0 or
later. for framework applications , bc 3.0 or later or ms c c 7.0. it
does have support for object useage...

i have n't had a real chance to really use it myself... but it looks fairly
complete... i'm planning to use it this summer.
rick


rick osterberg osterber@husc.harvard.edu 617 493 7784 617 493 3892
2032 harvard yard mail center cambridge , ma 02138 7510 usa




borland has a product which is called paradox engine.
i do not know about ms.

the paradox engine i know very well , and it definitiely
not a replacement for sql , but it will enable you to
save and restore records , has locking , et al. supposedly
the paradox for windows was impemented on top of it.




charles parker phone.(800) 669 9165
technical support (617) 498 3321
centerline software , inc. fax.(617) 868 6655

cparker@centerline.com
cyberspace
momma , do n't let yer children grow up to be cowboys ...





i know borland has a library of routines for accessing paradox from within
a c program. they recently came out with version 3.0. this works with both
borland and microsoft 's c compiler.

shailesh bhobe
(708) 979 7101
att ! psp ! smb2




ms has put their odbc sdk into the public domain it 's
big (i believe 1.8 mb) , but worth downloading over a
fast link. look at ftp.uu.net in vendor microsoft odbc sdk.

also some companies are starting to provide sql engines i
just got one for rbase , not exactly cheap at 450 , but it
allows programs in c or vbasic (under dos or windows) to talk
to data bases using sql functions in your code.

hth

walter knopf
fermilab

knopf@fnal.fnal.gov




check out the odbc toolikt from microsoft. it is available on
ftp.uu.net vendor microsoft odbc sdk. this is the way that we 've
chosen to access databases from all of our apps.
mj


ppppp sssssiiiiii specialists in ms windows and windows nt development
pp ppss ii call for information about our ooa ood tool ooaid.
ppppp ssss ii michaeljon miller mikem@apertus.com
pp ss ii proficient solutions , inc. 612 860 2181
pp sssss iiiiii 2877 holmes ave so. 5 minneapolis , mn 55408





borland sells the paradox engine which is a c language interface to
paradox , dbase , btrieve , ans asci files. they also sell database frameworks
which includes the engine plus a collection (with source) of c classes
for using the engine.


earl roethke
eroethke@ems.cdc.com




i actualy have paradox engine. it is a library of functions (large model)
for accessing the paradox 's databases. it seems to be working fine ,
but i never did try it thouroughly. it costs 200 .

hope it will help you...


from david lefebvre david@hp817.speedware.com



borland provides a database lib called paradox engine which can access
and use the database files aswell as many other things.

gary.


``````````` bell@nellads.cc.monash.edu.au `````````````````````````````````````
gary bell
department of robotics and digital technology
faculty of computing , caulfield campus , monash university , australia



paradox engine is the library for paradox .


artur babecki
artur@ii.uj.edu.pl



borland sells the paradox engine which has all the paradox calls in it.
its hardly sql though. you can do searches on key fields and on
indivual fields , but no comparison operators like , ....

so its pretty painful (in my opinion) do do anything besides simple
retrieval and inserts updates.

i'm currently using it (i have an eval copy..) and i 've linked it in to
some entry screens i 've written.

the engine library adds about 100k to the size of the program , but you can
load it as an overlay using borland 's vroom manager.

now borland claims that later versions of the engine will have sql support
but they do n't really expect it till late in the year... or even next year
they are trying to get thrid parties to help out..

if you have any other questions let me know...

mike kamlet
mike@vpnet.chi.il.us




yes , borland sells their paradox engine separately. it has c , c , and
pascal interfaces , although the underlying interface is in 'c'. well at
least for version 2.0 of the engine which i have (costed 99 at egghead).
they now have version 3.0 of the engine , and a separate c class package
for it.



michael d. kersenbrock
adc kentrox portland , oregon
michaelk@kentrox.com
uunet ! kentrox ! michaelk




i 've used accsys for paradox (new version is almost ready for paradox
4.0) to access paradox files from c. its pretty good. not sql
though. have heard of borland paradox engine or some such which is
supposed to do likewise , but not sure of what it is exactly.

hope this helps , good luck !
chris

from fernand@slinky.cs.nyu.edu (christopher fernandes)



borland sells their paradox engine (3.0) . it 's a library of functions
for accessing paradox db files. it comes with libraries for
ms c 7.0
bcc 3.1
turbo pascal (v \? \? )
and i believe it comes with turbo pascal win libraries as well.
the c libraries come in both dos and windows flavors (the win stuff
being dll 's).

when i got it , it also came with crystal reports which
is a graphical report generator. it allows you to create a generic
form and use it within a compiled program using pdox engine. i do n't
know if they still offer it or what the current price is , i paid
something like 50 60 for an upgrade from the earlier version though...

hope this helps...

david taylor

the commander it is easier to change the
internet gt2847c@prism.gatech.edu specification to fit the program
also dtaylor@cfd.gatech.edu than vice versa.
and root@cfd.gatech.edu author unknown (but very wise )





if you want to do sql from within your programs , check out quadbase. i do n't
have their address oops yes i do !
quadbase systems , inc.
790 lucerne dr 51
sunnyvale , ca 94086 (usa)

phone 408 738 6989 (voice) 408 738 6980 (fax)

ask for the sql win demo disk.

it looked good to me (i have a background in embedded sql in ingres this
looked real similar). it 's a little expensive , but if you order the demo
and then just wait they will probably send you a special offer that 'll
probably run about 500 us. good luck !

best ,
tom delosh

from delosh@emunix.emich.edu (tom delosh)




borland has the paradox engine library. it has libraries for
both c and pascal to access paradox files under dos windows.
but for paradox , i believe you 'd have buy have the sql link
since pdox itself is n't sql compliant. i 've used the engine
for over a year now and have been pretty satisfied with it.
under dos , it 's a real pig. it tacks on about 120k to the size of
your programs.

tim ma
associate programmer
university of utah
email tim@src.cppa.utah.edu



i do n't know about microsoft , but borland sells the paradox engine for c c
pascal (in one package). and if you want dbase compatible files there is a
library called codebase from sequiter software that works with c c .

from davidr@rincon.ema.rockwell.com (david j. ray)





we 're using q e database libraries to do what you describe.
it 's a set of dll 's accessed through a common api to talk to most of the
major database formats. we 're using it to build an application that
queries several databases using sql queries. all access using q e is
done using sql. the package is available through microway in melbourne. i
believe it is produced by pioneer systems in the us. we have no
association with microway or pioneer systems other than being satisfied
customers. feel free to mail me for further information.

chris
(programming for nsw national parks and wildlife service)


chris hutchinson box u302
research programmer university of new england
chris@sulaw.law.su.oz.au armidale nsw 2351
(067) 727 014




paradox engine 3.0 provides a complete set of c libraries for
accessing paradox tables. however , it seems that it supports
only borland turbo c and microsoft c. when i tried to compile
the engine 's sample applications with the waterloo watcom c c
(32 bit) compiler , it complains that the library file llibce.lib
is missing even though i am quite certain that the file is not
part of watcom c or the engine. anybody have any success with
other c compilers \?

ron.k.ng@hydro.on.ca





i'm currently developing an app. with borland 's paradox engine
for c (it also comes in pascal) , which has recently gone to version 3.0
(i.e. , px engine 3.0 is compatible with paradox 4.0 , and downward compat.
w 3.5). there are indeed c libs for fox access , but i ca n't think of the
names offhand i'm sure someone has already written you in that regard
(i think i just saw an add for a fox lib in the c users journal , which
is a good place to look for this type of package in general , by the way).
i 've been paying my dues to learn a lot of the quirks of px eng. over the
past year would n't recommend it for a complex multiuser app. but i'm
staying with it for now it 's like a bad marriage i 've got too much time
invested in learning and work arounds ! but if your interest is limited
to a simple single user interface (you want to build your own sql engine ,
i take it) , px engine will do the job easily it does n't sound like
you 'll be bumping into any of the gotchas. if you do , write me i may
be able to point you in the right direction.

from raymond@cruzio.santa cruz.ca.us (raymond)



borland has a paradox engine and database framework 3.0 which gives you
a c (and assembler \? ) api to paradox databases. this is part of boca
borland 's object component architecture. they have technical briefs
on boca , pdoxeng , and other products of theirs.

from jdm@jumbo.read.tasc.com (james d. mcnamara)
james d. mcnamara tasc
55 walkers brook drive reading , ma 01867 3238 617 942 2000x2948




john bongiovanni , systems analyst , orbital engine company , perth , australia
oecjtb@oec4.orbital.dialix.oz.au , bongo@alumni.caltech.edu
opinions expressed are my own and not those of my organisation.

from lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil (robert lipman)
subject call for presentations navy sciviz vr seminar
expires 30 apr 93 04 00 00 gmt
reply to lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil (robert lipman)
distribution usa
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 66


call for presentations

navy scientific visualization and virtual reality seminar

tuesday , june 22 , 1993

carderock division , naval surface warfare center
(formerly the david taylor research center)
bethesda , maryland

sponsor ness (navy engineering software system) is sponsoring a
one day navy scientific visualization and virtual reality seminar.
the purpose of the seminar is to present and exchange information for
navy related scientific visualization and virtual reality programs ,
research , developments , and applications.

presentations presentations are solicited on all aspects of
navy related scientific visualization and virtual reality. all
current work , works in progress , and proposed work by navy
organizations will be considered. four types of presentations are
available.

1. regular presentation 20 30 minutes in length
2. short presentation 10 minutes in length
3. video presentation a stand alone videotape (author need not
attend the seminar)
4. scientific visualization or virtual reality demonstration (byoh)

accepted presentations will not be published in any proceedings ,
however , viewgraphs and other materials will be reproduced for
seminar attendees.

abstracts authors should submit a one page abstract and or videotape to

robert lipman
naval surface warfare center , carderock division
code 2042
bethesda , maryland 20084 5000

voice (301) 227 3618 fax (301) 227 5753
e mail lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil

authors should include the type of presentation , their affiliations ,
addresses , telephone and fax numbers , and addresses. multi author
papers should designate one point of contact.

deadlines the abstact submission deadline is april 30 , 1993.
notification of acceptance will be sent by may 14 , 1993.
materials for reproduction must be received by june 1 , 1993.

for further information , contact robert lipman at the above address.

please distribute as widely as possible , thanks.




robert lipman internet lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil
david taylor model basin cdnswc or lip@ocean.dt.navy.mil
computational signatures and voicenet (301) 227 3618
structures group , code 2042 factsnet (301) 227 5753
bethesda , maryland 20084 5000 phishnet stockings@long.legs

the sixth sick shiek 's sixth sheep 's sick.


from cfdeb01@ux1.cts.eiu.edu (dixon berry)
subject mail order sales , billing , receivables program
organization eastern illinois university
lines 20


surely some one of you is familiar with what a mail order company goes
through. this company has only a few products , but thousands of clients.
i need a sales , billing , and receivables program to handle the thing ,
but i need to be able to customize it myself , own the source , etc. anyone
willing to sell me the basic stuff (in any development language) i 'll
be willing to pay about 1 , 000 to.

it has to be ready now. i need this sort of solution immediately. with more
time i 'll just develop one myself. if you can have me a prototype in
two weeks , you can make some quick cash.


dixon berry i see the light
cfdeb01@ux1.cts.eiu.edu at the end of the tunnel , now ,
eastern illinois university thanks bill clinton
booth library someone please tell me
computer resource center it 's not a train
cracker


subject roman.bmp 07 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 958


from loschen@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
subject re diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
reply to loschen@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 27

in article 1993apr16.145322.16378@nlm.nih.gov , dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes
in article 1993apr15.204845.24939@nlm.nih.gov dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes

anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256 driver \?
sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the menus) but it 's a recently
delivered gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered
if anyone else had seen this.


as a followup , this is a co worker 's machine. he has the latest 2.03 drivers.
it only happens using the 1024x768x256 driver. sometimes it takes a minute
or so for the cursor to wig out , but it eventually does in this mode. i
susect something is stepping on memory the video card wants. i excluded
a000 c7ff in the emm386 line and in system.ini the problem persisted.
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components.
it is a 66mhz dx 2 eisa bus with an ultrastore (24xx \? ) controller. ah well ,
i was hoping this was some kind of 'known problem' or somebody had seen it
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here
usually are far more in the know.

don lindbergh
dabl2@lhc.nlm.nih.gov

i have n't seen this particular problem , but another place you might
check is if your bios is doing video shadowing diamond wants that
turned off. that might cause a memory conflict as well. good
luck. hope this helps , chris loschen , brandeis u.

from j meyer@informatik.uni kl.de (joerg meyer)
subject videoblaster pc speaker
keywords video blaster speaker driver
reply to j meyer@informatik.uni kl.de (joerg meyer)
organization university of kaiserslautern (germany)
lines 28


software that comes together with the videoblaster
is designed to work together with the soundblaster
(from the same manufacturer).

since i do not own a soundblaster is there a possibility
to use the pc speaker driver to play audio files for
the videoblaster (.avi audio video interleave files) \?

i think what i should have is a device driver for
the media player that controls the pc speaker driver
instead of the soundblaster card (something like mcispkr.drv).

has anybody heard of such a driver \?
or am i on the wrong track \?

any information on this appreciated !

(please send e mail , since i do n't watch this group regularly.)


v joerg meyer
e mail j meyer@informatik.uni kl.de
o o university of kaiserslautern , germany
ooo u ooo this space for rent !




from ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
keywords printer
article i.d. byu. c
organization fine arts and communications brigham young university
lines 27
nntp posting host fac csr.byu.edu

the deskjet is slow. this is in comparison to the other printers i
mentioned. i have no idea how the bubblejet compares.

the interface between win3.1 and the printer is just dandy , i 've not
had any problems with it.

i just bought a bj 200 printer a couple of days ago. i compared it to the
sample print of an hp deskjet 500 and knew that the hp was n't for me. the
bj 200 is pretty fast and really prints with good quality. i can compare it
with the hp laserjet iiid postscript and they look almost identical (
depending on the kind of paper). i do n't have problems with the ink not
being dry , it seems to dry very fast. probably within a second. since
canon is giving a 50 rebate until the end of may , it is really a good buy.



sean eckton
computer support representative
college of fine arts and communications

d 406 hfac
brigham young university
provo , ut 84602
(801)378 3292

hfac csr@byu.edu
ecktons@ucs.byu.edu

subject re winbench 3.11 help graphics comparison \? ! \?
from srg3sir@grv.grace.cri.nz
distribution world
organization industrial research ltd. , new zealand.
nntp posting host rmayston.grace.cri.nz
lines 25



in article c4zogd.c56@news.udel.edu swyatt@bach.udel.edu (stephen l wyatt) writes
i have a question about winbench (pc labs thing) 3.11..

i have a 386 33 and a ahead b (512k) card and got these results

windows vga driver 2.44 million
ahead b (640 480 256) driver 455 , 000 winmarks
windows svga (800 600 16) driver 1.68 million winmarks...

i was thinking about upgrading to a diamond 24x card.. i read it had about
8 million winmark..

obviously this is much much greater... but is this in 256 color mode or what \?
is this a good card...street price is about 170...

on my 386dx 33mhz 4mb ram
winbench 2.5
24x v2.02 16.7m 1 , 668 , 274
v2.03 16.7m 1 , 668 , 985
v2.03 16 4 , 602 , 428
v2.03 256 7 , 635 , 278
richard mayston
maystonr@grace.cri.nz

from mitchell@nodecg.ncc.telecomwa.oz.au (clive mitchell)
subject dataproducts lzr1260 not printing correctly
organization regional network systems group , perth
lines 951


clive mitchell ph 61 9 4916384
regional network systems mitchell@telecomwa.oz.au
. . perth , western australia
v

from rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols)
subject re permanaent swap file with dos 6.0 dbldisk
summary pageovercommit factor
organization at t
lines 50

in article 93059@hydra.gatech.edu gt4356c@prism.gatech.edu (james dean barwick) writes
...
more on permenent swap files...

i'm sure everyone who has an uncompressed part of their compressed hard disk
has seen the message you have selected a swap file greater than the suggested
size...windows will only use the size suggested...do you wa n't to create this
swap file anyway or something like that.

well , a friend of mine (robert) called microsoft and asked them what and why.
what they said is that windows checks the amount of free disk space and
divides that number by 2. then it checks for the largest contiguous block
of free disk space. windows then suggests the smaller of the two numbers.

they also said that under absolutely no circumstances...none ! ...will windows
uses a swap file larger than the suggested size. well...that 's what he
said !

i call bull@ . if this is true why does windows report the memory is
available to me if it 's not going to use it \?

i think the support droid was malfunctioning and confused the disk space
limit with the virtual address space limit. as far as the disk is
concerned , you are limited only by the amount of contiguous free space.
the limit that causes the message , windows will only use ... , is the
amount of virtual address space that the virtual memory manager will
create , and this is a function of the amount of free memory that you have
when windows starts.

in the 386enh section of system.ini , you can specify a parameter

pageovercommit multiplier

the following description is from the windows resource kit

this entry specifies the multiplier what determines the amount of
linear address space the vmm will create for the system , which is
computed by rounding up the amount of available physical memory to
the nearest 4 mb and then multiplying that value by the value
specified for pageovercommit . increasing this value increases the
amount of available linear address space , causing the size of data
structures to increase. this also increases paging activity
proportionately and can slow down the system. you can specify a
value between 1 and 20. the default is 4. to change this entry ,
you must edit system.ini.


bob nichols
at t bell laboratories
rnichols@ihlpm.ih.att.com

from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject re help with changing startup logo
reply to ebosco@us.oracle.com
distribution usa
organization oracle corp. , redwood shores ca
lines 32
nntp posting host monica.us.oracle.com
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.

in article 1rgtba gtn@access.digex.net farley@access.digex.com (charles
u. farley) writes

i know this is probably a faq , but...

i installed the s w for my ati graphics card , and it bashed my windows
logo files. when i start windows now , it has the 3.0 logo instead of
the 3.1 logo.

i thought the files that controlled this were

windows system vgalogo.rle
windows system vgalogo.lgo

i restored these files , but it did n't change the logo. anyone know what
the correct files are \?

thanks.


somewhere (ftp.cica.indiana.edu or simtel20 mirror) there is a program
called winlogo.zip that does the trick. it works great. i believe the
reason why you ca n't change the files you mentioned is that the logo is
actually imbeded into the windows executable (somebody please
correct expand on this)

eric



farley@access.digex.com charles u. farley
average iq of calgary board of ed. employee 65

from leo@cae.wisc.edu (leo lim)
subject dos6 doublespace stacker 3.0 , is it okay \?
article i.d. doug.1993apr6.133257.14570
organization college of engineering , univ. of wisconsin madison
lines 7

just as the title suggest , is it okay to do that \?
i havne't got dos6 yet , but i heart doublespace is less tight than stacker 3.0.
what are disadvantage advantages by doing that \?

any comments will be appreciated.

martin

subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
from stephen.gibson@sonoma.edu stephen gibson
distribution world
organization sonoma state university
nntp posting host computer ctr.sonoma.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d1
lines 32



in article 1993apr20.220556.19652@news.uit.no svein pedersen ,
sp@odin.fna.no writes
sorry , i did`nt tell exactly what i need.

i need a utility for automatic updating (deleting , adding , changing) of
.ini
files for windows.
the program should run from dos batchfile or the program run a script
under windows.

i will use the utility for updating the win.ini (and other files) on
meny pc`s.

do i find it on any ftp host \?

svein


if you are managing pc 's on a novell network , get the network management
tools provided by either sabre software or automated design systems.
among the many features , you 'll find utilities that can help you to
manage .ini files stored on users' workstations or home directories.
this is commercial software and well worth the money. to date , i have
not found anything available via ftp that could compare. reply to the
address in my .sig for more info.

stephen gibson , system support specialist
sonoma state university
email gibsonst@sonoma.edu
stephen.gibson@sonoma.edu

from branham@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
subject windows locks up with green lines down the screen
reply to branham@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 18

hi , i am using a dtk 386 20mhz 13meg memory to run a variety of
programs , and have had problems off and on with lock up ,
but now i am trying to run an application that wants a lot of memory
over a period of time (playmation 24 bit rendered) and it is
locking up everytime. i have an ati ultra w 2meg which i have
tried in each of the video modes , i have excluded the region of
video memory from a000 c800 segments from the use of emm386 ,
have tried adjusting the swap partion from large to nonexistant (to
prevent swapping) and i have rem 'd all tsr 's and utilities in config.syus
and autoexec , and even tried using the default program manager , disabling
my hp dashboard. even with a minimal system , no swap , no smartdrv ,
no tsr 's , no windows utilities and exclusion of video regions it still
locks up completely (no mouse control , no response to anything except
3finger salute , and even that does not stop by the standard windows
screen , but simply does a full reset immediately). just about out
of ideas , anyone out there have any \? \? \? \? thanks
tom branham
branham@binah.cc.brandeis.edu

from goudswaa@fraser.sfu.ca (peter goudswaard)
subject re more diamond ss 24x
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 23

dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina) writes

has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.
i had a ati ultra but was getting genral protection fault errors
in an spss application. these card manufactures must have terrible
quality control to let products on the market with so many bugs.
what a hassle. running on gateway 2000 dx2 50.
thx dave l

might the problem not be with the video monitor instead \? many of our
monitors , as they age , develop shadows on white and bright colors.


peter goudswaard
goudswaa@sfu.ca (preferred)
pgoudswa@cln.etc.bc.ca
pgoudswa@cue.bc.ca

there 's no gift like the present
goudswaard 's observation

from pcarmack@gimp.kpc.com (phil carmack)
subject re ati ultra pro drivers \? bad ati ultra
organization kubota pacific computer
lines 39

in article 15apr199321275870@cvdv99.mayo.edu , fisk@cvdv99.mayo.edu (tom fisk 2d 337 stm 5 4341) writes
in article c5jldc.hl9@news.cso.uiuc.edu , jroberts@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (robertson) writes...
does anybody know the ftp site with the latest windows drivers for the ati
gup \?
thanks

the latest driver release is 59 and can be found at ftp.cica.indiana.edu
in the pub pc win3 ... directory structure as pro59.zip. i checked with ati 's
bbs last nite and there were no releases past 59.

we have the ati local bus card and i noticed that i get garbage around the
edges of a window when i move it. has anybody else noticed this also \?
i have the local bus card also , and do n't have any such problems with it
now , but this is the second card i 've gotten the first card did n't work
in vga mode correctly. maybe they still have some quality control problems.
i would suggest checking with ati (i went through the vendor i bought the
card from since the problem showed up immediately). i never was able to
get through to ati 's technical support number.

i sure like the way the card performs though. i have the 2mb ati ultra
pro local bus , and it is fast even in 1024x768x16bpp mode.


cheers ,
phil

tom.

thomas b. fisk internet fisk@mayo.edu
mayo clinic if you do n't know where voice (507) 255 4341
200 first street sw you 're going you 'll never fax (507) 255 5484
mail stop 2d 337 stm get there.
rochester , mn 55905




philip carmack pcarmack@kpc.com (408)987 3336
kubota pacific computers , inc.

from mpalmer@encore.com (mike palmer)
subject re windows on a ramdrive \? \? \? help...
organization encore computer corporation
nntp posting host sysgem1.encore.com
lines 31

f langleyrh@ccsvax.sfasu.edu writes


... stuff del 'd for bandwidth 's sake.

why \? sigh if you do n't have more than 16mbs of memory using a ramdrive
with windows is a waste of memory. windows will access upto 16mb ram better
as memory. as to why what you did did n't work , it is because driveletters
and paths are stored inside the group pif ini files. all of the sudden things
went from drive c to drive e ! however , if you wanted to copy an application
up to the ramdrive and re setup it up , that should work normally , but as
previously stated , this will only hurt things unless you 've got more than 16mbs
of ram and are using whats above 16 as the ramdrive.

i personally have 20mb 's of ram and run a 4mb ramdrive with a great deal of
success. however , if you are looking to speed up windows , the three things
i 've noted that work the best are
1) a graphics accellerator card
2) a co processor (even an emulator helps ! )
3) some other disk cache besides smartdrive (i 've tried several ,
and lightning for windows and norton cache give me major
headaches as well.).

i think the purpose the original poster was trying to serve is to avoid the
significant amount of disk access that windows does on startup. it 's like
it 's trying to it 's bit in wearing the damn drive out. i estimate it 's only
reading a mb of programs data , but from the performance the drive gives , it
sounds like they are scattered all over the drive (my drive is however
regularily compressed). what is it that takes so much fuss. perhaps if ms
would take the trouble to optimize this startup process , less people would
be wanting to find a solution themselves.

from bsteinke@es.com (bruce steinke)
subject re program manager two questions
nntp posting host 130.187.90.30
reply to bsteinke@es.com (bruce steinke)
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut
lines 20

in article 1993apr22.204406.20330@vpnet.chi.il.us , lisbon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gerry swetsky) writes

(1) is it possible to change the icons in the program groups \? i 'd like
to give them some individuality.

(2) can you set up a short cut key to return to the program manager \?
i know ctl esc , esc will do it , but i 'd rather set it up so i
can avoid the task list and get back to the p m with alt f1 .

i use plugin , an enhancement to program manager. it allows (1) for sure , i
do n't know on (2). anyway , give it a try. i like it a lot and registered it
right away it can be found at ftp.cica.indiana.edu 129.79.20.84 in
pub pc win3 util plugin13.zip

bruce

bruce f. steinke never know when you 're going to
bsteinke@dsd.es.com need a good piece of rope.
software technical support engineer sam gamgee
evans sutherland computer corp. my mail , my opinions

from ajacobs@nyx.cs.du.edu (andrew jacobs)
subject re using microsoft foundation classes with borland c 3.1
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci.
distribution usa
lines 7

thanks for the info. i assume that this is for mfc 1.0. does anyone
know if this will work with mfc 2.0 , or what else needs to be done \?
thanks.


andy jacobs


from jamie@zikzak.apana.org.au (jamie scuglia)
subject workspace manager for win 3.1 \?
organization zikzak public access unix , melbourne australia
lines 8
nntp posting host zikzak.apana.org.au

are there any workspace managers out there for windows 3.1 \?
by a workspace manager , i mean something like the hp apollo workstations
have multiple workspaces under x. there is a window at the bottom
of the screen which allows you to select different workspaces.
it overcomes the problem of having stacks of windows open on the one
screen. instead , you can spread them amongst different workspaces
which act like independent screens , and you can flick between them.
thanks in advance.

from dale@odetics.com (dale pischke)
subject re more diamond ss 24x
organization odetics , inc. , anaheim , ca
lines 17

in article 1993apr20.195853.16179@samba.oit.unc.edu dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina) writes
has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.

i had the exact same failure with the 24x and word for windows.
a quick call to microsoft indicated it was problem with the
24x drivers. you need to call diamond and get the new drivers ,
i think version 2.03 fixes the above problem , there may be later
versions that i'm unaware of...



dale r. pischke dale@odetics.com or uunet ! odetics ! dale
senior software engineer
odetics , gyyr division

from rmohns@vax.clarku.edu
subject re need windows logo
organization clark university
lines 46

in a previous article , dmmatt@cajun wrote
in article 1qjqed 1ft@access.digex.net , holland@access.digex.com (brian holland) writes
markus maier (s maier m@rzmain.rz.uni ulm.de) wrote
hi ,

well i'm searching for the ms windows logo , u know the picture when u
start windows , in some suitable grafics format , like gif or jpg , ...

c windows system vgalogo.rle. if my memory serves me correctly ,
.rle is a compressed .bmp format.

an is readable by wingif , paintshop pro , paint , and god knows how
many other programs.

that is n't enough to change your windows startup logo. vgalogo.rle is not
needed after you have installed windows. it is incorporated as a part of
win.com.
to make a new win.com , you have to concatinate three files together ,
using the b option for a binary concatonation. i beleive it is

copy b win.cnf vgalogo.lgo vgalogo.rle mywin.com

make sure you backup your win.com file in anotehr directory before you do this
i absent mindedly typed win.com instead of mywin.com and had to resinstall
windows !
anyway , substitute whatever .rle file you want. the win.cnf has the
info needed to start windows (think of it as a bootstrap) and vgalogo.vga has
video information. just make sure that the .rle file does n't tip the whole
com file size over the 64k limit of a .com file !
so anyway , i use mywin.com to startup ms windows. now instead of that
annoying micro oft advertisment , i have the joker (yes , from batman) taking
yoru picture from the screen , saying smile ! also a little bit of text
micro oft windows the world 's first commercially sucessful virus. i added
that because of the frequency of crashes. grin

rob


a post by
rob mohns
rmohns@
i had no water , so vax.clarku.edu
i drowned in sand.




from mrw54660@eng nxt01.cso.uiuc.edu (michael r whitchurch)
subject file manager problem
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 8

whenever i start file manager , the status bar is not displayed ,
even though it is selected in the options menu. if i deselect it ,
then select it again , the bar appears. anyone have any ideas why
this is happening \?

thanks

mike

from dkmiller@unixg.ubc.ca (derek k. miller)
subject gatewaying microsoft mail workgroups via 9600 modem \?
organization university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 25
distribution world
nntp posting host unixg.ubc.ca

our student association runs a small novell network which has a subnetwork
of windows for workgroups and microsoft mail. the director of finance , en
electrical engineering student , would like to gateway this system , either
via slip or not , into the university 's network and thus the internet , at
the very least to exchange e mail , but possibly also to do ftp 's etc. for
now , this would be done via a 9600 bps modem.

he would like to set it up so that it would periodically call in to check
mail , but would otherwise connect whenever needed.

what is the best way to do this \? gatewaying software is available , but
what works best \?

please reply to me dkmiller@unixg.ubc.ca
or the d of f dleung@ee.ubc.ca

with a cc to the other. i do n't read all of these groups regularly , so mail
is best. if this is a common question , please pot me to a faq or ftp site.

derek k. miller dkmiller@unixg.ubc.ca
researcher , alma mater society thegrodd@tz.ucs.sfu.ca
university of british columbia , canada
room 230b 6138 sub blvd. , vancouver , b.c. v6t 1z1
campus mail zone 1 phone (604) 822 6868 fax (604) 822 9019


from kasajian@netcom.com (kenneth kasajian)
subject re how can i use the mouse in non windows applications under ms windows \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 23

wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (oliver kretzschmar) writes



hey ,

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the mouse
in a non windows application , which runs in an window. we use
ms windows 3.1 and have clipper applications. exists there any
routines or something else \? please mail me your informations.

thanks for your efforts ,

oliver

name o.kretzschmar inst.ike university stuttgart
phone 49 711 685 2130 pfaffenwaldring 31
fax 49 711 685 2010 7000 stuttgart 80
email wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de

very simple. you have to have the mouse.com or mouse.sys loaded in dos
before you run windows. note that you do n't need to have these files loaded
to use the mouse in windows.

from gt4356c@prism.gatech.edu (james dean barwick)
subject re permanaent swap file with dos 6.0 dbldisk
distribution git
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 58

in comp.os.ms windows.misc you write

while reading through the dos 6.0 book , it states that the windows permanaent swap file will not work correctly when placed on a compressed drive. to make things compatable ,
i removed my permanent swap file before starting the upgrade. however , when all the dust settled , and i go into windows , it says that the temporary swap file is right where it always was , in the windows directory. my question is how come the temporary swap files works ok with a compressed drive , and the permanent one does n't \?

you might want to look in windows faq for this one , but here is my best
explanation. but i ca n't guarantee that i'm not way off base...

the permenant swap file is read written to by windows by talking
directly to the hard disk controller card. the controller card must
use the protocal set up by western digital (or something like that).
windows creates a file called spart.par in your windows directory that
points to that file. it then uses the physical information about your
disk to index to information in that file.

compressed disks are actually logical disks. these disks have different
characteristics than the actual physical disk. furthermore , the information
on the compressed disks must be uncompressed before it is used. (i.e it must
go through the decompression program that traps disk reads at the operating
system level or the bios level). because of this inbetween program , windows
cannot use direct methods to read from the logical disk.

a permenant swap file is only there to reserve an area of the disk that
windows can use and to block that space from dos. windows would theoretically
not even have to access the file from dos to use that disk space. (i do n't
know if it does or does n't...but it checks for it somewhere everytime you
boot windows.)

a temporary swap file is just a normal dos file that is accessed by windows
via dos and the bios. if a disk compression program or other tsr is loaded
the file access must go through dos...tsr's (disk compression)...and bios in
order to be access. (i.e. never use a temporary swap file...never)

more on permenent swap files...

i'm sure everyone who has an uncompressed part of their compressed hard disk
has seen the message you have selected a swap file greater than the suggested
size...windows will only use the size suggested...do you wa n't to create this
swap file anyway or something like that.

well , a friend of mine (robert) called microsoft and asked them what and why.
what they said is that windows checks the amount of free disk space and
divides that number by 2. then it checks for the largest contiguous block
of free disk space. windows then suggests the smaller of the two numbers.

they also said that under absolutely no circumstances...none ! ...will windows
uses a swap file larger than the suggested size. well...that 's what he
said !

i call bull@ . if this is true why does windows report the memory is
available to me if it 's not going to use it \?

any takers \?

james

(if this does n't get to the net , will someone post it for me \? thanks)


from huot@cray.com (tom huot)
subject re procomm plus for windows problems....
lines 24
nntp posting host pittpa.cray.com
organization cray research inc.
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

robert j. niland (rjn@teal.csn.org) wrote


much text deleted

i have heard from several people about less expensive m f i o cards
with 16550s

tsd systems
(407) 331 9130
19.95 for the card , plus 9.95 per 16550.

i can vouch for this one. i ordered it and got it for 34 including
s h. it took me awhile to figure out how to get it working with my
system , but since i did , i get terrific results while downloading
using pcplus for windows. i used to get errors if i started any other
program while downloading at high speed. not anymore.

more text deleted


tom huot
huot@cray.com


from goudswaa@fraser.sfu.ca (peter goudswaard)
subject re why is my mouse so jumpy \? (ms mouse)
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 40

ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton) writes

i have a microsoft serial mouse and am using mouse.com 8.00 (was using 8.20
i think , but switched to 8.00 to see if it was any better). vertical motion
is nice and smooth , but horizontal motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click
on something because my mouse jumps around. i can be moving the mouse to
the right with relatively uniform motion and the mouse will move smoothly
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move smoothly for a bit then jump
again (maybe this time to the left about .5 inch ! ). this is crazy ! i have
never had so much trouble with a mouse before. anyone have any solutions \?

try this flip your mouse over , and open up the cover that holds the
mouse ball in place. remove the ball , and inside you should see
(probably) 3 rollers. if any of the rollers have a tiny layer of
caked on dirt , dust , or otherwise unidentifiable scum on them , carefully
scrape it off with a small knife (xacto works great). be careful
you do not want to gauge the rollers , just clean off the dirt.
put the ball back in , put the cover on , and there you are.

i clean a couple of dozen of these every month here. another symptom
is that when you move the mouse , it seems to click along. if this
does n't solve your problem , at least you have a clean mouse. i highly
recommend using a proper soft mouse pad , and if you are a clean freak ,
place it in your drawer every night or when you do n't use it to keep
the dust off.

personally i prefer track balls. oh , which brings me to another point
if your mouse or trackball tracks optically , and the sunlight is
streaming through the window onto your mouse trackball , you may notice
that it will stop working. if this happens to you , close the curtains
or blinds , or simply shade your pointing device , and see if that helps.


peter goudswaard
goudswaa@sfu.ca (preferred)
pgoudswa@cln.etc.bc.ca
pgoudswa@cue.bc.ca

there 's no gift like the present
goudswaard 's observation

from xtifr@netcom.com (chris waters)
subject re pc geos , windows , os 2 , and unix x11
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 58

in sehari.734022369@vincent2.iastate.edu sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes



with my limited knowladge about the pc geos , i came out with following
comparison

pc geos windows os 2 unix x11


2. can run win
programs nop yap yap nop

novell is at least
demoing windows apps
running under unixware.


5. can run unix nop i have not nop yap
heard of it

try mks. mks
others , esp.
emx

note here the mks toolkit (for dos windows os 2) gives you a good
suite of standard unix utilities. there are other similar systems from
other vendors as well. the emx system for os 2 gives you most of the
standard unix system calls for recompiling your unix programs under
os 2. not quite the same thing as actually running unix programs
directly in either case , but emx makes os 2 almost as compatible with
unix systems as many unix systems are with each other. and , best of
all , emx is free. )

there is a similar system (go32) for dos , but it does n't work with
windows , as far as i know.

7. price 120 70 120 free 1000s
a good one
costs 400 700
avaliable on ext.
card too.

should add in the cost for dos with both geos and windows , neither of
which is a standalone os at this point. neither os 2 nor unix requires
dos.

btw , two of the best unices i 've seen for the pee cee are unixware ( 300
for the personal edition) and linux (free). so i do n't agree that a
good one costs 400 700. )

and , if you really want to check out the various options available to
you , you should also look into desqview and desqview x.

cheers

chris waters the insane do n't judy 's in the bedroom ,
xtifr@netcom.com need disclaimers inventing situations. d. byrne

nntp posting host 134.58.96.14
from wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder)
distribution world
organization k.u.leuven applied economic sciences department
subject re winqvtnet with ndis on token ring \?
lines 28

in article 1993apr21.210954.40516@datamark.co.nz , thomas@datamark.co.nz writes
in article 1993apr21.082152@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder) writes
is it possible to use winqvt net on a machine that uses ndis to connect to a
token ring \? i tried it with older versions ( 3.2) but got an invalid packet
class error or something the like...

how are you attempting to do that \?

are you using the dis pkt9 program \? this provides a packet driver on
top of the ndis driver.


i tried to do so , but people told me that even if i used dispkt , the packets
would still be incompatible. is this true \?



thomas beagle thomas@datamark.co.nz work 64 4 233 8186 o
technical writer thomas@cavebbs.welly.gen.nz home 64 4 499 3832 ,
wellington , nz hound for hire. will work for dog biscuits. ( ) ( )

wim van holder
katholieke universiteit leuven tel 32 (0)16 28.57.16
departement t.e.w. fax 32 (0)16 28.57.99
dekenstraat 2
b 3000 leuven e mail wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be
belgium fdbaq03@cc1.kuleuven.ac.be


from dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina)
subject re re win nt what is it \? \? \?
nntp posting host dil.adp.unc.edu
organization unc office of information technology
lines 20


i have little info on chicago so i cant make a comparison. is it in beta \? is
there anyone out there who has tested both and cares to make a comparison \?
just my 0.02

aln
chicago from what i have read is projected to run in 4m on 386 and higher.
it is definitely aimed at the desktop.
it is rumored to offer preemptive multitasking ,
multithreading but will not offer multiprocessing. is 32 bit and no reliance
on dos. it is rumored to have an integrated file and program manager.
dos 7 is rumored to be similar to chicago but without the gui. is also
a step towards cairo (the next generation os) which is rumored to be
object oriented.
i wonder where windows 4.0 fits here is it a stepping stone to chicago \?
hope this helps.
thx dave l




from bcasavan@cougar.ecn.uoknor.edu (brent casavant)
subject diamond viper
summary want information
nntp posting host cougar.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
keywords any problems \?
lines 16

hi folks ,

at the end of the summer i'm planning on getting a new computer (486dx50 or
486dx2 66) and have been poking around in computer shopper. anyway i saw
the ads for the diamond viper (local bus , 2mb memory , 50 million winmarks)
and was wondering if anyone has had any experience with it (good bad not worth
the money etc.) any information at all would be nice.

also , a few other questions. anyone know of a good cheap 15 1024x768 ni
monitor \? and what is a good cd rom drive that meets mpc standards and is
controlled via scsi \? how about a 250mb tape drive on scsi \?

thanks for your time ,
brent casavant
bcasavan@mailhost.ecn.uoknor.edu


subject roman 02 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
keywords bmp , wallpaper
lines 958

from goudswaa@fraser.sfu.ca (peter goudswaard)
subject what is regload.exe \?
keywords regload
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 15

perusing through my windows 3.1 directory , i came across a file
called regload.exe. i assume this is part of the registration
database , but neither my windows manual , win resource kit , nor
pc mag 's description of files in the windows directory had a
reference to it. at least not one that i could find. does
regedit.exe use it \? or am i way off base \?


peter goudswaard
goudswaa@sfu.ca (preferred)
pgoudswa@cln.etc.bc.ca
pgoudswa@cue.bc.ca

there 's no gift like the present
goudswaard 's observation

from gedwards@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (gordon edwards)
subject re protection fault
keywords fault
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
distribution na
lines 40

in thia.735836016@mira.sce.carleton.ca thia@sce.carleton.ca (yong thia) writes
hi ! i was wondering if anyone out there could help me.
i have an error message that goes



what does it mean \?

i am running ms windows 3.1.

ummm.. i think you left the message out...

i get these protection faults all the time on my machine at work , a
486 33mhz with 4mb ram , windows 3.1 , with dos 5.0.

at home (on a 386 40mhz , 8mb ram , windows 3.1 and dos 5.0) i never get
these.

any idea what could be wrong \? someone already suggested i check for tmp
files in the windows temp directory , there are none there.

the message i get is

this application has violated system integrity due to an invalid
general protection fault and will be terminated.

i only have this problem with applications running in dos boxes (with or
without .pif files setup for them).

any hints help greatly appreciated. please post since at least one other
person is also having gpf problems.

thanks ,
gordon



gordon edwards , n4vph nothing unreal exists
ncr engineering manufacturing
gedwards@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com kiri kin tha 's first law of metaphysics

from edmoore@vcd.hp.com (ed moore)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
organization hewlett packard vcd
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 9

thomas.d.fellrath.1@nd.edu@nd.edu wrote

the key issue that i bought my bj 200 on was ink drying speed. you really
have to try awful hard to get the bj 200 ink to smear. the hp deskjets need
10 15 seconds to completely dry. in both cases , however , do not get your
pages wet. unlike laser printers , the material on your pages is ink , not
toner. but that should go without saying.

i think the ink now used in the deskjet family is water fast.

from dewinter@prl.philips.nl (rob de winter)
subject wanted info on asymetrix toolbook
originator dewinter@prl.philips.nl
organization philips research laboratories , eindhoven , the netherlands
lines 17

does anyone know the phone and fax number of the asymetrix
corporation. i am also interested in their e mail address.

i would also like to know what the current status of their product toolbook
is. i received the last update 1.5 about 1.5 year ago. are their any new
developments or is toolbook slowly dying \?

regards ,

rob de winter.



nothing beats skiing , if you want to have real fun during holidays.
rob de winter philips research , ist it , building wl 1
p.o. box 80000 , 5600 ja eindhoven. the netherlands
tel 31 40 743621 e mail dewinter@prl.philips.nl

from paladin@world.std.com (thomas g schlatter)
subject re tidying up after removing an ole server
keywords ole , spss
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 22

in article c5y121.kz3@liverpool.ac.uk qq43@liverpool.ac.uk (chris wooff) writes
a while ago i installed spss for windows as part of an evaluation. once
the evaluation was complete i duly deleted the software from my pc.

unfortunately there is still a ghost of spss left when i run
something like write and go to embed an object then spss chart
appears on the list of objects i'm offered. i looked around all
the obvious ini files without success. the next thing i tried
was looking for the string spss chart in every file in the
windows directory. it turned up in a file called req.dat (or
reg.dat). unfortunately the file was binary and so i did n't feel
inclined to edit it.

i 'd welcome a solution for removing spss from the list of ole servers.
i think you can do this with regedit , which can make changes
to the ole registration database. from program manager (or
file manager) choose run and type regedit. you do have it
its included with windows , but not well documented.

tom
paladin@world.std.com


from al@col.hp.com (al devilbiss)
subject re winbench
article i.d. hp col.1pqp3rinng85
distribution world
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 18
nntp posting host reptile4.col.hp.com

jorge@erex.east.sun.com (jorge lach sun bos hardware) writes
is there any ftp site that carries winbench results for different graphics
cards \? in excel (xls) format \? what is the latest version of winbench and
how do they differ \? is the source available , and has anybody try to port it to
x window , at least in a way that will make comparisons possible \?

on ftp.cica.indiana.edu in pub pc win3 misc winadv.zip is a writeup by
steve gibson of infoworld with winbench 3.11 and a number of other
benchmark results for nine isa and four vlb video cards. this is a
very current upload and is likely to have any card you 're currently
giving serious consideration. not in xls format. latest version of
winbench that i know of is ver 3.11. i believe they try to maintain
the same rating scale between versions , and new versions are released
to defeat the lastest coding tricks put in by driver programmers to
beat the benchmarks. do n't know on the last one.

al devilbiss
al@col.hp.com

from msbendts@mtu.edu (bendtsen)
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
organization michigan technological university
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 37

sp@odin.fna.no (svein pedersen) writes
sorry , i did`nt tell exactly what i need.

i need a utility for automatic updating (deleting , adding , changing) of .ini files for windows.
the program should run from dos batchfile or the program run a script under windows.

i will use the utility for updating the win.ini (and other files) on meny pc`s.

do i find it on any ftp host \?

svein

well , in the latest windows magazine , there is an advertisement for a program
that will help you uninstall windows apps from your harddisk (uninstaller)
but it can be used to update a network , but only for deleting , not adding
or changing their .ini files. (uninstaller , by microhelp inc. 79
1 800 922 3383)

i am also looking for an .ini updater for my pc network , and so far without
any luck. so for the time being i have been pushing dos and it 's batch
language to its limit...look into dos 5.0 's (i am assumming that dos 6.0
has the same command , maybe even more..or less..improved) replace command.
i use this to update our users personal files with a master set in a batch
file that is run everytime they invoke windows. this basically overwrites
their color schemes , but does what i need it to do. not neat , but does
the job...i'm looking for a better solution though.

mike

just relaying what i know...a not for profit service.




mike bendtsen (msbendts @ mtu.edu)
740 elm st. apt 4 ccli senior technical consultant
hancock , mi 49930 michigan technological university

from mtrottie@emr1.emr.ca (marc trottier)
subject re ms windows access for the blind \?
lines 23
nntp posting host mtrottie.mps.emr.ca
organization mps , energy , mines resources , canada

in article 1993apr22.172514.13025@cci632.cci.com jfb@cci632.cci.com (john bruno) writes
from jfb@cci632.cci.com (john bruno)
subject ms windows access for the blind \?
date thu , 22 apr 1993 17 25 14 gmt
we are developing an ms windows based product that uses a full screen window
to display 24 rows of textual data. is there any product for microsoft windows
that will enable blind individuals to access the data efficiently (quickly) \? \?

please email responses and i will post a summary to this group.

thanks for any help
john bruno


apparently , microsoft came out with a new product ms braille it is suppose
to be wytiwig . )

no offense.


marc trottier mtrottie@emr1.emr.ca



from ralph@spss.com (ralph brendler)
subject re using microsoft foundation classes with borland c 3.1
organization spss , inc.
distribution usa
lines 53

in article 1qv1rc fcp@news.cs.tu berlin.de , make@cs.tu berlin.de (m. kerkhoff) writes
hi all ,

has anybody tried to compile ctrltest from the mfc samples directory ,
after compiling the mfc libs with bwc \?

seems to me , that bwc is n't able to distinguish pointers to overloaded
functions.
for example , imagine the following 2 (overloaded) functions
void same name ( void )
void same name ( int )

after trying the whole day , i think , with bwc its impossible to take the
adress of one of the above two functions and assign it to a properly defined
function pointer.
am i right \? has anybody else had this problem \?

thanx

i think you may be chasing the wrong problem. i do n't think it is the
function overloading at all i do that sort of thing all of the time
in bc without a hitch. the big problems i have encountered in
porting mfc to bc is that fact that mfc depends on a couple of
invalid c assumptions.

i have never gotten the entire ctrltest app to run under bc , but
the reason is that ms makes some bad assumptions about the order in
which static global objects are initialized (i.e. some objects are
getting accessed before they are initialized). the problem is in the
owner draw menu code somewhere if you comment out that section , all
other pieces of ctrltest work fine.

two other major gotchas i have found using mfc under bc

the cfile openflags enum uses hard coded numbers for the open mode ,
rather than the manifest constants defined in fcntrl.h (which differ
between msc and bc).

all of the mfc collection classes depend on another bad c
assumption that a reference to a base object can used be in place
of a reference to a derived object (true for pointers , not for
references).

i am sure there are other problems along the same lines , but i have
not encountered them (yet). i have not seen mfc 2.0 yet , but i hope
that some of these will be addressed. if they are not , all of ms 's
hype about portability to other vendor 's compilers will be just that.


if these were my employer 's opinions , i would n't be posting them.

whoever said nothing lasts forever was obviously r. brendler
not a cubs fan... mike royko spss , inc. chicago il

from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject re ms windows access for the blind \?
organization george washington university
lines 36

in article mtrottie.64.0@emr1.emr.ca mtrottie@emr1.emr.ca (marc trottier) writes
in article 1993apr22.172514.13025@cci632.cci.com jfb@cci632.cci.com (john bruno) writes
from jfb@cci632.cci.com (john bruno)
subject ms windows access for the blind \?
date thu , 22 apr 1993 17 25 14 gmt
we are developing an ms windows based product that uses a full screen window
to display 24 rows of textual data. is there any product for microsoft windows
that will enable blind individuals to access the data efficiently (quickly) \? \?

please email responses and i will post a summary to this group.

thanks for any help
john bruno


apparently , microsoft came out with a new product ms braille it is suppose
to be wytiwig . )

no offense.


marc trottier mtrottie@emr1.emr.ca




at the micro oft display at fose , there were a few computers running
windows , and win. apps for the blind , i think. did n't pay much
attention to it , but it was there.

mickey

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

from oddjob@oz.plymouth.edu (andrew c. stoffel)
subject re utility for updating win.ini and system.ini
organization plymouth state college plymouth , nh.
lines 19

in article 1993apr20.151912.18590@midway.uchicago.edu am37@midway.uchicago.edu writes

unless i am completely misunderstanding you , try using either notepad or
sysedit.exe (found in your system subdirectory) to edit you .ini files.
you can add sysedit ( regedit) to a program group... they are windows
programs.
the sysedit.exe program is cool because it automatically opens you win.ini ,
system.ini , autoexec.bat and config.sys files to be edited.

is it possible to get it to load other .ini files \? \? \? \?

drewster (am37@kimbark.uchicago.edu)




e mail un x oddjob@oz.plymouth.edu vms andys@psc.plymouth.edu
disclaimer any end user software that provides no avenue for user
of the week modification or programmability is not user friendly.

from kaul@watson.ibm.com
subject dmqs files for xga 2 (was re catseye x xga 2 ! (extra modes \? ))
news software ibm os 2 pm rn (nr 2) v0.17h by o. vishnepolsky and r. rogers
lines 557
reply to kaul@vnet.ibm.com
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host kaul.bocaraton.ibm.com
organization ibm t.j. watson research

(note the followups are set to comp.os.os2.misc. dmqs files describe
monitors and valid modes to be used by the xga 2 under both windows and
os 2.)

these files are unsupported ! ibm has nothing to do with these files or
this post. it 's personal this time (and every time i post see the
signature).

due to demand and requests , here are some additional dmqs files i 've
collected for the xga 2. these files function with the latest revision
of the drivers for the xga 2. not all these files will work under windows
with the drivers available to the general public at this time. all files
will function under the most recent os 2 2.1 beta and those i 've tried have
worked under os 2 2.0 sp. not all files have been fully tested.

these files are unsupported ! they represent a personal collection , not
anything resembling an officially supported set.

as a standard disclaimer i would like to point out the following facts
1) some of these files may run your adapter out of spec. doing so can
stress the ics on the card and may result in incorrect operation or in
shorter life (how short depends on how much out of spec boom ! ).
2) some of these files may run your adapter in a region that is out of
spec for your monitor , resulting in damage to your monitor.
3) you should be knowledgable about your monitor and adapter 's ability
to use the mode you select. using these files represents hacking
in a very true sense , so practice safe computing and do n't play
around too much if you do n't like the risks and are n't knowledgable
about what you 're doing.
4) if you feel uncomfortable with all the warnings , use the dmqs files
you have or wait until ibm releases official , tested dmqs files.
although you should be aware of warning 2) even with the ibm files.

these files are unsupported ! by using them you may invalidate your
warrenty. not all have been fully tested i do n't have that many
monitors.

installation unpack in your dmqspath environment variable , usually
c xga dmqs. then use the methods described in your xga 2 installation
diskette to change your adapter or settings.

packing these files have been packed with the latest infozip utility.
you will need pkzip 2.x if you do n't have the infozip utilities.

submitting feel free to send me uuencoded versions of your favorite dmqs
files for your favorite monitors. i'm always interested in collecting more.

archive these files have been uploaded to ftp os2.nmsu.edu in
pub uploads xga2dmqs.zip.

dick kaul my opinions only , not official ibm positions , offers ,
ibm visual subsystems data , or anything else if i were to speak for ibm
boca raton , fl they 'd make me wear a suit.
kaul@vnet.ibm.com beware of programmers carrying screwdrivers.

from jason@sigma.demon.co.uk (jason manger)
subject hhy wo n't my dos apps run in a window \? !
distribution world
organization sigma press
reply to jason@sigma.demon.co.uk
x mailer simple news 1.90 (ka9q dis 1.19)
lines 8

can somebody help me out there \? i have just purchased win 3.1 and i just
ca n't get dos apps (text mode apps) to run in a window on their own. i 've
tried mucking around with the pif settings etc , but to no avail. what am
i doing wrong \? (i did n't get this problem under v3.0).

thanks in advance ...

jason.

from drohand@cad.gmeds.com (dominic drohan)
subject re re win nt what is it \? \? \?
organization eds cadillac
lines 16
nntp posting host cve385.ttp.cad.gmeds.com

anyway , do n't expect it soon. windows 4 and dos 7 are supposed to

my understanding was that chicago was dos 7.

be released next year (read see it in 95) , so i expect that chicogo wo n't
be out til '96.

dominic drohan email drohand@cad.gmeds.com
electronic data systems phone (313) 696 6315

if you 'd like to talk for hours . . just go ahead now
the spin doctors

note the views and opinions expressed herein are mine ,
and do not reflect those of electronic data systems corp.


from ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (s. alavi)
subject \? \? dos font size in windows \? \?
organization nc state university
lines 13


i have an 8514 a card , and i am using windows in 1024x768 mode
(normal 8514 a font , not small). in the 386 enhanced mode
the dos window font is too small for my 14 monitor. is there a
way to spacify the font size for the dos window \? you 'll have to
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to
ms windows world.

thanks.

(please include this message for reference)
s. alavi ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (919)467 7909 (h)
(919)515 8063 (w)

from rmohns@vax.clarku.edu
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
organization clark university
lines 15

this is in relation to a question concerning changing the registered to
information of ms windows...

in a previous article , 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu wrote

ahh , yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is incribed on the
disk , that is it , it is encoded. not even a hex editor will find it. you can
write over the licensed to , but you ca n't change the name underneth it. i

i can find it with a hex editor , although i have not tried to overwrite it.
are you sure it ca n't be \? you may be mistaken about this. ( \? \? \? )

rob

rmohns@vax.clarku.edu

from toelle@uenics.evansville.edu (chad toelle)
subject fax software for windows
organization university of evansville
distribution usa
lines 10

i would like to know about the current fax software available for
windows. does it take a 9600 baud fax modem or 14.4k \? please
respond with info.

thank you very much

chad toelle toelle@evansville.edu
4216 s. st. philip rd or
mt. vernon , in 47620 uunet ! evansville.edu ! toelle
(812) 985 3222

from slc@a2.cim.cdc.com (steve chesney x4662)
subject re diamond ss 24x
reply to slc@.cdc.com
organization metaphase technology , inc.
lines 23

in article 1993apr22.085129.554@condor.navsses.navy.mil , zimm@condor.navsses.navy.mil writes
greetings !

i 've had a bunch of problems with the 24x. opening a dos window on the
desktop can occasionally result in the windows blowing up into a set of
horizontal lines , hashing the entire desktop. nothing can recover this
except to completely exit from windows. the other irritating problem is
that windows that scroll often overwrite lines rather than actually

i posted a similar query and got these replies which i am testing (so far so
good)..

turn hardware scrolling off before going into windows (24xmode scrolloff)

in the pif file for dos window , set emulate text mode

get the latest drivers from the diamond bbs (or cica) dates are 1 20 9.


steve chesney slc@catherine.cim.cdc.com
metaphase technology inc. 612 482 4662 (voice)
4233 north lexington avenue 612 482 4001 (fax)
arden hills , mn 55126

from wynapse@indirect.com (dave campbell wynapse)
subject re .gif to .bmp
distribution usa
organization internet direct inc. (602) 274 0100
lines 28

saz@hook.corp.mot.com (scott zabolotzky) writes


does anybody have any idea where i could find a program that can
convert a .gif image into a .bmp image suitable for a windows
wallpaper (i.e. 256 colors). hopefully there 's something out there
i can get from an ftp site somewhere...

thanks in advance...

scott

scott

look on ftp.cica.indiana.edu for gws.....zip. they embed the release
number in the name , and i'm not sure what the lates is. it is graphics
workshop. there is a dos and a windows version. both work great. i even
had someone bring me some images from the amiga , and converted them to
great looking wallpaper as 256 color .bmp files

if you ca n't find it , repost , or let me know , and i 'll dig up the archive.

dave


dave campbell wynapse
wynapse
wynapse@indirect.com the shareware custom control source

from kayman@xenon.stanford.edu (robert kayman)
subject re why is my mouse so jumpy \? (ms mouse)
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 42

in article c638zs.pr@cs.vu.nl wlieftin@cs.vu.nl (liefting w) writes
ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton) writes

i have a microsoft serial mouse and am using mouse.com 8.00 (was using 8.20
i think , but switched to 8.00 to see if it was any better). vertical motion
is nice and smooth , but horizontal motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click
on something because my mouse jumps around. i can be moving the mouse to
the right with relatively uniform motion and the mouse will move smoothly
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move smoothly for a bit then jump
again (maybe this time to the left about .5 inch ! ). this is crazy ! i have
never had so much trouble with a mouse before. anyone have any solutions \?

does microsoft think they are what everyone should be \? just venting steam !

i think i have the same problem. i think it is caused by the rubber ball
in the mouse , which does n't roll so smooth. the detectors in the mouse
notice this and whoops , i hit a mine (using minesweeper ) ).

i think the solution will be buying a new mouse , and or using a mouse pad.

wouter.


and or taking the rubber ball out of the mouse (should be directions
in the manual or on the bottom of the mouse) and cleaning it with
alcohol (isopropyl , i believe the same alcohol as used for cleaning
your cassette deck). this is good to do every so often , even if you
have a mouse pad. dust still gets caught in the mouse and on the
rubber ball. as well , lint and other garbage may find it 's way onto
the rubber ball and get into the mouse damaging the horizontal and
vertical sensors.

hope this helps. good luck.


sincerely ,

robert kayman kayman@cs.stanford.edu or cpa@cs.stanford.edu

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not.
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision
revised \? ! \? !

subject roman.bmp 05 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 957




from mjuric@aisun1.ai.uga.edu (mark juric msai )
subject printer security
keywords printers , security

we are being attacked by midnight , phantom printer users , who rack up 100s
if there are any utilities that allow multiple passwords for access to the
nntp posting host aisun1.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 8


@ @ @ @
mark juric a.i. programs
mjuric@ai.uga.edu university of georgia
athens , georgia 30602
@ @ @ @



from schwenk@fred.cis.udel.edu (peter a. schwenk)
subject does win3.1 use a math co processor \?
nntp posting host fred.cis.udel.edu
organization university of delaware , newark
lines 6

if a pc has one , does windows 3.1 use a math co processor \? i'm not talking
about specific apps , but the os (if you want to call it that) itself \?

please respond by email.

peter schwenk (schwenk@cis.udel.edu)

from rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols)
subject re atm
organization at t
lines 39

in article 1r1jq4 af5@network.ucsd.edu adean@weber.ucsd.edu (anthony v. dean) writes

i 've been reading , with much confusion , about whether or not to use
atmanager. lately , all the packages i 've been buying have all
included atmanager as a bonus
i do some desktop publishing using pagemaker and coreldraw.
coreldraw comes with a nifty laser disk that contains over 200 diff
types. add that to the ttfonts that come with win31 and you have a
decent amount of fonts. i print my creations out on an hp4
postcript , at 600 dpi resolution with the resolution enhancement
technology and .. well ... i get some darn good copies.
so good that there is n't any diff whether or not atmanager is turned
on or not. is it worth it to run atm at all \? especially with these
better printer technologies ... and tt \?

atm will do nothing for your truetype fonts. if your truetype fonts are
sufficient for your needs , do n't run atm. i have a lot of fonts that i can
install either as type 1 postscript (under atm) or as truetype. i have
noticed that

1. truetype font files are at least 1 3 larger than their type 1
equivalents. if you are using a disk compressor , though , be aware
that truetype fonts will compress , whereas type 1 fonts will not
(they are encrypted).

2. with a 300 dpi laser printer , the artificial bold version of a
truetype font is indistingishable from the original , forcing me to
install the actual bold (and bold italic , etc.) variants if i want
to use them. type 1 postscript fonts under atm generate a visually
distinct bold variant from the base font. i realize that the
artificial bold font that atm generates is aesthetically inferior
to the hand generated bold truetype variant , but it is sufficient
for my needs , and not having to install bold variants saves me 50
on disk space (uncompressed).


bob nichols
at t bell laboratories
rnichols@ihlpm.ih.att.com

from iak@cs.joensuu.fi (ismo k rkk inen)
subject re wallpaper in windows 3.1
organization university of joensuu
lines 23

louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis) writes
is there any utility available that will make windows
randomly select one of your windows directory 's .bmp
files as the wallpaper file \?

there are a couple. i am personally using screenpeace , which is a

if you need just to change the wallpaper , then i 've written a short
program in vb that does this by using systemparametersinfo function.
the bad news is that you need vbrun200.dll to run it , and the dll is
some 350kb (the program is about 7kb). the order of pictures depends
on the system date and the number of bmp files in the directory , so
the picture remains the same if you execute the program multiple times
during the same day and the number of bmps has not changed.

if you feel this is what you need then i could uuencode it and email
it to you. (it is unavailable via ftp.)



ismo k rkk inen 109740@joyl.joensuu.fi iak@cs.joensuu.fi
ph'nglui mglw'nafh cthulhu r'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn !


from q@twg.com (michael wiesenberg)
subject quicken 6 vs. tobias' managing your money
summary any comparisons of q6 and tobias' mym \?
keywords quicken tobias
organization the wollongong group , palo alto , ca
lines 19

i just got a copy of tobias' managing your money v9.0. i have quicken 6 ,
and it 's wonderful for some things , but mym seems to have some features
that q6 does n't. for example , q6 does n't seem to be able to handle
monthly automatic deductions from a checking account (you know , a
monthly payment that gets electronically deducted every month from
my checking account). or is there something that i'm not doing right ,
and q6 can actually do that \? anyway , mym seems to be able to handle
monthly deductions. in fact , it can apparently do better than that.
that is , you can specify monthly , bimonthly , quarterly , even yearly.
anyway , is anyone aware of a comparitive study of the two programs \?
or can someone just give me their own personal impressions \? maybe
someone who has used both. or maybe someone who is familiar with
each could give me a capsule review \? anything would be greatly
appreciated. if i keep mym , i have to pay for it , and i do n't know
whether it 's worth doing. if mym is better than q6 , of course i
will keep it. but if q6 can do everything mym can do (maybe even
better) , i wo n't. thanks all !

if you post a reply , please also cc me. thanks.

from cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu (steve w brewer)
subject how do i make ghostscript work \?
organization university of louisville
apparently to gnu ghostscript bug@rutgers.edu
distribution world
lines 14

what files do i need to download for ghostscript 2.5.2 \? i have never used
ghostscript before , so i do n't have any files for it. what i do have is
gs252win.zip , which i downloaded from cica. unfortunately , it does n't seem to
work on it 's own , but needs some more files that i do n't have. i want to run
ghostscript both in windows 3.1 and in ms dos on a 386 pc (i understand there 's
versions for both environments). what are all the files i need to download and
where can i get them \? any info would be appeciated.


steve w brewer rewerb w evets
cl238405@ulkyvx.louisville.edu ude.ellivsiuol.xvyklu@504832lc




from bergen@vaxb.acs.unt.edu
subject re need help with wp for windows
lines 26
organization university of north texas
distribution usa

in article 1993apr17.224402.92@kirk.msoe.edu , narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu writes
i have two questions

1) i have been having troubles with my wordperfect for windows.
when i try to select and change fonts , etc. some of the text
disappears. i tried to center two lines once , and the second
line disappeared. i can not find the error , and i do not
know how to correct it.

2) is this the right newsgroup \? where should i go \?

e mail prefered...

' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '

i know you said e mail preferred but because this is a common problem
with wpwin i 'll post it here.

the screen only looks like the text is gone. usually you can just
page up then page down and when it does a complete refresh the
text reappears. i have had on rare occasions to completely
exit (save first) the program. when i reopened the file , all chaos
had been resolved. i do n't know why it does this , but it is annoying.
the graphics problems have now made me a word for windows user ! !



from rfweber@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert f. weber)
subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
article i.d. bcstec.c5wl0r.6mb
distribution usa
organization boeing computer services
lines 30

james@dlss2 (james cummings) writes

in article 1993apr17.023017.17301@gmuvax2.gmu.edu rwang@gmuvax2.gmu.edu (john wang) writes
hi , everybody
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting boring
looking at those same old bmp files that came with windows. so ,
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful bmp file
i can share. or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for
some bmp files , like some scenery files , some animals files ,
etc.... i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all.

anyway could me give me some help , please \? \? \?


in response to a different kinda wallpaper , here 's what i
use. i think the original gif whatever was called not real . the
artist name and logo is in the lower right corner. you will need vga
i think , and i have this sized for 800x600 256 color screens. use
this in your windows directory and do not tile it. hope you enjoy.


begin cut here
begin 666 ntreal.bmp
m0dtv5p 8 h ( , @ ! @
m ! @@p ! ( @ ! a ! f cd , 56 d. ! d
m4pa 4h@p l , 1 u) n l0 ( ! @ 4wa ! , j.0 b h 9tj3 kkzp 0
m , , td4i zgb0 ! ) uh (0a. 6e@ i ! @ 4b ! i ! ! bbzx ! e1 )bv

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! !
how do you convert this to a bit map \? \? \?

from gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw (tony g. wu)
subject is it possible \?
organization national tsing hua university (hsinchu)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 13


hello.

is it possible to know minimize program manager when starting an
application and to restore it when the application is ended \?
if possible , please tell me how to do it !



( forever 23 , michael jordan.)
tony g. wu gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw
cae rheology lab. nthu. tony@che.nthu.edu.tw


from rda771v@monu6.cc.monash.edu.au (a.b. wuysang)
subject re hercules graphite \?
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 22

in article c5jbkf.9b8@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib) writes
in article 1993apr06.185638.12139@metrics.com tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes

has anyone used a hercules graphite adapter \? it looks good on paper , and
steve gibson gave it a very good review in infoworld. i 'd love to get a
real world impression , though how is the speed \? drivers \? support \?

the pc world reviewers found out that the herc people had hard coded
winbench text into the driver. clever , no \? in any case , the winbench
results are pretty much inflated.

but the impressive performance of the graphite was
not its winmark , it was its wintach result (esp. the paint
performance). judging from the wintach tests , i can hardly
imagine that there is a cheat driver for it.


agus budy wuysang
digitech student
monash university (clayton)
melbourne , australia


from david a. fuess
subject re windows 3.1 slower using dos 6 \? \? \? \?
organization uc llnl
lines 15
distribution usa
nntp posting host talon.llnl.gov


in article 56720008@hplvec.lvld.hp.com calloway@hplvec.lvld.hp.com (frank calloway) writes
not on my system.

frank calloway

nor mine , either of them !


david a. fuess
dir , center for eecs
phone (510)423 2436
fax (510)422 9343
lawrence livermore national laboratory


from james@dlss2 (james cummings)
subject re borland 's paradox offer
organization redrock development
distribution usa
lines 13

in article 5031@cvbnetprime.com tbelmont@feds55.prime.com (tom belmonte x4858) writes
i am considering buying borland 's paradox for windows since i
would like to use a database with windows (i do n't have use
one yet) for both work home use. i would like to advantage
of borland 's 129.95 until april 30 offer if this package
is everything that borland claims it to be. so , i was
wondering ... has anybody used this and or have any opinions \?

yes , and it 's pretty much what they claim. i have n't had time to
try all of it. considering the price , even if you decide you do n't like it ,
it should be saleable over the next 2 3 months for what you have in it (once
the price goes up). all in all it 's very serviceable and in my humble
opinion , more powerful than access.

from gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw (tony g. wu)
subject i hate to make a decision !
organization national tsing hua university (hsinchu)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 16


hi.

well , i really hate to make a decision , but recently , i have to choose
whether stacker 3.0 or dos 6.0 with double space for my poor hd.
i am using windwos 3.1 and i hope what i choose will live with windows.

any help will be appreciated.




( forever 23 , michael jordan.)
tony g. wu gtonwu@uz.nthu.edu.tw
cae rheology lab. nthu. tony@che.nthu.edu.tw


from brown@ncoast.org (stan brown)
subject winword spelling dictionaries for non us english \?
organization oak road systems , cleveland ohio usa
lines 17

word for windows lets me designate text as being in a language other
than us english. (alt f l , format language , as i recall.) so i mark
it for english (uk) , but it still accepts rumor and squawks at
rumour . as far as i can see , microsoft did n't include the english
(uk) dictionary on my disks. (i do n't mean to imply that i was singled
out i assume that nobody in the u.s got them.) i dialed the microsoft
bbs , but nothing in the word for windows section looked helpful.

can anyone tell me where or how to obtain the uk spelling dictionary for
winword 2.0 \? the file name would be spell uk.lex or something similar.

email please i 'll post a summary.

stan brown , oak road systems brown@ncoast.org
english is my native language and i love it. but do n't try to tell me
that it 's easy to learn or that it makes sense. if it were , baseline
would rhyme with vaseline .

from rcampbel@weejordy.physics.mun.ca (roderick campbell)
subject re pc geos , windows , os 2 , and unix x11
reply to rcampbel@weejordy.physics.mun.ca
organization dept. of physics , memorial university
lines 61

in article sehari.734022369@vincent2.iastate.edu , sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes




with my limited knowladge about the pc geos , i came out with following
comparison

pc geos windows os 2 unix x11


1. can run dos
programs yes yes yes yes(needed add.)


lines deleted


7. price 120 70 120 free 1000s
a good one
costs 400 700
avaliable on ext.
card too.

8. c compiler do n't think so yap yap yap

9. c no yap yap yap

10. fortran no yap yap yap

11. debuger \? yap yap yap

12. min to run dos 2m 10mb hard \? 386

you guys and gals add to this list , so we do not throw our many down the
tubes.

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.


this list appears to imply , that ms windows that has a cost listed
above at 70 , comes with a c compiler , c and fortran. it does not , of
course. these are expensive add ons that drive the price way beyond 70.
( i do n't know if the same applies to os 2 )

as far as unix is concerned
there is a free unix , linux , that has cc , c , fortran ( f2c ) ,
xwindows and many other features besides , with a large number of utilities
that can be optionally added. and there is also a free 386bsd i believe.
both these unix 's are quite robust. you can check out comp.os.linux

if you do n't want to throw our many down the tubes , you 've got to break
that list down a little more.


roderick campbell
department of physics
memorial university of newfoundland
st. john 's , nf , canada
internet rcampbel@weejordy.physics.mun.ca

from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
organization george washington university
lines 15


i downloaded the compuserve gif of the month. a raytraced image of
a golf ball next to a hole. very nice , 640x480x256 bitmap , easily
converted to a windows bmp. if anyone wants , i could upload a copy
on cica...


please do...and let us know specifics. (lest i'm the only one on this).

mickey

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

from iis@netcom.com (international imaging syste)
subject list of favorite windows goodies \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 9

is anyone maintaining a list of favorite shareware and public domain windows
software \?

i have several such lists for msdos , but they are really light on windows
stuff.

david arnstein
international imaging systems
arnstein@iis.sun.com

from ruckman@oasys.dt.navy.mil
subject re is ms windows a mature os \?
keywords ms windows
reply to ruckman@oasys.dt.navy.mil
organization carderock division , nswc
lines 12


in article c5snbs.j3h@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu comp.os.ms windows.advocacy writes
(1) you can not create hierarchy groups. there is no way to create a group
in a group. (if you know how , please tell me.)

get norton desktop. put groups within groups , groups on the desktop , icons
on the desktop , etc.


chris ruckman ruckman@oasys.dt.navy.mil this .sig brought to you by
hull structures acoustics , code 741 your local chevrolet bottler.
carderock division , nswc

from rajiev@cfmu.eurocontrol.be (rajiev gupta)
subject re windows nt faq \?
nntp posting host shelduck
organization eurocontrol central flow management unit
lines 26

in article c5dhtf.d7p@news.rich.bnr.ca gal@bnr.ca (gene lavergne) writes
i really gives me pause to ask this

when i first heard of windows nt i was surprised by the name because
it immediately occurred to me that it sounds like a northern telecom
product. did anyone else notice that \?

by the way , bnr (see address below) is an r d subsidiary of nt. see
what i mean \?

gal@bnr.ca (gene a. lavergne) in all of opera , i most identify
esn 444 4842 (214) 684 4842 with the character of elektra.
po box 851986 , richardson , tx that often worries me.
usa 75085 1986 opinions expressed here are mine and not bnr 's.

windows nt or wnt can also be derived by the next letter in the alphabet
of vms same as hal and ibm. you might recall that the chief architect
of vms is also chief designer of wnt.

rajiev gupta


rajiev gupta eurocontrol cfmu disclaimer
rajiev@cfmu.eurocontrol.be rue de la loi 72 these are my views ,
tel 32 2 729 33 12 b 1040 bruxelles not my companies.
fax 32 2 729 32 16 belgium

from robertt@vcd.hp.com (bob taylor)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
organization hewlett packard vcd
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 26

justin whitton (ma90jjw isis@ajax.rsre.mod.uk) wrote
in article c60eki.kvp@vcd.hp.com edmoore@vcd.hp.com (ed moore) writes

thomas.d.fellrath.1@nd.edu@nd.edu wrote

i think the ink now used in the deskjet family is water fast.

i 've had pictures ruined by a few drops of rain. these were colour pictures
from a deskjet 500c. mind you , it could have been acid rain )

the black ink is waterfast , but the color is n't


i use a bj10ex. ink dries fast , but it really does n't like getting wet.



justin whitton at ma90jjw hermes@uk.mod.relay where no man has gone before..
after august mail ma90jjw@brunel.ac.uk.
disclaimer my opinions count for nothing , except when the office is empty.
i'm a student intelligence 0.


bob taylor
hp vancouver


from dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh)
subject diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
organization national library of medicine
lines 10


anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256 driver \?
sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the menus) but it 's a recently
delivered gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered
if anyone else had seen this.

post or email

don lindbergh
dabl2@lhc.nlm.nih.gov

from ad060@freenet.carleton.ca (mark waschkowski)
subject re file manager problem
reply to ad060@freenet.carleton.ca (mark waschkowski)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 29


in a previous article , mrw54660@eng nxt01.cso.uiuc.edu (michael r whitchurch) says

whenever i start file manager , the status bar is not displayed ,
even though it is selected in the options menu. if i deselect it ,
then select it again , the bar appears. anyone have any ideas why
this is happening \?

no , not really. it may be that your winfile.ini has gotten corrupted for
some unknown reason. have you tried re creating it by either
1.exiting filemanager with the save setting option on when the status bar
is visible ,
or
2.double clicking on the control menu(the one with minimize and maximize
in in) when everything looks proper \?

if you have , and it still does n't work , you may want to delete your
winfile.ini and try one of these two saving procedures again to totally
recreate the file from scratch.

good luck !

mark waschkowski


from louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis)
subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
organization george washington university
distribution usa
lines 27



begin cut here
begin 666 ntreal.bmp
m0dtv5p 8 h ( , @ ! @
m ! @@p ! ( @ ! a ! f cd , 56 d. ! d
m4pa 4h@p l , 1 u) n l0 ( ! @ 4wa ! , j.0 b h 9tj3 kkzp 0
m , , td4i zgb0 ! ) uh (0a. 6e@ i ! @ 4b ! i ! ! bbzx ! e1 )bv

deleted a lot of stuff ! ! ! ! ! ! !
how do you convert this to a bit map \? \? \?

you 're supposed to delete everything above the cut here mark , and
below the lower cut here mark , and uudecode it. but
i was not able to unexpected end of file encountered at the last line.

could you please re post it , or tell be what i'm doing wrong \?

thanks , i.a. ,
mickey



pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)

subject re w4wg novell
from cctr132@csc.canterbury.ac.nz (nick fitzgerald , pc software consultant , csc , uoc , nz)
reply to nick fitzgerald n.fitzgerald@csc.canterbury.ac.nz
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand
nntp posting host cantva.canterbury.ac.nz
lines 27

in article 1rh2mi ea4@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu , bilan@cps.msu.edu (thomas j
bilan) writes

if i put lastdrive z in my config.sys , netx will run but i ca n't access
drive f to log in to novell.
if i do n't put lastdrive z in my config.sys i ca n't access other w4wg
drives from the file manager.

it seems that there should be a way to make netx work with the lastdrive
statement in my config.sys.

first off , i have n't used w4wg (but i think that 's about to change ! ).

the problem is the lastdrive command and the way netware in general (and
in this case netx in particular) adds drives to the device chain.
setting lastdrive z means there are no unassigned (as opposed to
unused ) drive letters for netware to use , as it tacks its drive
mappings onto the end of the existing list of drives. w4wg obviously
attaches its network drives to existing , unused drive letters.

i 'd guess the next thing i 'd try is something like lastdrive m , which on
most machines will leave a fair swathe of drives for w4wg and still
allow up to 13 netware drive mappings as well.


nick fitzgerald , pc applications consultant , csc , uni of canterbury , n.z.
n.fitzgerald@csc.canterbury.ac.nz tel 64(3)364 2337 , fax 64(3)364 2332

from neff123@garnet.berkeley.edu (stephen kearney)
subject re ndw norton desktop for windows
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 7
nntp posting host garnet.berkeley.edu

(ndw)
i would like to know how to stop or uninstall this program ! !

if an uninstall icon does n't exist in the norton desktop apps
group

run ndw 's install program with u.

from sharp@mizar.usc.edu (malcolm sharp)
subject re trumpet for windows other news readers
article i.d. mizar.1r74aa d7l
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 5
nntp posting host mizar.usc.edu

where 's an ftp site for trumpet \? (other than wuarchive , umich , ..
something off the beaten path \? \? )

thanks.
malcolm

subject roman 03 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
keywords bmp , wallpaper
lines 958

reply to donoghue@donoghue.win.net (kevin donoghue)
from donoghue@donoghue.win.net (kevin donoghue)
subject off line mail
lines 13

i am looking for a program called vbreader. it is an off line mail
reader for windows using qwk mail packets. or if anyone knows of
any good qwk mail readers please let me know.

thanks

kevin


kevin c. donoghue internet donoghue@donoghue.win.net
donoghue international few love to hear the sins they love to act
2437 grand ave. suite 273 william shakespear
ventura ca 93003

from shiva@leland.stanford.edu (matt jacobson)
subject ndw norton desktop for windows
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 19


i have an ibm and run windows 3.1. a friend installed norton desktop for
windows on top of this. it loads automatically when i type win , and
surely adds to the (already dismally slow) process of starting up.

i would like to know how to stop or uninstall this program ! !

i have taken it out of win.ini , but it still pops up running with windows.
i did a big search and found reference to it in ndw.ini , system.ini and
progman.ini. removing it here causes a failure when starting up windows
(progrman.ini has a group 7 ...ndw.exe... which ca n't be deleted.)

is there anyone familiar with ndw who can tell me how to turn it off \? \?

thanks ! chet

please email responses i ca n't read news from my home account
chetter@ucthpx.uct.ac.za


from angcl@nyongwa.cam.org (claude angers)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
x advert mail news feeds available email postmaster for details.
organization radio free nyongwa public usenet in montreal (514) 284 6693
lines 32

in article c5rx8b.kzp@ecf.toronto.edu leebr@ecf.toronto.edu (lee brian) writes
in article 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au writes
in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.



theoretically supposed to be reduced.... not any longer. that 's why everyone
is arguing about risc v.s. cisc. personally , i think cisc will win out.
just take a look at the pentium ! (not that i like intel architectures either ,
but that 's another story...)

bye !


do you mean that the pentium is better than a risc \? or that it will outsell
them all \? if the first , you have to remember that intel cisc (like the
pentium) are a always a generation away from the best riscs... also riscs
cpu are more costly because they are not sold in the same quantities (not
even on the same order)... but i remember reading about 3 years (maybe 2)
about a t800( \? ) from hypercube that did a 100 mips , was superscallar and
reordered its instruction itself so

from u7911093@cc.nctu.edu.tw ( by swh )
subject how redirect print manager to file \?
organization national chiao tung university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 20

hello ,

who can tell me where can i find the pd or shareware
which can capture windows 3.1 's output of printer mananger \?

i want to capture the output of hp laser jet iii.

though the postscript can setup to print to file , but hp ca n't.

i try dos 's redirect program , but they ca n't work in windows 3.1

thankx for any help....


internet address u7911093@cc.nctu.edu.tw

english name erik wang
chinese name wang jyh shyang

national chiao tung university , taiwan , r.o.c.

from jeroeng@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (jeroen gremmen)
subject re dos 6 vfintd.386 and windows sys.ini
organization mcgv stack , eindhoven university of technology , the netherlands.
lines 16
nntp posting host blade.stack.urc.tue.nl
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

peter p. lei (lei@rtsg.mot.com) wrote

does anyone know what the vfintd.386 device is used for in windows 3.1 \?
it 's under the 386enh section as
device c dos vfintd.386

i know norton desktop for windows includes this file and its help file
mentioned something about floppy disk access.

jeroen



j.c.a. gremmen email jeroeng@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl
gildelaan 34 phone 04255 3411 (no modem or fax pleez ! )
5081 ph hilvarenbeek

from charles@tinman.dev.prodigy.com ()
subject re multiple desktops
nntp posting host tinman
organization prodigy services company , white plains , ny
lines 16

in article c56bht.7qf@news.hawaii.edu dmcgee@uluhe.soest.hawaii.edu (don mcgee) writes

is there a free share( ware) package that will allow multiple
desktops in windows 3.1. what is desired is to have a desk top
for several people that each can personalize by name and choice
of programs etc.

amishware has one included in their package. they were advertising here on the
net a couple of weeks ago with a riduculously (that is in a good way , ted ! )
low price. does anyone remember what it was \?


charles emmons charles@trintex.uucp these opinions are
prodigy services co. charles trintex@uunet.uu.net mine alone , unless
white plains ny 10601 voice 914 993 8856 you would like to
prodigy id kjrd82a fax 914 993 8659 share them.

from elee969@rosie.uh.edu (brown , william j.)
subject re questions about windows nt. help !
keywords windows nt , unix , sun sparc
organization university of houston
lines 42
nntp posting host rosie.uh.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr19.154349.10382@cfmu.eurocontrol.be , rajiev@cfmu.eurocontrol.be (rajiev gupta) writes...
in article c562cq.fc7@ms.uky.edu shan@ms.uky.edu (minghua shan) writes

...stuff deleted

1. does windows nt run on sun sparc server 490 \?
2. if the answer to question 1 is yes , does it run unix applications
(such as sas for unix).
3. is windows nt a multiuser os \?
4. when will windows nt be released \?
5. is there any telephone number that i can call and get more
info on win nt \?

thank you.

minghua shan

as far as i have read win nt will be supported on intel , dec alpha and the mips r4000
series of processors only. i do remember though reading a rumour about sparc support
sometime in the future. i am not sure what you mean by running unix applications .
you would have to have sas for win nt (or maybe sas for win16 etc). i have read
that ms will anounce avalaibility of win nt by end of may 93 (comdex spring). hope
this helps.

rajiev gupta


rajiev gupta eurocontrol cfmu disclaimer
rajiev@cfmu.eurocontrol.be rue de la loi 72 these are my views ,
tel 32 2 729 33 12 b 1040 bruxelles not my companies.
fax 32 2 729 32 16 belgium


according to the april issue of pc magazine (pg. 139) , and i quote ,

eventually , windows nt is likely to be ported to every successful risc
architecture. powerpc and hp 's pa risc are the two most likely candidates ,
with sparc somewhat less likely because of sun 's relatively strong unix
software base.

later
bill

from ccastco@prism.gatech.edu (constantinos malamas)
subject re more cool bmp files \? \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 31

in article 1993apr17.023017.17301@gmuvax2.gmu.edu rwang@gmuvax2.gmu.edu writes
hi , everybody
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting boring
looking at those same old bmp files that came with windows. so ,
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful bmp file
i can share. or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for
some bmp files , like some scenery files , some animals files ,
etc.... i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all.
eric

hmmm , let 's see i could upload some .bmp files (i have around 15
b w and color ones) , but i 'd rather give you the fishing pole instead of the
fish here it goes
begginers guide to the coolest windows backgrounds
step 1 ftp to cica (ftp.cica.indiana.edu user anonymous passwd guest)
cd to pub pc win3 (util \? desktop \? ) and get one of these wingif14.zip ,
pspro \? \? .zip gws \? \? \? \? \? .zip . they will scale , dither and convert gifs to bmps.
get the index file from the win3 subdir too for future reference...
step 2 ftp to wuarchive.wustl.edu or plaza.aarnet.edu.au or archive.orst.edu
and cd to graphics gif get the index file... now gigabytes of pictures
are waiting to become your desktop...
advice if you have a slow computer ( 486dx w 4mb ram) , make your bg b w
by selecting b w dither in any of the abovementioned apps..
hope it helps...



costas malamas
georgia institute of technology
oit ua opinions expressed are not necessarily oit 's...
internet ccastco@prism.gatech.edu

from wongda@eecg.toronto.edu (daniel y.h. wong)
subject actix video card drivers for windows
keywords actix graphics accelerator
organization dept. of electrical engineering , university of toronto , canada
lines 20

i am looking for the latest drivers for the actix graphics accelerator card.
the driver i am currently using is version 1.21 and does n't support more
than 256 colors in 1024x768 mode even you have 2mb memory.

the bbs support for actix is unbelievable ! they are still using 2400bps
modem ! it will take you hours to download the drivers , it hurts when you
are calling long distance. is there any ftp site that has a collection
of video drivers for windows \?

btw , anyone using this card , and how do you like it so far \?

thanks.





daniel y.h. wong uoft (416)978 1659
wongda@picton.eecg.toronto.edu electrical engineering


from thang@harebell.egr.uh.edu (chin heng thang)
subject win 3.1 startup screen downgraded to win 3.0 startup screen \? \? \? ! ! ! \? ! \? !
organization university of houston
lines 20
nntp posting host harebell.egr.uh.edu

hhhheeeellllpppp meeeeeee !

i installed a 256 color svga driver for my windows last week.
this driver was downloaded from ftp.cica.indiana.edu specifically for
paradise svga card. however , after i installed it and when i run windows ,
the startup screen in the beginning becomes the old windows 3.0 startup
screen \? \? \? \? ! ! \? \? ! !

everything works fine except the startup screen. i know the
startup screen must have been changed in the system.ini file (or is it \? )
but i could n't figure out what to alter ! can some one help me with this \?
please e mail to my address

thang@tree.egr.uh.edu or thang@jetson.uh.edu

in addition , can anyone know where can i get a 1024x680 paradise svga
driver (256 color) \? this is a used computer and i do not have anything
(drivers , etc) regarding the driver....

thanks in advance....... o)

from sam@ms.uky.edu (mike mills)
subject video cards with bnc connectors \?
organization university of kentucky
lines 14

hello ,

i just recently bought a nec 6fg. in order to get the highest possible quality
and refresh rates , i 'd like to know if there are any accelerator cards with
bnc connectors (as opposed to the usual d sub connector) \?


thanks for any information ,



mike mills e mail sam@ms.uky.edu , rutgers , uunet ! ukma ! sam
uk math sciences dept. mike@ukpr.uky.edu
(606) 257 1429 (work) 263 0721 (home)

from skucera@prstorm.bison.mb.ca (stan kucera)
subject monoumb.386
organization prairie storm international , lockport , mb. , canada
lines 10

does anyone know where the program monoumb.386 is available .. i have
checked my windows system disks and monoumb2.386 is there but not the
other one.. thanks..

stan kucera




skucera@prstorm.bison.mb.ca (stan kucera)

from ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar)
subject re trumpet for windows other news readers
organization cwru school of medicine
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host axa12 slip.dialin.cwru.edu

in article 1993apr21.082430@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder) writes

what the status of trumpet for windows \? will it use the windows sockets \?
i liked it in dos but had to abandon it since i started using ndis to access
our token ring (results in invalid class error (

while i do not speak for peter tattam , i am fairly sure he is planning a
winsock compliant version. while this will definitely not make the initial
public release of wintrumpet , it will follow on shortly thereafter.

currently wintrumpet is in very late beta. it looks like an excellent
product , with several features beyond the dos version.

wintrumpet supports the trumpet tcp , novell lwp , and there is also a direct to
packet driver version that some people are using with the dis pkt shim.

ashok


ashok aiyar mail ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu
department of biochemistry tel (216) 368 3300
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax (216) 368 4544

from jpaparel@cs.ulowell.edu (joseph paparella)
subject re is anyone using video for windows \?
keywords video windows
organization umass lowell computer science
distribution na
lines 4

my suggestion would be to contact microsoft about the video4windows sdk.
you would need to call developer services at (800)227 4679 extension 11771
from 6 30am to 5 30pm pacific time.


from manu@oas.olivetti.com (manu das)
subject overlapped window without a title bar
organization olivetti atc cupertino ca , usa
lines 31
distribution usa
nntp posting host todi.oas.olivetti.com


hi ,

i have a simple question. is it possible to create a overlapped thickframe
window without a title bar ie

(ws overlapped ws thickframe) ws caption


i do n't seem to be able to get rid off the title bar.

i have another question

i have a overlapped window(say v) which has few child windows (a , b , c , etc)
the window shows up with all it 's children fine. now , i create another
child(t) with a ws thickframe style and placed on top of one or more of
it 's siblings. style ws thickframe is used so that i can resize it. how do
i make sure that the child 't' will always be at the top of it 's siblings.
i used setwindowpos() and bringwindowtotop() without success. what 's happening
is that while i am resizing 't' it shows up but as soon as i let go , it goes
behild it 's siblings.

any help would be greatly appreciated.

manu

please mail me at manu@oas.olivetti.com





from bigal@wpi.wpi.edu (nathan charles crowell)
subject wallpaper in windows 3.1
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 14
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

hi there ,

is there any utility available that will make windows
randomly select one of your windows directory 's .bmp
files as the wallpaper file \?

nate

nathan c. crowell , dept. of materials science acrl

worcester polytechnic institute e mail bigal@wpi.wpi.edu

a flower \? genesis supper 's ready


from bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu (greg bishop)
subject re borland 's paradox offer
organization physics department , fsu
news software vax vms vnews
reply to bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu
lines 31


i am considering buying borland 's paradox for windows since i
would like to use a database with windows (i do n't have use
one yet) for both work home use. i would like to advantage
of borland 's 129.95 until april 30 offer if this package
is everything that borland claims it to be. so , i was
wondering ... has anybody used this and or have any opinions \?

tom belmonte

if you are interested in a program which is very easy to use , i strongly
suggest approach 2.0. it is extremely easy to use , make reports , etc. i
own both it and paradox , and i almost never use paradox. if you need to
build up a complicated application , then paradox is the way to go. i have
heard horror stories about the access programming being extremely cryptic.
since you seem like you will probably be doing fairly small stuff (work
home use and you have not used a database before) , i recommend approach. i
have found only one small thing which i would like it to do more easily
i have one database where the order in which the records are entered must
be different than what is the logical ordering. to permanently reorder (to
use the old dbase iii command) the records requires sorting the records
appropriately (no problem , since i almost always use them in this order)
exporting the database to another database (which can still be an approach
database) , and then copying the exported files back to the original
filename. this is a small weakness , considering the other items i really
like about approach. it is also a little slower than paradox (other than
the loading , paradox takes forever and a minute to load). paradox also
takes a lot of memory (both hard disk (around 12mb) and ram).

greg bishop. (bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu)


from phoenix.princeton.edu ! carlosn (carlos g. niederstrasser)
subject ms mouse driver 8.2
originator news@nimaster
nntp posting host aisle.princeton.edu
organization princeton university
lines 15

does anyone have the documentation for the ms mouse driver 8.2 \? i got it when
i got windows 3.1 , but my windows manual does not come with the documentation.
in particular i need to know how to turn it off , and how to speed it up
outside windows. the greater sensitivity is needed so i can play various
games , esp x wing )



carlos g. niederstrasser only two things are infinite ,
princeton planetary society the universe and human
stupidity , and i'm not sure
about the former. einstein
carlosn@phoenix.princeton.edu
space@phoenix.princeton.edu ad astra per ardua nostra


from rwang@gmuvax2.gmu.edu (john wang)
subject more cool bmp files \? \?
distribution usa
organization george mason university , fairfax , virginia , usa
lines 13

hi , everybody
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting boring
looking at those same old bmp files that came with windows. so ,
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful bmp file
i can share. or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for
some bmp files , like some scenery files , some animals files ,
etc.... i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all.

anyway could me give me some help , please \? \? \?

thanks a lot !

john

subject roman.bmp 11 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 956



from yaturner@netcom.com (d'arc angel)
subject re yowza sloooowwww printing from dos
organization the houses of the holy
lines 11


i also had a simular problem with by nec p7 , it went away when i turned
on the print directly to parallel port option in the printer setup
apallette.




mencsh tract und gott lacht

yaturner@netcom.com

from rdc@pelican.cit.cornell.edu (bob cowles)
subject re cica mirror \?
organization cornell info. tech.
lines 2

try wuarchive.wustl.edu in the mirrors win3 directory.


subject re fast dos'vga and 1024x768x256 windows video card info needed.
from edowdy@vax1.umkc.edu
organization university of missouri kansas city
nntp posting host vax1.umkc.edu
lines 38

in article 1993apr25.220320.26510@doug.cae.wisc.edu , leo@cae.wisc.edu (leo lim) writes
ok , i have a 486dx50(isa) w diamond stealth vram 1mb.
i was really satisfied w its performance in windows.
but now more and more games needs higher frame rates in dos' vga ,
especially this new strike commander. )
this stealth vram can only give me 17.5 fps. ( (i use 3dbench).
my winmark was 6.35 million , i think.

so right now i'm considering to replace it w a new card , which hopefully
can perform approx same w my current vram in windows and also
can perform dos' vga preferably 30fps.


i am ordering the actix graphicsengine ultra plus. it is the same price
as the stealth card. plus it is also based on s3 928 chip the newest and
fastest chip from s3.
everyone , if you are looking for a card , see the april issue of pc magazine
for their review.
they noted this person 's problem with dos. the stealth card is not a very good
dos performer. the actix card is rated the best in this chip class (non local
bus). it got glowing reports from the magazine (was a best buy) and i called
them directly and they just updated their windows drivers last week ! they have
a bulletin board to get the latest drivers.
though somone posted that this bbs was at 2400.

at any rate , the actix graphics engine ultra outperforms all the other cards
in the 928 class (based on the winmark results).

if you are looking for the all around best dos windows performance check out
the actix card. their 1 800 number is 927 5557.

p.s. the article in pc magazine noted that if you are a regular dos user (ie
games) then you should also check out the 801 chip from s3. it apparently
scores just as well and in many cases slightly better in dos than the 928 chip
(ie stealth and actix cards.) they have comparable windows performance and
are cheaper to buy.

eric

from bilan@cps.msu.edu (thomas j bilan)
subject w4wg novell
organization dept. of computer science , michigan state university
lines 23
distribution world
nntp posting host walnut.cps.msu.edu
originator bilan@walnut.cps.msu.edu

i installed windows for workgroups on my network and i'm having problems
mapping drives in the file manager.

situation
if i put lastdrive z in my config.sys , netx will run but i ca n't access
drive f to log in to novell.
if i do n't put lastdrive z in my config.sys i ca n't access other w4wg
drives from the file manager.

it seems that there should be a way to make netx work with the lastdrive
statement in my config.sys.

i would appreciate any help. it 's probably an easy problem that all you
windows guru 's solved many many moons ago...

thanks ,
tom bilan



department of death by engineering surgeon general 's warning
michigan state university graduate school may cause brain
bilan@cps.msu.edu damage and sporadic loss of hair

from wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom)
subject re procomm plus for windows problems....
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 16
nntp posting host access.digex.net

kentiler@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (kent p. iler) writes

hi ,
i have normal procomm plus for dos , but i 've been considering buying
the windows version....it got really great reviews in computer shopper.
i have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here
using it , but the screen seems to have a problem keeping up with the
modem....he has a 14 , 400 modem on a 486 50 mhz machine. i ca n't
see it having trouble keeping up. his pcplus for dos works great ,
but the windows just seems to always screw up....is this common
and is there a fix \? or is something just screwed with his machine \?
kent

i have no trouble running procomm for windows at 14.4 v.42 on a considerably
slower 486sx. could be a video problem but only if he has incredibly slow
video.

from reczek@acsu.buffalo.edu (timothy j. reczek)
subject wanted dialog box to select file(s) for dos apps
article i.d. acsu.c5jq1d.hcp
organization ub
lines 31
originator reczek@tolstoy.acsu.buffalo.edu
nntp posting host tolstoy.acsu.buffalo.edu



i'm looking for a program that will let me use a windows
common dialog box to select a file to use when running a dos app.

basically , i have several dos apps that i use now and then
with different files. they all accept a file as a command line
parameter , but the only way (at least that i know of) to do this
easily when running them from windows is to set up the pif file so
that it prompts me for additional parameters (at which point i type
in the file name).

problems are

1) sometimes i ca n't remember where the file is exactly located and it
would be nice to browse my directories for it without having to use the
file manager.

and 2) i'm lazy and hate to type long pathnames for files burried
several directory levels deep.

if anyone can point me to such a program or let me know of some
other way to handle this , i 'd appreciate it.

thanks ,

tim

the net is n't organized enough to be considered an anarchy

reczek@autarch.acsu.buffalo.edu

from dewinter@prl.philips.nl (rob de winter)
subject wanted symantec address
originator dewinter@prl.philips.nl
organization philips research laboratories , eindhoven , the netherlands
lines 5


nothing beats skiing , if you want to have real fun during holidays.
rob de winter philips research , ist it , building wl 1
p.o. box 80000 , 5600 ja eindhoven. the netherlands
tel 31 40 743621 e mail dewinter@prl.philips.nl

from gonzaled@ucsu.colorado.edu (lgv mc)
subject re how can i use the mouse in non windows applications under ms windows \?
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 31

kasajian@netcom.com (kenneth kasajian) writes

wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (oliver kretzschmar) writes



hey ,

could somebody tell me , how it is possible to work with the mouse
in a non windows application , which runs in an window. we use
ms windows 3.1 and have clipper applications. exists there any
routines or something else \? please mail me your informations.

thanks for your efforts ,

oliver

name o.kretzschmar inst.ike university stuttgart
phone 49 711 685 2130 pfaffenwaldring 31
fax 49 711 685 2010 7000 stuttgart 80
email wnkretz@ikesg1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de

very simple. you have to have the mouse.com or mouse.sys loaded in dos
before you run windows. note that you do n't need to have these files loaded
to use the mouse in windows.

one addition to this... i do n't know if it applies to everybody. for my
(microsoft 400dpi) mouse to work with windowed dos apps , i had to use the
driver that came with windows (version 8.20). 8.1 did n't allow me to do
it for some reason.


from adamb@garfield.cs.mun.ca (adam benson)
subject windows 3.1 slower using dos 6 \? \? \? \?
summary according to norton si computer is slower in windows a lot slower
keywords windows win dos
organization cs dept. , memorial university of newfoundland
lines 5

adam benson
mt. pearl , nf
adamb@garfield.cs.mun.ca



from werdna@cco.caltech.edu (andrew tong)
subject internal speaker driver
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 7
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

this probably is in a faq somewhere , but....

i'm looking for microsoft 's internal speaker sound driver for windows.

should be at microsoft 's ftp site , but i ca n't remember the name of the site...

thanks.

subject win storm pc
from srini@shannon.tisl.ukans.edu (srini seetharam)
reply to srini@shannon.tisl.ukans.edu (srini seetharam)
distribution world
organization elec. comp. eng. , univ. of kansas
nntp posting host erlang.tisl.ukans.edu
originator srini@erlang
lines 10


anyone have any info. on the video sound card from sigma designs.
it is called win storm pc.
they also have another card called the legend 24lx

any info would be appreciated , incuding performance , pricing and
availability.
thanks

srini

from slc@a2.cim.cdc.com (steve chesney x4662)
subject diamond speedstar 24x driver bug \?
reply to slc@.cdc.com
organization metaphase technology , inc.
keywords speedstar
lines 23

since swapping out my generic vga card for a diamod speedstar 24x , i have
noticed two new problems

if i create a windowed ms dos session (386 mode) , when the text starts
to scroll , rather than printing characters it starts to print
horizontal lines that spill out to the desktop and trash the entire
display. ctrl alt del terminates the dos window and restores the
desktop

after a short time in ncd 's pc x remote for windows , all characters
displayed on the desktop are changed to be unreadable i am unable to
restore without rebooting.

these are in both 256 and 16 color 800x600 drivers , large and small fonts.
dos 5 , win 3.1 , emm386 and smartdrv installed.

i like the speed of the card and have had no other problems. any ideas \?
thanks !

steve chesney slc@catherine.cim.cdc.com
metaphase technology inc. 612 482 4662 (voice)
4233 north lexington avenue 612 482 4001 (fax)
arden hills , mn 55126

from spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de (richard spitz)
subject re help with winqvt
reply to spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de (richard spitz)
organization inst. f. anaesthesiologie der lmu , muenchen (germany)
distribution lrz
lines 63

swartzjh@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (jeff h. swartz) writes

when i use a name such as rosevc.rose hulman.edu
initiating nameserver query for 'rosevc'
nameserver query time out
when i use the ip number
local host or gateway not responding

i know the nameserver is correct and the router is correct. they work
fine using ncsa telnet ftp.

they are working ok , but your definitions in qvtnet.ini and qvthost.rc are
incorrect (see below).

the docs said if you are running concurrent packet software you need to
load pktmux \? \? \? does this apply to me \? \? \?

no , i do n't think so. you are using qvtnet and novell concurrently , are n't
you \? they use different packet types , so qvtnet (tcp ip) and novell (ipx spx)
should be able to coexist just fine. pktmux is required if you are using
different tcp ip packages concurrently.

this is the qvthost.rc file.
137.112.5.2
137.112.199.50

there is the first problem you did n't specify hostnames , just ip addresses.
your file should look like this

137.112.5.2 name of your nameserver
137.112.199.50 name of your router

this is the beginning of the winqvt.ini file.
net
name swartzjh.test.rose hulman.edu

here you should only specify your hostname , without the domain part.

router 137.112.199.50

instead , use router name of your router , as specified in your qvthost.rc
i know the release notes for 3.31 say that ip addresses should work also ,
but apparently they do n't.

nameserver 137.112.5.2

here , too , you should use the hostname of the nameserver instead of the
ip address.

it worked fine for me that way , although i could not specify more than
one nameserver. the relnotes say it should be possible to specify up to
three nameservers , separated by commas , but it did n't work.

hope it helps ,
richard



dr. richard spitz internet spitz@ana.med.uni muenchen.de
edv gruppe anaesthesie tel 49 89 7095 3421
klinikum grosshadern fax 49 89 7095 8886
munich , germany


from gibsonm@cs.arizona.edu (matthew h gibson)
subject win 3.1 comm drivers replacements (question)
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson
lines 14


has anyone had any experience with a replacement comm driver for windows
called turbocomm. i read about it in pcmag apr 23 1993 and am interested
but not willing to shell out the 45 bucks the company wants just to try it
out. it supposedly eleminates the problems that occur during a high speed
file transfer and a disk access made by another program running at the same
time. if anyone has any pro cons about this product , i would be very inter
ested to hear them. please email at the address give below. thanks.

matthew gibson
gibsonm@cs.arizona.edu
.



from spowell@trentu.ca (stefan powell)
subject cool background patterns !
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization trent computing and telecommunications department
lines 16

here are some cool 3 d background patterns i made.

edit your control.ini and add the following lines to your patterns section.

bricks 148 43 86 172 89 182 99 201
tile 1 43 85 43 85 43 85 255
tile (diagonal) 148 107 54 156 73 182 99 201
slats 0 170 85 170 85 170 85 255

make sure your desktop color is one of the standard 16 colors or the
patterns might not work. i like dark grey the best with these.

if you have any cool one 's of your own , please mail them to me.

stefan powell spowell@trentu.ca
peterborough , ontario , canada

from doug@sun.sws.uiuc.edu (doug ward)
subject stealth 24 video drivers
organization state water survey
lines 14


i recently purchased a diamond stealth 24 video card
and received the wrong drivers. does anyone know where
i can ftp the windows video drivers for the stealth 24.
i tried the drivers at cica and they do n't work.
the right drivers are on the diamond bbs but the file is almost
1 meg and it would take a while to download them
at 2400 baud. any information would be appreciated. please
contact me at doug@sun.sws.uiuc.edu

thank you

doug ward
.

from jgarven@mcl.cc.utexas.edu
subject re trumpet for windows other news readers
lines 34


in article ashok.653.0@biochemistry.cwru.edu ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar) writes
in article 1993apr21.082430@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be wimvh@liris.tew.kuleuven.ac.be (wim van holder) writes

what the status of trumpet for windows \? will it use the windows sockets \?
i liked it in dos but had to abandon it since i started using ndis to access
our token ring (results in invalid class error (

while i do not speak for peter tattam , i am fairly sure he is planning a
winsock compliant version. while this will definitely not make the initial
public release of wintrumpet , it will follow on shortly thereafter.

currently wintrumpet is in very late beta. it looks like an excellent
product , with several features beyond the dos version.

wintrumpet supports the trumpet tcp , novell lwp , and there is also a direct to
packet driver version that some people are using with the dis pkt shim.

ashok

ashok ,

is wintrumpet available anywhere via anonymous ftp \?


james r. garven

dept. of finance , cba 3.250 voice (512) 471 6557
graduate school of business fax (512) 471 5073
university of texas internet jgarven@mcl.cc.utexas.edu
austin , tx 78712 , u.s.a. bitnet garven@utxvm.bitnet

education is ... hanging on until you 've caught on robert frost


from gmills@chemical.watstar.uwaterloo.ca (phil trodwell)
subject vb decompiler \?
lines 9
organization university of waterloo


subject says it all. do any exist \? are they shareware \? where \?


phil trodwell

this space i 'd be happy to ram a goddam 440 volt cattle
for rent. prod into that tub with you right now , but not
(cheap) this radio ! hunter s. thompson

from wlieftin@cs.vu.nl (liefting w)
subject re 486 33 win3.1 hang
organization fac. wiskunde informatica , vu , amsterdam
lines 19

10748539@eng2.eng.monash.edu.au (charles choong) writes

help , problem 486 33mhz hangs in extended mode trying to
access drives a or b , sometimes it will do dir , sometimes will hang
on access sometimes will when tying a text file.

hardware
american megatrend motherboard
ami bios 91
conner 85mb hard drive
trident 1 meg svga

please help ! ! !
its ok in standard mode ! ! !

i have the same problem. someone suggested it might be a bios bug.
gonna check with my supplier tomorrow. i 'll tell you if it helps.

wouter.

from rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols)
subject re truetype fonts that display but do not print.
summary adjust outlinethreshold
organization at t
distribution na
lines 30

in article 1993apr17.134725.15882@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu avinash@silver.lcs.mit.edu (avinash chopde) writes
i just installed a new truetype font under ms windows 3.1
but though all the applications display the font correctly on the
screen , quite a few of them fail to print out the document correctly
(on a laserjet 4 non postscript printer).
...
but when i use the windows accessory write , the printer prints square
boxes in place of the characters of the new font. yet , write does
display the font correctly on the screen.

this is a common problem with highly complex truetype fonts. microsoft
admits to a problem with older versions of the postscript printer driver ,
but i 've found it to be pretty generic.

you can get around the problem by adjusting the parameter outlinethreshold
in the truetype section of win.ini. this entry specifies the number of
pels per em at which windows will render truetype fonts as outline fonts
instead of as bitmap fonts. the default is 256. i 've generally been able
to get fonts to work by setting outlinethreshold 160. depending on your
printer resolution and the point size you are using , you may need a
different value.

the windows resource kit warns against going above 300. presumably , that
might cause fonts to print as square boxes or something. (i'm not
smiling.)


bob nichols
at t bell laboratories
rnichols@ihlpm.ih.att.com

from pwb@aerg.canberra.edu.au (paul blackman)
subject re workspace manager for win 3.1 \?
organization university of canberra
lines 26

in article 1r5uml 620@werple.apana.org.au jamie@zikzak.apana.org.au (jamie scuglia) writes
are there any workspace managers out there for windows 3.1 \?

try workshift by karl thoreddson. the latest version is 2.0 (or later \? ) but
the following is at cica in the desktop directory.
wrksft16 zip workshift graphical virtual desktop (ver 1.6)

or email karl and ask him to put version 2.0 up
karl 's email karlth@rhi.hi.is (from the ms write file of v1.6)

i was beta tester for workshift and must say it is very good
(i gain nothing from saying that).
it 'll even remember your workshifts (workspaces as you said) between
windows sessions.

thanks in advance.
your welcome.

o paul blackman pwb@science.canberra.edu.au
o water research centre , pwb@aerg.canberra.edu.au
o faculty of applied science
( ) o university of canberra , australia.

spend a little love and get high
lenny kravitz


from swyatt@bach.udel.edu (stephen l wyatt)
subject re is microsoft windows really and ope
nntp posting host bach.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 24

in article 1pr6r2 t7c@agate.berkeley.edu neff123@garnet.berkeley.edu (stephen kearney) writes

apparently not. many people complain about the confusion that
results from the filemanager progman split. it 's just a basic
flaw.

i have one thing to say why does everyone say that spliting them up is
such a bad thing \? i actually like my program launcher and file manager
do be seperate.. it make things easier to figure out.. i mean , take a look
at os 2 's wps... (no flames ! ).. i personally hate it cause i just
have too much trouble figuring out how to do simple things like file copy..

and do n't say just drag the icon ! .. cause i hate icons in the first place.
i have too much trouble telling what all those little push buttons mean.
i want f ile c opy etc..

although i know i'm in the minority.




swyatt@brahms.udel.edu ! ! ! no disclaimer...i blame everything on someone else



from gamet@erg.sri.com (thomas gamet)
subject keyboard specifications
organization sri international , menlo park , ca
lines 35

to all hardware and firmware gurus

my current home project is to build a huge paddle keyboard for a
physically handicapped relative of mine. my goal is for this keyboard
to look exactly like an at sytle keyboard to its host system.
this will be a highly endowed keyboard with a little pcl from z world
at its heart. the only thing i lack is detailed information on the
hardware signaling that the 486 (with windows 3.1 and dos 5.0) will be
expecting. my project is independant of windows , my hope is that some of
you fellow window 's users programmers will recognize what i need and be
willing to point me in the right direction.

i have the winn l. rosch hardware bible (2nd edition). the hb gives
most (if not all) of the information i will need concerning scan codes
and even a wire diagram for the ps 2 style connector i will need , but it
leaves a number of important questions unanswered.
1. is it synchronous or asynchronous serial communication \? i'm
guessing synchronous since the host is providing a clock. in either
event , how is the data framed \?
2. is it half duplex or truly one way \? i'm guessing half duplex
since the host can turn leds on and off.
3. are there any chipsets available for communicating with the at
keyboard standard (other than by cannibalizing a real keyboard) \?

if anyone knows of a book or article (or any other written source of
information) on the above , please advise me at gamet@erg.sri.com.
whatever i do it must be safe for i cannot afford to replace the 486 in
the event of a booboo.

thank you for your time.
danke fuer ihre zeit.

thomas gamet (gamet@erg.sri.com)
software engineer
sri international

from maley@micro.cs.umn.edu (michael p maley)
subject re gui application frameworks for windows \? \?
nntp posting host micro.cs.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 6

i look at zapp and really liked it. however , i think you should
wait for version 2.0 (i think it will be out soon).

mike maley
maley@cs.umn.edu


from r8102009@ccms.ntu.edu.tw (chia yi lee)
subject re \? \? dos font size in windows \? \?
nntp posting host ccms.ntu.edu.tw
organization ntutaiwan
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 20

s. alavi (ssa@unity.ncsu.edu) wrote

i have an 8514 a card , and i am using windows in 1024x768 mode
(normal 8514 a font , not small). in the 386 enhanced mode
the dos window font is too small for my 14 monitor. is there a
way to spacify the font size for the dos window \? you 'll have to
excuse me if there is a trivial answer , since i am fairly new to
ms windows world.

thanks.

(please include this message for reference)
s. alavi ssa@unity.ncsu.edu (919)467 7909 (h)
(919)515 8063 (w)

as i can recall , you can click on the upper left button of dos window , then
choose font to change. also there is a demo window to show you in advance how
the font you choose will affect the size of dos window. make a try !



from dpiaseck@jarthur.claremont.edu (derek a. piasecki)
subject re ami pro 3.0 and pctools compress \? ! \? does n't like being moved \?
keywords ami pro 3.0 pctools compress
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 13


sorry about that do n't want to alarm anyone...

i do n't think there is any correlation between the crashes and pctools.
i reinstalled ami pro , and ran compress again , with no problems.
i think problems may have been related to filling my disk until it had
0 bytes ( ! ) left while ftping , although i would think it would n't
matter since ami pro was n't running at the time , and i made space available
immediately anyways.
but , whatever , the cause , it is working now.

derek


from aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca (alan walford)
subject ati ultra pro confirmation
reply to aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca
organization eos systems inc , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 25

i have heard many things about the ati ultra pro card. some have
been positive but most are negative. could people please confirm
these \? (i am interested in the eisa version in particular).

1) the card does not work in a system with 32m ram.

2) the card works in a 32m system with some switches
set but it is much slower.

3) the card is interlaced in its 24bit (true colour) modes.

4) the latest build 59 drivers still do not work in many
cases.

5) this card is the fastest full colour card for the money.

6) this card is the greatest thing since sliced bread. )

thanks for your feedback. i will summarize.

al


alan walford eos systems inc. , vancouver , b.c. , canada tel 604 734 8655
aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca or ...uunet ! wimsey.bc.ca ! eosvcr ! aew

from rda771v@monu6.cc.monash.edu.au (a.b. wuysang)
subject re exit codes (dos sorry for wrong group (
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 48

in article 1993apr19.170631.17598@seas.gwu.edu louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis) writes

hey now. first of all , sorry to post this dos question in a windows
group , but i'm in kinda a hurry , so i ca n't scramble to find the dos
groups' names.

anyway , anyone know where i ccan find the exit codes to dos commands \?

there are 3 alternatives
1. you can try to write a small c program something like

int my int var
my int var system( command )

and display my int var value (which is the exit code of the command).

2. or use 4dos.com instead of command.com (it has built in move command)
you can also get any program exist code by using the exec function
of 4dos

c echo @exec command

will display the exit code of the command.

3. get dos 6 , not worth buying if you already have qemm pctools norton ,
and you only need the move utility.

the manual does n't seem to have all of them. i'm particularly looking
for copy , in order to make a move batch file , such that if the file
was n't coppied properly , it wo n't be deleted.


please e'mail louray@seas.gwu.edu
thanks , i.a ,
mickey

pe michael panayiotakis louray@seas.gwu.edu
ace ... ! uunet ! seas.gwu.edu ! louray
how do make a ms windows .grp file reflect a hd directory \? \?
well i ai n't always right , but i 've never been wrong.. (gd)



agus budy wuysang
digitech student
monash university (clayton)
melbourne , australia


from mveraart@fel.tno.nl (mario veraart)
subject re windows help
organization tno physics and electronics laboratory
lines 31

umyin@ccu.umanitoba.ca (qing yin) writes

hi , it 's an easy question for you windows gurus. i 'd appreciate any help.

we need to write an on line help for our application. we do n't have
windows software developer 's toolkit (yet ) ). since we just want to build
a .hlp file around windows' help engine , i hope it wo n't be that complicated \?
anyway , could someone kindly give me some hints of how to build such an
on line help , if it does not take 100 pages to explain \? or if it is complicated ,
would you help to point out what i would need to do it \?



vincent q. yin
umyin@ccu.umanitoba.ca

hi ,

if you have developed your own windows application you must have a
sdk of some sort that contains the hc.exe or hc31.exe file to
compile and generate .hlp files out of .rtf files.
rtf files are generated by a wordprocessor like word for dos or w4w.

if this is not the solution be more specific about your application.

mario

mario veraart tno physics and electronics laboratory
email rioj7@fel.tno.nl the hague the netherlands
if all else fails , show pretty pictures and animated videos ,
and do n't talk about performance , david bailey

from dmittleman@misvms.bpa.arizona.edu (daniel mittleman)
subject re ndw norton desktop for windows
organization university of arizona mis department
lines 16
distribution world
nntp posting host misvms.bpa.arizona.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr17.130528.2773@leland.stanford.edu , shiva@leland.stanford.edu (matt jacobson) writes...

i have an ibm and run windows 3.1. a friend installed norton desktop for
windows on top of this. it loads automatically when i type win , and
surely adds to the (already dismally slow) process of starting up.

i would like to know how to stop or uninstall this program ! !
is there anyone familiar with ndw who can tell me how to turn it off \? \?

1. get the friend to uninstall it.
2. read the manual (though from your post i infer that you are using
pirated software.)
3. go into sys.ini and change the shell line to read shell progman.exe


daniel david mittleman danny@arizona.edu (602) 621 2932

from rjn@teal.csn.org (robert j. niland)
subject re procomm plus for windows problems....
nntp posting host teal.csn.org
organization colorado supernet , inc.
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 292

kentiler@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (kent p. iler) writes

i have normal procomm plus for dos , but i 've been considering buying
the windows version....it got really great reviews in computer shopper.
i have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here
using it , but the screen seems to have a problem keeping up with the
modem....he has a 14 , 400 modem on a 486 50 mhz machine. i ca n't
see it having trouble keeping up. his pcplus for dos works great ,

re what to do after the high speed modem arrives. edition 01 apr 93

this article applies only to windows 3.0 and 3.1 , and not to nt , os 2
or dos apps not running under windows.

one of the unadvertised limitations of most current windows pcs is that
their rs 232c (serial , com) performance is seriously deficient. almost
everyone who purchases a high speed modem (v.32bis , v.32 , pep or hst)
discovers the problem the first time they try to download a file or accept
an incoming fax (at 9600 ) after upgrading the modem. overrun and retry
errors abound , even when the only active application is the datacomm or
fax program. if the transfer completes at all , it may take even longer
than with the old 2400bps modem.


there are three reasons for the problem

1. the universal asynchronous receiver transmitters (uarts) used in most
pcs are primitive ns8250 devices with single byte fifo buffers. if the
operating system driver cannot read and flush each character at high
interrupt rates , the next incoming character overwrites the fifo and
the previous one is lost. dos , being a fairly single minded
environment during datacomm , can usually keep up. windows ca n't.

2. windows has more operating system overhead than plain dos , and
interrupts often take longer to service. overruns are much more likely
than under dos. as soon as you report to your pc modem vendor that you
are losing data , you may be advised that you need to upgrade to a
16550 . more likely , since there seems to be a conspiracy of ignorance
about this issue , you 'll get no useful advice at all. most of the
store front and mail order sources i spoke with in attempting to solve
my own problem had never heard the term 16550 and many did n't even
know what a uart was.

3. even your pc has ns16550a uarts (and ps 2 's do) , or if you can upgrade
your mother com board or add a new com board , you may still experience
errors and overruns because the standard microsoft windows com drivers
do n't take full advantage of the 16550. windows 3.1 is improved in this
regard over 3.0 , but i still recommend a driver upgrade. applications
like procomm win (which is what i use) cannot get around this problem
by themselves.

if you have a modem card , you may not have a problem , as the modem part of
the card can be designed to be aware of the state of the uart , and avoid
overrunning it however , i would n't want to bet that the card designers
were that clever , and will insist on a 16550 uart if i ever buy a modem
card. some modem cards do n't even have conventional uarts , but if they
are to work with standard windows drivers , they need to simulate one.
use msd.exe (below) to see what the modem card is , or is pretending to be.


the hardware situation.

the uarts on most pc com ports are based on national semiconductor ns8250
or ns16450 chips (or megacells inside vlsi chips where you ca n't replace
them). you can id the uart type on your system by running the microsoft
diagnostic program windows msd.exe. be sure to run it in dos before
bringing up windows. the windows serial api may prevent msd from
accurately identifying a 16550 if you run it from a windows dos prompt.

the ns16550 uart has separate 16 byte transmit and receive fifos with
configurable trigger levels , and can run reliably at clock rates up to
460 , 800 bps , although with current modem technology , there 's no point in
pushing your luck by going over 115 , 200 bps. the 16550 has shorted access
cycle times than the 16450 or 8250. the 16550 also has dma capability , but
it is not clear that any pc drivers ever use this. for more technical info ,
see national semiconductor application note an 491.

so , what uart component do you have \?

try to locate the uart on your mother board , multi function i o card , com
board or isa mca modem card. if you ca n't find a socketed component with
the numbers 8250 or 16450 , your com ports are probably buried in vlsi ,
and you wo n't be able to perform a chip replacement. if you can disable
your vlsi com ports (as i chose to do) , you can at least add an aftermarket
com board.

if you have one or more socketed 8250 or 16450 chips , you can buy plug in
ns16550afn or pc16c550cn (low power cmos version) ics from several
suppliers typically for 9 to 15 each. the n chip is the normal 40 pin
dual in line package. other styles are available , but avoid any ns16550
chips without the a (the 16c550c are presumably all ok).

early ns chips have bugs , although national will reportedly exchange those
of their own manufacture for free. clone chips are available from various
ic makers other than national. the manual for the turbocom drivers states
support for the following (apparently equivalent) chips
national semiconductor 16550a , 16551 , 16552
chips technology 82c607
texas instruments t16c550a
silicon systems 73m550
vlsi 16c550
turbocom warns about the pre a ns16550 and western digital 16c550 ,
says that problems have been reported with early ibm ps 2 55sx and 70
systems (ibm reportedly will upgrade them).

if you don't have socketed 8250 16450 chips , you 'll need to buy an after
market com or multi function board. if this is a modem card situation , you
may be hosed. to add a new com or multi function card , you 'll need to
either disable the com1 2 port(s) you are replacing , or re assign them to
com3 4 (although watch out for irq conflicts without turbocom).

although cheaper cards are available , in the interest of getting the
problem solved quickly i elected buy the modular circuit technology
mct aio card from

jdr microdevices
2233 samaritan drive
san jose ca 95124
(800) 538 5000 voice us
(408) 559 1200 voice other
(800) 538 5005 fax us

the mct aio (and the is important) sells for 89.95. it is an 8 bit
isa card providing

port type connector address and irq comments
com db9m com 1 , 2 , 3 irq 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ns16550afn in socket
com ribbon com 2 , 3 , 4 irq 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ns16550afn in socket
parallel db25f lpt1 , 2 , 3 irq 5 , 7
game ribbon

the kit includes a ribbon cable and db25f connector for the secondary com
port , a ribbon cable connector for the game port , two bulkhead plates for
the ribbon based connectors and a 9f to 25f adaptor cable. each port can
be individually disabled , and the com ports have tx , rx , rts , cts , dtr ,
dcd , and dsr jumpers.

jdr also sells a super i o m f card that also has ide.

i have heard from several people about less expensive m f i o cards
with 16550s

tsd systems
(407) 331 9130
19.95 for the card , plus 9.95 per 16550.

greenfield trading and distributors
(518) 271 2473 (voice) , (518) 271 7811(fax).
their card is 33 w one 16550 , 45 w 2 , and they sell 16550afns for 13.

r s data systems , inc.
820 east highway 434
longwood , fl 32750
phone (407) 331 1424
fax (407) 331 8606
2com lpt game card w 2 16550s for 39

i have no personal experience with any of the firms except jdr.

meanwhile , back at the mct card from jdr... i only needed two serial ports ,
and am running out of irqs on my pc , so i disabled my built in vlsi based
8250 ports. however , with the turbocom driver (below) , i could have set
the internals as com3 and 4 , using irq sharing.


the software situation

simply upgrading to 16550 uarts will not completely solve common overrun
problems. the standard ms serial drivers do n't take full advantage of the
16550. the windows 3.0 drivers are even less capable , and the windows 3.1
drivers have the following limitations
they enable only the receive fifo , and only at rates above 2400 bps.
they never enable the transmit fifo , which results in an interrupt
rate of 10x during uploads.
they set the trigger level at 14 bytes (too high it 's easy for 2
more bytes to arrive before the driver can read the fifo).
the ports menu of the control panel only allows speeds up to 19200.
with a v.32bis modem , sparse data and text can easily compress 3 1
or more , suggesting that a host dte connect rate of 57 , 600 bps would
be effective.
the api wo n't accept rates above cbr 128000 .
the api wo n't let dos programs know there is a 16550 there , and even
if it did , dos programs that are n't 16550 aware get little benefit
from a 16550 port with the standard drivers.
they do n't allow irq sharing for com3 , 4.
the bios does n't initialize com3 , 4 properly in many systems.
windows provides no workaround for apps that do n't provide port
speed options above 19200 bps.

these problems are reportedly not solved in windows nt or dos 6.0 , and may
or may not be addressed in any windows releases after 3.1 (but before 4.0).
rumors suggest they may be solved in windows 4.0 .

you can get replacement drivers that solve all of those problems by buying
a copy of turbocom , current version 1.2 , from

bio engineering research
pacific commware division
180 beacon hill lane
ashland or 97520 9701
(503) 482 2744 voice
(503) 482 2627 fax
(503) 482 2633 bbs
mcimail 344 5374
compuserve 71521 , 760

price was around 50 as i recall. bio eng is not set up to accept credit
cards , so i had to send a check. egghead and 1 800 software list turbocom
but as far as i know , they do n't stock it. bio is not a software company
per se. they apparently needed reliable hi speed serial connections for
an in house instrument application , wrote their own driver , discovered a
market for it , revised it to be a general purpose com driver suite. they
recently upgraded it for windows 3.1. it is run time licensed.

i now have my host (dte) connect rate set to 57 , 600 bps most of my
datacomm apps , and i am having zero problems with downloads. i routinely
see transfer rates that exceed 2 , 000 bps. i am also using 115 , 200 bps
when linking an hp95lx to my pc , with lossless bi directional i o.
uploads to various remote systems are another matter , because many hosts
are still using antique uarts and drivers.

note that 19200 is still the highest rate that the windows 3.1 port menu
in control panel will allow in configuring a com port. turbocom gets
around this by allowing you to specify , on each port , a factor that will
set the real uart rate to a multiple of the rate passed through the
windows apis and dialog boxes.

i also have cts rts hardware flow control enabled , and i suggest that you
do the same. even if you only ever transfer 7 bit ascii data , xon xoff is
not a sufficiently reliable method of flow control. the informal (dec)
standard for xon xoff hysteresis is that the sender may transmit another
16 (yes , sixteen) bytes after receipt of the xoff from the receiving
system or device. the 16 byte fifo in the 16550 is clearly not big enough
to let us rely exclusively on xon xoff. a well respected datacomm
engineer has informed me that the 16550 's ca n't really do cts rts all
by itself in the dos windows environment , so using data rates above
115 , 200 may still be risky.

even with hardware flow control , a 16550 with turbocom can still
experience overruns in very busy systems , with lots of apps running and
serious swapping in progress. if this is your situation , you may need to
buy a co processed com board , but this will cost you more than a
16550 turbocom upgrade. a review of two such boards , and a review of
turbocom , can be found in the feb'93 issue of windows sources magazine.
i suggest trying a 16550 turbocom upgrade first , and experiment with
process priorities and time slices if you are a power user whose
thrashing system still runs into comm problems.


closing soapbox comments

the state of rs 232c serial datacomm support is an embarrassment across
the computer industry. because it is the oldest standard i o interface ,
the job of designing hardware and writing software often seems to be
assigned to the least senior or lowest ranked engineers at computer
companies. the design of the average serial port is at least ten years
behind the state of the art. in my last job , with a major workstation
vendor , i lobbied for improved serial ports when they were doing the
initial designs of a new system. that family of machines was
subsequently introduced with 16550 ports. however , this is the
exception. few computer companies seem to have any champions for decent
i o.

you may as well learn what you can about serial i o , because this
situation shows no sign of improving soon. when v.fast arrives , i expect
cries of outrage from windows users world wide whose 8250 pcs sort of
work today with v.32 , but will fail miserably with v.fast. without a
hardware buffered uart (like the 16550) and without software drivers that
use that uart to best advantage , a v.fast modem will be a waste of money.

regards , 1001 a east harmony road
bob niland suite 503
internet rjn@csn.org fort collins co 80525
compuserve 71044 , 2124 (303) 223 5209

copyright 1993 robert j. niland
all rights reserved

permission is granted for automatic redistribution of this article , via
electronic , magnetic and optical media , in an unedited form , through any
usenet newsgroup where the article is posted by the author. permission
is granted for each compuserve and usenet reader subscriber and each
person who received this article from compuserve , an ftp site authorized
by the author or via electronic mail from the author , to retain one
electronic copy and to make hardcopy reproductions of this edition of
this article for personal non commercial use , provided that no material
changes are made to the article or this copyright statement. all other
copying , storage , reproduction or redistribution of this article , in
any form , is prohibited without the express written consent of the
author , robert j. niland.

eof

from dericks@plains.nodak.edu (dale erickson)
subject telix problem
article i.d. ns1.c5umr8.gyp
organization north dakota higher education computing network
lines 9
nntp posting host plains.nodak.edu

when i use telix (or kermit) in win 3.1 , or use telix after exiting windows
to dos , telix can not find the serial port. if you have some ideas on how
to solve this problem or where i can find further information , send me email
or send it to the news group. thanks.

dale erickson
dericks@plains.nodak.edu



from unc4b2@ibm.rhrz.uni bonn.de (christoph steinbeck)
subject z modem up and download with winqvt \?
lines 9
organization chemische institute , university of bonn

hello all ,

i 'd like to know , how z modem upload is initiated in a winqvt script file ,
to check how it works before registering.
unfortunatly , nothing about that feature is mentioned in the manual.
can anybody help me \?

ciao , chris


from slg@slgsun.att.com (the idealistic cynic)
subject how do i quickly switch between windows screen resolutions \?
organization at t bell labs , columbus , ohio
distribution na
nntp posting host slgsun.cb.att.com
lines 18


can someone out there tell me how to switch window 's screen resolution
quickly and easily \? i know that i can go back into install to do it ,
but what i 'd really like is to have is the ability to just change a
couple of startup or configuration files and have the resolution
changed. i already have both video drivers that i need on my system ,
so that is n't a problem.

thanks ,

sean.


sean l. gilley
sean.l.gilley@att.com use this address , all others bounce !
614 236 5031 (h) , 614 860 5743 (w)



from don@hunan.rastek.com (donald owen newbold)
subject re atm... now hplj 4 pricing
organization rastek corporation , huntsville , al
lines 41

while there are too many ps clones to count , some of which are quite poor ,
trying to clone something that goes through regular modifications does require
some patience. three questions come to mid real quick for something like
this.

q which version of adobe ps will we clone \?
aside from the level 1 and level 2 issues , adobe has in the past released
new code that incorporates modifications upgrades fixes just as all other
software vendors do. the level 2 stuff may seem sound now , but i assure
you , changes will become more frequent as their customer list begins to
dwindle in the face of competition. this allows them to shift people to
maintenance , as well as design efforts for level 3.

q do we duplicate the bugs , or do we make it work correctly \?
from the laserwriter to the laserjet 4 there have been bugs. (if i had
a number to call at hp or adobe , they'ld have heard from me.) deciding
which approach to take depends on which printer you want to emulate.

q do we follow the red book , or do we follow someone 's implementation \?
without a doubt , there are differences between the red book and adobe 's
ps. with level 2 many issues have been refined but the red book does
leave big , big holes in the implementation specific stuff. it would be
nice it the red bood at least pined things down enough so that two
different implementations of adobe 's ps do n't do the exact opposite given
an identical set of conditions.

q pscript.drv \?
having done a lot of ps clone testing myself , the unfortunate side of
testing is the limited number of sources for test files. the primary
source we use is genoa. and having characterizes their 1992 ps ats files ,
(1300 of them) over half are taken from pscript.drv. it may not ideal ,
but the ats files are what the printer vendors use. i'm sure that adobe
uses them too , but adobe 's output is by definition correct , even if its
wrong.

yes , there are some very poor clones. we 've seen them here at rastek (a sub
of genicom which has its own clone called geniscript). some are poor for lack
of design , some are poor because they followed the red book , and some are poor
because the vendors do n't know what ps is.

don newbold don@rastek.com

subject help with changing startup logo
from c..doelle@p26.f3333.n106.z1.fidonet.org (c. doelle)
lines 23

hello brad !

monday april 26 1993 17 24 , brad smalling wrote to (crosspost 1) all

bs for a vga card these are the correct files but you ca n't just copy them
bs back and expect it to work. you have to create a new win.com file. try
bs the command (you will have to worry about what directories each file is in
bs since i do n't know your setup)

bs copy b win.cnf vgalogo.lgo vgalogo.rle win.com

bs (i grabbed this from supercharging windows by judd robbins great book)
bs this is also how you can put your own logo into the windows startup
bs screen. an rle file is just a specially compressed bmp file.

brad ,
what is the procedure used to 'specially' compress the bmp file \? i would
love to use some of my bmp files i have created as a logo screen. thanks

chris


origin chris.doelle.@f3333.n106.z1.fidonet.org (1 106 3333.26)

from tittle@ics.uci.edu (cindy tittle moore)
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
nntp posting host alexandre dumas.ics.uci.edu
reply to tittle@ics.uci.edu (cindy tittle moore)
organization ics dept. , uc irvine
keywords printer
lines 25

in c @byu.edu ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton) writes

the deskjet is slow. this is in comparison to the other printers i
mentioned. i have no idea how the bubblejet compares.

the interface between win3.1 and the printer is just dandy , i 've not
had any problems with it.

i just bought a bj 200 printer a couple of days ago. i compared it to the
sample print of an hp deskjet 500 and knew that the hp was n't for me. the
bj 200 is pretty fast and really prints with good quality. i can compare it
with the hp laserjet iiid postscript and they look almost identical (
depending on the kind of paper). i do n't have problems with the ink not
being dry , it seems to dry very fast. probably within a second. since
canon is giving a 50 rebate until the end of may , it is really a good buy.

how much is the bj going for \? i got mine for 300 which was in the
end the deciding factor for me.

cindy

cindy tittle moore

internet tittle@ics.uci.edu bitnet cltittle@uci.bitnet
uucp ... ! ucbvax ! ucivax ! tittle usnail po box 4188 , irvine ca , 92716

from chen@protostar.harvard.edu
subject re bbbbig problem with w4w print file. help ! ! ! !
organization harvard smithsonian center for astrophysics
distribution world
lines 34


in article 1993mar31.014237.28478@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca dwoo@unb.ca writes
to all the w4w experts

i have a file that is three pages long with 10 to 12 1 line equations
plus a 5 by 2 diagram. the size of this file is about 81kb before
unlinking all the embedded objects and 30kb after unlinking all the
embedded objects. well , when i print it (since i do n't have a laser
printer , i have to send it to a print file) , w4w gives me back a
bbbbbbig file that is well over 6mb long. i just fail to see how a 81k
file can be boosted to a 6mb file. obviously , i will not able to carry
this 6mb file to the public printer unless i find myself a network
card , a cable etc.

could anyone please enlighten me with a solution \? (i already try to
print a page at a time , it still wo n't fit into a hd floppy)

thanx a mil.




dennis woo department of mechanical engineering
e mail dwoo@unb.ca university of new brunswick
tel (506) 453 4513



i once had this problem. all i did was to copy the whole doc to a new file. the problem
was gone. hope this helps.

hua



from zmola@bert.eecs.uic.edu (carl zmola)
subject re workspace managers for win 3.1 a small review
organization university of illinois at chicago
lines 32

cah@tactix.rain.com (chris huey) writes

jamie scuglia (jamie@zikzak.apana.org.au) wrote
thanks to all those people who recommended workspace managers for
windows 3.1. i found 3 shareware workspace managers , from australia 's
ms windows archive (monu6.cc.monash.edu.au) , which mirrors some
sites in the u.s. the three i found were

1. workspaces 1.10 (wspace.zip)
review deleted
2. workshift 1.6 (wrksft16.zip)
review deleted
3. bigdesk 2.30 and backmenu (backdesk.zip)
review deleted

i really appreciate this information. however , given that i do n't have
direct internet access which means i do n't have archie access i must
resort to using ftpmail. this means that i need the site name and the
directory where these workspace managers are located.

backdesk.zip is on cica , but i'm not sure of the whole directory.

another to throw into the running is topdesk. it is alsow on cica , but
i'm not sure where. it is more complicated then backdesk , but i 've found
it to be more stable and more usefull. i recomend it to people who
have already used a virtual desktop. oh yeh , it 's free.
copyright microsoft and sanford staab.


carl
zmola@cicero.spc.uchicago.edu


from shiva@leland.stanford.edu (matt jacobson)
subject windows errors and a bad memory
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 18

hi. my last question for the year. i have a mail order no name notebook
with 4 meg ram. i never have problems with my huge ramdisk or when
running desqview , but win3.1 and w4w2.0 constantly crash on me , most
commonly citing a memory parity error. the only thing i can do is turn
off and re boot. my cmos ticks off counts all the memory every startup ,
and there is never a problem with this either.

could it be a bug in my windows copy instead of the hardware \? i remember
having some disk error problems when installing it.


is there any change i could make to lessen the frequency or likelyhood of
this happening (i think win vs win s produce different crashes , but both
crash frequently nonetheless)

i know this is a pain , but please answer by email because my home account
does n't have rn. and i will stop asking questions now. thank you.
chet pager chetter@ucthpx.uct.ac.za

from weidlich@arb phys.uni dortmund.de (weidlich)
subject searching for a phonetic font
organization institut f. arbeitsphysiologie a.d. uni dortmund
lines 13

i'm searching for a phonetic truetype font for windows 3.1. if
anybody knows one , please mail me !

thanks.

dw



dipl. inform. dietmar weidlich ifado , ardeystr. 67
weidlich@arb phys.uni dortmund.de d 4600 dortmund 50
phone 49 231 1084 250 dr. b. koennten sie das
fax 49 231 1084 401 mal eben erledigen \?

from debrown@hubcap.clemson.edu (david e. brown)
subject re drivers for stealth 24
organization clemson university
lines 16

doug ward writes

i recently purchased a diamond stealth 24 video card and received
the wrong drivers. does anyone know where i can ftp the proper
drivers \? the dstlth file at cica does not work with
this video card. please respond to doug@sun.sws.uiuc.edu

thank you
doug ward

if you want to get them and get them now (also the most up to date) use
the bbs at 1 408 439 9096. they may take an hour to download so do it
when rates are low. yeah , i know it costs but locking up your system
gets old quick. maybe someone has them on the net. i 've got the
stealth drivers.
david

from carlos@carlos.jpr.com (carlos dominguez)
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
reply to carlos@carlos.jpr.com
organization helldiver usenet node , brooklyn , new york , usa
lines 17
x newsreader helldiver 1.07 (waffle 1.64)

in 1993apr15.180633.3437@trintex.uucp charles@tinman.dev.prodigy.com () writes

have you tried re installing the software \? otherwise i would be dubious about
simple ways to change that screen. is it not designed to be an embarassment to
would be pirates \?

so when is prodigy going to open the doors for inetgate to accept
internet mail eh \?

obviously if you can post news , mail should go through as well..



. carlos dominguez sysadmin kibbitzer
) carlos@carlos.jpr.com
( ( ( ( .. carlos@carlos.uucp carlos ! carlos (bang)

from holmes7000@iscsvax.uni.edu
subject win 3.0 icon help please !
organization university of northern iowa
lines 10

i have win 3.0 and downloaded several icons and bmp 's but i ca n't figure out
how to change the wallpaper or use the icons. any help would be appreciated.


thanx ,

brando

ps please e mail me


from ewoo@unixg.ubc.ca (emile woo)
subject help ! disappearing groups ! ! !
organization university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 30
distribution world
nntp posting host unixg.ubc.ca

salutations !
i do n't usually subscribe to these newsgroups so i would really
appreciate it if someone could possibly e mail me the answer to my problem.
i have been using windows 3.1 since buying it last winter but i have just
now come across an annoying bug. i now have about 8 different groups in
program manager but it seems that everytime i install something new that
makes a new group , it promptly disappears after i turn of windows !
this happened when i installed excel and winfax pro v.3. they both created
their own groups but when i turned off windows and reran them , they were
gone. i had to manually pull them up as new items and put them in a
previously existing group as all new gropus disappear as soon as i turn
off windows.
my set up
precision 386dx 25 w 4 megs
trident 8900c with 1 meg
windows 3.1 running in 800x600 colour mode
logitech mouseman

thank you in advance !

emile woo
ewoo@unixg.ubc.ca





emile woo , student representative to senate .sig unavailable. holding
internet ewoo@unixg.ubc.ca referendum to decide politic
tel 822 6101 ally correct witticism.

from kjetilk@stud.cs.uit.no (kjetil kolin)
subject proteced mode
organization university of tromsoe
lines 1

i'm looking for information how w nt uses proteced mode. (the hw support)

from dsiegel@optima.cs.arizona.edu (seagull)
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
lines 54


the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.
hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.

there are some things you might be interested to know about today 's risc
processors. it is true that there are fewer instructions , but what is
not commonly known is that this causes the size of your executables to
swell , so that in some cases performance is similar for larger applications.
as a compromise , many risc processors today are actually a cross between
a reduced instructions set , and a complex one.

this is not to say that there is no future in cisc processors , intel has
certainly proved that.

what i want to know , is what does this have to do with this group \?

dave



subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
newsgroups comp.unix.dos under unix , comp.sys.ibm.pc.misc , comp.sys.ibm.pc.net , comp.os.ms windows.apps , comp.os.ms windows.misc , alt.uu.comp.os.linux.questions , comp.apps.spreadsheets , comp.misc , alt.os.linux , comp.os.linux , man.linux
references 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au

from article 1qu8ud 2hd@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au , by eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au
in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.



some people say it 's fun , but i think it 's very serious.
eugene@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au


dave siegel (ds4)
president , rtd systems and networking , inc.
president , uofaz hardware and computing knowledge society (hacks)
dsiegel@cs.arizona.edu dsiegel@hacks.arizona.edu dsiegel@rtd.com

from adriene nazaretian@qm.yale.edu (aln go ny giants ! )
subject re re win nt what is it \? \? \?
nntp posting host gorgon.cis.yale.edu
organization yale university new haven , connecticut usa
lines 72

in article 16apr93.02170289@vax.clarku.edu , rmohns@vax.clarku.edu says

in a previous article , alanchem@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (alan scott olson) wrote
two part question

1) what is windows nt a 'real' windows os \?

2) this past weekend , a local 'hacker' radio show metioned a new product
from microsoft called 'chicago' if i recall. anyone know what this is \?

that is it

thanks a heap.

alan

windows nt is a giant windows operating system. unline win3.1 , it does not
run on top of dos. it is its own os , with (billy gates assures us) true
multi tasking multithreading , meets dod security specs , will run win3.1
programs as well as dos programs , has multi processor support , and is
primarily a server program. it 's overhead is too high for it to be
economical for most users.

it also runs os 2 character based apps and posix apps. the dos , 16bit
and 32 bit windows apps run in a windows 32 bit subsystem.

if you consider the fact that nt has
the lanman redirectors ,
built in support for tcp ip
built in support for netbeui
comes with tcp utils like ping and an ftp client , etc
applications like schedule and a 32 bit version of msmail

the storage argument isnt an issue.

speaking of overhead , it requires at least a 386 with 16 megs of ram.
it iwll run with 12 , but that 's like running os 2 2.0 with 4 megs. and that 's
just to run it. also , i have heard that the system files take up 30 50 megs ,
and it is recommended that your drive be a half gig ! the skd is distributed
on cd rom.


i ran it on a 486 with 8mram and it did a ton of disk swapping , with a 19m
virtual memory paging file. it functioned but it crawled. (this was the oct
build)

i upgraded the machine to 16m and the performance is good ,
at that point i installed the march build. consider they
are probably still working on the feature set , and havent done a lot of fine
tuning to the code yet.

chicogo is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true os with thrue
multitasking and multithreading , but has much smaller hardware requirements ,
and does not meet dod security specs (but that 's okay since it will probably
be more of a client os). there are a few otehr differences , but those are the
main ones. there was an article about chicogo in pc week last august.
the chicogo and nt development groups at micro oft are in intense
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will
arise nt will be the server ( n etowrk t echonology) , chicogo will be the
client machine. it is entirely possible for different os 's to work together ,
partly because chicogo is just a small nt (think of it that way , anyway).
(novell netware creates an os on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't
scorn the concept.)
anyway , do n't expect it soon. windows 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be
released next year (read see it in 95) , so i expect that chicogo wo n't be out
til '96.

i have little info on chicago so i cant make a comparison. is it in beta \? is
there anyone out there who has tested both and cares to make a comparison \?
just my 0.02

aln

from djserian@flash.lakeheadu.ca (reincarnation of elvis)
subject speeding up windows
keywords speed
lines 19

i have a 386 33 with 8 megs of memory

i have noticed that lately when i use programs like wpfw or corel draw
my computer boggs down and becomes really sluggish !

what can i do to increase performance \? what should i turn on or off

will not loading wallpapers or stuff like that help when it comes to
the running speed of windows and the programs that run under it \?

thanx in advance

derek


derek j.p. serianni e mail djserian@flash.lakeheadu.ca
'o.o' sociologist it 's 106 miles to chicago , we 've got a full tank
( ) lakehead university of gas , half a pack of cigarettes , it 's dark , and
u thunder bay , ontario we 're wearing sunglasses. elwood blues

from rnichols@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (robert.k.nichols)
subject re copy move files in file manager
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 25

in article c58tsf.5ye@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu rsc3e@orion.lib.virginia.edu (scott crittenden) writes
my understanding is that , to copy files from one directory to another on
the same drive in file manager (using a mouse) , you hold down the ctrl key
while dragging the file from one directory 's window to the other. this
works for me... about 98 of the time. the other 2 , the file gets
moved rather than copied. anybody else encountered this \?
...

i tried to respond by email , but all attempts bounced.

the condition of the ctrl key before you press the mouse button makes no
difference whatsoever. you have to be holding the ctrl key when you
release the mouse button if you want to force a copy operation.

here 's a simple experiment. select a file and begin to drag it (no ctrl
key). notice that the file 's icon disappears from the listing window. now
watch what happens to that icon as you press and release the ctrl key
(keeping the mouse button pressed all the while). in addition , the icon
that you are dragging will show a while you are holding the ctrl key ,
indicating that the file is being copied rather than moved.


bob nichols
at t bell laboratories
rnichols@ihlpm.ih.att.com

subject re windows for workgroups and lan workplace
from flint.waters@uwyo.edu (flint waters)
distribution comp.os.ms windows.apps , comp.os.ms windows.misc , comp.os.ms , world
organization university of wyoming
nntp posting host sheriff.uwyo.edu
lines 13


now does anyone know if it is possible to use w4wg and lan workplace
for dos at the same time.

ie can i access a file on another pc while being logged on to the
mainframe at the same time , simultaneously.

yup. we 're using both and they work just fine. hopefully , someday wfwg
will communicate over lwp tcpip. right now we have to load netbeui.

i use odi with odinsup and all works well.



from steinark@edb.tih.no (steinar kleven)
subject re windows help
nntp posting host beta.edb.tih.no
organization trondheim college of engineering
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 38

mario veraart (mveraart@fel.tno.nl) wrote
umyin@ccu.umanitoba.ca (qing yin) writes

hi , it 's an easy question for you windows gurus. i 'd appreciate any help.

we need to write an on line help for our application. we do n't have
windows software developer 's toolkit (yet ) ). since we just want to build
a .hlp file around windows' help engine , i hope it wo n't be that complicated \?
anyway , could someone kindly give me some hints of how to build such an
on line help , if it does not take 100 pages to explain \? or if it is complicated ,
would you help to point out what i would need to do it \?



vincent q. yin
umyin@ccu.umanitoba.ca

hi ,

if you have developed your own windows application you must have a
sdk of some sort that contains the hc.exe or hc31.exe file to
compile and generate .hlp files out of .rtf files.

no , u can download what \? \? .zip from ftp.cica.indiana.edu
this package from ms is all u need to buid (simple \? ) .hlp
files from rich text format files (.rtf). this package
also contains .dot tamplates for ms word4win.

rtf files are generated by a wordprocessor like word for dos or w4w.

if this is not the solution be more specific about your application.

mario

mario veraart tno physics and electronics laboratory
email rioj7@fel.tno.nl the hague the netherlands
if all else fails , show pretty pictures and animated videos ,
and do n't talk about performance , david bailey

from rajiev@cfmu.eurocontrol.be (rajiev gupta)
subject re questions about windows nt. help !
nntp posting host shelduck
organization eurocontrol central flow management unit
keywords windows nt , unix , sun sparc
lines 36

in article c562cq.fc7@ms.uky.edu shan@ms.uky.edu (minghua shan) writes

i do n't know much about windows nt , but i 've always thought
that win nt would run only on intel 386 486 compatable systems.
we are setting up a network which includes a sun sparc server 4 490
and about a dozen pc 's. some people suggest that we run windows nt
on the sun sparc server 4 490 replacing the current os (sunos).
i do n't know whether this is possible and whether this would do us any
good. i would appreciate any help on answering a few questions below.

1. does windows nt run on sun sparc server 490 \?
2. if the answer to question 1 is yes , does it run unix applications
(such as sas for unix).
3. is windows nt a multiuser os \?
4. when will windows nt be released \?
5. is there any telephone number that i can call and get more
info on win nt \?

thank you.

minghua shan

as far as i have read win nt will be supported on intel , dec alpha and the mips r4000
series of processors only. i do remember though reading a rumour about sparc support
sometime in the future. i am not sure what you mean by running unix applications .
you would have to have sas for win nt (or maybe sas for win16 etc). i have read
that ms will anounce avalaibility of win nt by end of may 93 (comdex spring). hope
this helps.

rajiev gupta


rajiev gupta eurocontrol cfmu disclaimer
rajiev@cfmu.eurocontrol.be rue de la loi 72 these are my views ,
tel 32 2 729 33 12 b 1040 bruxelles not my companies.
fax 32 2 729 32 16 belgium

from alee@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (alec lee)
subject comm.drv replacement
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci.
lines 15

there was a recent post about a bbs where you could download a replacement
for comm.drv (win 3.x) that fixed a lot of the problems with high speed
modems. does anyone know of an ftp site where i can get it \?

thanks ,

alec lee


alec lee aslee@diana.cair.du.edu (303) 871 5744
alee@cs.du.edu

sexy \? but what 's wrong with being sexy
nigel tufnel , spinal tap


from kmembry@viamar.uucp (kirk membry)
subject moving icons
reply to rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry
organization private system
lines 9

i remember reading about a program that made windows icons run away
from the mouse as it moved near them. does anyone know the name
of this program and the ftp location (probably at cica)



kirk membry our age is the age of industry
rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry alexander rodchenko


from tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen)
subject rfd comp.os.ms windows.nt. misc , setup
organization software metrics inc.
lines 76
nntp posting host rodan.uu.net

this is the official request for discussion (rfd) for the creation of two
new newsgroups for microsoft windows nt. this is a second rfd , replacing
the one originally posted in january '93 (and never taken to a vote). the
proposed groups are described below

name comp.os.ms windows.nt.setup
status unmoderated.
purpose discussions about setting up and installing windows nt , and about
system and peripheral compatability issues for windows nt.

name comp.os.ms windows.nt.misc
status unmoderated.
purpose miscellaneous non programming discussions about using windows nt ,
including issues such as security , networking features , console
mode and windows 3.1 (win16) compatability.

rationale
microsoft nt is the newest member of the microsoft windows family
of operating systems (or operating environments for those who wish
to argue about the meaning of an os ). the family ranges from
modular windows through windows 3.1 and windows for workgroups to
windows nt at the high end. to date , microsoft has shipped over
50 , 000 beta copies and pre release sdks of windows nt the
actual release is slated for may june '93.

while windows nt has an entirely new design internally , it shares
an application programming interface with the other members of the
windows family its win32 api includes the win16 api used in win
dows 3.1 , and the win32s api subset (win32 less threads , networking
and security) can be used to create 32 bit applications for
windows 3.1.

the user interface is also practically identical to that of windows
3.1 , with the addition of logins and a few other features. it uses
program manager , file manager and other applets , and generally pre
sents an identical appearance to the user. many of the announced
windows nt applications are ports of existing windows 3.1 apps , and
nt also runs existing 3.1 applications.

thus , it appears logical that windows nt should share the following
groups with the other members of the windows family
comp.os.ms windows.apps
comp.os.ms windows.programmer.tools
comp.os.ms windows.programmer.misc
comp.os.ms windows.programmer.win32

the following groups are also clearly applicable to windows nt as
well as windows 3.1
comp.os.ms windows.announce
comp.os.ms windows.advocacy

in conclusion , the only clear argument for the separation of the
windows 3.1 and windows nt hierarchies is different internal
structures of windows 3.1 and windows nt. and yet operating
systems such as os 2 , macintosh os , xenix and coherent all have
undergone major rewrites without having been split into separate
newsgroup hierarchies.

further , windows 3.1 is due for a major rewrite itself in 1994
when the fully 32 bit , protected mode and with dos built in next
generation windows , chicago , debuts next year , surely it should
remain in the same hierarchy. and what , then , would be the jus
tification for separating windows nt from other windows versions \?


discussion period
the discussion period will run from 27 april , 1992 to 18 may , 1993.

voting
the cfv (call for votes) will be issued around 19 may , 1993 , based on
the feedback received during the discussion period. no votes will
be accepted prior to the cfv.

tom haapanen tomh@metrics.com software metrics inc waterloo , ont
stick your index fingers into both corners of your mouth. now pull
up. that 's how the corrado makes you feel. car , january '93

from kwilson@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (kirtley wilson)
subject mirosoft office package
article i.d. news.1993apr6.183345.28238
organization northwestern university , evanston illinois.
lines 31
nntp posting host unseen1.acns.nwu.edu

i am in charge of purchasing some computer software for a small office and i
have a few question about microsoft 's office pack.

1) i was wondering , are the programs that are packaged with the office
pack winword , power point , excel , and ccmail complete and the latest
addition \?

2) are the programs hobbled in any way \?

3) can we update single programs at a latter date ( i.e. from excel 4.0 to
excel 5) \?

4) do you receive all of the necessary disks and documentation \?

5) is there anything that i should be aware of that makes the office package
less of deal that it seems \?

sorry if i seem skeptical put the price for the office package 439.39 on the
street sounds like a great deal for the office that is purchasing its first
computer and software. but all four complete programs for less than 450
makes me just a little suspicious. maybe its just me.

thanks for your help in advance

kirt wilson
northwestern university



internet kwilson@casbah.acns.nwu.edu
bitnet kwilson@casbah

from craig@monster.apd.saic.com (craig lewis)
subject re please refresh on internet access to compuserve
organization saic , reston , va
lines 31

cheong@solomon.technet.sg (scstech admin) writes

hi ,

sometime ago there are some discussions on gaining compuserve access thru
the internet. but i seem to misplace those articles. can someone please
refresh me where (which site) i can telnet to to gain access.

try telnet 128.196.128.234 , login to cserve

this will get you into the compuserve network. enter hostname cis and you 'll get
the userid prompt.

hopefully i can download files as well.

i have n't , if you can figure it out let me know. also , let me know if your
backspace key works )

thanks ,


arthur lim
email arthur@mailhost.scs.com.sg



craig lewis
saic
703 318 4756
craig@monster.apd.saic.com


from bo@horus.cem.msu.edu (bo peng)
subject re more diamond ss 24x
organization michigan state university
lines 30
nntp posting host horus.cem.msu.edu

from article 1993apr20.195853.16179@samba.oit.unc.edu , by dil.admin@mhs.unc.edu (dave laudicina)
has anyone experienced a faint shadow at all resolutions using this
card. is only in windows. i have replaced card and am waiting on
latest drivers. also have experienced general protection fault errors
in wspdpsf.drv on winword tools option menu and in winfax setup.
i had a ati ultra but was getting genral protection fault errors
in an spss application. these card manufactures must have terrible
quality control to let products on the market with so many bugs.
what a hassle. running on gateway 2000 dx2 50.
thx dave l


you 're using drivers version 2.02 or earlier. the latest is 2.03 , available
from their bbs or by snailmail. it at least fixes the wfw problem.

the reason i wanted to reply in public instead of private mail is because
of following i talked to their tech support a few days ago and was told
that i can expect a new version near the end of the month. which should be
about now...

however , i have a problem when switching back from a dos session in standard
mode. apparently they do n't know of this problem and seem to be surprised
why anybody would want to use standard mode at all.


it 's a great card for the price , at least when i bought it. now there may be
better alternatives.


bo peng

from btbg1194@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (bradley t banko)
subject dos quick c 2.5 crashes windows 3.1 \?
reply to b banko@uiuc.edu
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 22

i am using dos quick c 2.5 in a dos window under windows 3.1 , and the other
day while i was running the compiler , i got a general protection fault
immediately followed by a serious disk error . when i rebooted , i found
that about 15 files had gotten cross linked which is a pretty serious
corruption of the hard drive file system.

i am concerned that quick c in a dos window has somehow strayed outside
its protected mode world and corrupted the smartdrv.exe disk cache and
that is what caused the disk problem.

i thought that dos programs run in dos windows were pretty well contained
by windows. if that is true , then maybe the quick c compiler has nothing
to do with it. has anybody else had this type of problem \?

(i only recently upgraded from quick c 2.0 to 2.5.)

brad banko


brad banko dept of physics u of illinois b banko@uiuc.edu

see one. do one. teach one. 73 de kb8cne @ n9lnq.il

from saz@hook.corp.mot.com (scott zabolotzky)
subject .gif to .bmp
organization motorola , inc.
distribution usa
nntp posting host 129.188.122.164
lines 12


does anybody have any idea where i could find a program that can
convert a .gif image into a .bmp image suitable for a windows
wallpaper (i.e. 256 colors). hopefully there 's something out there
i can get from an ftp site somewhere...

thanks in advance...

scott




from de7043@medtronic.com (don eller)
subject re midi files on ms win3.1 and soundblaster 1.0 \?
article i.d. medtron.1993apr22.190051.23597
organization medtronic , inc.
lines 31
nntp posting host bhutan.inst.medtronic.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

the cybard (dudek@acsu.buffalo.edu) wrote
i have a 486dx 33 computer with a soundblaster 1.0 card. i'm running
microsoft windows v3.1. i have the sb driver set up properly to play
normal sounds (.wav files , etc.). i want to play midi files through the
media player that is included with windows. i know i have to set up the
patch maps or something in the midi mapper in the control panel. i know
nothing about midi. (this is to be the way i 'll get my feet wet.)

how do i set up windows so that i can play midi files \?
if you install the soundblaster windows drivers correctly , and have
the latest drivers , the media player should be setup to play files
authored to microsoft 's multimedia midi authoring standard (general
midi) , see the section in the back of the voyetra manual in the
soundblaster midi upgrade kit.
you 'll find that midi files exist with all kinds of different
mappings , so do n't expect them to always sound correct without using
some kind of midi file editor , such as voyetra 's sequencer plus.

you can attempt to use the midi mapper to remap the patches for
soundblaster , but since you cannot modify the sbfm.drv you are allways
stuck with the instruments that come with this driver. unless you can
find an editor for making modifications to the instrument settings in
sbfm.drv , i would suggest you locate the early version of
soundblaster drivers that were mapped to mt32 voices , and the later
drivers that are mapped to the general midi voices.


david thomas dudek v098pwxs@ubvms.bitnet the cybard
state university dudek@sun.acsu.buffalo.edu ` ' ) , , ,
of new york if music be the food of love , ()
@ buffalo play on ! wm. shakespeare ` . . ) '''

from wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom)
subject re windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 17
nntp posting host access.digex.net



in article 1993apr16.155637.15398@oracle.us.oracle.com ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco) writes
from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject windows 3.1 keeps crashing please help
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 56 37 gmt

as the subjects says , windows 3.1 keeps crashing (givinh me gpf) on me of
late. it was never a very stable package , but now it seems to crash every
day. the worst part about it is that it does not crash consistently ie i

there is a way in sys.ini to turn off ram parity checking (unfortunately ,
my good windows references are at home , but any standard win reference
will tell you how to do it. if not , email back to me.) that weird memory
may be producing phony parity errors. danger is , if you turn checkling off ,
you run the slight risk of data corruption due to a missed real error.


from thomas.d.fellrath.1@nd.edu@nd.edu
subject re canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
keywords printer
organization university of notre dame
lines 64

in article 1993apr18.041741.6051@csd newshost.stanford.edu kayman@csd d 3.stanford.edu (robert kayman) writes
from kayman@csd d 3.stanford.edu (robert kayman)
subject canon bj200 (bubblejet) and hp deskjet 500...
keywords printer
date 18 apr 93 04 17 41 gmt


hello fellow 'netters.

i am asking for your collected wisdom to help me decide which printer i
should purchase , the canon bj200 (bubblejet) vs. the hp deskjet 500. i
thought , rather than trust the salesperson , i would benefit more from
relying on those who use these printers daily and use them to their fullest
potential. and , i figure all of you will know their benefits and pitfalls
better than any salesperson.

now , i would greatly appreciate any information you could render on the 360
dpi of the canon bubblejet vs. the hewlett packard deskjet 500 (300 dpi).
which is faster \? is there a noticeable print quality difference ,
particularly in graphics \? which will handle large documents better (75
pages or more) any personal experience on either will be appreciated
here \? which works better under windows 3.1 (any driver problems , etc) \?
cost of memory , font packages , toner cartridges , etc \? basically , your
personal experiences with either of these machines is highly desirable ,
both good and bad.

advance kudos and thanks for all your input. e mail or news posting is
readily acceptable , but e mail is encouraged (limits bandwidth).


sincerely ,

robert kayman kayman@cs.stanford.edu or cpa@cs.stanford.edu

in theory , theory and practice are the same. in practice , they are not.
you mean you want the revised revision of the original revised revision
revised \? ! \? !


all right. not saying i know any more than the average salesguy , i 'll give
your question a shot.

the key issue that i bought my bj 200 on was ink drying speed. you really
have to try awful hard to get the bj 200 ink to smear. the hp deskjets need
10 15 seconds to completely dry. in both cases , however , do not get your
pages wet. unlike laser printers , the material on your pages is ink , not
toner. but that should go without saying.

my pc has very little memory (only 2meg ram) , so the bj 200 takes a little
while to print but every application i use takes a while to run. once
the computer is solely printing , it purs like a kitten and puts pages out
every 15 30 seconds , depending on how detailed your graphics are.

the bj 200 can do windows soft fonts. i'm assuming that the deskjet can , or
hp would n't sell many......

size is another factor. the bj 200 is much smaller , but the hp is built
like a tank. i bet the bj 200 would get damaged first.

finally , the print quality. i love the bj 200 's resolution. it looks like
a good laser quality print. the hp 's i 've used.....they look like ink. not
as impressive.

so , i chose the canon. any other opinions \?

from rcaldrn@med.miami.edu (richard calderon)
subject re moving icons
nntp posting host epistat.med.miami.edu
organization university of miami , medical school
lines 17

kmembry@viamar.uucp (kirk membry) writes

i remember reading about a program that made windows icons run away
from the mouse as it moved near them. does anyone know the name
of this program and the ftp location (probably at cica)

as i remember it , the name of the program your looking for is called icofrite.
cica was where i saw it last. it was quite a while ago.



richard calderon rcaldrn@epi.med.miami.edu
university of miami school of medicine
information systems computing
1029 nw 15 st.
miami , florida 33136


from yuting@xenon.stanford.edu (eugene y. kuo)
subject any updated canon bj 200 driver \?
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 8

hi ... can anyone tell me where i can get a copy of updated canon bj 200
printer driver for windows 3.1 , if any \? i have ver 1.0 which comes with
my bj 200 printer , i just wonder if there is any newer version.

thanks very much , please email.




from ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (iskandar taib)
subject re windows 3.1 general questions
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 30

in article 1495@heimdall.sdrc.com crgruen@sony1.sdrc.com (robert gruen) writes
1. i received amish utilities for windows when i purchased turbo c for
windows. what is amish utilities \? what can it do for me \? all i
received was the disk , no docs.

maybe it milks the dogcow \? 9 )


2. i am running windows in 1024x768x256 mode using a driver that was supplied
with my svga card. the card is a boca svga card with 1meg ram , and i think
it has an et4000 chip in it (at least thats what some program tells me).
the driver is an old driver that was written for windows 3.1 , it seems to
work fine , but would i gain any benefits by switching to a newer driver \? if
so which one should i use and where could i find it \?

lots of drivers are available off ftp.cica.indiana.edu in pub pc win3
drivers video. i 've tried two et4cview.zip and et4turbo.zip. these
give you a choice of turbo and non turbo drivers. the turbo drivers
were fast but caused mouse problems with my machine (which has a
diamond speedstar card). i finally got turbo drivers (wndspeed by
binar) from diamond. amazing. blazingly fast (for a non accelerated
card) and best of all no gpf 's for a month or so...





iskandar taib the only thing worse than peach ala
internet ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu frog is frog ala peach
bitnet ntaib@iubacs !

from ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
subject re icons gone
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 26
reply to ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , hsano@cs.ulowell.edu (hitoshi sano) says

i'm not sure if this is the proper place to post this.

the icons on win3.1 program manager have all dissapeared and i need to
restore them. the files all seem to be there on the disk and i think there
must be a better way than re installing everything. thanks for any help !


hmmmmm you know this happened to me also.
i am not sure what caused it. i think there might have been
a system error and dumped windows. i came back and all was well
except no groups. program manager was empty. all the .grp files were
in the directory. i had to remake the groups with the new and group
selection. all the icons and files inside the groups were still there
and working fine. just the groups had gone out of program manager.

strange ! ! ! !
c ya..... artin


this communication is sent by artin university of arizona tucson

ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu mlinsenb@ccit.arizona.edu mlinsenb@arizvms
death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings

from miyoshi@psych.toronto.edu (hiroto miyoshi)
subject qestion about amipro demo files on cica
organization department of psychology , university of toronto
distribution na
lines 18

hello

i have a question about the demo files for amipro v3 uploaded in cica.
i downloaded it and tryied to install it. however , it did n't work.
in addition , it altered or eliminated my nwres2.dll file so that i had
to reinstall my norton desktop again.

is there anything i have to know to install it or do i eventually have
to ask lotus to send a working model to me (i heard that they have it) \?
i just want to see its look and feel before buying it.

any pointer would be greatly appreciated.
thank you

hiroto
miyoshi@psych.toronto.edu



from bagoly@ludens.elte.hu
subject pc tcp onpredir with windows
organization eotvos university , budapest , hungary
lines 14

hello ,

we are having troubles using the pc tcp onpredir (printer redirection program
with lpr support) with the windows print manager. the onpredir simply waits
an do only the capture till the end of the windows session , while after some
printer inactivity it should start the printing.
does anybody uses this two programs together \?

thanks ,
zsolt
zsolt bagoly dept. of atomic physics , eotvos university
budapest , hungary
e mail zsolt@hercules.elte.hu (eltenet)
bagoly@ludens.elte.hu (eltenet , internet)

from rmehta@paul.rutgers.edu (rahul mehta)
subject info on books on bios , 286 etc.
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 18



hi everybody ,

i am interested in the following topics.

1)bios programming on 286 and 386.
2)memory management in 286 and 386.
3)developing visual basic custom controls.

i would like to have your valuable opinion on the books
that are best in the above topics. please send a mail to
rmehta@paul.rutgers.edu . i will post a summary of the
suggestions.

2 32 1 thanks in advance.

rahul mehta

organization university of central florida computer services
from mark woodruff cda90038@ucf1vm.bitnet
subject bigger window headings
lines 8

does anyone know of bigger raster fonts \? i'm using a mag 15h monitor with
a diamond ss24x in 1280x1024 mode and would prefer to have larger characters
for the windows heading (practically for everything). i'm already using the
8514 character sets.

mark

any idea of the difference between the 15h and the 15f \?

from 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
subject re word 2.0 help !
organization marquette university computer services
lines 17
reply to 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
nntp posting host vmsa.csd.mu.edu

in article 1qmf6l euh@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu , gcook@horus.cem.msu.edu (greg cook) writes
from article 0096b11b.08a283a0@vms.csd.mu.edu , by 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
can anyone tell me if and how they have printed spanish characters \? i know wp 5.1 has this built in , but i do not recall ever seeing this option on wfw2. help !

try using the extended character set (alt sequences) . .
look in character map in the accessories group and see the alt sequence
for the font you want !

thanks , i think i 've figured it out now.


robert s. dubinski aliases include robb , regal , sir , mr. , and i

marquette university math computer science double major

internet address 2a42dubinski.vms.csd.mu.edu milwaukee , wi


from hayesj@rintintin.colorado.edu (hayes james michael jr)
subject \? order of files written when exitting windows \?
nntp posting host rintintin.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 22


trying to pin point a hardware problem with my disk , maxtor
7213at. group files get corrupted on a regular basis.
only happens on this drive , d had only one corrupt file
in over a year and it was under the control of winword on c.
32 bit disk access and smartdrive are off. since installation
of dblspace problem has turned from an annoyance to a reason for
murder.

since the most frequent files corrupted are the .grp files ,
are these the last thing written to when exitting windows \?

also , are there any pd shareware utilities available that do
a more thorough job than dos 6 , ndd 4.5 , etc \? dos 6 and
win 3.1 compatable.

thanks

mike hayes knowledge is good. faber college motto
www knowledge and thoroughness rensselear poly motto
unemployed tech , no , thank you ! groucho marx , 'a day at the races'
driven to banging my head against engineering physics for 4 years.

from dgf1@ellis.uchicago.edu (david farley)
subject re permanaent swap file with dos 6.0 dbldisk
reply to dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 35

(stuff deleted)

be that what it may , i would really suggest to everyone to take the
opportunity to go to these technical workshops. they are n't actually
incredibly in depth , but you do get a lot of material about bugs and
optimization straight from those in the know. besides that they offer
you huge discounts on software. if i remember correctly , you could pick
up word 2.0 , excel 4.0 , or whatever their presentation program is for 130.
that is the full blown version , not an upgrade or educational version. you
could also pick up microsoft office for 500 or something like that. myself
i sprang for word.

the value of these workshops aside , you ought to be able to buy full copies
of all this software through your campus bookstore or software distributor
at these rates. i'm not aware that the educational version of word or excel
is doped down in any way.


well , hope that was helpful to someone. and besides that i hope someone
will go to a workshop and save a little money.

and if anyone at microsoft is reading this i really love your products.
i need a job once i graduate also , can we work something out \? )

thanks ,
brent casavant
bcasavan@mailhost.ecn.uoknor.edu




david farley the university of chicago library
312 702 3426 1100 east 57th street , jrl 210
dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu chicago , illinois 60637


from alee@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (alec lee)
subject windows speaker sound driver
summary where can i ftp it \?
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci.
lines 7

is there an ftp site where i can get the ms speaker sound driver \? there 's
a sound.exe file that claims to be the driver but i'm suspicious since
it 's not a .drv file.

thanks

alec lee

from jpaparel@cs.ulowell.edu (joseph paparella)
subject re cica mirror \?
organization umass lowell computer science
lines 2

i find that it 's always (almost anyway) busy when i dial , but if i try repeatedly , usually only 5 to 15 tries , i always get connected.


from avinash@silver.lcs.mit.edu (avinash chopde)
subject truetype fonts that display but do not print.
organization mit laboratory for computer science
distribution na
lines 18

i just installed a new truetype font under ms windows 3.1
but though all the applications display the font correctly on the
screen , quite a few of them fail to print out the document correctly
(on a laserjet 4 non postscript printer).

when i use the font in coreldraw , the document prints correctly , so i assume
coreldraw knows that the font has to be downloaded to the printer.

but when i use the windows accessory write , the printer prints square
boxes in place of the characters of the new font. yet , write does
display the font correctly on the screen.

i looked through all the windows and laserjet manuals , but got nowhere.
all of them just make the statement that truetype fonts will print
exactly as you see them on the screen so i assume windows knows that a font
has to be downloaded automatically but , how to make it do that \? \? \? \?

appreciate any help....

from rhc52134@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (richard)
subject re does dos6 defragment \? \?
article i.d. news.c51h9m.46p
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 12

geoffrey s. elbo writes

yes , and it is the fastest defrag i 've ever watched. it did a 170mb
hard disk in 20 minutes.

i found the ms defrag looks very much like norton speedisk.
is it just a strip down version of the later \?

i have both norton speedisk and backup , so i was wondering
if i need to install ms backup \?

richard

from kudla@acm.rpi.edu (robert kudla)
subject re diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
nntp posting host hermes.acm.rpi.edu
lines 16

in 1993apr15.204845.24939@nlm.nih.gov dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes
anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256 driver \?
sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the menus) but it 's a recently
delivered gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered
if anyone else had seen this.

sporadically , yes. it seems to flicker , or change shape into snow
briefly. not enough to impair functionality , just call attention to
diamond 's professional sloppiness.

rob


rob kudla@acm.rpi.edu keywords oldfield jane 's leather yes win3.1 phish
light blue right bondage r.e.m. dtp steely dan ds9 fnm owl genesis in the
spaceship , the silver spaceship , the lion takes control.....

from wlieftin@cs.vu.nl (liefting w)
subject re why is my mouse so jumpy \? (ms mouse)
organization fac. wiskunde informatica , vu , amsterdam
lines 20

ecktons@ucs.byu.edu (sean eckton) writes

i have a microsoft serial mouse and am using mouse.com 8.00 (was using 8.20
i think , but switched to 8.00 to see if it was any better). vertical motion
is nice and smooth , but horizontal motion is so bad i sometimes ca n't click
on something because my mouse jumps around. i can be moving the mouse to
the right with relatively uniform motion and the mouse will move smoothly
for a bit , then jump to the right , then move smoothly for a bit then jump
again (maybe this time to the left about .5 inch ! ). this is crazy ! i have
never had so much trouble with a mouse before. anyone have any solutions \?

does microsoft think they are what everyone should be \? just venting steam !

i think i have the same problem. i think it is caused by the rubber ball
in the mouse , which does n't roll so smooth. the detectors in the mouse
notice this and whoops , i hit a mine (using minesweeper ) ).

i think the solution will be buying a new mouse , and or using a mouse pad.

wouter.

from ramirez@iastate.edu (richard g ramirez)
subject re summary borland microsoft database c libraries
reply to ramirez@iastate.edu (richard g ramirez)
organization iowa state university
lines 4

could you post a description of objectbase , your chosen
product.

thanks

from finn@convex.com (tom finn)
subject re multiple desktops
nntp posting host eugene.convex.com
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 22

in article c56bht.7qf@news.hawaii.edu dmcgee@uluhe.soest.hawaii.edu (don mcgee) writes

is there a free share( ware) package that will allow multiple
desktops in windows 3.1. what is desired is to have a desk top
for several people that each can personalize by name and choice
of programs etc.


there 's a package called workspace on cica that has 5 desktops i
have n't done much with it yet , but it seems to be able to do what you
want it to.

do n't have the exact archive name handy , but it 's something like
wspace blah .zip.

tom


finn@convex.com i speak only for myself.

peace is the name of the ideal we have deduced from the fact that there have
been pauses between wars. jerry pournelle in the mercenary

from cgd@eden.cs.berkeley.edu (chris g. demetriou)
subject re pc geos , windows , os 2 , and unix x11
organization kernel hackers 'r' us
lines 22
nntp posting host eden.cs.berkeley.edu
in reply to rcampbel@weejordy.physics.mun.ca 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 11 41 36 gmt

in article c528he.i1q@news.ucs.mun.ca rcampbel@weejordy.physics.mun.ca (roderick campbell) writes
there is a free unix , linux , that has cc , c , fortran ( f2c ) ,
xwindows and many other features besides , with a large number of utilities
that can be optionally added. and there is also a free 386bsd i believe.
both these unix 's are quite robust. you can check out comp.os.linux

i dunno about linux , but for 386bsd , do n't forget networking
(well tested , at that) , nfs , a fast , incredibly stable filesystem ,
and the list goes on... 8 )

for us 386bsd folk , look in comp.os.386bsd. .




chris
moderator of comp.os.386bsd.announce , anti politician , and sometime evangelist

chris g. demetriou cgd@cs.berkeley.edu

386bsd as depth first search whenever you go to fix something you
find that 3 more things are actually broken. adam glass

from sebastian beer@lippebox.fido.de (sebastian beer)
subject re diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
x comment to (don a.b. lindbergh)
organization
lines 20
x gateway fidogate 2.4

don a.b. lindbergh meinte am 15.04.93
zum thema diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor

da anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256
da driver \? sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the
da menus) but it 's a recently delivered gateway system. am going to try the
da latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered if anyone else had seen this.

no not at all. i'm using ss24x with bios 2.03 and driver
from 13. januar '93. i 've never had any problems with the
mouse cursor.
is there already a newer driver published \?


greetings

sebastian beer

gimme gummi lass die sau raus


from wild@access.digex.com (wildstrom)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 21
nntp posting host access.digex.net

rmohns@vax.clarku.edu writes

chicogo is what i want to use. it is , like nt , a true os with thrue
multitasking and multithreading , but has much smaller hardware requirements ,
and does not meet dod security specs (but that 's okay since it will probably
be more of a client os). there are a few otehr differences , but those are the
main ones. there was an article about chicogo in pc week last august.
the chicogo and nt development groups at micro oft are in intense
competition , so it is said. however , i think a different relationship will
arise nt will be the server ( n etowrk t echonology) , chicogo will be the
client machine. it is entirely possible for different os 's to work together ,
partly because chicogo is just a small nt (think of it that way , anyway).
(novell netware creates an os on the server that is truly not dos , so do n't
scorn the concept.)
anyway , do n't expect it soon. windows 4 and dos 7 are supposed to be
released next year (read see it in 95) , so i expect that chicogo wo n't be out
til '96.
how does chicago differ from the (sort of) announced windows 4. my understand
ing , at least from the inbfoworld accound of windows 4 is that it 's sort
of nt lite a full fledged operating system but lacking server and security
features that make nt such a bear. is w4 not true multithreading \?

from robertt@vcd.hp.com (bob taylor)
subject re amipro deskjet 500 printing problem
article i.d. vcd.c52wt5.f2
distribution usa
organization hewlett packard vcd
lines 32
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5

tom belmonte x4858 (tbelmont@feds55.prime.com) wrote

hello ,

i recently tried to print some envelopes using amipro 3.0 with my
deskjet 500 printer , and i seem to be having a problem. what
happens is after i physically load the envelope into the printer
(per the user manual) and then select the print envelope icon
from amipro (all of the proper options have been selected) , the
printer just spits out the envelope without any printing of
either a return address or the selected mailing address. at
this point , the printer 's online light begins to flash , and
the print manager shows the printer job as busy. this is all
that happens , until i either shut the printer off or cancel the
printing job from the print manager. i have also tried this
without the use of the print manager , with similar results
(amipro shows the printer as being busy). so , does anybody
have any idea solution regarding this problem \? i appreciate
the help. thanks.

yes ignore the manual. just insert the evelope do n't use the keypad
to move it up. the windows driver sends a message to the printer that
tells it to load the envelope if it is already loaded , it gets ejected
and the printer tries to load another. the instructions in the manual
are for dumb dos apps. that do n't send the load envelople message.



tom belmonte

bob taylor
hp vancouver

from ewl@world.std.com (erich w lantz)
subject 80 col. mail messages in ms windows editors
keywords windows editor norton desktop mail
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 31

i have a modest system of aliases macros that enables me to download
mail from a public access unix system to my ms dos box. i read and reply
to the mail with a ms windows 3.1 based editor.

everything works peachey keen as long as the author of the message has
maintained his text at 80 col. max. width. sometimes i get slightly wider
messages that run off screen , so i have to use the cursor slider to read
the whole thing.

i'm using ndw deskedit mainly , but i 've experienced the same prob with
all other ms windows editors. i 've fiddled with word wrap settings in
the various editors , but to no avail. i know i'm missing something very
basic in editor setup , but what is it \?

oh yeah , ms word for windows converts everything flawlessly but for what
i'm looking for that 's like using a tank to crack walnuts.

i 'd really like to have an editor setup that would display all incoming
ascii files in a readable format to my screen.

thanks in advance ,


erich w. lantz ama 601821
ewl@world.std.com distributor of deflagration 0815
'85 virago
well yer dead now , so shut up ! m.p.





from santos@mickey.ai.kyutech.ac.jp (rafael )
subject turbo c visual edition adn request was re absolute newbie questions...
organization kit iizuka , ai dept , japan.
lines 52
nntp posting host mickey
in reply to wiggins@buttercup.cs.odu.edu 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 06 16 54 gmt

in article wiggins.93apr16011654@buttercup.cs.odu.edu wiggins@buttercup.cs.odu.edu (samuel e wiggins) writes

btw , how would you rate the new borland turbo c visual edition for
windows , anyone \?

time for a new discussion , maybe \? i asked in these groups some time ago
what about the tc ve , and got no answers , so i decided to try. my brother
who lives in the us bought and sent it to me , and i'm still trying to get
used to it.

before i put my good bad points list , consider i am a turbo pascal dos
programmer , and sometimes try to make something in unix with c (just
some exercises from university). i used to make some programs in
microsoft c version 5 ( ! ! ) because we used some third party libraries
that required that.
i like borland. it seems to me much more easier to use than microsoft ,
specially the debugger. i tried to learn codeview sometimes , but never
felt confortable with it.
tc v e seems very nice to create simple apps , like the examples on the
objectwindows book. so far , no problems. lets see next week or so , when i
will try something more complex.
it works nice even in my weak machine 386 16mhz , 6 mb ram.

but.....

the manual for the resource workshop seems to be from a different version
from the workshop itself. some of the windows that appear on the manual
have more itens than in the manual.
i think i will run into trouble since i got this tc ve from my brother
as a present. i didnt wanted to buy the japanese version because 1) i
suspect that the manuals will be in japanese ( and 2) i believe it
will be far more expensive here. so he bought it as a present and sent to
me , i send the registration card to the japanese branch of borland , but...
who knows.

so , i 'd like to ask some questions for you all

i know that there are some microsoft guys around here in this group. is
there anybody from borland \? is there any e mail address that we can
contact the technical support \? not for stupid questions , but to ask
for example , why the rw manual seems to be different from the rw itself \?
is there anybody else using it around here \?
will the book of petzold be useful for me \? i intend to use rw and protogen
to make the interfaces and then work on the code itself.

answers to my e mail or comp.os.ms windows.programmer.tools , please.

thanks in advance ,

rafael.



from bcasavan@skyhawk.ecn.uoknor.edu (brent casavant)
subject re permanaent swap file with dos 6.0 dbldisk
summary explanation of message
nntp posting host skyhawk.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 63

in article 93059@hydra.gatech.edu gt4356c@prism.gatech.edu (james dean barwick) writes
stuff deleted

more on permenent swap files...

i'm sure everyone who has an uncompressed part of their compressed hard disk
has seen the message you have selected a swap file greater than the suggested
size...windows will only use the size suggested...do you wa n't to create this
swap file anyway or something like that.

well , a friend of mine (robert) called microsoft and asked them what and why.
what they said is that windows checks the amount of free disk space and
divides that number by 2. then it checks for the largest contiguous block
of free disk space. windows then suggests the smaller of the two numbers.

they also said that under absolutely no circumstances...none ! ...will windows
uses a swap file larger than the suggested size. well...that 's what he
said !

i call bull@ . if this is true why does windows report the memory is
available to me if it 's not going to use it \?

any takers \?

james

well , someone at microsoft told you wrong. windows will use a swap file
larger than the recommended size. last summer i went to a microsoft
windows 3.1 technical workshop and they distributed a lot of information
that the general public might not be aware of. anyway in the main book
they handed out they have a section on creating larger than recommended
swapfile . i 'll quote the information

if you create a permanent swapfile larger than the recommended size , you
will receive a message telling you that windows will not use anything
larger than the recommended size. this error message is incorrect , we
will allow the use of the larger swapfile , up to four times the amount
of ram on your machine.

so as you see , microsoft does know that the information is incorrect. you
probably just ran into some doofball who was new on the job and was only
telling you what little he knew.

be that what it may , i would really suggest to everyone to take the
opportunity to go to these technical workshops. they are n't actually
incredibly in depth , but you do get a lot of material about bugs and
optimization straight from those in the know. besides that they offer
you huge discounts on software. if i remember correctly , you could pick
up word 2.0 , excel 4.0 , or whatever their presentation program is for 130.
that is the full blown version , not an upgrade or educational version. you
could also pick up microsoft office for 500 or something like that. myself
i sprang for word.

well , hope that was helpful to someone. and besides that i hope someone
will go to a workshop and save a little money.

and if anyone at microsoft is reading this i really love your products.
i need a job once i graduate also , can we work something out \? )

thanks ,
brent casavant
bcasavan@mailhost.ecn.uoknor.edu


from rick@sundance.sjsu.edu (richard warner)
subject re winbench
organization san jose state university math cs dept.
lines 36

al@col.hp.com (al devilbiss) writes

jorge@erex.east.sun.com (jorge lach sun bos hardware) writes
is there any ftp site that carries winbench results for different graphics
cards \? in excel (xls) format \? what is the latest version of winbench and
how do they differ \? is the source available , and has anybody try to port it to
x window , at least in a way that will make comparisons possible \?

on ftp.cica.indiana.edu in pub pc win3 misc winadv.zip is a writeup by
steve gibson of infoworld with winbench 3.11 and a number of other
benchmark results for nine isa and four vlb video cards. this is a
very current upload and is likely to have any card you 're currently
giving serious consideration. not in xls format. latest version of
winbench that i know of is ver 3.11. i believe they try to maintain
the same rating scale between versions , and new versions are released
to defeat the lastest coding tricks put in by driver programmers to
beat the benchmarks. do n't know on the last one.

and why they are considering using winbench as a test , they may want
to read everything steve gibson has said on the subject in his
infoworld column the past couple of month. in short , virtually
every board manufacturer cheats on the test by writing things in the
driver that is there only to make the board appear faster on the
winbench suite. so the winbench score has no bearing in reality to
how cards stack up on real world tasks.

in the last pc magazine they benchmarked some of the new accelerators ,
and admitted that many of them 'cheated' on winbench. interestingly ,
they 'allowed' one type of cheating behaviour (caching for bitblt
operations , no matter how unreal) , yet did not allow a couple of other
types of cheating behaviour that some of the cards used. at least
one card was eliminated from the editor 's choice because of
cheating on the benchmark.

al devilbiss
al@col.hp.com

from thia@sce.carleton.ca (yong thia)
subject protection fault
summary fault
keywords fault
organization carleton university
distribution na
lines 13

hi ! i was wondering if anyone out there could help me.
i have an error message that goes



what does it mean \?

i am running ms windows 3.1.

thanks in advance


from zimm@condor.navsses.navy.mil
subject re diamond ss 24x
organization cdnswc , naval ship systems eng sta , phila pa
lines 20

greetings !

i 've had a bunch of problems with the 24x. opening a dos window on the
desktop can occasionally result in the windows blowing up into a set of
horizontal lines , hashing the entire desktop. nothing can recover this
except to completely exit from windows. the other irritating problem is
that windows that scroll often overwrite lines rather than actually
scrolling , as if a cr was printed without an lf. this seems only to happen
to communications programs , but i ca n't nail it down any further than that.
note , though , that the comms programs do n't have to be communicating. even
just scrolling back through capture buffers or displaying disk files in
these programs causes the problem.

prior to the latest rev of word perfect for windows , wpwin would sometimes
blow up , and the error message would cite the video driver as the source of
the problem. i 've still seen this , but only once or twice with wpwin 5.2.

dave zimmerman
(my opinions are my own)


from jvl@idca.tds.philips.nl (jan van loenen)
subject re diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
lines 47

dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes

in article 1993apr15.204845.24939@nlm.nih.gov dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes

anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256 driver \?
sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the menus) but it 's a recently
delivered gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered
if anyone else had seen this.

as a followup , this is a co worker 's machine. he has the latest 2.03 drivers.
it only happens using the 1024x768x256 driver. sometimes it takes a minute
or so for the cursor to wig out , but it eventually does in this mode. i
susect something is stepping on memory the video card wants. i excluded
a000 c7ff in the emm386 line and in system.ini the problem persisted.
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components.
it is a 66mhz dx 2 eisa bus with an ultrastore (24xx \? ) controller. ah well ,
i was hoping this was some kind of 'known problem' or somebody had seen it
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here
usually are far more in the know.

i have (had) several problems with the card.
applications crashed when moving the mouse (vga mode). fixed by removing
the line stacks 0 , 0 from config.sys. the default value stacks 9 , 256
does just fine.
random white pixels all over the screen when moving the mouse , in a
256 color graphical mode (the hardware cursor modes). fixed by turning
off the hardware scroll ( 24xmode scrolloff ) before entering the graphics
mode. this also fixed the problem of the windowed dos boxes under windows.
with the hardware scroll enabled , applications write garbage outside the
window.
the screensavers do not remove the cursor in 256 color modes (hardware
cursor). i do n't know if this is a windows problem or a driver problem.
clearly there should be two types of cursor removing functions a remove
for draw , which can be ignored for hardware cursors and a remove
unconditionally. do other cards with hardware cursors have the same problem \?
the vesa driver does not support the 640x480x16m truecolor mode. (universal
vesa drivers do not run at all).


disclaimer unless otherwise stated , the above comments are entirely my own.


jan van loenen
digital equipment corporation
jvl@idca.tds.philips.nl
hlde01 loenen j


subject roman.bmp 13 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 956

from 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
subject word 2.0 help !
organization marquette university computer services
lines 10
reply to 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu
nntp posting host vmsa.csd.mu.edu

hello ,
i'm having problems printing spanish characters with wfw2. i was using the celtic true type which has the accented characters , and used insert symbol to put in in the document. however , when i put it in the doc , i get a big square character , and then it prints out just the same (to my dismay , thinking that was just the way it worked).
can anyone tell me if and how they have printed spanish characters \? i know wp 5.1 has this built in , but i do not recall ever seeing this option on wfw2. help !

robert s. dubinski aliases include robb , regal , sir , mr. , and i

marquette university math computer science double major

internet address 2a42dubinski.vms.csd.mu.edu milwaukee , wi


from kudla@acm.rpi.edu (robert kudla)
subject re can i change licensed to data in windows 3.1 \?
nntp posting host hermes.acm.rpi.edu
lines 65

in 0096b130.473b17c0@vms.csd.mu.edu 2a42dubinski@vms.csd.mu.edu writes
ahh , yes , this is a fun topic. no , once the name is incribed on the
disk , that is it , it is encoded. not even a hex editor will find it. you can

but a disk compare utility (old versus new) will. and windows 3.1 is
also flexible enough at install time that you can copy all the files
onto your hard disk , which greatly speeds things up and makes them
less annoying , if you can spare the 7 or so compressed megs.

write over the licensed to , but you ca n't change the name underneth it. i
think if you wish to change this you would have to be a pirate , and we 're not
going to promote that here.

no , we 're not. but we 're also not going to promote pandering to
corporate paranoia when the real issue is convenience. i do n't like
dealing with floppies. personally , i have no use for changing the
registration info , but i see it as a valid need , and one that ought to
be solved using a quick little utility rather than a half hour
reinstall that 's just about guaranteed to mess up your settings in one
way or another.

so , while i'm not going to put much time into it myself , here 's the
procedure for getting on your way to finding the encoded information

1. copy all your windows disks into the directory from which you want
to install it. i 've been using c winstall myself.

2. from there , copy that directory to something like c winorig.

3. install from c winstall.

4. comp the two directories to determine changes.
i.e. , comp . winorig . report.txt

5. look in the report file for the file(s) that change. assuming
they did n't cover themselves covering their own tracks , at least one
file should have a difference noted at a particular offset. locate
said offset in the original directory and see what 's there using a hex
editor , and do the same for the modified one.

6. you 're on your own as far as breaking the code goes i do n't
really do cryptography. it 's probably just an xor key or something i
think ms is more concerned with joe schmoe at the office personalizing
his copy than with real pirates who will probably just disassemble
the damned thing anyway. this technique should work with just about
any obnoxious corporate product that tries to write to the original
floppies when you install in some extreme cases you may not be able
to back the floppies up to hard disk , and will be stuck doing a
compare on floppies (lotus stuff is probably like that).

as i noted before , if you can afford the space on the hard disk , and
do n't do much in the way of customization , reinstalling from one
directory to another may be less arduous. doing some of the stuff
i 've mentioned here may well void your license with microsoft , as if
they 'd ever find out. if you are n't careful with the disk editor , you
could also mung something important... duh. i guess that 's a
disclaimer.

have at it....

rob

rob kudla@acm.rpi.edu keywords oldfield jane 's leather yes win3.1 phish
light blue right bondage r.e.m. dtp steely dan ds9 fnm owl genesis in the
spaceship , the silver spaceship , the lion takes control.....

organization university of central florida computer services
from mark woodruff cda90038@ucf1vm.bitnet
subject why i'm not using dos 6 anymore
lines 18

i 've been running dos 6 for about a month. i was generally impressed with
the improvements the multiple boot configurations were great , the
new commands were nice , and doublespace worked fine (twice as slow for
large data transfers , twice as fast for small with smartdrv).

until now.

this morning at 4 am while i was working on my research paper , i had to
reboot a hung dos program (that did no disk i o) from within windows 3.1.
when my machine finished rebooting , i found my windows directory and about two
thirds of my other directories were irreversibly corrupted.

i cannot afford problems like this. i'm returning to dos 5.

mark

p.s. i 've also noticed bad sector errors from doublespace where none should
exist.

from ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
subject re mouse on com3 under windows 3.1 \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 34
reply to ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu (martin linsenbigler)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , jpaparel@cs.ulowell.edu (joseph paparella) says

i 've pursued and researched this question over the last month or so because i have the same requirements you do......and the long and short of it is that the windows mouse drivers do n't accept mice at any but com1 and com2 using irq4 or irq3 unless you buy special drivers from someone who has them.....i 've talked to mouse systems who say their driver does n't support other than com1 and com2 as above , but who claim to be releasing one that will soon ! \? \? .

the other alternative seems to be possible , but in one case prohibitively expensive , i.e. 4 port card for 600 \? \? \? \? \? \? ! ! , and in the other , the author(s) of powerbbs for windows claim to have a 4 port serial card with buffered 16550 uarts and drivers for windows to match (i.e. com3 irq5) for 120......

the second paragraph is hearsay , because i have n't checked it out yet.....but intend to as soon as i can free up 120 g

hope this will save you some steps.



i had this problem when i first loaded windows. my i o card is for 2 hd 's
2 fd 's 1 parrelel 2 serial (1 for mouse and 1 for my external modem) and
a game port. problem enters. the darn serial ports have no selection for
com settings , they are stuck on 3 and 4.
good card for hd 's and fd 's but lousy for serial.

i called microsoft and other places. the long and short of it is
windows wants com1 and 2 only ! , for mouse selection.
i went out and bought a small i o card just for parrelel and serial.
now i have all 4 active com ports and lpt1 and lpt2.
this half card was less than 20.

mouse on com 1 external modem on com 2 , i disabled the lpt2 so i could use
the interupt for my scanner card irq.
c ya..... artin


this communication is sent by artin university of arizona tucson

ak333@cleveland.freenet.edu mlinsenb@ccit.arizona.edu mlinsenb@arizvms
death has been dead for about 2 , 000 years follow the king of kings

from bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu (greg bishop)
subject re diamond ss24x , win 3.1 , mouse cursor
organization physics department , fsu
news software vax vms vnews
reply to bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu
lines 26

in article 1993apr15.204845.24939@nlm.nih.gov dabl2@nlm.nih.gov (don a.b. lindbergh) writes

anybody seen mouse cursor distortion running the diamond 1024x768x256 driver \?
sorry , do n't know the version of the driver (no indication in the menus) but it 's a recently
delivered gateway system. am going to try the latest drivers from diamond bbs but wondered
if anyone else had seen this.


as a followup , this is a co worker 's machine. he has the latest 2.03 drivers.
it only happens using the 1024x768x256 driver. sometimes it takes a minute
or so for the cursor to wig out , but it eventually does in this mode. i
susect something is stepping on memory the video card wants. i excluded
a000 c7ff in the emm386 line and in system.ini the problem persisted.
perhaps it is something specific to the gateway machine or it 's components.
it is a 66mhz dx 2 eisa bus with an ultrastore (24xx \? ) controller. ah well ,
i was hoping this was some kind of 'known problem' or somebody had seen it
before. perhaps a call to gateway is in order , but i do find folks here
usually are far more in the know.

i use the diamond speedstar 24x in 1024x768x256 mode all of the time. i
have not found distortions in the cursor. the cursor is a little jumpy
from time to time (due to 32 bit access to the swap file) , but it is never
distorted.

greg bishop. (bishop@baeyer.chem.fsu.edu)


from dudek@acsu.buffalo.edu (the cybard)
subject midi files on ms win3.1 and soundblaster 1.0 \?
summary how can i play midi files in ms windows 3.1 with a sb 1.0 card \?
keywords midi , soundblaster , windows , ibm pc
organization ub
lines 15
nntp posting host autarch.acsu.buffalo.edu

i have a 486dx 33 computer with a soundblaster 1.0 card. i'm running
microsoft windows v3.1. i have the sb driver set up properly to play
normal sounds (.wav files , etc.). i want to play midi files through the
media player that is included with windows. i know i have to set up the
patch maps or something in the midi mapper in the control panel. i know
nothing about midi. (this is to be the way i 'll get my feet wet.)

how do i set up windows so that i can play midi files \?



david thomas dudek v098pwxs@ubvms.bitnet the cybard
state university dudek@sun.acsu.buffalo.edu ` ' ) , , ,
of new york if music be the food of love , ()
@ buffalo play on ! wm. shakespeare ` . . ) '''

subject postscript file viewer \?
from bmartin@bbs.ug.eds.com
organization eds canada
nntp posting host bbs
nntp posting user bmartin
lines 7

a co worker of mine needs to convert a postscript file to a form readable
(ie ascii) in windows or dos. does anybody know of a utility that will do
this \? i have a vague memory of a shareware utility someone mentioned once...

thanks for any info ,

barry.

subject re gatewaying microsoft mail workgroups via 96
from wesj@extsparc.usu.edu (wes james)
reply to wesj@extsparc.usu.edu
distribution world
organization sun microsystems , inc.
nntp posting host extsparc.agsci.usu.edu
lines 40


we here at utah state university cooperative extension have been using
w4wg for a while now. we wanted to talk to the internet with the mail
package so we got the smtp gateway. you also need a tcp ip transport
package on top of that which is utterly stupid but that 's what they
require to get the smtp gateway to work. you need a dedicated pc
for the gateway and if you are looking at remote access you need another
dedicated pc for the remote mail stuff. we do not have the remote mail
going but you indicate that that is what you want to do.

there is a glitch somewhere in the system though. i do n't know if it
is ms mail , the gateway or the vax here on campus that is choking in the
mail that is sent. the scenario is this. the outgoing mail goes to a
unix system which then routes the mail where it needs to go. if that mail
is routed to the vax , the vax has problems some times receiving the mail.
most messages do get through this way except if someone has there mail
on the vax forwarded to some other location. that is the main gotcha.
where ever the mail is forwarded to that person gets a message header
then a message saying boudary (error garbage code stuff) . if you
can stay away from sending to a vax you are ok. the system people
of course say that the vax is not the problem , the gateway is probably
the problem. if anyone wants to get help it is only 175.00 for one
support call. (until problem is worked out) phooey to that i say. i
am looking vigorously for a better idea.

if you go forward on any of this and find out anything knew , please
drop me a note anyone. the next itteration is supposed to have tcp ip
built in they say........ the netxt itteration of w4wg

good luck ! ! ! ! !


wes james email wesj@extsparc.agsci.usu.edu
utah state university
cooperative extension
systems specialist
umc 4900 voice (801)750 2229
logan , ut 84322 4900 fax (801)750 3268



from qq43@liverpool.ac.uk (chris wooff)
subject tidying up after removing an ole server
keywords ole , spss
nntp posting host chad3 22.liv.ac.uk
organization the university of liverpool
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 16

a while ago i installed spss for windows as part of an evaluation. once
the evaluation was complete i duly deleted the software from my pc.

unfortunately there is still a ghost of spss left when i run
something like write and go to embed an object then spss chart
appears on the list of objects i'm offered. i looked around all
the obvious ini files without success. the next thing i tried
was looking for the string spss chart in every file in the
windows directory. it turned up in a file called req.dat (or
reg.dat). unfortunately the file was binary and so i did n't feel
inclined to edit it.

i 'd welcome a solution for removing spss from the list of ole servers.

chris wooff
(c.wooff@liverpool.ac.uk)

from jeremi@ee.ualberta.ca (william jeremiah)
subject looking for printer driver
nntp posting host bode.ee.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
lines 8

i'm looking for a c.itoh printer driver for windows 3.1. does anybody
happen to know where i could find such a beast \?

thanks in advance ,
jerry


look ma ! no .signature !

subject roman.bmp 14 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 449


from singlis@waikato.ac.nz
subject win3.1 font with macrons
organization university of waikato , hamilton , new zealand
lines 11

greetings from green new zealand...

we are looking for a windows 3.1 font that will allow macrons (a hypen)
over vowels in both upper and lower cases. this is so we can use maori
characters in windows applications.

thanks in advance
stuart inglis

(email directly to tetaka@waikato.ac.nz would be the prefered method of
contact)

from kmembry@viamar.uucp (kirk membry)
subject re ms windows access for the blind \?
reply to rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry
organization private system
lines 18

in 1993apr22.235454.18199@seas.gwu.edu louray@seas.gwu.edu (michael panayiotakis) writes

at the micro oft display at fose , there were a few computers running
windows , and win. apps for the blind , i think. did n't pay much
attention to it , but it was there.

it seems that a particular program designed for blind people is more important
than trying to interface windows with a way for blind people to use it.
if someone made a voice recognition multimedia (sound) oriented program ,
it would probably been more effective. i do n't know what the original
purpose of interfacing windows was for the person who posted the question
though.



kirk membry our age is the age of industry
rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry alexander rodchenko


from davidgl@microsoft.com (david glenn)
subject re atm or truetype which to choose \?
article i.d. microsof.1993apr06.023730.5094
distribution usa
organization microsoft corp.
lines 54

in article c4tdgt.mqq@csn.org rjn@teal.csn.org wrote
csd25@keele.ac.uk (c.m. yearsley) writes

i 've just bought a pc which came with a bundle of lotus stuff , including
adobe type manager version 1.15. as a newcomer to windows , i'm
confused about which i should be using , atm or truetype.

if you are going to stay with atm , be sure to upgrade to 2.5 , which
replaces 2.0. who knows how old 1.15 is. 2.5 is as fast as tt , and if
you disable the small screen fonts , atm does better screen rendering at
the smaller point sizes.

not true ! both type 1 and tt fonts can be of excellent quality and poor quality
at any size. it all depends on the font 's maker and the complexity of the glyphs
related to the size and resolution at which they are viewed. probably the reason
for your opinion experience that tt is inferior is because most tt fonts on the
market today have been converted from type 1 outlines to tt either by the font
vendor or end users using fontographer or fontmonger instead of the tt fonts being
hand hinted to take advantage of the tt hinting language. at best these converted
tt fonts will be on a par with the type 1 font of its orgin.

truetype is a much richer and more robust hinting language than type 1 (the hinting
of diagonals for instance , which tt does and type 1 cannot). if you check out the
windows 3.1 core fonts (times , arial , courier , symbol , wingdings) you 'll see what can
be done with tt. there are other fonts out there that have been hand hinted and not
just converted. some of the microsoft tt font pack 2 fonts are hinted very well.

you can use both tt and atm fonts at the same time , if you like.
atm (type 1) fonts tend to be of higher quality
and be more complete in terms of foreign characters.

again , not true. the characters in a tt or type 1 font depend on the maker. if someone
converts a type 1 font to tt they 'll only get the characters in the font of orgin. tt
allows for much more flexibility in this area as well. you can have thousands of glyphs
in a tt font file (mac ps windows unicode char set) and use the characters appropriate
for the particular platform you are running the font on. for instance , all or our fontpack
2 tt fonts have the mac windows char set in them. the metrics of the fonts are such that
if the font is brought over to the mac the user will have access to the full mac char set.


regards , 1001 a east harmony road
bob niland suite 503
internet rjn@csn.org fort collins co 80525
compuserve 71044 , 2124 (303) 223 5209

hope this clears up some of the confusion. feel free to contact me if anyone would like
more info.

regards ,

dave glenn
program manager , microsoft tt font stuff
davidgl@microsoft.com
compuserve 72420 , 1067

from mb4008@cehp11 (morgan j bullard)
subject re speeding up windows
keywords speed
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 30

djserian@flash.lakeheadu.ca (reincarnation of elvis) writes

i have a 386 33 with 8 megs of memory

i have noticed that lately when i use programs like wpfw or corel draw
my computer boggs down and becomes really sluggish !

what can i do to increase performance \? what should i turn on or off

will not loading wallpapers or stuff like that help when it comes to
the running speed of windows and the programs that run under it \?

thanx in advance

derek

1) make sure your hard drive is defragmented. this will speed up more than
just windows btw. use something like norton 's or pc tools.
2) i think that leaving the wall paper out will use less ram and therefore
will speed up your machine but i could very will be wrong on this.
there 's a good chance you 've already done this but if not it may speed things
up. good luck
morgan bullard mb4008@coewl.cen.uiuc.edu
or mjbb@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu


derek j.p. serianni e mail djserian@flash.lakeheadu.ca
'o.o' sociologist it 's 106 miles to chicago , we 've got a full tank
( ) lakehead university of gas , half a pack of cigarettes , it 's dark , and
u thunder bay , ontario we 're wearing sunglasses. elwood blues

from wongda@eecg.toronto.edu (daniel y.h. wong)
subject looking for the latest actix drivers for windows
organization dept. of electrical engineering , university of toronto , canada
distribution comp
lines 14

hi , anyone have the latest drivers for the actix graphics accelerator card \?
(32 plus) the one i have (version 1.21) seem to have a lot of problems.
i believe the latest version is 1.3 and would someone please
upload it to some ftp site so that i can download it.

thanks





daniel y.h. wong uoft (416)978 1659
wongda@picton.eecg.toronto.edu electrical engineering


from shenoy@iastate.edu (shiva shenoy)
subject re windows help
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 53

in 1993apr20.072905.21404@fel.tno.nl mveraart@fel.tno.nl (mario veraart) writes

umyin@ccu.umanitoba.ca (qing yin) writes

hi , it 's an easy question for you windows gurus. i 'd appreciate any help.

we need to write an on line help for our application. we do n't have
windows software developer 's toolkit (yet ) ). since we just want to build
a .hlp file around windows' help engine , i hope it wo n't be that complicated \?
anyway , could someone kindly give me some hints of how to build such an
on line help , if it does not take 100 pages to explain \? or if it is complicated ,
would you help to point out what i would need to do it \?



vincent q. yin
umyin@ccu.umanitoba.ca

hi ,

if you have developed your own windows application you must have a
sdk of some sort that contains the hc.exe or hc31.exe file to
compile and generate .hlp files out of .rtf files.
rtf files are generated by a wordprocessor like word for dos or w4w.

you do not need the sdk. what you need (and can get free) are

location ftp.cica.indiana.edu
index pub pc win3 index

first get pub pc win3 uploads what.zip ( 1.3m) this contains the help
compiler among other things. it is free from microsoft.

then get these (i think these are free too)

dir pub pc win3 programr
files hag.zip , whag.zip wfwhlp.zip

these are shareware

dir pub pc win3 util
files hwab21.zip , qdhelp.zip , qdtool.zip

dir pub pc win3 winword
files drhelpev.zip (macros for word 2.0 to convert doc to hlp files).


shiva shenoy e mail shenoy@iastate.edu
2066 black , dept of aeem , isu , ames , ia 50010 office (515) 294 0082


shiva shenoy e mail shenoy@iastate.edu
2066 black , dept of aeem , isu , ames , ia 50010 office (515) 294 0082

from apland@mala.bc.ca (ron apland)
subject re telephone of cirrus logic
organization malaspina college
lines 14

in article c63m1s.m86@news.hawaii.edu , chen@galileo.ifa.hawaii.edu (hua chen) writes
is there anybody who knows the telephone number of cirrus logic co. ,
maker of a graphic card \? please reply to chen@cfa.harvard.edu
thank you very much.

hua chen
center for astrophysics



bbs number
510 226 2365

ron

from dbstrutt@acs.ucalgary.ca (david bryan strutt)
subject re help with changing startup logo
distribution usa
nntp posting host acs5.acs.ucalgary.ca
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 29

in article 1rgtba gtn@access.digex.net farley@access.digex.com (charles u. farley) writes

i know this is probably a faq , but...

i installed the s w for my ati graphics card , and it bashed my windows
logo files. when i start windows now , it has the 3.0 logo instead of
the 3.1 logo.

i thought the files that controlled this were

windows system vgalogo.rle
windows system vgalogo.lgo

i restored these files , but it did n't change the logo. anyone know what
the correct files are \?

i believe you have the correct files. i think what you 'll have to
do is go back into setup and choose change video adapter or
whatever it is called. then the trick is choose the same adaptor
you currently have. what setup does is it actually changes the
file win.com whenever you go into it and change the video
hardware selection. it incorporates the contents of vgalogo.rle
into win.com when you do this. this trick can also be used to
change the startup logo into whatever you want it to be.

.sig alert

dbstrutt@acs.ucalgary.ca
end .sig alert

subject is smartdrv.exe causing bad sectors on my hd \?
from jdriver@netlink.cts.com (john driver)
organization netlink online communications , san diego ca
lines 47

i am having something very unusual happen. first
some background on my system. i have a mitsubishi 63 meg hard drive ,
and am running smartdrv (the version that comes with windows 3.1) on
it. i rarely use windows. i use a program called disk technician
gold v1.14 to do diagnostics live time on my hard drive. it works by
having a device driver detect whenever more than one read is
necessary for a file , or if there is anything else is wrong with it ,
and minor problems are fully checked out upon rebooting. my hard
drive is notorious for bad sectors. i usually end up with 8 new bad
sectors a week.

here 's what happened i ran a program , and dtg broke in with
an emergency warning and recommended i reboot. it gave me this
message twice before the program was fully loaded. i exited the program
and did just this. dtg went through its bootup process , examining
for new errors etc. , and a screen popped up and said something about
sectors for a brief period of time.

i then went back to the program , executed it again , and the
exact same error was detected. i rebooted and tried again , and the
same error happened again. so , i removed dtg from memory , and went
to the program to see if i could detect anything wrong. sure enough
there was a number of read attempts. so i rebooted and reloaded dtg ,
but removed the cache. i executed the program. no read errors ,
either audible or detected by dtg. i quit the program , loaded the
cache , and ran the program again. the errors were detected.

ok , so the errors are there , and dtg detects but does n't fix
them , when the cache is loaded. when the cache is not loaded there are
no errors. so , to see if the cache was interfering with any other
files , i went into xtree gold and tagged all files , and searched them
for a random string (in other words , i wanted the program to
completely read every file on my hard drive). before i got through
the c 's dtg had detected at least six errors and recommended i reboot.

does anybody , have any idea why smartdrv is causing misreads on
my hard drive \? oh , there are exactly two misreads per file , and 1 in
about every 100 files are affected.

i originally posted this message to disk technician corp. 's
system , but i figured someone out in netland may know enough about
smartdrv to help me out.


internet jdriver@netlink.cts.com (john driver)
uucp ... ! ryptyde ! netlink ! jdriver
netlink online communications public access in san diego , ca (619) 453 1115

from anik@crhc.uiuc.edu (sadun anik)
subject losing dark colors of my icons
organization center for reliable and high performance computing
lines 19
nntp posting host lyra.crhc.uiuc.edu


here is an annoying problem. whenever i save an icon which contains dark
colors like dark red or dark purple , these colors are converted to the
bright colors. this happens with every icon editor including the image
editor that came with sdk. i do n't have this problem with .bmp files
either only with .ico files or icon libraries. the problem is with
the icon colormap field in the icon file header. checking the file
with a binary editor , i can see that the masks are ok. by editing the
colormap manually (copying from another icon that i did n't edit) i can
fix the colors. does anybody know what may be causing this problem \?

thanks.




sadun anik , u of illinois at urbana champaign
center for reliable and high performance computing
e mail anik@crhc.uiuc.edu

from hayesj@rintintin.colorado.edu (hayes james michael jr)
subject window start up position for app , how \?
keywords app window , startup position
nntp posting host rintintin.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 8


how do you set up an app to give its window a default start up
position and size \?

mike hayes knowledge is good. faber college motto
www knowledge and thoroughness rensselear poly motto
unemployed tech , no , thank you ! groucho marx , 'a day at the races'
driven to banging my head against engineering physics for 4 years.

from root@c1.nkw.ac.uk (convex unix)
subject re help with winqvt
reply to tb@ua.nbu.ac.uk
organization natural environment research council
lines 4


i had a similar problem try changing the netmask to 0.0.0.0 or 255.255.254.0

tommy.

from paladin@world.std.com (thomas g schlatter)
subject re hhy wo n't my dos apps run in a window \? !
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 8

in article 735417915snz@sigma.demon.co.uk jason@sigma.demon.co.uk writes
can somebody help me out there \? i have just purchased win 3.1 and i just
ca n't get dos apps (text mode apps) to run in a window on their own. i 've
tried mucking around with the pif settings etc , but to no avail. what am
i doing wrong \? (i did n't get this problem under v3.0).

are you sure you 're running in 386 enhanced mode \? (windows 3.1
takes more memory...)

from rmohns@vax.clarku.edu
subject re page setup in notepad
organization clark university
lines 29

in a previous article , joel@jach.hawaii.edu (joel aycock) wrote

i struggled with the margin problem for ages as well , until i
finally got hold of the shareware binary editor beav133 , and dug into
notepad.exe (there is no setup facility to force notepad to default to
0.0 margins it 's hardwired into code ! ! ! ).

do a search for .75 , then change the offending bytes to .00 ,
et viola. who are the guys who hardcode these options anyway \?

i'm interested in whether the problem only rears it 's ugly head for
certain printers i'm using an old epson lx 800 (or is that ex 800 \? never can
remember).

aloha.

you are nto alone. i get the same problems with my panasonic kpx 1124i (24
pin). oterhwise , it 's a great printer. i just ca n't find a driver for it ,
only for the non i version. anyone seen it \?

rob


rmohns@vax.clarku.edu

rob mohns

annoy rush limbaugh. think for yourself.


from pwb@aerg.canberra.edu.au (paul blackman)
subject re moving icons
article i.d. csc.1993apr22.233213.7644
organization university of canberra
lines 20

in article 1bp0rahpbh107h@viamar.uucp rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry writes
i remember reading about a program that made windows icons run away
from the mouse as it moved near them. does anyone know the name
of this program and the ftp location (probably at cica)

the file is frite20.zip and you 'll find it in the 'icons' directory
at cica.

the one line description is
afflict your icons with cursorphobia


o paul blackman pwb@science.canberra.edu.au
o water research centre , pwb@aerg.canberra.edu.au
o faculty of applied science
( ) o university of canberra , australia.

spend a little love and get high
lenny kravitz


from gel@cs.mcgill.ca (gilles khouzam)
subject re workgroup questions (conven. ram and licensing)
summary good choice
keywords w4wg
organization socs mcgill university , montreal , canada
lines 55

in article ny 0ra6abh107h@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca aew@eosvcr.wimsey.bc.ca writes
i would be very appreciative if someone would answer a few
questions about windows for workgroups.

i currently have novell netware lite which does not work with
windows very well and is a conventional memory hog (ver. 1.1).
i am considering moving all our machines to w4wg.

q1 how much conventional ram does w4wg use over and above the
driver for the network card \?

i have just checked it and you have three files that are loaded
protman 128 bytes
driver 9072 bytes
workgrp 4416 bytes

q2 if i have a novell ne2000 card , are the lsl and ipx drivers
still needed \?

no w4wg uses it 's own drivers.

q3 does w4wg do a license check over the network to ensure each
machine is running its own licenced copy of w4wg \? (note i do
not want to break the license agreement and i will buy a copy
of w4wg for each of our machines , it is just that i would like
to try it out first to see if it meets our needs. returning one
opened copy is much easier than returning n opened copies.)

not that i know of , i bought two copies , had some problems with one
installed both from the same copie , no problems. do worry i just had
a really old bios and that 's the only problem i got.

q4 if you buy the upgrade to windows 3.1 for w4wg does it replace
all of win 3.1 as you install it or does it depend on current
win 3.1 files \?
it will replace all older files (i think) and prompt you for the
others.

q5 if i install windows nt on my server when it comes out , will i have
any troubles with the w4wg machines \?

this i do not know...

when i started this message , i was going to ask only 2 questions but i got carried
away. i 'll stop now ).

i look forward to your replies.

al


hope this helps

gel


subject roman.bmp 08 14
from pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
reply to pwiseman@salmon.usd.edu (cliff)
distribution usa
organization university of south dakota
lines 956


from chen@citr.uq.oz.au (g. chen)
subject help on bitmaps
summary bitmap size
keywords bitmap , windows 3.1 , sdk
organization prentice centre , university of queensland
lines 18

i wonder if anyone can tell me whether or not i can create a bitmap
of any size \? i followed the bitmap creation example in sdk manual
and specified a 24x24 bitmap (set the width height to 24) and supplied
a byte string with 72 chars. but i just cannot get the right bitmap
image. i changed the width height to 32x32 and used the same value
string (padded with zero byets to make up to the right size) and
got the image.

the example in the manual is 64x32 size , which are multiple of 2 bytes.
can you define a bitmap image of any size \?

thanks very much.

g chen chen@citr.uq.oz.au

g. chen , centre for information technology research , university of
queensland , australia 4072
chen@citr.uq.oz.au tel 61 7 365 4325 , fax 61 7 365 4399

from pmw0@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (phillip michael williams)
subject x windows for windows
organization lehigh university
lines 7

are there any x window servers that can run under ms windows \? \? i only know of
deskview but have not seen it in action. are there any others \? \?

thanks in advance.

phil
pmw0@lehigh.edu

from paladin@world.std.com (thomas g schlatter)
subject re \? order of files written when exitting windows \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 31

in article 1993apr22.001934.14921@ucsu.colorado.edu hayesj@rintintin.colorado.edu (hayes james michael jr) writes

trying to pin point a hardware problem with my disk , maxtor
7213at. group files get corrupted on a regular basis.
only happens on this drive , d had only one corrupt file
in over a year and it was under the control of winword on c.
32 bit disk access and smartdrive are off. since installation
of dblspace problem has turned from an annoyance to a reason for
murder.

are you using fastopen \? if you are , disable it. we had a lot
of problems with fastopen corrupting weird things (including
the windows permanent swap file) when we were using it.


since the most frequent files corrupted are the .grp files ,
are these the last thing written to when exitting windows \?

indeed they are. advanced personal measure tells me they are accessed
just before shell.dll


also , are there any pd shareware utilities available that do
a more thorough job than dos 6 , ndd 4.5 , etc \? dos 6 and
win 3.1 compatable.

i really like spinrite and qa plus

tom
paladin@world.std.com


from absgh@gdr.bath.ac.uk (g hunt)
subject windows for workgroups and lan workplace
organization school of architecture , university of bath , uk
lines 19

this may be a simple question but

we have a number of pc 's which we use to link to a mainframe using
novell lan workplace for dos (via windows 3.1).
now , to make life easier for us we are thinking of using windows for
workgroups to allow file sharing across our pc network.

now does anyone know if it is possible to use w4wg and lan workplace
for dos at the same time.

ie can i access a file on another pc while being logged on to the
mainframe at the same time , simultaneously.

any help well appreciated.

gary hunt.
centre for advanced studies in architecture
university of bath
absgh@gdr.bath.ac.uk

from ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu (ashok aiyar)
subject re trumpet for windows other news readers
organization cwru school of medicine
lines 26
nntp posting host axa12 slip.dialin.cwru.edu

in article mcbride.126@ohsu.edu mcbride@ohsu.edu (ginny mcbride) writes


in article ashok.653.0@biochemistry.cwru.edu ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu
(ashok aiyar) writes

currently wintrumpet is in very late beta. it looks like an excellent
product , with several features beyond the dos version.

wintrumpet supports the trumpet tcp , novell lwp , and there is also a direct to
packet driver version that some people are using with the dis pkt shim.


what 's it gonna cost \?

again , i do not speak for peter tattam , but it is my understanding that it
will shareware status as trumpet 1.05 for dos is , and i imagine that the
registration fees will be similar. i also believe that a new version of
trumpet for dos will be released sometime in the near future.

ashok


ashok aiyar mail ashok@biochemistry.cwru.edu
department of biochemistry tel (216) 368 3300
cwru school of medicine , cleveland , ohio fax (216) 368 4544

subject re win31 doublespace
from edowdy@vax1.umkc.edu
organization university of missouri kansas city
nntp posting host vax1.umkc.edu
lines 33

in article 4363@hpwala.wal.hp.com , chrisa@hpwarr.hp.com ( chris almy) writes

doublespace , although i do not trust it for my hard disks , sounds
great for floppies. the thouoght of having to mount the disk
is anoying but something i can deal with. the problem arises
when under windows. is there a way to mount and unmount while
under windows or is this part of the upgrades soon to be
available from other vendors \?


.chris


i ca n't see why you would not trust it because it is safer than any previous
compression programs. it integrates into the kernal and makes it nearly
impossible to delete.


















from moy@cae.wisc.edu (howard moy)
subject how to fix word subscript spacing \?
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 14


hi ,

i have a problem when using subscripts with msword. the
problem is the subscripted characters get cut off on the display ,
but print out ok. anyone know how to fix the subscripts so
i can see them on the screen \?

many thanks ,

howard

! howard moy !
! (608) 255 6379 !

from yuan@wiliki.eng.hawaii.edu (maw ying yuan)
subject win3.1 config.sys query
organization university of hawaii , college of engineering
lines 11

hi there ,

with a 16megs of ram , is there a need to run load smartdrv for
windows 3.1 \? if yes , can i run load ramdrive without smartdrv \?
if i need both ramdrive smartdrv , is the following config.sys
settings ok ...smartdrv.sys 2048 2048
...ramdrive.sys 2048 e

thanks in advance for e mail reply.

yuan@wiliki.eng.hawaii.edu

from moret@masi.ibp.fr (moret yan magistere)
subject adobe 3.0 and adobe 2.0
nntp posting host daphne.ibp.fr
reply to moret@masi.ibp.fr (moret yan magistere)
organization universite paris vi paris vii
lines 7


i wanted to create a postcript file with win .1 , to print it on a
laserwriter ii. it created a postcript file version adobe 3.0 , but our
laser accept only adobe 2.0. how resolve this problem \? \?


thanks ,

from ffritze@hpwad.wad.hp.com (fromut fritze)
subject re anyone know stacker 's email address \?
organization hewlett packard waldbronn , germany
lines 15

does anybody know if stacker has a e mail address and if
so , what it is \? i know they have a bbs and something on
compuserve , but i'm hoping someone know 's their e mail
address.

john white from stac electronics can be reached at compuserv as 72370 , 1005.
for me 72370.1005@compuserve.com would as email address work from internet.


internet ffritze@hpwbe007.wad.hp.com
phone germany 7243 602296
address fromut fritze , waldbronn analytic division r d ,
hewlett packard str , d 7517 waldbronn 2 , germany



from brad@ravel.udel.edu (brad cain)
subject changing system fonts
nntp posting host ravel.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 18

i would like to change all of the system fonts in windows... i have a
program that will generate system fonts from truetype , but i was
wondering if there is a problem to help you set up all your system
fonts.

also , how do i change the icon text color... all of my icon text is black ,
and i want to change it... could n't find any options in control panel or
in win.ini

brad cain
brad@bach.udel.edu




brad@bach.udel.edu brad cain n3naf
cain@snow white.ee.udel.edu university of delaware electrical engineering
cain@freezer.cns.udel.edu blah , blah , blah alt.blah

from wes1574@zeus.tamu.edu (bill scrivener)
subject in need of help....
organization texas a m university , academic computing services
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host zeus.tamu.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

ok , i have a problem that i thought you guys gals might know about....

i'm running a 286dx 25 with a 85mb hdd. i also have windows 3.1 , but
hardly any dos application will run out it. also , when i do a mem
command , it says that i have used up 58kb out of 640kb of conventional
memory , zero from upper level memory , and all 385kb of my ems memory.
and to top it off , i ca n't load any device drivers into upper memory.
do i just need more memory \? also , why would it use up ems memory instead
of upper memory \?

please reply by e mail only to wes1574@tamvenus.tamu.edu





bill scrivener it 's not the first time that you
texas a m university sleep with a woman that matters ,
college station , texas but the first time
email wes1574@tamvenus.tamu.edu you wake up with her.



from ob00@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (olcay boz)
subject canon buble jet printer \?
organization lehigh university
lines 12

hi ,

can somebody tell me how much is canon bj200 \? and from where can i buy it for
the cheapest price \? thanks in advance..



m
0


o 0 0 o

subject re window start up position for app , how \?
from davidw@auck.irl.cri.nz (david white)
organization industrial research ltd , auckland , new zealand
keywords app window , startup position
nntp posting host kauri.auck.irl.cri.nz
lines 15

in 1993apr19.143054.17499@ucsu.colorado.edu hayesj@rintintin.colorado.edu (hayes james michael jr) writes

how do you set up an app to give its window a default start up
position and size \?

try sizeit.zip from ftp.cica.indiana.edu 129.79.20.84 in the directory
ftp pub pc win3 desktop. it 's freeware.

also noticed there a program called sizer110.zip , which from the description
looks like it also does what you want.

hope this helps.

david white (engineer , goon fan son of my dad)
internet davidw@auck.irl.cri.nz fax 64 9 443 4737

from lam@mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu (ken lam)
subject re wanted address symantec
reply to lam@jove.cofc.edu
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 27

dewinter@prl.philips.nl (rob de winter) writes

i am looking for the exact address of the symantec coporatoin , which
distributes norton desktop and other windows software.

the information i am looking for is

mail address
phone number
fax number
e mail address

try postmaster@norton.com
or postmaster@symantec.com

thanks in advance.


nothing beats skiing , if you want to have real fun during holidays.
rob de winter philips research , ist it , building wl 1
p.o. box 80000 , 5600 ja eindhoven. the netherlands
tel 31 40 743621 e mail dewinter@prl.philips.nl


ken lam
network administrator @ university of charleston dept of biology geology
s.c. space grant consortium (803) 792 4969 fax (803) 792 5446

from jpaparel@cs.ulowell.edu (joseph paparella)
subject re mouse on com3 under windows 3.1 \?
organization umass lowell computer science
lines 8

i 've pursued and researched this question over the last month or so because i have the same requirements you do......and the long and short of it is that the windows mouse drivers do n't accept mice at any but com1 and com2 using irq4 or irq3 unless you buy special drivers from someone who has them.....i 've talked to mouse systems who say their driver does n't support other than com1 and com2 as above , but who claim to be releasing one that will soon ! \? \? .

the other alternative seems to be possible , but in one case prohibitively expensive , i.e. 4 port card for 600 \? \? \? \? \? \? ! ! , and in the other , the author(s) of powerbbs for windows claim to have a 4 port serial card with buffered 16550 uarts and drivers for windows to match (i.e. com3 irq5) for 120......

the second paragraph is hearsay , because i have n't checked it out yet.....but intend to as soon as i can free up 120 g

hope this will save you some steps.


from cmenzel@kbssun1.tamu.edu (chris menzel)
subject re procomm plus for windows problems....
organization texas a m university , college station , tx
lines 25
nntp posting host kbssun1.tamu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

jeff meyers (jmeyers@ecst.csuchico.edu) wrote
in article 1qkqrhinnobc@matt.ksu.ksu.edu kentiler@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (kent p. iler) writes
.
.
i have a friend who connects to the mainframe and unix machines here
using procomm plus for windows , but the screen seems to have a problem
keeping up with the
modem....he has a 14 , 400 modem on a 486 50 mhz machine.

tell him he probably needs to upgrade to a faster video card ! my 9600 baud
modem was one of the reasons i sought out the diamond speedstar 24x. i get
about 7 million winmarks on my 386 25 and it just about keeps up with the
modem speed (using procomm plus for windows , too). he should get over
10 million on his machine with the same card. anything 10 should yield
acceptable speed...

i'm using pc plus at home on my trusty old nec 386 sx 20 with a 14 , 400
baud modem with no problems at all. i am , however , running only
straight 16 color vga.



christopher menzel internet cmenzel@tamu.edu
philosophy , texas a m university phone (409) 845 8764
college station , tx 77843 4237 fax (409) 845 045

from cah@tactix.rain.com (chris huey)
subject re workspace managers for win 3.1 a small review
organization tactix reengineering , inc.
lines 28
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

jamie scuglia (jamie@zikzak.apana.org.au) wrote
thanks to all those people who recommended workspace managers for
windows 3.1. i found 3 shareware workspace managers , from australia 's
ms windows archive (monu6.cc.monash.edu.au) , which mirrors some
sites in the u.s. the three i found were

1. workspaces 1.10 (wspace.zip)
review deleted
2. workshift 1.6 (wrksft16.zip)
review deleted
3. bigdesk 2.30 and backmenu (backdesk.zip)
review deleted

i really appreciate this information. however , given that i do n't have
direct internet access which means i do n't have archie access i must
resort to using ftpmail. this means that i need the site name and the
directory where these workspace managers are located.

so , can you (or anyone else) post or email me the needed information \?

thanks very much ! ! !

chris


chris huey tactix reengineering , inc.
cah@tactix.rain.com voice (503) 684 4099
codecrafters custom crafted software in about an hour

from cm@cavsys.demon.co.uk (colin manning)
subject truetype oem font with line drawing characters etc wanted
distribution world
organization cavendish systems
reply to cm@cavsys.demon.co.uk
x newsreader simple news 1.90 (ka9q dis 1.21)
lines 13


title says it all i'm in need of a truetype oem character set font ie
one that contains the line drawing and other characters in the pc
character set similar to those you get when running a text mode application.

if anyone could point me at such a thing , i 'd be grateful.

the only oem fonts included with windows are not truetype.

regards ,


colin manning

from marcs@crpmks.uucp (marc snyder)
subject re anyone use number 9 gxe video card \?
organization ciba geigy corporation , additives division
keywords video adaptor hardware graphics
lines 13

in article 6023@npg sd.sandiegoca.ncr.com claborne@npg sd.sandiegoca.ncr.com (chris claborne) writes
has anyone used the number nine ( 9) video graphics adaptor with windows
or windows nt \? what do you think \? \? \?

i just put one in my machine last week. i have an ast 486 66. i was
getting 10million winmarks with my diamond ss24 , and the 9 board is
doing 20million winmarks. from my brief experiences with it , i'm very
satisfied. btw , this is with win 3.1.

marc snyder uucp ...philabs ! crpmks ! marcs
system administrator
ciba geigy corporation
hawthorne , new york work 914.785.2284 play 914.347.6440

from htanabe@ponder.csci.unt.edu (tanabe)
subject terminal software
article i.d. ponder.htanabe.734110579
organization university of north texas
lines 10

please reply via email...

when i use the terminal software for windows such as terminal.exe or
crossttalk , it does n't use the whole window. i mean , when the software 's
window size is max , it still scrolls around the 2 3 of window. it does not
use whole window. i set stty rows 30 , but still the same. scrolls at 2 3
from the top of the windows. could anyone tell me how to setup these software
to use whole window \?

thanks in advance.

from ran@doc.ic.ac.uk (robert a nicholls)
subject vb to msaccess dde communications
organization department of computing , imperial college , university of london , uk.
lines 49
nntp posting host swan.doc.ic.ac.uk

a couple of weeks ago i posted a question concerning
communicating
between vb and msaccess using dde. the answers i received at
that time
allowed me to get a prototype of my project working. however ,
during
this process i have come up with new problems.

1) there seems to be a limit of 255 characters for a dde topic
string. is
this inherent in all dde systems or just peculiar to msaccess
or vb \?

2) it is easy to query an access database from vb using the
dde sql command ,
(provided the above limitation is overcome by using short
field and table
names) but how is one meant to update a database \?
a) a dde sql update command does not seem to work.
b) initiating an access macro using a dde execute command
from vb cannot
be used because when the macro requests information from
vb using a
second dde channel the programs dead lock until time
outs occur.
(the vb to access channel has to close before the access
to vb channel
is initiated , i guess.)
c) access does not allow vb to dde poke the information.


the way i eventually managed to update a database was by
sending key
strokes from vb to access using the sendkeys command. this
technique has
the problem that access cannot be minimised and it must
always be in a
state ready to respond to the sequence of key strokes vb
sends.

are all the above statements correct or have i made incorrect
assumptions \?
are there any better work arounds to the above \? are there any
signs of an
odbc driver for access \?

bob
ran@doc.ic.ac.uk


from msmith@volcano.ma30.bull.com (mike smith)
subject dll 's and registerclass createwindow
reply to m.smith@ma30.bull.com
organization bull hn , worldwide information systems , billerica , mass. , usa
distribution comp
lines 28


hi all ,

i have a dll in which i register a class and create a window of that
class type. both calls require a module instance handle , hinstance.

petzold 's 3.1 book says that it is best to use the module instance
handle of the calling program , not the module instance handle of the
dll (page 934).

i have two questions

1) is there a way to find out the module instance handle of a module \?

2) what are the possible problems with using the instance handle of
the dll \?

thanks in advance ,
mike



mike smith e mail m.smith@ma30.bull.com
bull hn information systems inc. phone (508) 294 2049
300 concord road ma30 815a fax (508) 294 3807
billerica , ma 01821 usa



from fisk@cvdv99.mayo.edu (tom fisk 2d 337 stm 5 4341)
subject re ati ultra pro drivers \?
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
reply to fisk@mayo.edu
organization university of arizona mis department mosaic group
lines 20

in article c5jldc.hl9@news.cso.uiuc.edu , jroberts@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (robertson) writes...
does anybody know the ftp site with the latest windows drivers for the ati
gup \?
thanks

the latest driver release is 59 and can be found at ftp.cica.indiana.edu
in the pub pc win3 ... directory structure as pro59.zip. i checked with ati 's
bbs last nite and there were no releases past 59.

we have the ati local bus card and i noticed that i get garbage around the
edges of a window when i move it. has anybody else noticed this also \?

tom.

thomas b. fisk internet fisk@mayo.edu
mayo clinic if you do n't know where voice (507) 255 4341
200 first street sw you 're going you 'll never fax (507) 255 5484
mail stop 2d 337 stm get there.
rochester , mn 55905


from manu@oas.olivetti.com (manu das)
subject wanted sample source for editing controls
organization olivetti atc cupertino ca , usa
lines 18
distribution usa
nntp posting host todi.oas.olivetti.com


hi everyone ,

i would like to get an example program(source code) to get started with a simple
editor (similar to windows dialog editor , but lot simplified) . can someone
point me to a source such as a programming windows book , or example program
comes with windows sdk (from microsoft or borland). i would greatly appreciate
it.

all i want to do is to be able to place a edit control or combobox or a listbox
on a window and be able to drag and resize.

if anyone has written similar program and do n't mind sharing code or ideas ,
i would appreciate it very much.

thnx in advance , manu das

please send me directly at manu@oas.olivetti.com

from dbd@icf.hrb.com (douglas b. dodson)
subject windows 3.1 or dos 5.0 or smartdrv or \? \? \?
organization hrb systems , inc.
lines 59

hello ,

i thought this problem might have something to do with windows 3.1 smartdrv and
a vesa video card...any ideas \? \? \?

i recently purchased a 486dx 33 machine and am having problems where the
machine will suddenly freeze or reboot. this may happen in windows 3.1 or dos
5.0. sometimes it is after printing a document , sometimes after using the
mouse , and sometimes just when i am sitting there. twice when it happened , the
machine rebooted and sounded seven beeps. i looked in the documentation and
the seven beep code meant a problem with interrupts. the machine has the
following configuration and files

486dx 33
ami bios
5.25 and 3.5 floppies
170 meg ide hard drive
256k cache
microsoft compatible mouse on com1
citizen gsx 145 on lpt1
ni supervga monitor with vesa windows accelerator card w 1meg
two vesa slots
windows 3.1
dos 5.0

config.sys

device c windows himem.sys
dos high
devicehigh c dos setver.exe
files 20
buffers 20
stacks 9 , 128

autoexec.bat

@echo off
lh c windows smartdrv.exe 1024
prompt p g
path c dos c windows c mouse
lh c mouse mouse
set temp c dos
lh c dos doskey


when the machine freezes , i ca n't use the mouse or keyboard or use ctrl alt del
to reboot. if any one can give me any help , i would greatly appreciate it. if
anyone can help configure this machine for the best efficiency (memory wise) i
would appreciate that also.

douglas b. dodson internet dbd@icf.hrb.com
hrb systems , inc.
state college , pa usa
16804

disclaimer !

any ideas or opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect the ideas or
opinions of hrb.

from kjell@hut.fi (kjell ljungqvist)
subject driver for panasonic kx p4430
organization helsinki university of technology
lines 15
distribution comp
reply to kjell.ljungqvist@hut.fi
nntp posting host sandman.cs.hut.fi

greetings !

i am looking pro a win 3.1 printer driver for the panasonic laser printer
kx p4430. (i am not sure about the order of the first letters in the
name , but the numbers are right and they are important.) i have found
drivers for panasonic printers 4450 and so on , but i think there should
be drivers available where the 4430 model is included.

grateful for any help !



kjell@hut.fi kjell@niksula.hut.fi kjell@vipunen.hut.fi



from eric@tgm.cam.org (eric trepanier)
subject more cool bmp files \? \?
reply to eric@tgm.cam.org
organization bell sygma , revenue systems development
lines 27


in article 1993apr17.023017.17301@gmuvax2.gmu.edu rwang@gmuvax2.gmu.edu writes


hi , everybody
i guess my subject has said it all. it is getting boring
looking at those same old bmp files that came with windows. so ,
i am wondering if there is any body has some beautiful bmp file
i can share. or maybe somebody can tell me some ftp site for
some bmp files , like some scenery files , some animals files ,
etc.... i used to have some , unfortunately i delete them all.


i downloaded the compuserve gif of the month. a raytraced image of
a golf ball next to a hole. very nice , 640x480x256 bitmap , easily
converted to a windows bmp. if anyone wants , i could upload a copy
on cica...


eric


eric trepanier internet eric@tgm.cam.org ci 71042 , 3207
55 grenon o.
laval (quebec) h7n 5m3 everybody has a right to believe in something
canada (514)663 6929 i believe i 'll have another beer !


from wdwink01@fsrz1.rz.uni passau.de (winkelhake olaf)
subject re wanted info on asymetrix toolbook
organization university of passau germany
lines 30
nntp posting host pc5.rz.uni passau.de

in article 1993apr19.065354.14002@prl.philips.nl dewinter@prl.philips.nl (rob de winter) writes

does anyone know the phone and fax number of the asymetrix
corporation. i am also interested in their e mail address.

i would also like to know what the current status of their product toolbook
is. i received the last update 1.5 about 1.5 year ago. are their any new
developments or is toolbook slowly dying \?

regards ,

rob de winter.



nothing beats skiing , if you want to have real fun during holidays.
rob de winter philips research , ist it , building wl 1
p.o. box 80000 , 5600 ja eindhoven. the netherlands
tel 31 40 743621 e mail dewinter@prl.philips.nl

rob ,

their e mail adress is support@asymetrix.com

i 've heard v.2.0 is in beta.

have a look at bitserv.list.toolb l which is a toolbook list.

regards ,
olaf winkelhake

from ebosco@us.oracle.com (eric bosco)
subject re how do i quickly switch between windows screen resolutions \?
nntp posting host monica.us.oracle.com
reply to ebosco@us.oracle.com
organization oracle corp. , redwood shores ca
distribution na
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.
lines 27

in article c5qlr8.djl@cbnewsl.cb.att.com slg@slgsun.att.com (the
idealistic cynic) writes

can someone out there tell me how to switch window 's screen resolution
quickly and easily \? i know that i can go back into install to do it ,
but what i 'd really like is to have is the ability to just change a
couple of startup or configuration files and have the resolution
changed. i already have both video drivers that i need on my system ,
so that is n't a problem.

thanks ,

sean.


sean l. gilley
sean.l.gilley@att.com use this address , all others bounce !
614 236 5031 (h) , 614 860 5743 (w)

there is a shareware program called v switch.zip. i do n't remember if it
is on wuarchive.wustl.edu or on ftp.cica.indiana.edu.

it is easy to use and does the job with no problem.

eric

ebosco@us.oracle.com

from kin@isi.com (kin cho)
subject viewsonic 17 experience sought
organization integrated systems , inc.
lines 12
nntp posting host tycho.isi.com

i 'd appreciate if you can email or post you positive
or negative experience with this monitor , especially
compared to to nanao 550i.
i 'd summarize if i got multiple responses.

thanks.


kin

kin cho (kin@isi.com) voice(408) 980 1500 ext. 230
integrated systems inc. fax (408) 980 0400

from kolodzie@uni duesseldorf.de (stefan kolodzie)
subject winword and quattro pro problems on a notebook
organization psychologisches institut i , heinrich heine universitaet duesseldorf
lines 19
nntp posting host 134.99.100.6

hello ,

i have a 386sx25 notebook with windows 3.1 running fine. winword 2.0 and
quattro pro for windows also work fine when no virtual memory is used.
switching on the virtual memory option these programs (probably others too)
do n't work , the system crashes. the same programs work well with arbitrary
virtual memory on two other desktop pc 's. what am i doing wrong \?

if you can help , please mail to me directly , if possible.

thank you very much in advance.

stefan


stefan k. kolodzie heinrich heine university
institute for general psychology duesseldorf , germany
e mail kolodzie@ze8.rz.uni duesseldorf.de


from 93gke@williams.edu (greg 'going blank again' ennis)
subject soundblaster v2.0 drivers for win 3.1 \? \?
organization williams college , williamstown , ma
lines 10
nntp posting host hancock.cc.williams.edu

hi all ,
could someone please tell me if there are drivers for windows 3.1 for
the new soundblaster 2.0. or will the 1.5 drivers be sufficient \?
i would be appreciate any info.

thanks ,
greg ennis
93gke@cs.williams.edu



from downs@helios.nevada.edu (lamont downs)
subject re win nt what is it \? \? \?
lines 18
nntp posting host cat.lv lib.nevada.edu
organization unlv

can anyone tell me how chicago windows 4 would differ from
os 2 2.x \? believe it or not , i'm not trying to start a flame war ,
here. i'm simply curious if there is going to be any feature
advantage in either of these products (i do not consider the fact that
it has uncle bills seal of approval much of a feature...)

one difference will probably be the same difference as between os2 and
windows 3.x now one will likely have a lot of software available for
it and one wo n't (emulation , with the inevitable incompatibilities that
crop up in spite of all the contrary claims , just does n't count when you
have to use a certain software package that does n't quite run properly
under the emulation...). developers want to channel their resources toward
a platform that has a large installed base , and in a case like that the
platform that is most successfully marketed (regardless of its relative
sophistication) will win.

lamont downs
downs@nevada.edu

from jef i@pt iwaniw.stars.flab.fujitsu.junet (jefrem iwaniw)
subject re visual c
in reply to david a. fuess 's message of 26 apr 1993 14 22 55 gmt
nntp posting host 192.8.210.197
organization pelican software corporation
distribution usa
lines 20


to clarify

vc is considered an upgrade for c7. there will be no product
called c 8.0 (although the command line compiler of vc lists its
version as 8.00). c7 is not a dos only product it is a c c
compiler capable of producing executables for dos or windows , as is
vc (pro. ed.). the (significant) difference is that vc comes with
many windows hosted tools (ide , etc) which assist developers in
creating windows executables much more quickly (basically by
automating the thousands of lines of boilerplate code). initial
impressions have been very favorable.

everyone who is a registered user of c7 should have received a
considerable amount of info regarding the specifics of c7. if you
have n't , call microsoft and i'm sure they 'd be happy to send you some !

jefrem iwaniw
pelican software corporation


from tony lezard tony@mantis.co.uk
subject winword grammer checker saved my liff !
distribution world
organization mantis consultants , cambridge. uk.
lines 28

1. fire up microsoft word for windows (version 2.0c)

2. type the following paragraph

if you want to rite really very dead good , you just cant live.
without one of the wonderfully write aids , what you 're can get
what helps me impress me boss.

3. under tools options grammar select use grammar and style rules
strictly (all rules) and click ok.

4. run the grammar checker (this also does a spelling check).

no complaints.

readability
passive sentences 0
flesch reading ease 84.5
flesch grade level 6.6
flesch kincaid 5.2
gunning fog index 8.7



tl
(someone buy malcolm bacchus some beer please.)



from eugene@mpce.mq.edu.au
subject re wp pcf , linux , risc \?
organization macquarie university , australia.
lines 18
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au
originator eugene@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article c5o1yq.m34@csie.nctu.edu.tw ghhwang@csie.nctu.edu.tw (ghhwang) writes

dear friend ,
the risc means reduced instruction set computer . the risc usually has
small instruction set so as to reduce the circuit complex and can increase
the clock rate to have a high performance. you can read some books about
computer architecture for more information about risc.

hmm... not that i am an authority on risc ) but i clearly remember
reading that the instruction set on risc cpus is rather large.
the difference is in addressing modes risc instruction sets are not
as orthogonal is cisc.



some people say it 's fun , but i think it 's very serious.
eugene@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au


from servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu (brian k servis)
subject re ghostscript for win fonts \? \? \? \?
keywords ghostscript , fonts
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 26

servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu (brian k servis) writes
that 's me....
i just downloaded the windows ghostscript package(gswin252.zip , gs252ini.zip)
from ftp. when i load a ps file it says it cant find font and substitutes a
font called ugly. it is substituting for basic fonts such as helv , and cour.
i would imagine that these fonts are included in its font library. is there
something i am doing wrong or am missing \? these ugly fonts are not very clear
and well defined , as in sharpness , etc , basically they are ugly ! any advice
is welcome.


ok , i realize i have to get the font files from some ftp site. i found them
at cica but i now have another question.....

are the 24 .zip fonts compatible with gswin252 \? \?

please email

brian servis

servis@author.ecn.purdue.edu it happened this way
actual quotes from insurance claims
what i say may not be what i
think. what i say may not be the pedestrian had no idea which
what purdue thinks. way to go , so i ran him over.

