from bbs.mirage@tsoft.net (jerry lee)
subject cobra 2.0 1 b 1 video card help me ! ! ! !
organization the tsoft bbs and public access unix , 1 415 969 8238
lines 22

does anyone out there in net land have any information on the cobra 2.20
card \? the sticker on the end of the card reads
model cobra 1 b 1
bios cobra v2.20

i hav n't been able to find anything about it from anyone ! if you have
any information on how to get a hold of the company which produces the
card or know where any drivers are for it , please let me know !

as far as i can tell , it 's a cga card that is taking up 2 of my 16 bit
isa slots but when i enable the test patterns , it displays much more than
the usualy 4 cga colors... at least 16 from what i can count.. thanks !

. .
internet jele@eis.calstate.edu
bbs.mirage@gilligan.tsoft.net
bbs.mirage@tsoft.sf bay.org
mirage@thetech.com
uucp apple.com ! tsoft ! bbs.mirage
` '

computer and video imaging major

from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject ellipse again
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 39
distribution world
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu
keywords ellipse


hi ! everyone ,

because no one has touched the problem i posted last week , i guess
my question was not so clear. now i 'd like to describe it in detail

the offset of an ellipse is the locus of the center of a circle which
rolls on the ellipse. in other words , the distance between the ellipse
and its offset is same everywhere.

this problem comes from the geometric measurement when a probe is used.
the tip of the probe is a ball and the computer just outputs the
positions of the ball 's center. is the offset of an ellipse still
an ellipse \? the answer is no ! ironically , dmis an american indutrial
standard says it is ellipse. so almost all the software which was
implemented on the base of dmis was wrong. the software was also sold
internationaly. imagine , how many people have or will suffer from this bug ! ! !
how many qualified parts with ellipse were will be discarded \? and most
importantly , how many defective parts with ellipse are will be used \?

i was employed as a consultant by a company in los angeles last year
to specially solve this problem. i spent two months on analysis of this
problem and six months on programming. now my solution (nonlinear)
is not ideal because i can only reconstruct an ellipse from its entire
or half offset. it is very difficult to find the original ellipse from
a quarter or a segment of its offset because the method i used is not
analytical. i am now wondering if i did n't touch the base and make things
complicated. please give me a hint.

i know you may argue this is not a cg problem. you are right , it is not.
however , so many people involved in the problem sphere from 4 poits .
why not an ellipse \? and why not its offset \?

please post here and let the others share our interests
(i got several emails from our netters , they said they need the
summary of the answers).

yeh
usc

from lau@auriga.rose.brandeis.edu (frankie t. k. lau)
subject pc fastest line circle drawing routines help !
organization brandeis university
lines 41

hi all ,

in short looking for very fast assembly code for line circle drawing
on svga graphics.

complete
i am thinking of a simple but fast molecular
graphics program to write on pc or clones. (ball and stick type)

reasons programs that i 've seen are far too slow for this purpose.

platform 386 486 class machine.
800x600 16 or 1024x728 16 vga graphics
(speed is important , 16 color for non rendering
purpose is enough may stay at 800x600 for
speed reason.)
(hope the code would be generic enough for different svga
cards. my own card is based on trident 8900c , not vesa \? )

what i'm looking for \?
1) fast , very fast routines to draw lines circles simple shapes
on above mentioned svga resolutions.
presumably in assembly languagine.
yes , very fast please.
2) related codes to help rotating zooming animating the drawings on screen.
drawings for beginning , would be lines , circles mainly , think of
text , else later.
(you know , the way molecular graphics rotates , zooms a molecule)
2) and any other codes (preferentially in c) that can help the
project.

final remarks
non profit. expected to become share , free ware.

any help is appreciated.
thanks

frankie
lau@tammy.harvard.edu

ps pls also email , i may miss reply post.

from weilej@cary115.its.rpi.edu (jason lee weiler)
subject re sun ipx root window display background picture
keywords sun ipx background picture
article i.d. rpi.gc15hqk
reply to weilej@rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny.
lines 31
nntp posting host cary115.its.rpi.edu

in article 1993apr19.220817.22480@osi.com , scott@osi.com (scott fleming) writes

hello netters !

i have a fairly weak question to ask everybody in netland. i 've looked though
the last faq for comp.graphics but i did n't find my answer. thus the post.

i 'll keep it short.

question how do i display any raster files , gif files , iff or tiff images
that i have on my root window or background \? i have a sun ipc , openwindows
3.0 , sun os 4.1.3 if that helps any.

i 've compiled pov for the sun and would like to display some of the work i have
done as a background tile. thanks for any help or information that you
provide. have a good day.

scott fleming
osi

p.s.
kudo 's to the people who provided pov , its great !


scott ,
i'm not so sure if this is helpful , but i usually use xv v2.21. i use sun ipcs and ipxs , and it works fine. it can display in a good number of ways.(root being one of them) it 's also possible to have xv put up a background automatically at login. hope this helps.

jason weiler
weilej@rpi.edu

btw xv v2.21 is on anonymous ftp somewhere. (archie fer it ! )

from clldomps@cs.ruu.nl (louis van dompselaar)
subject re images of earth
organization utrecht university , dept. of computer science
lines 17

in c5q0hk.kod@hawnews.watson.ibm.com ricky@watson.ibm.com (rick turner) writes

look in the pub space directory on ames.arc.nasa.gov there are a number
of earth images there. you may have to hunt around the subdirectories as
things tend to be filed under the mission (ie , apollo ) rather than under
the image subject.

for those of you who do n't need 24 bit , i got a 32 colour amiga iff
of a cloudless earth (scanned). looks okay when mapped on a sphere.
e mail me and i 'll send it you...

louis


i'm hanging on your words , living on your breath , feeling with your skin ,
will i always be here \? in your room dm


from zemcik@ls (pavel zemcik)
subject tseng et4000 pixel clock
organization technical university of brno , czech republic
keywords et4000 svga pixel clock
summary is there anybody who knows how to set et4000 svga pixel clock \?
lines 19

i would like to program tseng et4000 to nonstandard 1024x768 mode by
switching to standard 1024x768 mode using bios and than changing some
timing details (0x3d4 registers 0x00 0x1f) but i do n't know how to
select 36 mhz pixel clock i need. the bios function selects 40 mhz.

is there anybody who knows where to obtain technical info about this.
i am also interested in any other technical information about tseng et4000
and trident 8900 and 9000 chipsets.

thanks very much

pavel zemcik
dept. of comp. sci. eng.
technical university of brno
bozetechova 2
cs 612 66 brno
czech republic
e mail zemcik@dcse.fee.vutbr.cs


subject technical help sought
from jiu1@husc11.harvard.edu (haibin jiu)
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host husc11.harvard.edu
lines 9

hi ! i am in immediate need for details of various graphics compression
techniques. so if you know where i could obtain descriptions of algo
rithms or public domain source codes for such formats as jpeg , gif , and
fractals , i would be immensely grateful if you could share the info with
me. this is for a project i am contemplating of doing.

thanks in advance. please reply via e mail if possible.

hbj

from sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
x xxmessage id a7f81fd2f801023c@seanmac.acs.unt.edu
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 15 22 26 gmt
organization university of north texas
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 83

first off thanks to all who have filled me in on the existence of the
68070. i assumed rashly that the particular number would be reserved for
further enhancements to the motorola line , rather than meted out to
another company. ah , well , i guess that 's what i get when i assume the
computer industry will operate in a logical manner ! )

in article 1993apr16.212441.34125@rchland.ibm.com ricardo hernandez
muchado , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes
sean , i do n't want to get into a 'mini war' by what i am going to say ,
but i have to be a little bit skeptic about the performance you are
claiming on the centris , you 'll see why (please , no flames , i reserve
those for c.s.m.a ) )

i was in chicago in the last consumer electronics show , and apple had
a
booth there. i walked by , and they were showing real time video capture
using a (radious or supermac \? ) card to digitize and make right on the
spot
quicktime movies. i think the quicktime they were using was the old one
(1.5).

version 1.5 of quicktime is , as has been stated , the current version of
the software. the older version is 1.0 , and 1.6 is on the horizon in the
not too distant future.

they digitized a guy talking there in 160x2xx something. it played
back quite
nicely and in real time. the guy then expanded the window (resized) to
25x by
3xx (320 in y i think) and the frame rate decreased enough to notice
that it
was n't 30fps (or about 30fps) anymore. it dropped to like 15 fps. then
he
increased it just a bit more , and it dropped to 10 12 fps.

quicktime does a much better job of playing back movies at size than it
does playing back resized movies. apparently the process of expanding
each frame 's image and dithering the resultant bitmap to the appropriate
bit depth is pretty processor intensive. there are optimizers that work
pretty well for showing movies at double size , but if you drop to 1.9x
size or increase to 2.1x size , performance suffers dramatically.

then i asked him what mac he was using... he was using a quadra
(do n't know
what model , 900 \? ) to do it , and he was telling the guys there that the
quicktime
could play back at the same speed even on an lcii.

he lied. ) quicktime is very cpu dependent. he was probably confused by
the fact that qt is locked to an internal timecode , and will play in the
same amount of time on any machine. however , an lc will drop frames in
order to keep the sound and video synced up.

the centris and quadras have similar cpus and will thus boast similar
performance , though the quadras will be a bit faster due to marginally
faster clock speeds and somewhat different architecture.

well , i spoiled his claim so to say , since a 68040 quadra mac was
having
a little bit of trouble. and this was n't even from the hardisk ! this
was
from memory !

could it be that you saw either a newer version of quicktime , or some
hardware assisted centris , or another software product running the
animation (like supposedly macromind 's accelerator \? ) \?

i expect that the version of the quicktime software you saw was 1.0 i
was using was 1.5. one of the new codecs in v1.5 allows video at nearly
twice the size and the same frame rate as what version 1.0 could handle.
the centris 650 i saw was a plain vanilla , with the exception of the nice
speakers that were playing the sound , and the software was movie player ,
the qt player apple includes with the software.

do n't misunderstand me , i just want to clarify this.

no problem it still surprises me that quicktime is able to do the
things it does as well as it can.

sean mcmains check out the gopher phone 817.565.2039
university of north texas new bands info server fax 817.565.4060
p.o. box 13495 at seanmac.acs.unt.edu e mail
denton tx 76203 mcmains@unt.edu

from ktt3@unix.brighton.ac.uk (koon tang)
subject postscript driver for gino
organization the univerity of brighton , u.k.
lines 15

does anybody know where i can get , via anonymous ftp or otherwise , a postscript
driver for the graphics libraries gino verison 3.0a \?

we are runnining on a vax vms and are looking for a way outputing our plots to a
postscript file...


thanks in advance...

koon tang , internet ktt3@unix.bton.ac.uk
department of mathematical sciences , uucp uknet ! itri ! ktt3
university of brighton ,
brighton ,
bn2 4gj ,
u.k.

from imaging.club@office.wang.com ( imaging club )
subject re wanted info on image databases
organization mail to news gateway at wang labs
lines 14

padmini srivathsa in wisconsin writes

i would like references to any introductory material on image
databases.

i 'd be happy to us (international) snail mail technical information on
imaging databases to anyone who needs it , if you can provide me with your
address for hard copy (not email). we 're focusing mostly on open pace ,
oracle , ingres , adabas , sybase , and gupta , regarding our imaging
databases installed. (we have over 1 , 000 installed and in production now
most of the new ones going in are on novell lans , the rs 6000 , and now hp
unix workstations.) we work with visual basic too.

michael.willett@office.wang.com

from sigma@rahul.net (kevin martin)
subject re xv under ms dos \? ! \?
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 11

in 1993apr20.083731.260@eicn.etna.ch no e mail address@eicn.etna.ch writes
do somenone know the solution to run xv \? \? \? any help would be apprecied..

i would guess that it requires x , almost certainly dv x , which commonly
uses the go32 (djgpp) setup for its programs. if you do n't have dv x
running , you ca n't get anything which requires interfacing with x.


kevin martin
sigma@rahul.net
i gotta get me another hat.

from tiang@midway.ecn.uoknor.edu (tiang)
subject re a book i found... graphics
nntp posting host midway.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 35

covlir@crockett1c.its.rpi.edu (locks) writes
hello ,

i happened to spot an excellent book in a bookstore about 4 days ago ,
though ! ! ! ! ! ! it is in c and assembly. it teaches you the assembly
as it goes along so if you 're like me and have no assembler experience ,
do n't worry. it has almost everything that i wanted to know and has
working code.

rod covlin

i just bought a copy. i ca n't disagree that it is a very good
book. but unfortunately i was looking for the same graphics feature
described in this book but not in 640x480x16 or 320x200x256 mode. it
is easy to accomodate all the pixel descriptor (or color attributes)
in those modes into a0000 afffff , but not in 640x480x256(which is what
i am interested in). i have n't finish the book but i affraid the
author did n't talk much about this mode(or other svga modes). if
anyone out there know any good book dealing with fast svga graphics
manupulation(scrolling , repainting , all other good stuff..) please
send me mail. programming guide to svga card is also welcome.

thanks in advance.




tiang t. foo
tiang@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu



tiang t. foo
tiang@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu


from g.coulter@daresbury.ac.uk (g. coulter)
subject shadow optical raytracing package \?
reply to g.coulter@daresbury.ac.uk
organization serc daresbury laboratory , uk
lines 17
nntp posting host dlsg.dl.ac.uk

hi everyone

i am looking for some software called shadow as
far as i know its a simple raytracer used in
the visualization of synchrotron beam lines.
now we have an old version of the program here
, but unfortunately we do n't have any documentation
if anyone knows where i can get some docs , or
maybe a newer version of the program or even
another program that does the same sort of thing
i would love to hear from you.

ps i think shadow was written by a f cerrina \?

anyone any ideas \?

thanks gary serc daresbury lab.

from lusardi@cs.buffalo.edu (christopher lusardi)
subject program included 2 edge detection algorithms !
article i.d. acsu.c5jqm6.hlg
organization state university of new york at buffalo comp sci
lines 142
nntp posting host hadar.cs.buffalo.edu



this program does n't detect edges with compass operators and a laplacian
operator. it should output 2 raw grey scale images with edges. the output
does n't look like edges at all.

in novicee terms , how do i correct the errors \? any improvements are welcome.
(i 'll even accept your corrected code.)

(if i convolve the input.image with a digital gaussian 7 by 7 to remove
noise , will i get an improvement with the laplacian.)

2 types of edge detection
include stdio.h
include math.h

define imagewidth 300
define imageheight 300

unsigned char input image imageheight imagewidth

unsigned char angles wanted imageheight imagewidth
unsigned char magnitude image imageheight imagewidth

int laplace op1 3 3 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 4 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 0

int compass op1 3 3 1 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 1
int compass op2 3 3 1 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 1
int compass op3 3 3 1 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 1
int compass op4 3 3 0 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 0
int compass op5 3 3 1 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 1
int compass op6 3 3 1 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 1
int compass op7 3 3 1 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 1
int compass op8 3 3 0 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 0 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 0

void compass (row , col)
int row , col

int value
int op rows , op cols
int compass1 , compass2 , compass3 , compass4
int compass5 , compass6 , compass7 , compass8

compass1 compass2 compass3 compass4 0
compass5 compass6 compass7 compass8 0

for (op rows 1 op rows 2 op rows )
for (op cols 1 op cols 2 op cols )

if (((row op rows) 0) ((col op cols) 0))


compass1 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op1 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass2 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op2 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass3 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op3 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass4 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op4 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass5 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op5 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass6 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op6 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass7 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op7 op rows 1 op cols 1
compass8 ((int) input image row op rows col op cols )
compass op8 op rows 1 op cols 1



if (compass1 compass2)
value compass2
else
value compass1
if (value compass3)
value compass3
if (value compass4)
value compass4
if (value compass5)
value compass5
if (value compass6)
value compass6
if (value compass7)
value compass7
if (value compass8)
value compass8

magnitude image row col (char) value


void laplace1 (row , col)
int row , col

int op rows , op cols

magnitude image row col 0
for (op rows 1 op rows 2 op rows )
for (op cols 1 op cols 2 op cols )
if (((row op rows) 0) ((col op cols) 0))
magnitude image row col
(char) ((int)magnitude image row col
((int) input image row op rows col op cols
laplace op1 op rows 1 op cols 1 ))


main ()

file original image fp
file laplace1 mag fp , laplace2 mag fp , laplace3 mag fp
file compass mag fp

int row , col , algo count

original image fp fopen ( input.image , rb )

laplace1 mag fp fopen ( laplace1 magnitude , wb )
compass mag fp fopen ( compass magnitude , wb )

fread ((unsigned char ) input image , sizeof(unsigned char) , imageheight imagewidth , original image fp)
for (algo count 0 algo count 2 algo count )

for (row 0 row imageheight row )
for (col 0 col imagewidth col )
if ( ! algo count)
laplace1 (row , col)
else
compass (row , col)

if ( ! algo count)
fwrite(magnitude image , sizeof(char) , imageheight imagewidth , laplace1 mag fp)
else
fwrite(magnitude image , sizeof(char) , imageheight imagewidth , compass mag fp)





. , for a lot of .au music ftp sounds.sdsu.edu
, then cat file.au dev audio
( ub library catalog telnet bison.acsu.buffalo.edu
14261 (when in doubt ask xarchie , xgopher , or xwais.)

from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re comp.graphics.programmer
organization purdue university
lines 26

in article 1qukk7innd4l@no names.nerdc.ufl.edu lioness@maple.circa.ufl.edu
writes
however , that is almost overkill. something more like this would probably
make everyone a lot happier

comp.graphics.programmer
comp.graphics.hardware
comp.graphics.apps
comp.graphics.misc

that 's closer , but i dislike apps . software (vs. hardware )
would be better. would that engulf alt.graphics.pixutils \? or would
that be programmer \?

i do n't know if traffic is really heavy enough to warrant a newsgroup
split. look how busy comp.graphics.research is (not).

it 's true that a lot of the traffic here is rehashing faqs and
discussing things that would probably be better diverted to
system specific groups , but i do n't know whether a split would help
or hurt that cause.

maybe we need a comp.graphics.rtfb for all those people who ca n't be
bothered to read the fine books out there. right , dr. rogers \? )

ab

subject newss
from pollarda@physc1.byu.edu
distribution world
organization brigham young university
lines 24



i am working on a project where we are going to be including
both still and moving grapics within a database. of course
jpeg and mpeg come to mind as the formats of choice for the
various files. however , from what i read on the net , it seems
as if there are several different forms of each of these.

what i want to do , is settle on a file format which i can count
on as being a standard format 10 years from now. i know apple is going
to support quicktime on the new power pc 's and , so this
may be the format of choice.

what format does apple 's quicktime use for their products \? i guess
it is some kind of mpeg for their motion picture. is it any different
than standard mpeg files \?

thanx for any info !

art.
pollarda@xray.byu.edu




from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject ellipse from its offset
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu
keywords ellipse


hi ! everyone ,

since some people quickly solved the problem of determining a sphere from
4 points , i suddenly recalled a problem which is how to find the ellipse
from its offset. for example , given 5 points on the offset , can you find
the original ellipse analytically \?

i spent two months solving this problem by using analytical method last year ,
but i failed. under the pressure , i had to use other method nonlinear
programming technique to deal with this problem approximately.

any ideas will be greatly appreciated. please post here , let the others
share our interests.

yeh
usc

from ken@cs.ualberta.ca (huisman kenneth m)
subject images of earth
nntp posting host cab101.cs.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta
lines 14

i am looking for some graphic images of earth shot from space.
( preferably 24 bit color , but 256 color .gif 's will do ).

anyways , if anyone knows an ftp site where i can find these , i 'd greatly
appreciate it if you could pass the information on. thanks.


( please send email ).


ken huisman

ken@cs.ualberta.ca


from talluri@osage.csc.ti.com (raj talluri)
subject point of intersection of n lines
keywords robust statistics
nntp posting host osage
organization texas instruments
lines 21

hi ,

can anybody suggest robust algorithms code for computing the point of intersection
on n , 2 d lines in a plane. the data has outliers and hence a simple least squares
technique does not seem to provide satifactory results.

please respond by e mail and i will post the summary to the newsgroups
if there is sufficient interest.

thanks ,

raj talluri
member technical staff
image understanding branch
texas instruments
central research labs
dallas , texas 75248

talluri@csc.ti.com



from fsmarc@tristero.lerc.nasa.gov (marc cooper)
subject re marching cubs
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host tristero.lerc.nasa.gov
keywords cube , program , c


i saw this subject and all i could think of was a parade at wrigley field
in chicago.

or maybe it 's just me.

)



marc cooper graphics programmer sverdrup tech. as a child , i was an
fsmarc@lerc.nasa.gov imaginary playmate.
nasa lewis research center ms 5 11
21000 brookpark dr. tom robbins
cleveland , oh 44135 (216) 433 8898 even cowgirls get the blues

disclaimer it 's mine ! all mine ! d. duck

from camter28@astro.ocis.temple.edu (carter ames)
subject re alt.raytrace (potential group)
organization temple university
lines 7
nntp posting host astro.ocis.temple.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8




yes , please create the group alt.raytrace soon ! !
i'm hooked on pov.
geez. like i do n't have anything better to do....
oh ! ! dave letterman is on...

from jmuller@ic.sunysb.edu (john s muller)
subject wayne rigby
organization state university of new york at stony brook
lines 20
distribution world
nntp posting host csws18.ic.sunysb.edu


sorry to clog up the news group with this message.

wayne rigby , i have the info you requested , but for some
reason i can not mail it to you. please contact me !
send email address.
j


no real programmer can function without caffeine zen art of internet

john s. muller
muller@diego.llnl.gov
muller@sisal.llnl.gov
jmuller@libserv1.ic.sunysb.edu


you are not drunk until you have to grab the grass ,
to keep the grass from falling off the earth some stupid comedian


from pinky@tamu.edu (the man behind the curtain)
subject views on isomorphic perspectives \?
organization texas a m university
lines 87
nntp posting host tamsun.tamu.edu
keywords isomorphic perspectives


i'm working upon a game using an isometric perspective , similar to
that used in populous. basically , you look into a room that looks
similar to the following

xxxx
xxxxx xxxx
xxxx x xxxx
xxxx x xxxx
xxxx 2 xxxx 1 xxxx
x xxxx xxxx x
x xxxx xxxx x
x xxxx o xxxx x
xxxx 3 xxxx
xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx
xxxx xxxx
xxxx

the good thing about this perspective is that you can look and move
around in three dimensions and still maintain your peripheral vision.

since your viewpoint is always the same , the routines can be hard coded
for a particular vantage. in my case , wall two 's rising edge has a slope
of 1 4. (i'm also using mode x , 320x240).

i 've run into two problems i'm sure that other readers have tried this
before , and have perhaps formulated their own opinions

1) the routines for drawing walls 1 2 were trivial , but when i ran a
packed planar image through them , i was dismayed by the jaggies. i'm
now considered some anti aliasing routines (speed is not really necessary).
is it worth the effort to have the artist draw the wall already skewed ,
thus being assured of nice image , or is this too much of a burden \?

2) wall 3 presents a problem the algorithm i used tends to overly distort
the original. i tried to decide on paper what pixels go where , and failed.
has anyone come up with method for mapping a planar to crosswise sheared
shape \?

currently i take

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32
33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48
49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64

and produce

1 2 3 4
33 34 35 36 17 18 19 20 5 6 7 8
49 50 51 52 37 38 39 40 21 22 23 24 9 10 11 12
53 54 55 56 41 42 43 44 25 26 27 28 13 14 15 16
57 58 59 60 45 46 47 48 29 30 31 32
61 62 63 64

line 1 follows the slope. line 2 is directly under line 1.
line 3 moves up a line and left 4 pixels. line 4 is under line 3.
this fills the shape exactly without any unfilled pixels. but
it causes distortions. has anyone come up with a better way \?
perhaps it is necessary to simply draw the original bitmap
already skewed \?

are there any other particularly sticky problems with this perspective \?
i was planning on having hidden plane removal by using z buffering.
locations are stored in (x , y , z) form.

for those of you who noticed , the top lines of wall 2 (and wall 1)
are parallel with its bottom lines. this is why there appears to
be an optical illusion (ie. it appears to be either the inside or outside
of a cube , depending on your mood). there are no vanishing points.
this simplifies the drawing code for objects (which do n't have to
change size as they move about in the room). i 've decided that this
approximation is alright , since small displacements at a large enough
distance cause very little change in the apparent size of an object in
a real perspective drawing.

hopefully the context of the picture (ie. chairs on the floor , torches
hanging on the walls) will dispell any visual ambiguity.

thanks in advance for any help.


till next time , o o
v o v email pinky@tamu.edu
sam inala v


from ednobles@sacam.oren.ortn.edu (edward d nobles)
subject windows imagine \? \? ! !
organization oak ridge national laboratory
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 10


i sent off for my copy today... snail mail. hope to get it back in
about ten days. (impulse said a week .)

i hope it 's as good as they claim...

jim nobles

(hope i have what it takes to use it... )


from pallis@server.uwindsor.ca (pallis dimitrios )
subject re genoa blitz 24 hits 1600x1200x256 ni !
lines 3

i am sorry , but this genoa card does nothing that the ati ultra plus 2mb
ca n't do , plus the ati costs 330 us street price ....


from markus@octavia.anu.edu.au (markus buchhorn)
subject re hdf readers viewers
organization australian national university , canberra
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host 150.203.5.35
originator markus@octavia


i wrote...

g 'day all ,

can anybody point me at a utility which will read convert crop whatnot
display hdf image files \? i 've had a look at the hdf stuff under ncsa
and it must take an award for odd directory structure , strange storage
approaches and minimalist documentation )

and it has since turned out that all the mirror sites i looked at were
fooled by a restructuring at the original site zaphod.ncsa.uiuc.edu
and hence were in a mess. that and a pointer to 'imconv' should get
me started. ta muchly.

cheers
markus

markus buchhorn , parallel computing research facility
email markus@octavia.anu.edu.au
australian national university , canberra , 0200 , australia.
international 61 6 , australia 06 phone 2492930 , fax 2490747

from louis@loa.citilille.fr (louis gonzalez 20 43 41 19)
subject sphinx satellite image processing under x11
organization universite des sciences et technologie de lille , france
lines 106
nntp posting host loasil.citilille.fr
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8


sphinx

sphinx is a user friendly , state of the art image processing
and analysis package that runs across a spectrum of high performance
computer platforms operating unix and the x window system.

it was created to meet to the daily research needs of scientists
conducting climate investigations using satellite data and remote
sensing techniques.

intuitive graphic interface

sphinx features an interactive interface with pop up menus and
point and click dialog boxes which makes image processing and
analysis simple and fast.
this accessible menuing enables you to build attractive image
layouts quickly while also providing you the flexibility of returning
to the main menu to conduct other image analysis and processing operations.

image format compatibility

using smart read write functions , sphinx allows you to easily open
and save image files in a variety of formats using bit , integer or real
data values. sphinx also reads and writes the common tiff and gif formats
as well as compresses and decompresses image formats to save disk space.

image analysis processing

for image and pixel analysis , the sphinx package includes an
assortment of processing tools that perform useful statistical and
mathematical filtering operations , such as fourier transforms , convolution
product or principal component analyses.
an interactive interpreter for both algebraic equations and images allows
the user to manipulate and combine individual data channels interactively.
standard fortran notation is used for formula entry and for trig
onometric and transcendental functions.

satellite spectra orbit analysis

sphinx possesses functions to simulate satellite signal sensitivity
for various meteorological satellites (e.g. , goes , meteosat , noaa , spot etc.).
the simulations are conducted for a selection of standard atmospheric and
surface conditions and instrument spectral bands.
a geometry model computes the solar zenith angles , warping , orbit simulation ,
and 3 d image projection.

easy external program interfacing

sphinx allows users the flexibility to integrate externally
developed software algorithms for processing and converting satellite
observations. sphinx exports and imports image files and image parameters
to external programs using special interface functions.

quick quality presentation

sphinx rapidly displays , manipulates , and enhances high resolution
multispectral images and color tables. using six 8 bit 1024x1024 image
planes and one graphics plane , the package conveniently combines color images ,
graphics and text to generate sharp digital images for articles and reports.
sphinx 's 2 d and 3 d graphics editor provides complete flexibility for modifying
and integrating vector graphics and analysis plots with images , such as
histograms and radial graphs. the package supplies color and gray scale
output for standard inkjet and laser printers.
other capabilities sphinx also performs image animation , external
graphics importing , mosaic fitting... what else \?

software support development

sphinx was developed at the laboratoire d'optique atmospherique (loa)
of the universite de lille , france.
the package has received critical feedback and support from scientists at
the french national laboratory , centre national de recherche scientifique (cnrs) ,
and the french space agency , centre national d'etudes spatiales (cnes).
at loa , sphinx undergoes continued refinement and development to meet changing
research needs and advances in computer technology. the package , which features
on line help , is supported by an internet address

sphinx@loasil.citilille.fr through which questions can be answered and
version updates provided without delay.

performance tested

cnes has selected sphinx to analyze and process the satellite data
collected during the upcoming adeos polder satellite mission. today ,
the sphinx package is in use at the nasa goddard space flight center
and is widely used in many french laboratories , including
the centre de recherche en physique de l'environnement , ecole normale superieure ,
laboratoire d' etudes et de recherches en teledetection spatiale , laboratoire
de meteorologie dynamique.


a test version of sphinx is available at loasil.citilille.fr
(134.206.50.4) anonymous (bin cd sphinx get all sphinx.tar.z)

in the test version the output files are disable. however the
visualisation and graphic functions are available. this is
sufficient to work with.

if you are interested in keeping sphinx , send us your email
and you will receive news about the package evolution.

the software is changing with user suggestions we will
appreciate your comments.



organization stanford linear accelerator center
from rcb@slacvm.slac.stanford.edu
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
distribution world
lines 21


from bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson)

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
cnter and radius , exactly fitting those points \?

the equation of the sphere through the 4 points (x1 , y1 , z1) , ... , (x4 , y4 , z4) is
x 2 y 2 z 2 x1 2 y1 2 z1 2 ... x4 2 y4 2 z4 2
x x1 ... x4
y y1 ... y4 0
z z1 ... z4
1 1 ... 1
when this 5 by 5 determininant is expanded on its first column you get the
equation in the form
a(x 2 y 2 z 2) bx cy dz e 0
if you need the center and radius , jyst divide through by a (it cannot be
zero if the 4 given points form a non degenerate tetrahedron) and complete
the square on x , y , and z to obtain
(x xc) 2 (y yc) 2 (z zc) 2 r 2

rcb@slacvm.slac.stanford.edu (bob beach)

from nfotis@ntua.gr (nick c. fotis)
subject re more on radiosity
organization national technical university of athens
lines 34

amann@iam.unibe.ch (stephan amann) writes

in article 66319@yuma.acns.colostate.edu , xz775327@longs.lance.colostate.edu (xia zhao) writes


in article 1993apr19.131239.11670@aragorn.unibe.ch , you write


let 's be serious... i'm working on a radiosity package , written in c .
i would like to make it public domain. i 'll announce it in c.g. the minute
i finished it.

that were the good news. the bad news it 'll take another 2 months (at least)
to finish it.

please note that there are some radiosity packages in my resource listing
(under the subject 3 ftp list)

greetings ,
nick.

nick (nikolaos) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece
home 16 esperidon st. , internet nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr
halandri , gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! theseas ! nfotis
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578

usenet editor of comp.graphics resource listing and soc.culture.greece faq
ntua ua acm student chapter chair we 're organizing a small conference
in comp. graphics , call if you 're interested to participate.

nick (nikolaos) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece
home 16 esperidon st. , internet nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr
halandri , gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! theseas ! nfotis
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578

from valo@cvtstu.cvt.stuba.cs (valo roman)
subject re text recognition software availability
organization slovak technical university bratislava , slovakia
lines 23
nntp posting host sk2eu.eunet.sk
replyto valo@cvtstu.cvt.stuba.cs (valo roman)

in article c4ihqm.7v3@mentor.cc.purdue.edu , ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b) writes
one more time is there any free ocr software out there \?

i ask this question periodically and have n't found anything. this is
the last time. if i do n't find anything , i'm going to write some
myself.

post here or email me if you have any leads or suggestions , else just
sit back and wait for me. )

ab

i'm not sure if this is free or shareware , but you can try to look to wsmrsimtel20.army.mil ,
directory pd1 msdos.deskpub file ocr104.zip .
from the file simibm.lst
ocr104.zip b 93310 910424 optical character recognition for scanners.

hope this helps.

roman valo valo@cvt.stuba.cs
slovak technical university
bratislava
slovakia

from lvandyke@balboa.eng.uci.edu (lee van dyke)
subject wanted map of the world type gifs
nntp posting host balboa.eng.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 11

hi , can anyone direct me to map type gifs \?

i am interesting in cartography and would find
these gifs useful.

tia ,


lee van dyke
lvandyke@balboa.eng.uci.edu ,
uucp infotec ! infotec.com ! lee@sunkist.west.sun.com

from omar@godzilla.osf.org (mark marino)
subject wanted playmation info
organization open software foundation
lines 21

hi folks ,

does anyone have a copy of playmation they 'd be willing to sell me. i 'd
love to try it out , but not for the retail . if you have moved onto
something bigger (3ds) or better (imagine) , i 'd love to buy your table scraps.

if noone is selling , can anyone recommend a place to buy playmation
mail order for cheap \?

thanks in advance ,

mark






mark marino omar@osf.org uunet ! osf ! omar
open software foundation 11 cambridge center cambridge , ma 02142


from bockamp@informatik.tu muenchen.de (florian bockamp)
subject wanted matrox pg 1281 cv driver
originator bockamp@hphalle2g.informatik.tu muenchen.de
organization technische universitaet muenchen , germany
lines 24





hi !

i need a windows 3.1 driver for the matrox pg 1281 cv
svga card.
at the moment windows runs only in the 640x480 mode.
if you have a driver for this card , please send it
with the oemsetup.inf to

bockamp@informatik.tu muenchen.de

thanks !



florian bockamp '''
bockamp@informatik.tu muenchen.de (o o)
ooo ( ) ooo

it 's not a bug , it 's an undocumented feature !


from kruzifix@netcom.com (living on the edge......)
subject imagine for pc \? \?
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 8

is impulse shipping imagine for the pc386 486 \? how close is it to the
amiga 's imagine 2.0 , in terms of features \?


roland chia air cooled
email kruzifix@netcom.com free falling
voice (209)447 9403 carbon unit


from clipper@mccarthy.csd.uwo.ca (khun yee fung)
subject re looking for circle algorithm faster than bresenhams
organization department of computer science , the university of western
ontario , london , ontario , canada
in reply to graeme@labtam.labtam.oz.au 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 04 49 46 gmt
1993apr13.025240.8884@nwnexus.wa.com
1993apr14.044946.12144@labtam.labtam.oz.au
nntp posting host mccarthy.csd.uwo.ca
lines 41

on wed , 14 apr 1993 04 49 46 gmt , graeme@labtam.labtam.oz.au (graeme gill) said

graeme yes , that 's known as bresenhams run length slice algorithm for
graeme incremental lines . see fundamental algorithms for computer graphics ,
graeme springer verlag , berlin heidelberg 1985.

i have tried to extrapolate this to circles but i ca n't figure out
how to determine the length of the slices. any ideas \?

graeme hmm. i do n't think i can help you with this , but you might
graeme take a look at the following

graeme double step incremental generation of lines and circles ,
graeme x. wu and j. g. rokne , computer graphics and image processing ,
graeme vol 37 , no. 4 , mar. 1987 , pp. 331 334

graeme double step generation of ellipses , x. wu and j. g. rokne ,
graeme ieee computer graphics applications , may 1989 , pp. 56 69

another paper you might want to consider is

@article fungdraw ,
title a run length slice line drawing algorithm without division operations ,
author khun yee fung and tina m. nicholl and a. k. dewdney ,
journal computer graphics forum ,
year 1992 ,
volume 11 ,
number 3 ,
pages c 267 c 277


khun yee

khun yee fung clipper@csd.uwo.ca
department of computer science
middlesex college
university of western ontario
london , ontario
canada n6a 5b7
tel (519) 661 6889
fax (519) 661 3515

from agiacalo@nmsu.edu (toni giacalo)
subject need algorithm for reading and displaying bitmap files
organization new mexico state university
lines 7
nntp posting host gauss.nmsu.edu
keywords gif pcx bmp

i'm making a customized paint program in dos and need an algorithm
for reading bitmap files like gif , pcx , or bmp. does anyone have
such an algorithm \? i 've tried copying one out of a book for reading
.pcx format but it does n't work. i will take an algorithm for any
format that can be created from windows paint.
thanks !
toni

from wdm@world.std.com (wayne michael)
subject adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms \?
summary searching for adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms
keywords image enhancement
organization n a
lines 19

hello ,

i have been searching for a quality image enhancement and
manipulation package for unix x motif platforms that is comparable
to adobe photo shop for the mac.

i have not been able to find any , and would appreciate any
information about such products you could provide.

i would be particularly interested in software that runs on hp or
sun workstations , and does not require special add in hardware , but
would also be interested in other solutions.


thank you.
wayne

wayne michael
wdm@world.std.com

from rjs002c@parsec.paradyne.com (robert synoski)
subject 24 bit graphics cards
nntp posting host parsec
reply to rjs002c@parsec.paradyne.com
organization at t paradyne , largo florida
lines 10

i am looking for eisa or vesa local bus graphic cards that support at least
1024x786x24 resolution. i know matrox has one , but it is very expensive. all the
other cards i know of , that support that resoultion , are striaght isa.

also are there any x servers for a unix pc that support 24 bits \?

thanks




subject re looking for tseng vesa drivers
from t890449@patan.fi.upm.es ()
organization usr local lib organization
nntp posting host patan.fi.upm.es
lines 10

hi , this is my first msg to the net (actually the 3rd copy of it , dam ed vi ! ! ).

look for the new vpic6.0 , it comes with updated vesa 1.2 drivers for almost every known card. the vesa level is 1.2 , and my tseng4000 24 bit has a nice affair with the driver.

hope it is useful ! !


bye



from ederveen@athena.research.ptt.nl (ederveen d.)
subject micro world data bank ii \?
nntp posting host athena.research.ptt.nl
reply to d.n.m.ederveen@research.ptt.nl
organization ptt research , the netherlands
lines 18

i'm looking for a database called micro world data bank ii , a database
with digital map information containing 178 , 068 latitude , longitude points.
it is said to be in the public domain. if anyone knows a place where i can
get it (preferably ftp gopher mailserver etc. otherwise snail mail) please
let me know. i you have it yourself and are willing to send me the file ,
drop me a line.

i 'll be using it with a program called versamap by charles h. culberson.
if anyone knows of another detailed database that can be used with this
program (preferably pd) , i would be very interested.

replies by e mail please , directly to me , i do n't read this group regularly.
if there 's interest i 'll post a summary , of course.

derk ederveen (fidonet 2 283 323) tel. 31 70 3323202
d.n.m.ederveen@research.ptt.nl ederveen@hlsdnl5.bitnet fax. 31 70 3326477
x400 c nl admd 400net prmd ptt research o ptt research s ederveen i dnm
i wish i was a warrior , in every language that i speak lou reed

from thinman@netcom.com (technically sweet)
subject what is reverse or negative video \?
organization international foundation for internal freedom
lines 23

i'm interested in simulating reverse (or negative) color video
mathematically. what is the transform \? is it a simple
reversal of the hue value in the hsv color space \? is it
a manipulation in the yuv color space \? how is it related
to solarization \?

if you want to see something truly wild , turn on the
reverse video effect on a camcorder so equipped ,
and point it at the monitor. this creates a chaotic
dynamical system whose phase space is continuous along
rotation , zoom , focus , etc. very very surprising and
lovely. i 'd like to write a simulation of this effect
without analog grunge. thanks for any info you may have.

please e mail any info to me. i 'll post a summary.

thanks ,



lance norskog
thinman@netcom.com
data is not information is not knowledge is not wisdom.

from scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk (simon crowe)
subject bgi drivers for svga
summary ftp site for svga driver
keywords bgi , svga
nntp posting host bogart
organization bull hn uk
lines 11

i require bgi drivers for super vga displays and super xvga displays. does
anyone know where i could obtain the relevant drivers \? (ftp sites \? \? )

regards


simon crowe





from johne@iti.gov.sg (dr. john s. eickemeyer)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization information technology institute , national computer board , singapore.
lines 37

in article 1qkgbuinns9n@shelley.u.washington.edu bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson) writes
boy , this will be embarassing if it is trivial or an faq
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \? i know how to do it
for a circle (from 3 points) , but do not immediately see a
straightforward way to do it in 3 d. i have checked some
geometry books , graphics gems , and farin , but am still at a loss \?
please have mercy on me and provide the solution \?

off the top of my head , i might try

given p 1 , p 2 , p 3 , p 4

find p c (center of sphere determined by p 1 , ... , p 4) ,
dist(p c , p i) (radius)

p c is the same distance from our four points , so
dist(p c , p 1) dist(p c , p 2) dist(p c , p 3) dist(p c , p 4)

of course , we can square the whole thing to get rid of square roots
distsq(p c , p 1) distsq(p c , p 2) distsq(p c , p 3) distsq(p c , p 4)

plug in the variables into the distance formula , simplify , and the
x 2 c , y 2 c , and z 2 c terms cancel out , leaving you with three
linearly independent equations and three unknowns (x c , y c , z c).
solve using your favorite method. )


all the best ,

john )


dr. john s. eickemeyer the lord god is subtle ,
information technology institute but malicious he is not.
national computer board , singapore
email johne@iti.gov.sg albert einstein


from oehler@picard.cs.wisc.edu (eric oehler)
subject translating tttddd to dxf or swiv3d.
article i.d. cs.1993apr6.020751.13389
distribution usa
organization university of wisconsin , madison computer sciences dept.
lines 8

i am a mac user when it comes to graphics (that 's what i own software and hardware for) and
i 've recently come across a large number of tttddd format modeling databases. is there any
software , mac or unix , for translating those to something i could use , like dxf \? please
reply via email.

thanx.
eric oehler
oehler@picard.cs.wisc.edu

from dingebre@imp.sim.es.com (david ingebretsen)
subject re images of earth
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut
lines 20
distribution world
reply to dingebre@imp.sim.es.com (david ingebretsen)
nntp posting host imp.sim.es.com

i downloaded an image of the earth re constructed from elevation data taken
at 1 2 degree increments. the author (not me) wrote some c code (included)
that read in the data file and generated b w and pseudo color images. they
work very well and are not incumbered by copyright. they are at an aminet
site near you called earth.lha in the amiga pix misc area...

i refer you to the included docs for the details on how the author (sorry , i
forget his name) created these images. the raw data is not included.


david

david m. ingebretsen
evans sutherland computer corp.
dingebre@thunder.sim.es.com

disclaimer the content of this message in no way reflects the
opinions of my employer , nor are my actions
encouraged , supported , or acknowledged by my
employer.

from clldomps@cs.ruu.nl (louis van dompselaar)
subject re images of earth
organization utrecht university , dept. of computer science
lines 16

in 1993apr19.193758.12091@unocal.com stgprao@st.unocal.com (richard ottolini) writes

beware. there is only one such copyrighted image and the company
that generated is known to protect that copyright. that image took
hundreds of man hours to build from the source satellite images ,
so it is unlikely that competing images will appear soon.

so they should sue the newspaper i got it from for printing it.
the article did n't say anything about copyrights.

louis


i'm hanging on your words , living on your breath , feeling with your skin ,
will i always be here \? in your room dm


from mac@utkvx.bitnet (richard j. mcdougald)
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly \?
organization university of tennessee
lines 22

in article 0010580b.vmcbrt@diablo.uucp diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel) writes

yeah , corel draw and wordperfect presentations pretty limited here , too.
since there 's no (not really) such thing as a decent raster to
vector conversion program , this tracing technique is about it. simple
stuff , like b w logos , etc. do pretty well , while more complicated stuff
goes haywire. i suspect (even though i do n't write code) that a good
bitmapped to vector conversion program would probably be as big as most
of these application softwares we 're using but even so , how come one
has n't been written \? (to my knowledge). i mean , even hijaak , one of the
commercial industry standards of file conversion , has n't attempted it yet.


mac mcdougald any opinions expressed herein
the photography center are not necessarily (actually ,
univ. of tenn. knoxville 37996 are almost certainly not) those
mac@utkvx.utk.edu of the university of tennessee.
mac@utkvx.bitnet
(615 974 3449) things are more like they are now
(615 974 6435) fax than they 've ever been before.



from gordon sumerling@itd.dsto.gov.au (gordon sumerling)
subject re grayscale printer
organization itd dsto
lines 2
distribution na
nntp posting host iapmac2.dsto.gov.au

have you considered the apple laserwriter iig. we use it for all our b w
image printing.

from morley@suncad.camosun.bc.ca (mark morley)
subject medical images via gopher \?
nntp posting host suncad.camosun.bc.ca
organization camosun college , victoria b.c , canada
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 11

a few days back someone posted info on a gopher site where you could
search for medical graphics , etc. could someone please repost or mail me
a copy \? i 'd greatly appreciate it. thanks !

mark


mark morley , unix sun manager net morley@camosun.bc.ca
camosun college interurban campus tel (604) 370 4601
4461 interurban road room 143 tech fax (604) 370 3660
victoria , b.c. canada v8x 3x1

from merlin@neuro.usc.edu (merlin)
subject tom gaskins pexlib vs phigs programming manuals (o'reilly)
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 24
nntp posting host neuro.usc.edu

could someone explain the difference between tom gaskins' two books

o pexlib programming manual
o phigs programming manual

why would i want to buy one book vs the other book \? i have an 80386
running sco unix (x11r4) on my desktop , a sun iv 360 in my lab , and
access to a variety of other systems (alliant fx 2800 , cray y mp) on
the network. mostly , we would like to do 3d modeling visualization
of rat , rabbit , monkey , and human brain structure.

thanks , aj


alexander james annala
principal investigator
neuroscience image analysis network
hedco neuroscience building , fifth floor
university of southern california
university park
los angeles , ca 90089 2520




from s braun@irav19.ira.uka.de (thomas braun)
subject sources for shading wanted
organization university of karlsruhe , frg
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host irav19.ira.uka.de
x news reader vms news 1.25

i'm looking for shading methods and algorithms.
please let me know if you know where to get source codes for that.

thanks a lot !

thomas



thomas braun , universitaet karlsruhe
e mail s braun@iravcl.ira.uka.de




thomas braun
university karlsruhe , germany
email
s braun@iravcl.ira.uka.de
ukay@dkauni2.bitnet



from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization boeing
lines 24

in article john shepardson.esh 210493100336@moose.slac.stanford.edu john shepardson.esh@qmail.slac.stanford.edu (john shepardson) writes
can you please offer some recommendations \? (3d graphics)


there has been a fantastic 3d programmers package for some years that has
been little advertised , and apparently nobody knows about , called 3d
graphic tools written by mark owen of micro system options in seattle wa.
i reviewed it a year or so ago and was really awed by it 's capabilities.
it also includes tons of code for many aspects of mac programming
(including offscreen graphics). it does zbuffering , 24 bit graphics , has a
database for representing graphical objects , and more.
it is very well written (mpw c , think c , and hypercard) and the code is
highly reusable. last time i checked the price was around 150 well
worth it.

their is (206) 868 5418.

i 've talked with mark and he faxed some literature , though it was n't very helpful
just a list of routine names bsplinesurface , drawstring3d... 241 names.
there was a product info sheet that explained some of the package capabilities.
i also found a review in april may '92 mactutor.

it does look like a good package. the current price is 295 us.


from csc3phx@vaxa.hofstra.edu
subject color problem.
lines 8


i am scanning in a color image and it looks fine on the screen. when i
converted it into pcx , bmp , gif files so as to get it into ms windows the colors
got much lighter. for example the yellows became white. any ideas \?

thanks
dan
csc3phx@vaxc.hofstra.edu

from edb@dmssyd.syd.dms.csiro.au (ed breen)
subject dicta 93
originator edb@friend.syd.dms.csiro.au
keywords conference
reply to edb@dmssyd.syd.dms.csiro.au (ed breen)
organization csiro division of mathematics and statistics , australia
lines 163


australian pattern recognition society

2nd call for papers

dicta 93

2nd conference on

digital imaging computing techniques and applications


location macquarie theatre
macquarie university
sydney

date 8 10 december 1993.


dicta 93 is the second biennial national conference of the
australian pattern recognition society.

this event will provide an opportunity for any persons with an
interest in computer vision , digital image processing analysis and other
aspects of pattern recognition to become informed about contemporary
developments in the area , to exchange ideas , to establish contacts and
to share details of their own work with others.

the following invited speakers will provide specialised
presentations

prof gabor t. herman , university of pennsylvania on medical imaging.

prof. r.m. hodgson , massey university new zealand on computer vision.

prof. dominique juelin , centre de morphologie mathematique , paris on
mathematical morphology.

prof. john richards , aust. defence force academy , canberra on remote
sensing.

dr. phillip k. robertson , csiro division of information technology ,
canberra on interactive visualisation.


the conference will concentrate on (but is not limited to) the
following areas of image processing

computer vision and object recognition
motion analysis
morphology
medical imaging
fuzzy logic and neural networks
image coding
machine vision and robotics
enhancement and restoration
enhancement and restoration
visualisation
industrial applications
software and hardware tools

papers are sought for presentation at the conference and publication
in the conference proceedings. submission for peer review should consist
of an extended abstract of 750 1000 words of doubled spaced text , summarizing the
technical aspects of the paper and any results that will be quoted.
final papers should be limited to no more than 8 pages of text and
illustrations in camera ready form.


four (4) copies of the abstract should be sent to


dicta 93
c tony adriaansen
csiro division of wool technology
po box 7
ryde nsw 2112
australia



important dates

abstract due 25th june 1993
acceptance notified 27th august 1993
final paper due 15th october 1993



social program

the conference dinner will be held on the thursday 9th of december 1993.
other social activities are being arranged.

situated on a beautiful harbour , sydney has many and varied places of
interest. the opera house and harbour bridge are just two of the well
known landmarks. harbour cruises , city tours to the blue mountains run
daily. we can provide further information on request.


accommodation

accommodation within 15 min walking distance is available , ranging from
college style to 5 star hotel facilities. information will be supplied
upon request.


conference fees

before 30th sep. after 30th sep.
aprs members a 220 a 250
aprs student members a 120 a 150
others a 250 a 280

conference dinner a 35
on dec 9th 1993



advanced registration

name
organisation
address

phone
fax
email

i am a current member of aprs.

i am not a current member of aprs.

please send me information on accommodation.


i enclose a cheque for



please send the above form to

dicta 93
c tony adriaansen
csiro division of wool technology
po box 7
ryde nsw 2112
australia

the cheques should be made payable to dicta 93.

for further information contact
tony adriaansen (02) 809 9495
athula ginigie (02) 330 2393
email dicta93@ee.uts.edu.au

aprs is a member of iapp the international association for pattern
recognition , inc. an affiliated member of the international federation
for information processing.





from jbulf@balsa.berkeley.edu (jeff bulf)
subject re fractal compression
keywords fractal
reply to jbulf@balsa.berkeley.edu (jeff bulf)
organization kubota pacific computers inc.
lines 12

in article inu530n.735550992@lindblat.cc.monash.edu.au , inu530n@lindblat.cc.monash.edu.au (i rachmat) writes
hi... can anybody give me book or reference title to give me a start at
fractal image compression technique. helps will be appreciated... thanx

for better worse , the source on this on is michael barnsley. his article
in the science of fractal images (peitgen et al) is a fair to middling
intro. barnsley 's book fractals everywhere is a more thorough treatment.
the book covers iterated function systems in general , and their application
to image compression is clear from the text.

dr memory
jbulf@kpc.com

from jfreund@taquito.engr.ucdavis.edu (jason freund)
subject info on medical imaging systems
organization college of engineering university of california davis
lines 10


hi ,

is anyone into medical imaging \? i have a good ray tracing background ,
and i'm interested in that field. could you point me to some sources \? or
better yet , if you have any experience , do you want to talk about what 's
going on or what you 're working on \?

thanks ,
jason freund

from seth@north1.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman)
subject oak driver needed (30d studio)
reply to seth@north1.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman)
lines 8
nntp posting host north1.acpub.duke.edu


hi , i'm looking for the 3 d studio driver for the
oak card with 1 m of ram.
this would be greatly (and i mean that) appreciated

maybe i should have just gotten a more well know card.
thanks
seth@acpub.duke.edu

from dwestner@cardhu.mcs.dundee.ac.uk (dominik westner)
subject need a viewer for gl files
organization maths c.s. dept. , dundee university , scotland , uk
lines 10
nntp posting host cardhu.mcs.dundee.ac.uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

hi ,

the subject says it all. is there a pd viewer for gl files (for x) \?

thanks


dominik



from ricky@watson.ibm.com (rick turner)
subject re coreldraw bitmap to scodal
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host danebury.hursley.ibm.com
organization ibm t.j. watson research
lines 4

my coreldraw 3.0.whatever write scodl files directly. look under file export
on the main menu.

rick

from thester@nyx.cs.du.edu (uncle fester)
subject re cview answers
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 36

in article 5103@moscom.com mz@moscom.com (matthew zenkar) writes
cyberspace buddha (cb@wixer.bga.com) wrote
renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
over where it places its temp files it just places them in its
current directory .

i have to beg to differ on this point , as the batch file i use
to launch cview cd 's to the dir where cview resides and then
invokes it. every time i crash cview , the 0 byte temp file
is found in the root dir of the drive cview is on.

i posted this as well before the cview expert . apparently , he thought
he
knew better.

matthew zenkar
mz@moscom.com


are we talking about colorview for dos here \?
i have version 2.0 and it writes the temp files to its own
current directory.
what later versions do , i admit that i do n't know.
assuming your expert referenced above is talking about
the version that i have , then i 'd say he is correct.
is the colorview for unix what is being discussed \?
just mixed up , confused , befuddled , but genuinely and
entirely curious....

uncle fester


what god wants god wants gigolos
god gets god wants giraffes
god help us all god wants politics
thester@nyx.cs.du.edu god wants a good laugh

from uk02183@nx10.mik.uky.edu (bryan k williams)
subject re cview answers
keywords stupid programming
nntp posting host nx10.mik.uky.edu
organization university of kentucky
lines 4

well , the temp file thing creates an obvious problem it is impossible to use
cview for viewing cd rom based picture collections. and it is the only non
windows viewer that works properly with my cirrus based 24 bit vga.


from jk87377@lehtori.cc.tut.fi (kouhia juhana)
subject xv problems
organization tampere university of technology
lines 113
distribution world
nntp posting host cc.tut.fi

please , note the newsgroups.

recent discussion about xv 's problems were held in some newsgroup.
here is some text users of xv might find interesting.
i have added more to text to this collection article , so read on , even
you so my articles a while ago.

i hope author of xv corrects those problems as best he can , so fine
program xv is that it is worth of improving.
(i have also minor ideas for 24bit xv , e mail me for them.)

any misundertanding of mine is understandable.


juhana kouhia


clip

..deleted..

note that 'xv' saves only 8bit rasterized images that means that
the saved jpegs are just like jpeg to gif to jpeg quality.
also , there 's three kind of 8bit quantizers your final image quality
depends on them too.

this were the situation when i read jpeg faq a while ago.

imho , it is design error of 'xv' there should not be such confusing
errors in programs.
there 's two errors
xv allows the saving of 8bit rasterized image as jpeg even the
original is 24bit saving 8bit rasterized image instead of
original 24bit should be a special case
xv allows saving the 8bit rasterized image made with any quantizer
the main case should be that 'xv' quantizes the image with the
best quantizer available before saving the image to a file lousier
quantizers should be just for viewing purposes (and a special cases
in saving the image , if at all)

clip

clip

..deleted..

it is limit of xv , but not limit of design.
it is error in design.
it is error that 8bit quantized rasterized images are stored as jpegs
jpeg is not designed to that.

as matter of fact , i'm sure when xv were designed 24bit displays were
known. it is not bad error to program a program for 8bit images only
at that time , but when 24bit image formats are included to program the
whole design should be changed to support 24bit images.
that were not done and now we have
the program violate jpeg design (and any 24bit image format)
the program has human interface errors.

otherway is to drop saving images as jpegs or any 24bit format without
clearly saying that it is special case and not expected in normal use.

..deleted..

clip

some new items follows.

clip

i have seen that xv quantizes the image sometimes poorly with best24
option than with default option we have.
the reason surely is the quantizer used as best24 it is (surprise)
the same than used in ppmquant.

if you remember , i have tested some quantizers. in that test i found
that rlequant (with default) is best , then comes djpeg , fbmquant , xv
(our default) in that order. in my test ppmquant suggeeded very poorly
it actually gave image with bad artifacts.

i do n't know is ppmquant improved any , but i expect no.
so , use of xv 's best24 option is not very good idea.

i suggest that author of xv changes the quantizer to the one used in
rlequant i'm sure rle people gives permission.
(another could be one used in imagemagick i have not tested it , so i
can say nothing about it.)

clip

clip

some minor bugs in human interface are

key pressings and cursor clicks goes to a buffer often it happens
that i make click errors or press keyboard when cursor is in the wrong
place. it is very annoying when you have waited image to come about
five minutes and then it is gone away immediately.
the buffer should be cleaned when the image is complete.

also , good idea is to wait few seconds before activating keyboard
and mouse for xv after the image is completed.
often it happens that image pops to the screen quickly , just when
i'm writing something with editor or such. those key pressings
then go to xv and image has gone or something weird.

in the color editor , when i turn a color meter and release it , xv
updates the images. it is impossible to change all rgb values first
and then get the updated image. it is annoying wait image to be
updated when the setting are not ready yet.
i suggest of adding an 'apply' button to update the exchanges done.

clip

from eeerik@cc.newcastle.edu.au
subject color palette for 256 color vga rainbow
organization university of newcastle , australia
lines 11

does anybody out there have or know how to calculate the rgb values
required to set the 256 color vga palette so that the colors from
0..255 will give 256 colors of the rainbow ie red , orange ,
yellow , etc.

any help would be appreciated. please email to eeerik@cc.newcastle.edu.au

erik de castro lopo ,
dept. electrical computer eng. ,
uni. of newcastle ,
australia.

from dotzlaw@ccu.umanitoba.ca (helmut dotzlaw)
subject anti aliasing utility wanted
nntp posting host murphy.biochem.umanitoba.ca
organization university of manitoba
lines 10

i am currently using povray on mac and was wondering if anyone in netland
knows of public domain anti aliasing utilities so that i can skip this step
in pov , very slow on this machine. any suggestions , opinions about
post trace anti aliasing would be greatly appreciated.

helmut dotzlaw
dept. of biochemistry and molecular biology
university of manitoba
winnipeg , canada
dotzlaw@ccu.umanitoba.ca

from mbh2@engr.engr.uark.edu (m. barton hodges)
subject stereoscopic imaging
summary stereoscopic imaging
keywords stereoscopic
nntp posting host engr.engr.uark.edu
organization university of arkansas
lines 8

i am interested in any information on stereoscopic imaging on a sun
workstation. for the most part , i need to know if there is any hardware
available to interface the system and whether the refresh rates are
sufficient to produce quality image representations. any information
about the subject would be greatly appreciated.

thanks !


from edb9140@tamsun.tamu.edu (e.b.)
subject pov problems with tga outputs
organization texas a m university , college station , tx
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host tamsun.tamu.edu

i ca n't fiqure this out. i have properly compiled pov on a unix machine
running sunos 4.1.3 the problem is that when i run the sample .pov files and
use the exact same parameters when compiling different .tga outputs. some
of the .tga 's are okay , and other 's are unrecognizable by any software.

help !
ed
edb9140@tamsun.tamu.edu


from dsnyder@falcon.aamrl.wpafb.af.mil
subject re real time graphics \? \?
distribution na
organization usaf al cfh , wpafb , dayton , oh
lines 27

in article 1993apr5.114428.2061@falcon.aamrl.wpafb.af.mil , dsnyder@falcon.aamrl.wpafb.af.mil writes
in article c4va9r.kk7@taurus.cs.nps.navy.mil , stockel@oahu.oc.nps.navy.mil (jim stockel) writes
hi ,




opps ! typed in the phone numbers wrong. here are the correct numbers.


for a commerical package try wave from precision visuals


303 530 9000


for a free package try khoros from university of new mexico


505 277 6563


ftp from
ptrg.eece.unm.edu

login in anonyomus or ftp with a valid email address as the password
cd pub khoros release

from weilej@cary115.its.rpi.edu (jason lee weiler)
subject re need a viewer for gl files
nntp posting host cary115.its.rpi.edu
reply to weilej@rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny.
lines 17

in article 1qu36i kh7@dux.dundee.ac.uk , dwestner@cardhu.mcs.dundee.ac.uk (dominik westner) writes
hi ,

the subject says it all. is there a pd viewer for gl files (for x) \?

thanks


dominik


dominik ,

have you tried xgrasp \? it 's out there on several ftp sites.(not sure which , but archie can find it , i'm sure.) it works ok but it lacks an interface.

jason weiler
weilej@rpi.edu

from rws2v@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu (richard stoakley)
subject need a good concave convex polygon algorithm
organization university of virginia computer science department
lines 6

we need a good concave convex polygon conversion routine.
i 've tried a couple without much luck. please e mail responses and i
will post a summary of any replies. thank you.

richard stoakley
rws2v@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu

from teckjoo@iti.gov.sg (chua teck joo)
subject visuallib (3d graphics for windows)
organization information technology institute , national computer board , singapore.
lines 17


i am currently looking for a 3d graphics library that runs on ms
windows 3.1. are there any such libraries out there other than
visuallib \? (it must run on vga and should not require any other
add on graphics cards).

for visuallib , will it run with metaware high c compiler v3.0 \? any
email contact for the author of visuallib \?

any help would be much appreciated. thanks.



chua , teck joo information technology institute
email teckjoo@iti.gov.sg 71 science park drive
phone (65) 772 0237 singapore (0511)
fax (65) 779 1827

from mz@moscom.com (matthew zenkar)
subject re cview answers
organization moscom corp. , e. rochester , ny
lines 19
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

ray knight (rknight@stiatl.salestech.com) wrote
uk02183@nx10.mik.uky.edu (bryan k williams) writes

re majority of users not readding from floppy.
well , how about those of us who have 1400 picture cd roms and would like to use
cview because it is fast and it works well , but ca n't because the moron lacked
the foresight to create the temp file in the program 's path , not the current
didrectory \?


actually the most flexible way to create temp files is to check for a temp or
tmp environment variable and create the files on the drive and directory pointedto by the variable. this is pretty much a standard for dos , windows and os 2
applications.

unfortunately , cview does not pay attention to the temp environment variable.

matthew zenkar
mz@moscom.com


from ednobles@sacam.oren.ortn.edu (edward d nobles)
subject pov .tga 's and speedstar 24
organization oak ridge national laboratory
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 17


i finally got a 24 bit viewer for my povray generated .tga files.

it was written in c by sean malloy and he kindly sent me a copy. he
wrote it for the same purpose , to view .tga files using his speedstar 24.

it only works with the speedstar 24 and i cannot send copies since it is
not my program. i believe the author may release a version at a future
time when the program is more developed. he may or may not comment on
this , as he pleases.

thanks to all who were helpful.

regards ,

jim nobles


from bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

i plan to post a summary of responses to this as soon as i have working
code , which i will also include. the intersection of 3 planes method
looks best , but my implementation based on a short article in
graphics gems i does n't work. i may be misinterpreting , of course.

i had avoided the simultaneous solution of the plane equations in favor
of dot and cross products , but the former may actually be better. in either
case a matrix determinant needs to be computed (implicitly in the solution
of linear equations).

to get the planes , i was taking the midpoint of the line from , say ,
p1 to p2 , and setting the normal as the normalized vector from p1 to p2.
these just plugged into the formula in graphics gems. however , the resulting
center point is only occasionally equidistant from all 4 of my test points
(for different tests). my matrix vector math is very rusty , but it looks like
i need to verify the formula , or use the simultaneous equation solution , which
will require bringing in another routine i do n't have (but should be easy to
find).

another method is to first find the center of the circle defined by 2 sets
of 3 points , and intersecting the normals from there. this would also define
the circle center. however , small numerical imprecisions would make the
lines not intersect. supposedly 3 planes have to intersect in a unique
point if they are not parallel.

ed

thanks to all who answered so far.

ed bolson
university of washington cardiovascular research (206)543 4535
bolson@u.washington.edu (preferred)
bolson@max.bitnet bolson@milton.u.washington.edu (if you must)

from kuryakin@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (rick pavek)
subject vision 3d site and email unavailable
organization boeing
lines 21

i used the information provided in the recent resource listings and
tried to ftp to

ccu1.aukland.ac.nz 130.216.1.5 ftp mac architec vision 3d facet

and received an 'unknown host' message.

mail to paul d. bourke (pdbourke@ccu1.aukland.ac.nz) bounces with basically
the same problem.

where 'd he go \? \? \? \?

rick




rick pavek never ask a droid to outdo its program.
kuryakin@bcstec.ca.boeing.com
seattle , wa it wastes your time
and annoys the droid.

from ib@ivan.asd.sgi.com (ivan bach)
subject re adobe photo shop type software for unix x motif platforms \?
nntp posting host ivan.asd.sgi.com
organization silicon graphics , inc. , mountain view , ca
lines 9

we have been shipping for over one year the adobe display postscript (dps)
on silicon graphics workstations , file servers , and supercomputers.
the adobe illustrator 3.5 for silicon graphics machines was released
last february. adobe and sgi announced last october that photoshop
will be available on sgi systems in 1993. initial release will support
24 bit color graphics.

ivan bach , ib@sgi.com
disclaimer i do not speak for my employer.

from mark@ocsmd.ocs.com (mark wilson)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42 (silly)
organization online computer systems , inc.
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 20

mark a. cartwright (markc@emx.utexas.edu) wrote
well ,

42 is 101010 binary , and who would forget that its the
answer to the question of life , the universe , and everything else.
that is to quote douglas adams in a round about way.

of course the question has not yet been discovered...

but it was discovered (sort of). the question was what is 7 times 8 \?
when arthur dent objected that this was , unfortunately , factually
inaccurate , the effort to discover the question was begun all over.
this last effort was , i believe , likely to take far longer than
the lifespan of the universe , in fact several lifespans of same !


mark wilson , online computer systems. 1 800 922 9204 or 1 301 601 2215
(try email address mark@ocsmd.ocs.com....)
this file .disclaims everything signed with my .signature , i .mean it !


from nfotis@ntua.gr (nick c. fotis)
subject (17 apr 93) computer graphics resource listing weekly part 2 3
lines 1023
reply to nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr (nick (nikolaos) fotis)
organization national technical univ. of athens

archive name graphics resources list part2
last modified 1993 04 17


computer graphics resource listing weekly posting part 2 3

last change 17 april 1993


14. plotting packages


gnuplot 3.2

it is one of the best 2 and 3 d plotting packages , with
online help.it 's a command line driven interactive function plotting utility
for unix , msdos , amiga , archimedes , and vms platforms (at least ! ).
freely distributed , it supports many terminals , plotters , and printers
and is easily extensible to include new devices.
it was posted to comp.sources.misc in version 3.0 , plus 2 patches.
you can practically find it everywhere (use archie to find a site near you ! ).
the comp.graphics.gnuplot newsgroup is devoted to discussion of gnuplot.

xvgr and xmgr (ace gr)

xmgr is an xy plotting tool for unix workstations using
x or openwindows. there is an xview version called xvgr for
suns. collectively , these 2 tools are known as ace gr.
compiling xmgr requires the motif toolkit version 1.1
and x11r4 xmgr will not compile under x11r3 motif 1.0x.

check at ftp.ccalmr.ogi.edu 129.95.72.34 in
ccalmr pub acegr xmgr 2.09.tar.z (motif version)
ccalmr pub acegr xvgr 2.09.tar.z (xview version)

comments , suggestions , bug reports to paul j turner
pturner@amb4.ese.ogi.edu (if mail fails , try pturner@ese.ogi.edu).
due to time constraints , replies will be few and far between.

robot

release 0.45 2 d and limited 3 d. based on xview 3 , written
in c fortran (so you need a fortran compiler or the f2c translator).
mainly tested on sun4 , less on decstations. check at
ftp.astro.psu.edu (128.118.147.28) , pub astrod.

vg plotting library

this is a library of fortran callable routines at sunspot.ceee.nist.gov
129.6.64.151

xgobi

it 's being developed at bellcore , and its speciality are
multidimensional data sets analysis and exploration. you can call it
from the s language also , and it works as an x11 client using the athena
widget set (or with an ascii terminal). it 's distributed free of charge
from statlib at cmu.
to get it via e mail , send email to statlib@temper.stat.cmu.edu and
in the body area of the message , put the line

send xgobi from general

if you want to pick it via ftp , connect to lib.stat.cmu.edu. log in as
statlib and use your e mail address as your password. then type

cd general
mget xgobi.

warning it 's about 2 mb sources large postscript manual. read the
relevant readme to decide whether you need it or not.

pgplot

runs on vax vms and supposedly on unix. it 's a set of fortran routines freely
available (though copyrighted and requiring a nominal fee of 50 or so)
that includes contour plots and support for various devices , including ps.
contact tjp@deimos.caltech.edu

ggraph

host shorty.cs.wisc.edu 128.105.2.8 pub ggraph.tar.z
unknown more details.

epigraph

for pcs. call dvj@lab2.phys.lgu.spb.su (vladimir j. dmitriev) for details.
you can get the program demo or (and) play version , if sent 10 to

1251 budapest posta fiok 60
hungary
ph fax 1753696 budapest
ph 2017760

multiplot xln

for amigas , shareware ( 30 usd , 20 uk or 40 aust.). advanced 2d package
that has a big list of features. contact

dr. alan baxter agb16@mbuc.bio.cam.ac.uk ,
cambridge university
department of pathology ,
tennis court road ,
cambridge cb2 1qp , uk


athena plotter widget set


this version v6.0 is based on gregory bond 's version v5 beta. added
some stuff for scientific graphs , i.e. log axes , free scalable axes ,
xy lineplots and some more , and re added plotter callbacks from v4 , e.g.
to request the current pointer position , or to cut off a rectangle from the
plotting area for zooming in. version v6.0 has a log of bugs fixed and a
log of improvements against v6 beta. additionally i did some other
changes extensions , besides

origin and frame lines for axes.
subgrid lines on subtic positions.
line plots in different line types (lines , points , lines points ,
impulses , lines impulses , steps , bars) , line styles (solid , dotted ,
dashed , dot dashed) and marker types for data points.
legend at the right or left hand side of the plot.
optional drawing to a pixmap instead of a window.
layout callback for aligning axis positions when using
multiple plotters in one application.

available at export.lcs.mit.edu , directory contrib plotter

sciplot

sciplot is a scientific 2d plotting and manipulation program.
for the next (requires nextstep 3.0) , and it 's shareware.

features
ascii import and export eps export copy , cut , paste with data buffer
free number of data points , data buffer , and document window
selective open and save plotting in many styles automatic legend
subviews linear and logarithmic axes two different axes text and graphic
color support zoom normalizing and moving axis conversions
free hand data manipulations (cut , edit , move , etc.) data editor sorting
of data absolute , relative , and free defined error bars
calculating with buffers ( , , , ) background subtractions
(linear , shirley , tougaard , bezier) integration and relative integration
fitting of one or more free defined functions linear regression
calculations ( , , , , sin , cos , log , etc.) function generator
spline interpolation least square smooth and fft smooth differentiation
fft esca calculations and database .. and something more

you can find it on
ftp.cs.tu berlin.de 130.149.17.7 pub next science sciplot3.1.tar.z

author
michael wesemann
scillerstr. 73 , 1000 berlin 12 , germany
mike@fiasko.rz berlin.mpg.de

plplot

plplot is a scientific plotting package for many systems , small (micro)
and large (super) alike. despite its small size and quickness ,
it has enough power to satisfy most users , including
standard x y plots , semilog plots , log log plots , contour plots , 3d plots ,
mesh plots , bar charts and pie charts. multiple graphs (of the same or
different sizes) may be placed on a single page with multiple lines in each
graph. different line styles , widths and colors are supported. a virtually
infinite number of distinct area fill patterns may be used. there are
almost 1000 characters in the extended character set. this includes four
different fonts , the greek alphabet and a host of mathematical , musical , and
other symbols. the fonts can be scaled to any size for various effects.
many different output device drivers are available (system dependent) ,
including a portable metafile format and renderer.

freely available (but copyrighted) via anonymous ftp on
hagar.ph.utexas.edu , directory pub plplot

at present (v. 4.13) , plplot is known to work on the following systems

unix sunos , a ix , hp ux , unicos , dg ux , ultrix
other platforms vms , amiga exec , ms dos , os 2 , next

authors many. the main supporters are

maurice lebrun mjl@fusion.ph.utexas.edu plplot kernel and the metafile ,
xterm , xwindow , tektronix , and amiga drivers.
geoff furnish furnish@fusion.ph.utexas.edu ms dos and os 2 drivers
tony richardson amr@egr.duke.edu plplot on the next

supermongo

2 d plotting package at cmu , filename re00 tmp sm.2.1.0.tar.z
(probably under the ftp.cmu.edu or andrew.cmu.edu machines \? )

gle

gle is a high quality graphics package for scientists. it runs on a
variety of platforms (pcs , vaxes , and unix) with drivers for xwindows ,
regis , tek4010 , pc graphics cards , vt100s , hp plotters , postscript
printers , epson compatible printers and laserjet paintjet printers. it
provides latex quality fonts , as well as full support for postscript
fonts. the graphing module provides full control over all features of
graphs. the graphics primitives include user defined subroutines for
complex pictures and diagrams.

accompanying utilities include surface (for hidden line surface
plotting) , contour (for contour plots) , manip (for manipulation of
columnar data files) , and fitls (for fitting arbitrary equations to
data).

mailing list glelist. send a message to

listserver@tbone.biol.scarolina.edu , with a message boyd containing

sub glelist your name

maintainer dean pentcheff dean2@tbone.biol.scarolina.edu



15. image analysis software image processing and display


pc and mac based tools (multi platform software)


imdisp

imdisp written at jpl and other nasa sites. can do simple display ,
enhancing , smoothing and so on. works with the fits and vicar pds
data formats of nasa. can read tiff images , if you know their dimensions
pc and macs

labview 2

labview is used as a framework for image processing tools. it provides a
graphical programming environment using block diagram sketch is the
program with graphical elements representing the programming elements.
hundreds of functions are already available and are connected using a
wiring tool to create the block diagram (program). functions that the
block diagrams represent include digital signal processing and
filtering , numerical analysis , statistics , etc. the tool allows any
virtual instrument (vi , a software file that looks and acts like a real
laboratory instrument) to be used as a part of any other virtual
instrument.

national instruments markets plug in digital signal processing (dsp)
boards for macintoshs and pc compatables that allow real time
acquisition and analysis at a personal computer. new software tools for
dsp are allowing engineers to harness the power of this technology. the
tools range from low level debugging software to high level block
diagram development software. there are three levels of dsp programming
associated with the nb dsp2300 board and labview
use of the nb dsp2300 analysis library ffts , power spectra , filters
routines callable from think c and macintosh programers workshop (mpw) c
that execute on the nb dsp2300 board. there is an analysis virtual
interface library of ready to use vis optimized for the nb dsp2300.

use of the national instruments developers toolkit that includes an
optimizing c compiler , an assembler and a linker for low level
programming of the dsp hardware. this approach offers the highest level
of performance but is the must difficult in terms of ease of use.

use of the national instruments interface kit software package which has
utility functions for memory management data communications and
downloading code to the nb dsp2300 board. (this is the easiest route for
the development of custom code.)

ultimage concept vi

concept vi by graftek france is a family of image processing virtual
instruments (vis) that give labview 2 (described above) users high end
tools for designing , integrating and monitoring imaging control systems.
a vi is a software file that looks and acts like a real laboratory
instrument. typical applications for concept vi include thermography ,
surveillance , machine vision , production testing , biomedical imaging ,
electronic microscopy and remote sensing.

ultimage concept vi addresses applications which require further
qualitative and quantitative analysis. it includes a complete set of
functions for image enhancement , histogram equalization , spatial and
frequency filtering , isolation of features , thresholding , mathematical
morphology analysis , density measurement , object counting , sizing and
characterization.

the program loads images with a minimum resolution of 64 by 64 , a pixel
depth of 8 , 16 , or 32 bits , and one image plane. standard input and
output formats include pict , tiff , satie , and aipd. other formats can
be imported.

image enhancement features include lookup table transformations , spatial
linear and non linear filters , frequency filtering , arithmetic and logic
operations , and geometric transformations , among others. morphological
transformations include erosion , dilation , opening , closing , hole
removal , object separation , and extraction of skeletons , among others.
quantitative analysis provides for objects' detection , measurement , and
morphological distribution. measures include area , perimeter , center of
gravity , moment of inertia , orientation , length of relevant chords , and
shape factors and equivalence. measures are saved in ascii format. the
program also provides for macro scripting and integration of custom
modules.

a 3 d view command plots a perspective data graph where image intensity
is depicted as mountains or valleys in the plot. the histogram tool can
be plotted with either a linear or logarithmic scale. the twenty eight
arithmetic and logical operations provide for masking and averaging
sections of images , noise removal , making comparisons , etc. there are
13 spatial filters that alter pixel intensities based on local
intensity. these include high pass filters for contrast and outlines.
the frequency data resulting from fft analysis can be displayed as
either the (real , imaginary ) components or the (phase , magnitude)
data. the morphological transformations are useful for data sharpening
and defining objects or for removing artifacts.

the transformations include thresholding , eroding , dilating and even
hole filling.

the program 's quantitative analysis measurements include area ,
perimeter , center of mass , object counts , and angle between points.

gtfs , inc. 2455 bennett valley road 100c santa rosa , ca 95494
707 579 1733

iplab spectrum

iplab spectrum supports image processing and analysis but lacks the
morphology and quantitative analysis features provided by
graftek franceus ultimage concept vi. using scripting tools , the user
tells the system the operations to be performed. the problem is that far
too many basic operations require manual intervention. the tool
supports ffts , 16 arithmetic operations for pixel alteration , and a
movie command for cycling through windows.


macintosh based tools


ncsa image , ncsa paledit and more

ncsa provides a whole suite of public domain visualization tools for the
macintosh , primarily aimed at researchers wanting to visualize results
from numerical modelling calculations. these applications ,
documentation , and source code are available for anonymous ftp from
ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu. commercial versions of the ncsa programs have been
developed by spyglass.

spyglass , inc. 701 devonshire drive champaign , il 61820 (217) 355 6000
fax 217 355 8925

nih image

available at alw.nih.gov (128.231.128.7) or (preferably)
zippy.nimh.nih.gov 128.231.98.32 , directory pub image.
it has painting and image manipulation tools , a macro language ,
tools for measuring areas , distances and angles , and for counting
things. using a frame grabber card , it can record sequences of
images to be played back as a movie. it can invoke user defined
convolution matrix filters , such as gaussian. it can import raw
data in tab delimited ascii , or as 1 or 2 byte quantities. it also
does histograms and even 3 d plots. it is limited to 8 bits pixel ,
though the 8 bits map into a color lookup table. it runs on any mac
that has a 256 color screen and a fpu (or get the nonfpu version
from zippy.nimh.nih.gov)

photomac

data translation , inc. 100 locke dr. marlboro , ma 01752 508 481 3700

photopress

blue solutions 3039 marigold place thousand oaks , ca 91360 805 492 9973

pixeltools and tcl image

complete family of pixeltools (hardware accelerator and applications
software) for scientific image processing and analysis. video rate
capture , display , processing , and analysis of high resolution
monochromatic and color images. includes c source code.

tcl image
software package for scientific , quantitative image processing and
analysis. it provides a complete language for the capture , enhancement ,
and extraction of quantitative information from gray scale images.
tcl image has over 200 functions for image processing , and contains the
other elements needed in a full programming language for algorithm
development variables and control structures. it is easily
extensible through script (or indirect command) files. these script
files are simply text files that contain tcl image commands. they are
executed as normal commands and include the ability to pass parameters.
the direct capture of video images is supported via popular frame
grabber boards. tcl image comes with the i view utility that provides
conversion between common image file types , such as pict2 and tiff.

perceptics 725 pellissippi parkway knoxville , tn 37933 615 966 9200

satellite image workshop

it comes with a number of satellite pictures (raw data) and does all
sorts of image enhancing on it. you 'll need at least a mac ii with co
processor a 256 color display and a large harddisk. the program does n't
run under system 7.x.ate1 v1

in the documentation the contact address is given as liz smith , jet
propulsion laboratory , ms 300 323 , 4800 oak grove dr , .pasadena , ca 91109
(818) 354 6980

visualization workbench

an electronic imaging software system that performs interactive image
analysis and scientific 2d and 3d plotting.

paragon imagine 171 lincoln st. lowell , ma 01852 508 441 2112

adobe photoshop


the tool supports rtrue colors with 24 bit images or 256 levels of grey
scale. once an image has been imported it can be rre toucheds with
various editing tools typical of those used in macintosh based rpaints
applications. these include an eraser , pencil , brush and air brush.
advanced rpastes tools that control the interaction between a pasted
selection and the receiving site have also been incorporated. for
example , all red pixels in a selection can easily be preventing from
being pasted. photoshop has transparencies ranging from 0 to 100 ,
allowing you to create ghost overlays. rphoto editings tools include
control of the brightness and contrast , color balancing , hue saturation
modification and spectrum equalization. images can be subjected to
various signal processing algorithms to smooth or sharpen the image ,
blur edges , or locate edges. image scaling is also supported.

for storage savings , the images can be compressed using standard
algorithms , including externally supplied compression such as jpeg ,
availlable from storm technologies. the latest version of adobe
photoshop supports the import of numerous image formats including epsf ,
epsf , tiff , pict resource , amiga iff ilbm , compuserve gif , macpaint ,
pixar , pixelpaint , scitex ct , tga and thunderscan..

adobe systems , inc. 1585 charlestown road po box 7900 mountain view , ca
94039 7900 415 961 4400

colorstudio and imagestudio

colorstudio is an image editing and paint package from letraset that has
more features than adobe photoshop but is decidedly more complex and
therefore more difficult to use. several steps are often required to
accomplish that which can be done in a single step using photoshop. the
application requires a great deal of available disk space as one can
easily end up with images in the 30 mb range. the program provides a
variety of powerful selection tools including the auto selection tool
which lets the user choose image areas on the basis of color , close
hues , color range and mask.

imagestudio do n't know...

letraset usa 40 eisenhower drive paramus , nj 07653 201 845 6100

dapple systems

high resolution image analysis software provides processing tools to
work with multiple images , enhance and edit , and measure a variety of
global or feature parameters , and interpret the data.

dapple systems , 355 w. olive ave , 100 sunnyvale , ca 94086 408 733 3283

digital darkroom

the latest release of digital darkroom has five new selection and
editing tools for enhancing images. one such feature allows the user to
select part of an image simply by painting it. a new polyline
selection tool creates a selection tool for single pixel wide
selections. a brush lets the operator paint with a selected portion
of the image. note that this is not a true color image enhancement tool.
this tool should be used when the user intends to operate in grey scale
images only. it should be noted that digital darkroom is not as
powerful as either adobe photoshop or colorstudio.

silicon beach software 9770 carroll ctr. rd. , suite j san diego , ca
92126 619 695 6956

dimple

it is compatible with system 6.05 and system 7.0 , requires mac lc or
ii series with 256 colours , with a recommended min of 6mb of ram. it has
the capability of reading erdas files. functions include image
enhancement , 3d and contour plots , image statistics , supervised and
unsupervised classification , pca and other image transformations. there
is also a means (image operation language or iol) by which you can write
your own transformations. there is no image rectification , however
dimple is compatable with mapii. the latest version is 1.4 and it is in
the beta stage of testing. dimple was initially developed as a teaching
tool and it is very good for this purpose.

dimple runs on a colour macintosh. it is a product still in its
development phase.. i.e. it does n't have all the inbuilt features of
other packages , but is coming along nicely. it has its own inbuilt
language for writing programs for processing an image , defining
convolution filters etc. dimple is a full mac application with pull down
menus etc... it is unprotected software.

process software solutions , po box 2110 , wollongong , new south wales ,
australia. 2500. phone 61 42 261757 fax 61 42 264190.

enhance

enhance has a rrulers tool that supports measurements and additionally
provides angle data. the tool has over 80 mathematical filter
variations laplacian , medium noise filter , etc. files can be saved
as either tiff , pict , epsf or text (however epsf files ca n't be imported).

microfrontier 7650 hickman road des moines , ia 50322 515 270 8109

image analyst

an image processing product for users who need to extract quantitative
data from video images. image analyst lets users configure
sophisticated image processing and measurement routines without the
necessity of knowing a programming language. it is designed for such
tasks at computing number and size of cells in images projected by video
cameras attached to microscopes , or enhancing and measuring distances in
radiographs.

image analyst provides users with an array of field proven video
analysis techniques that enable them to easily assemble a sequence of
instructions to enhance feature appearance count objects determine
density , shape , size , position , or movement perform object feature
extraction and conduct textural analysis automatically. image analyst
works with either a framegrabber board and any standard video camera , or
a disk stored image.

within minutes , without the need for programming , the image analyst user
can set up a process to identify and analyze any element of a image.
measurements and statistics can be automatically or semi automatically
generated from tiff or pict files or from captured video tape images.
image analyst recognizes items in images based on their size , shape and
position. the tool provides direct support for the data translation and
scion frame grabbers. a menu command allows for image capture from a vcr
video camera or other ntsc or pal devices.

there are 2 types of files , the image itself and the related sequence
file that holds the processing , measurements and analysis that the user
defines. automated sequences are set up in regions of interest (roi)
represented by movable , sizable boxes atop the image. inside a roi , the
program can find the distance between two edges , the area of a shape ,
the thickness of a wall , etc. image analyst finds the center , edge and
other positions automatically. the application also provides tools so
that the user can work interactively to find the edge of object. it also
supports histograms and a color look up table (clut) tool.

automatix , inc. 775 middlesex turnpike billerica , ma 01821 508 667 7900

iplab

signal analytics corp. 374 maple ave. e vienna , va 22180 703 281 3277
fax 703 281 2509

menu driven image processing software that supports 24 bit color or
pseudocolor grayscale image display and manipulation.

map ii

among the mac gis systems , map ii distributed by john wiley has
integrated image analysis.

image

from stanford try anonymous ftp from sumex aim.stanford.edu
it has pd source for image v2 , and ready to run code for a mac under
image v3.



windows dos pc based tools


ccd

richard berry 's ccd imaging book for willamon bell contains (optional \? )
disks with image manipulating software. source code is included.

erdas

erdas will do all of the things you want rectification ,
classification , transformations (canned user defined) , overlays ,
filters , contrast enhancement , etc. ... i was using it on my thesis
then changed the topic a bit that work became secondary.

erdas , inc. 2801 buford highway suite 300 atlanta , ga 30329 404 248 9000
fax 404 248 9400

rsvga

i have been getting up to speed on a program called rsvga available from
eidetic digital image ltd. in british columbia. its for ibm pc 's or
clones , cheap (about 400) and does all the stuff erdas does but is not
as fast or as powerful , though i have had only limited experience with
erdas. i have used rsvga with 6 of 7 landsat bands and it is a good
starter program except for the obtuse manual

imagine 32

it 's a 32 bit package i suppose for pcs called imagine32
or image32 the program does a modest amount of image processing add ,
subtract , multiply , divide , display , and plot an x or y cut across the image.
it can also display a number of images simultaneously.
the company is compuscope , in santa barbara , ca.

pc vista

it was announced in the 1989 august edition of pasp. it is known to
be available from mike richmond , whose email addresses have been

richmond@bllac.berkeley.edu
richmond@bkyast.berkeley.edu

and his s mail address is

michael richmond , astronomy department , campbell hall , berkeley , ca 94720

the latest version of pc vista , version 1.7 , includes not only the source
code and help files , but also a complete set of executable programs and
a number of sample fits images. if you do wish to use the source code ,
you will need microsoft c , version 5.0 or later other compilers may work ,
but will require substantial modifications.

to receive the documentation and nine double density (360k) floppies
(or three quad density 3 1 2 inch floppies (1.44m) with everything on them ,
just send a request for pc vista , together with your name and a us mail
address , to

office of technology licensing
2150 shattuck ave. , suite 510
berkeley , ca. 94704

include a check (traveller 's checks are fine) or purchase order for 150.00
in u.s. dollars , if your address is inside the continental u.s. , or 165.00
otherwise , made out to regents of the university of california
to cover duplication and mailing costs.


software tools

it 's a set of software tools put out by canyon state
systems and software. they are not free , but rather cheap at about 30 i
heard. it will handle most all of the formats used by frame grabber
software.

mirage

it 's image processing software written by jim gunn at the
astrophysics dept at princeton. it will run on a pc among other platforms.
it is a forth based system i.e. a forth language with many image
processing displaying functions built in.

data translation source book

the data translation company in massachusetts publishes a free book
containing vendors of data analysis hardware and software which is
compatible with data translation and other frame grabbers.
surely you can find much more pc related stuff in it.

maxen386

a couple of canadians have written a program named maxen386 which does
maximum entropy image deconvolution. their company is named digital
signal processing software , or something like that , and the software is
mentioned in an article in astronomy magazine , either jan or feb 92
(an article on ccd 's vs film).

jandel scientific (java)

another software package (java) is put out by jandel scientific.
jandel scientific , 65 koch road , corte madera , ca 94925 , (415) 924 8640 ,
(800) 874 1888.

microbrian

runs on an ms dos platform and uses a 32 bit graphics card
(vista) , or an about to be released version will support a number of
super vga cards. its a full blown remote sensed data processing
system.. it is menu driven (character based screen) , but is does not use
a windowed user interface. its is hardware protected with a dongle.
mbrian micro barrier reef image anaysis system. it was developed by
csiro (commonwealth scientific industrial organization) and is
marketed supported by

mpa australia (51 lusher road , croydon , victoria
tel 61 3 724 4488 fax 61 3 724 4455)

there are educational and commercial prices , but be prepared to set
aside a10k for the first educational licence. subsequent ones come
cheaper (they need to ! ) it has installed sites worldwide. it is widely
used at anu.

microimage

the remote sensing lab here at dartmouth currently uses terra mar 's
microimage , on 486 pcs with some fancy display hardware.

terra mar resource information services , inc.

1937 landings drive mountain view , ca 94043 415 964 6900 fax
415 964 5430

unix based tools


iraf (image reduction and analysis facility)

developed in the national optical astronomy observatory , kitt peak az
it is free , you can ftp it from tucana.noao.edu 140.252.1.1
and complement it with stsdas from stsci.edu 130.167.1.2 .
email to iraf@noao.edu for more details.
apparently this is one of the de facto standards in the astronomical
image community. they issue a newsletter also.
they seem to support very well their users. works with vms also last
i heard , and practically has its own shell on top of the vms unix shells.

it 's suggested that you get a copy of saoimage for display under x windows.
very flexible extendable tons (literally 3 linear feet) of
documentation for the general user , skilled user , and programmer.

alv

a sun specific image toolkit. version 2.0.6 posted to
comp.sources.sun on 11dec89. also available via email to
alv users request@cs.bris.ac.uk.

aips

astronomical image processing system. contact aipsmail@nrao.edu
(also see the usenet newsgroups alt.sci.astro.aips and sci.astro.fits)
built by nrao (national radio astronomy observatory , hq in charlottesville ,
va , sites in nm , az , wv). software distributed by 9 track , exabyte , dat ,
or (non anonymous) internet ftp. documentation (postscript mostly)
available via anonymous ftp to baboon.cv.nrao.edu (192.33.115.103) ,
directory pub aips and pub aips text publ. installation requires building
the system and thus a fortran and c compiler.
this package can read and write fits data (see sci.astro.fits) , and is
primarily for reduction , analysis , and image enhancement of radio astronomy
data from radio telescopes , particularly the very large array (vla) , a
synthesis instrument. it consists of almost 300 programs that do everything
from copying data to sophisticated deconvolution , e.g. via maximum entropy.
there is an x11 based image tool (xas) and a tek compatible xterm based
graphics tool built into aips. the xas tool is modelled after the hardware
functionality of the international imaging systems model 70 display unit and
can do image arithmetic , etc.
the code is mostly fortran 77 with some system c language modules , and is
available for suns , ibm rs 6000 , dec ultrix , convex , cray (unicos) , and
alliant with support planned for hp 9000 7xx , solaris 2.1 , and maybe sgi.
there is currently a project aips underway to rewrite the
algorithmic functionality of aips in a modern setting , using c and an
object oriented approach. whereas aips is proprietary code (licensed for
free to non profit institutions) owner by nrao and the nsf , aips will be
in the public domain at some level , as it is an international effort with
contributions from the us , canada , england , the netherlands , india , and
australia to name a few.

laboimage

(version 4.0 is out for x11) it 's written in c , and currently
runs on sun 3 xxx , sun 4 xxx (os3.5 , 4.0 and 4.0.3) under sunview.
the expert system for image segmentation is written in allegro common lisp.
it was used on the following domains computer science (image analysis) ,
medicine , biology , physics. it is distributed free of charge (source code).
available via anonymous ftp at ftp.ads.com (128.229.30.16) , in
pub vision list archive shareware laboimage

contact prof. thierry pun , computer vision group computing science center ,
u geneva 12 , rue du lac , ch 1207 geneva switzerland
phone 41(22) 787 65 82 fax 41(22) 735 39 05
e mail pun@cui.unige.ch or pun@cgeuge51.bitnet


figaro

it was originally made for vms , and can be obtained from
keith shortridge in australia (ks@aaoepp.aao.gov.au)
and for unix from sam southard at caltech (sns@deimos.caltech.edu).
it 's about 110mbytes on a sun.

khoros

moved to the scientific visualization category below

vista

the real thing is available via anonymous ftp from lowell.edu. email to
vista@lowell.edu for more details. total size less than 20mbytes.

disimp

(device independent software for image processing) is a powerful
system providing both user friendliness and high functionality in
interactive times.

feature description

disimp incorporates a rich library of image processing utilities and
spatial data options. all functions can be easily accessed via the
disimp executive. this menu is modular in design and groups image
processes by their function. such a logical structure means that
complicated processes are simply a progression through a series of
modules.

processes include image rectification , classification (unsupervised and
supervised) , intensity transformations , three dimensional display and
principal component analysis. disimp also supports the more simple and
effective enhancement techniques of filtering , band subtraction and
ratioing.

host configuration requirements

running on unix workstations , disimp is capable of processing the more
computational intensive techniques in interactive processing times.
disimp is available in both runtime and programmer 's environments. using
the programmers environment , utilities can be developed for specific
applications programs.

graphics are governed by an icon based display panel which allows quick
enhancments of a displayed image. manipulations of look up tables ,
colour stretches , changes to histograms , zooming and panning can be
interactively driven through this control.

a range of geographic projections enables disimp to integrate data of
image , graphic and textual types. images can be rectified by a number of
coordinate systems , providing the true geographic knowledge essential
for ground truthing. overlays of grids , text and vector data can be
added to further enhance referenced imagery.

the system is a flexible package allowing users of various skill levels
to determine their own working environment , including the amount of help
required. disimp comes fully configured with no optional extras. the
purchase price includes all functionality required for professional
processing of remote sensed data.

for further information , please contact

the business manager , clough engineering group systems division , 627
chapel street , south yarra , australia 3141. telephone 61 3 825 5555
fax 61 3 826 6463

global imaging software

we use global imaging software to process avhrr data , from the dish to
the final display. select a chunk of five band data from a pass ,
automatic navigation , calibrate it to albedo and temp , convert that to
byte , register it to predesigned window , all relatively automatically
and carefree.

it has no classification routines to speak of , but it is n't that
difficult to write your own with their programmer 's module.

very small operation one designs , one codes , one sells. been around for
a number of years , sold to weather service and navy. runs on hp9000
with hp ux. supports 24 bit display

hips

(human information processing laboratory 's image processing system)

michael landy co wrote and sell a general purpose package for image
processing which has been used for basically all the usual image
processing applications (robotics , medical , satellite , engineering , oil
exploration , etc.). it is called hips , and deals with sequences of
multiband images in the same way it deals with single images. it has
been growing since we first wrote it , both by additions from us as well
as a huge user contributed library.

feature description

hips is a set of image processing modules which together provide
a powerful suite of tools for those interested in research ,
system development and teaching. it handles sequences of images
(movies) in precisely the same manner as single frames.

programs and subroutines have been developed for simple image
transformations , filtering , convolution , fourier and other transform
processing , edge detection and line drawing manipulation , digital
image compression and transmission methods , noise generation , and image
statistics computation. over 150 such image transformation programs
have been developed. as a result , almost any image processing task
can be performed quickly and conveniently. additionally , hips allows
users to easily integrate their own custom routines. new users
become effective using hips on their first day.

hips features images that are self documenting. each image stored in
the system contains a history of the transformations that have been
applied to that image. hips includes a small set of subroutines
which primarily deals with a standardized image sequence header , and
a large library of image transformation tools in the form of unix
``filters''. it comes complete with source code , on line manual
pages , and on line documentation.

host configuration requirements

originally developed at new york university , hips now represents
one of the most extensive and flexible vision and image processing
environments currently available. it runs under the unix operating
system. it is modular and flexible , provides automatic documentation
of its actions , and is almost entirely independent of special equipment.
hips is now in use on a variety of computers including vax and
microvax , sun , apollo , masscomp , ncr tower , iris , ibm at , etc.
for image display and input , drivers are supplied for the grinnell and
adage (ikonas) image processors , and the sun 2 , sun 3 , sun 4 , and
sun 386i consoles. we also supply user contributed drivers for a
number of other framestores and windowing packages (sun gfx , sun
console , matrox vip 1024 , iti ip 512 , lexidata , macintosh ii , x
windowing system , and iris). the hipsaddon package includes an
interface for the crs 4000. it is a simple matter to interface hips
with other frame stores , and we can put interested users in touch with
users who have interfaced hips with the arlunya and datacube max
video. hips can be easily adapted for other image display devices
because 98 of hips is machine independent.

availability

hips has proven itself a highly flexible system , both as an
interactive research tool , and for more production oriented tasks. it
is both easy to use , and quickly adapted and extended to new uses. hips
is supplied on magnetic tape in unix tar format (either reel to reel or
sun cartridge) , and comes with source code , libraries , a library of
convolu tion masks , and on line documentation and manual pages.

michael landy sharpimage software p.o. box 373 , prince street station
new york , ny 10012 0007 voice (212) 998 7857 fax (212) 995 4011
msl@cns.nyu.edu


mira

please don't confuse that with the thalmanns animation system from
montreal. these are altogether different beasts ! nfotis

mira stands for microcomputer image reduction and analysis. mira gives
workstation level performance on 386 486 dos computers using svga cards in
256 color modes up to 1024x768. mira contains a very handsome functional
gui which is mouse and keystroke operated. mira reads writes tiff and fits
formats , native formats of a number of ccd cameras , and uncompressed binary
images in byte , short integer , and 4 byte real pixel format in 1 or 2
dimensions. the result of an image processing operation can be short integer
or real pixels , or the same as that of the input image. mira does the
operation using short or floating point arithmetic to maintain the precision
and accuracy of the pixel format. over 100 functions are hand coded in
assembly language for maximum speed on the intel hardware. the entire
graphical interface is also written in assembly language to maximize
the speed of windowing operations. windows for 2 d image and 1 d image data
display and analysis have dedicated cursors which read position and value
value in real time as you move the mouse. there are also smooth , real time
contrast and brightness stretch and panning of a magnified portion of
the displayed image(s) , all operated by the mouse. a wide selection of
grayscale , pseudocolor , and random palettes is provided , and other
palettes can be generated.


supported functions include such niceties as the following

o image image interpolation
o image constant
o unary operations abs value , polynomial of pixel value , chs , 1 x , log ,
byteswap , clip values at upper lower limits , short real or real short.
o combine images by mean , median , mode , or sum of pixel values , with or
without autoscaling to mean , median , or mode of an image section.
o convolutions filters laplacian , sobel edge operator , directional gradient ,
line , gaussian , elliptical and rectangular equal weight filters , unsharp
masking , median filters , user defined filter kernel. ellipse , rectangle ,
line , gradient , gaussian , and user defined filters can be rotated to
any specified angle.
o ccd data reduction flat fielding , dark subtraction , column over underscan
bias removal , remove bad pixels and column defects , normalize to
region target mean , median , or modal value.
o create subimage , mosaic m x n 1 d or 2 d images to get larger image ,
collapse 2 d image into 1 d image.
o plot 1 d section or collapsed section of 2 d image , plot histogram of
region of an image.
o review change image information header data , rename keywords , plot
keyword values for a set of images.
o luminance photometry elliptical or circular aperture photometry ,
brightness profile , isophotal photometry between set of upper lower
luminances , area and luminance inside traced polygon. interactive
background fitting and removal from part or all of image , fit elliptical
aperture shape to image isophotes.
o interactive with 2 d image contrast brightness , x y or diagonal plot
of pixel values , distance between two points , compute region stats , `
centroid , pan to x , y location or image center , zoom 1 16 to 10 times ,
change cursor to rectangle crosshair , full image crosshair , or off , and
adjust cursor size on image. select linear , log or gamma transfer function
or histogram equalization.
o interactive or specified image offset computation and re sampling for
registration.
o interactive with 1 d image zoom in x y or both in steps of 1 2 or
2 times current , re center plot , or enlarge a framed area. 4 plot buffers
can be cycled through. interactive data analysis polynomial fitting ,
point deletion , undelete , change value , point weighting , linear and
quadratic loess and binomial smoothing , revert to unit point weights
or original data buffer , substitute results into data buffer for pass
back to calling function. dump data buffer ( overlays and error bars)
to file or printer. change to user specified coordinate system.
o tricolor image combination and display , hardcopy halftone printout to
hp pcl compatible printers (laserjet , deskjet , etc.)
o documentation is over 300 pages in custom vinyl binder.

cost 995 usd copy

available from

axiom research , inc.
box 44162
tucson , az 85733
(602) 791 2864 phone fax.

international marketing rep saguaro scientific corporation , tucson , arizona.



end of part 2 of the resource listing

nick (nikolaos) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece
home 16 esperidon st. , internet nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr
halandri , gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! theseas ! nfotis
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578

from tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw)
subject newsgroup split
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 11
distribution world
nntp posting host po.engin.umich.edu

concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon


from markus@octavia.anu.edu.au (markus buchhorn)
subject hdf readers viewers
organization australian national university , canberra
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host 150.203.5.35
originator markus@octavia



g 'day all ,

can anybody point me at a utility which will read convert crop whatnot
display hdf image files \? i 've had a look at the hdf stuff under ncsa
and it must take an award for odd directory structure , strange storage
approaches and minimalist documentation )

part of the problem is that i want to look at large (5mb ) hdf files and
crop out a section. ideally i would like a hdftoppm type of utility , from
which i can then use the pbmplus stuff quite merrily. i can convert the cropped
part into another format for viewing animation.

otherwise , can someone please explain how to set up the ncsa visualisation s w
for hdf (3.2.r5 or 3.3beta) and do the above cropping etc. this is for
suns with sunos 4.1.2.

any help greatly appreciated. ta muchly !

cheers ,
markus


markus buchhorn , parallel computing research facility
email markus@octavia.anu.edu.au
australian national university , canberra , 0200 , australia.
international 61 6 , australia 06 phone 2492930 , fax 2490747

markus buchhorn , parallel computing research facility
email markus@octavia.anu.edu.au
australian national university , canberra , 0200 , australia.
international 61 6 , australia 06 phone 2492930 , fax 2490747

from george@ccmail.larc.nasa.gov (george m. brown)
subject re pcx
organization client specific systems , inc.
lines 41
nntp posting host thrasher.larc.nasa.gov

in article 1993apr14.220100.17867@freenet.carleton.ca ad994@freenet.carleton.ca (jason wiggle) writes
from ad994@freenet.carleton.ca (jason wiggle)
subject pcx
date wed , 14 apr 1993 22 01 00 gmt

hello
help ! ! ! please
i am a student of turbo c and graphics programming
and i am having some problems finding algorithms and code
to teach me how to do some stuff..

1) where is there a book or code that will teach me how
to read and write pcx , dbf , and gif files \?

2) how do i access the extra ram on my paradise video board
so i can do paging in the higher vga modes ie 320x200x256
800x600x256
3) anybody got a line on a good book to help answer these question \?

thanks very much !

send reply 's to palm@snycanva.bitnet

peace be
blessed be
stephen palm

a book that i can somewhat recommend is

pratical image processing in c
by craig a. lindley
published by wiley

it addresses reading writing to from pcx tiff files image acquisition ,
manipulation and storage and has source code in the book. the source is
primarily written in turbo c and naturally has conversion possibilities. i
have converted some of it to quick c. naturally , the code has some problems
in the book as usuall. typos , syntax , etc. are problems. it can be a good
learning experience for someone who is studying c. there is also a companion
disk with source available for order and 50.00. overall , the book is not
bad. i acquired the book at waldensoftware.

from myless@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au (myles strous)
subject j.c.jensen 's bitmap code
organization computer centre , monash university , australia
lines 18

greetings all.
according to a faq i read , on 30 july 1992 , joshua c. jensen posted an
article on bitmap manipulation (specifically , scaling and perspective) to the
newsgroup rec.games.programmer. (article 7716)
the article included source code in turbo pascal with inline assembly
language.

i have been unable to find an archive for this newsgroup , or a current
email address for joshua c. jensen.
if anyone has the above details , or a copy of the code , could they
please let me know. many thanks.
yours gratefully , etc. myles.


myles strous email myles.strous@lib.monash.edu.au
raytracing fan phone 61.51.226536
got the same urgent grasp of reality as a cardboard cut out. proud to have him
on the team. archchancellor mustrum ridcully , in reaper man by terry pratchett

from lusardi@cs.buffalo.edu (christopher lusardi)
subject looking for mr. radon
organization state university of new york at buffalo comp sci
lines 9
nntp posting host homam.cs.buffalo.edu

does anyone have a radon transform in c that they could
send me \?

any help accepted ,

. , for a lot of .au music ftp sounds.sdsu.edu
, then cat file.au dev audio
( ub library catalog telnet bison.acsu.buffalo.edu
14261 (when in doubt ask xarchie , xgopher , or xwais.)

from dr bobo@ponton.hanse.de (boris pruessmann)
subject re vga scrolling \?
organization ponton european media art lab , hamburg
lines 12

hi !

if you want to have soft scrolling on your vga , you have to change some
intern registers of the crtc. but it is a little bit difficult to explain ,
so i would suggest , you take a look at the programming of the
ega vga adapter by addison wesley. you will find all useful descriptions
for every available vga register.

boris


dr bobo@ponton.hanse.de boris pruessmann

from full gl@pts.mot.com (glen fullmer)
subject needed plotting package that does...
nntp posting host dolphin
reply to glen fullmer@pts.mot.com
organization paging and wireless data group , motorola , inc.
comments hyperbole mail buttons accepted , v3.07.
lines 27

looking for a graphics cad or whatever package on a x unix box that will
take a file with records like

n a b p

where n a count integer
a entity a string
b entity b string
p type string

and produce a networked graph with nodes represented with boxes or circles
and the vertices represented by lines and the width of the line determined by
n. there would be a different line type for each type of vertice. the boxes
need to be identified with the entity 's name. the number of entities 1000
and vertices 100000. it would be nice if the tool minimized line
cross overs and did a good job of layout. )

i have looked in the faq for comp.graphics and gnuplot without success. any
ideas would be appreciated \?

thanks ,

glen fullmer , glen fullmer@pts.mot.com , (407)364 3296

for a successful technology , reality must take precedence
over public relations , for nature cannot be fooled. richard p. feynman


from sab@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
subject info needed 2d contour plotting
lines 16

hi everyone

it 's spend the money before it goes away time here at u.florida
and we need to find some pc based software that will do contour
plotting with irregular boundaries , i.e. , a 2 d profile of a soil
system with a pond superimposed
on it. we 've given surfer a
pond trial run but it interpolates
contours out into the pond and or
creates artifacts at the borders.
soil if anyone out there knows of a
product , i'ld appreciate hearing
about it. if there is enough of
a response , i 'll post a summary. thanks (and now back to lurking).

steve bloom , soil water science , u.fl (sab@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu)

from bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth)
subject re cview answers
organization a2i network
lines 13
nntp posting host bolero

in 1993apr17.113223.12092@imag.fr schaefer@imag.imag.fr (arno schaefer) writes

sorry , bryan , this is not quite correct. remember the vgalib package that comes
with linux sls \? it will switch to vga 320x200x256 mode without xwindows.
so at least it is possible to write a gif viewer under linux. however i do n't
think that there exists a similar svga package , and viewing gifs in 320x200 is
not very nice.

no , vgalib \? amazing.. i guess it was lost in all those subdirs )
thanks for correcting me. it does n't sound very appealing though , only
320x200 \? i'm glad it was n't something major i missed.

thanks ,

from kshin@stein.u.washington.edu (kevin shin)
subject thinning algorithm
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 10
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu

hi , netters

i am looking for source code that can reads the ascii file
or bitmap file and produced the thinned image.
for example , to preprocess the character image i want to
apply thinning algorithm.

thanks
kevin
.

from diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
subject re postscript drawing prog
organization diablo creative
reply to diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.6v2
lines 22


in article 1993apr19.171704.2147@informatik.tu muenchen.de (comp.graphics.gnuplot , comp.graphics) , rdd@uts.ipp garching.mpg.de (reinhard drube) writes
in article c5ecnn.7qo@mentor.cc.purdue.edu , nish@cv4.chem.purdue.edu (nishantha i.) writes
could somebody let me know of a drawing utility that can be
used to manipulate postscript files.i am specifically interested in
drawing lines , boxes and the sort on postscript contour plots.
i have tried xfig and i am impressed by it 's features. however
it is of no use since i cannot use postscript files as input for the
programme.is there a utility that converts postscript to xfig format \?
any help would be greatly appreciated.
nishantha
have you checked out adobe illustrator \? there are a few unix versions
for it available , depending on your platform. i know of two unix versions
one for mach (next) and for irix (sgi). there may be others , such
as for sun sparcstation , but i do n't know for sure.

ttyl ,


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against
cboesel@diablo.uu.holonet.net then what 's the opposite of progress \?
1.510.980.1958(pager) what else , congress.

from mccool@dgp.toronto.edu (michael mccool)
subject apr 20 toronto siggraph event
organization university of toronto dynamic graphics project
distribution na
lines 48


toronto siggraph


what ``chance 's art'' 2d graphics and animation on the indigo.

by ken evans , imagicians artware , inc.

when tuesday 20 april 1993 7 00pm 9 00pm

where the mcluhan centre for culture and technology
university of toronto
39a queen 's park crescent
toronto

who members and non members alike
(non members encouraged to become members...)

abstract

imagicians artware , inc. is entering into early beta site testing on silicon
graphics workstations of a new 2d abstract artwork and animation package called
chance 's art. the package will be described and demonstrated , and some of the
technical issues will be discussed. marketing plans will be outlined. the
talk will also present some of the technical and business problems increasingly
confronting small startup software companies today , and some of the
opportunities this situation presents.

time after the event will be allocated for hands on demonstrations to
interested parties. silicon graphics is graciously providing an indigo for
this event. myck kupka will also be demonstrating his computerized interactive
reflective stereoscope , which is installed upstairs in the mcluhan centre , so
feel free to drop by for a demonstration before or after the event. btw , be
sure to sing happy birthday , myck ...

the names of nominees for our siggraph executive offices will be announced at
this meeting. nominations will still be open until the election at our
may 18th event call myck kupka at 465 0943 or fax to 465 0729.

directions the mcluhan coachhouse is on the east side of queen 's park
crescent , just north of wellesley , south of st. joseph st. , behind (east of)
39 queen 's park crescent , which is the centre for mediaeval studies.

for information on toronto siggraph membership , contact michael mccool via
internet mccool@dgp.utoronto.ca
voice 652 8072 978 6619 978 6027
fax 653 1654


subject need rgb data from saved images
from jer114@psuvm.psu.edu
organization penn state university
lines 4

could someone please help me find a program or figure out how to extract a li
st of r g b values for each pixel in an image. i can convert between tga and s
everal other popular formats but i need the r g b values for use in a program i
am writing. thanks for the help

from capelli@vnet.ibm.com (ron capelli)
subject re detecting double points in bezier curves
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm
news software ureply 3.1
lines 16

in ia522b1w165w@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl ferdinand oeinck writes
i'm looking for any information on detecting and or calculating a double
point and or cusp in a bezier curve.

see
maureen stone and tony derose ,
a geometric characterization of parametric cubic curves ,
acm tog , vol 8 , no 3 , july 1989 , pp. 147 163.


...ron capelli ibm corp. dept. c13 , ms. p230
capelli@vnet.ibm.com po box 950
(914) 435 1673 poughkeepsie , ny 12602


there are no answers , only cross references.

from kaufman@xenon.stanford.edu (marc t. kaufman)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
reply to kaufman@cs.stanford.edu
organization cs department , stanford university , california , usa
lines 33

joachim@kih.no (joachim lous) writes

ulrich@galki.toppoint.de wrote
according to the tiff 5.0 specification , the tiff version number
(bytes 2 3) 42 has been chosen for its deep philosophical
significance .

last week , i read the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy , and rotfl the
second time. (after millions of years of calculation , the second best
computer of all time reveals that 42 is the answer to the question
about life , the universe and everything)

is this actually how they picked the number 42 \?

yes.

does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?

at this moment the king , who had been for some time busily writing in
his note book , called out silence ! and read out from his book
rule forty two. all persons more than a mile high to leave the court.
everybody looked at alice.
i'm not a mile high , said alice.
you are , said the king.
nearly two miles high , added the queen.
well , i sha' n't go , at any rate , said alice besides , that 's not
a regular rule you invented it just now.
it 's the oldest rule in the book , said the king.
then it ought to be number one , said alice.


marc kaufman (kaufman@cs.stanford.edu)


from joth@ersys.edmonton.ab.ca (joe tham)
subject where can i find sipp \?
organization edmonton remote systems 2 , edmonton , ab , canada
lines 11

i recently got a file describing a library of rendering routines
called sipp (simple polygon processor). could anyone tell me where i can
ftp the source code and which is the newest version around \?
also , i 've never used renderman so i was wondering if renderman
is like sipp \? ie. a library of rendering routines which one uses to make
a program that creates the image...

thanks , joe tham


joe tham joth@ersys.edmonton.ab.ca

from tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran)
subject re hijaak
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 15

haston , donald wayne (haston@utkvx.utk.edu) wrote
currently , i use a shareware program called graphics workshop.
what kinds of things will hijaak do that these shareware programs
will not do \?

i also use graphic workshop and the only differences that i know of are that
hijaak has screen capture capabilities and acn convert to from a couple of
more file formats (do n't know specifically which one). in the april 13
issue of pc magazine they test the twelve best selling image capture convert
utilities , including hijaak.

tmc.
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)



from srlnjal@grace.cri.nz
subject coreldraw bitmap to scodal (2)
organization industrial research ltd. , new zealand.
lines 22
nntp posting host grv.grace.cri.nz


yes i am aware coreldraw exports in scodal.
version 2 did it quite well , apart from a
few hassles with radial fills. version 3 revb
is better but if you try to export in scodal
with a bitmap image included in the drawing
it will say something like cannot export
scodal with bitmap at least it does on my
version.
if anyone out there knows a way around this
i am all ears.
temporal images make a product called filmpak
which converts autocad plots to scodal , postscript
to scodal and now gif to scodal but it costs 650
and i was just wondering if there was anything out
there that just did the bitmap to scodal part a tad
cheaper.

jeff lyall
inst.geo. .nuc.sci.ltd
lower hutt new zealand


from ferdinan@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl (ferdinand oeinck)
subject re detecting double points in bezier curves
organization my own node in groningen , nl.
lines 34

renner@adobe.com (john renner) writes

in article 19930420.090030.915@almaden.ibm.com capelli@vnet.ibm.com (ron ca
in ia522b1w165w@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl ferdinand oeinck writes
i'm looking for any information on detecting and or calculating a double
point and or cusp in a bezier curve.

see
maureen stone and tony derose ,
a geometric characterization of parametric cubic curves ,
acm tog , vol 8 , no 3 , july 1989 , pp. 147 163.

i 've used that reference , and found that i needed to go to their
original tech report

maureen stone and tony derose ,
characterizing cubic bezier curves
xerox edl 88 8 , december 1988


first , thanks to all who replied to my original question.

i 've implemented the ideas from the article above and i'm very satisfied
with the results. i needed it for my bezier curve approximation routine.
in some cases (generating offset curves) loops can occur. i now have a
fast method of detecting the generation of a curve with a loop. although
i did not follow the article above strictly. the check if the fourth control
point lies in the the loop area , which is bounded by two parabolas and
one ellips is too complicated. instead i enlarged the loop area and
surrounded it by for straight lines. the check is now simple and fast and
my approximation routine never ever outputs self intersecting bezier curves
again !
ferdinand.


from yoo@engr.ucf.edu (hoi yoo)
subject looking for usa map
organization engineering , university of central florida , orlando
lines 11



does anyone out there have or know of , line drawing usa map \?


thanks very much in advance ,
hoi


yoo@engr.ucf.edu


from mdpyssc@fs1.mcc.ac.uk (sue cunningham)
subject fractals \? what good are they \?
organization manchester computing centre
lines 5

we have been using iterated systems compression board to compress
pathology images and are getting ratios of 40 1 to 70 1 without too
much loss in quality. it is taking about 4 mins per image to compress ,
on a 25mhz 486 but decompression is almost real time on a 386 in software
alone.

from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization purdue university
lines 19

in article 1993apr14.191415.10553@samba.oit.unc.edu cptully@med.unc.edu
(christopher p. tully , pathology , 62699) writes
why so up tight \? for that matter , tiff6 is out now , so why not gripe
about its problems \? also , if its so important to you , volunteer to
help define or critique the spec.

i 've got the 6.0 spec (obviously since i quoted it in my last posting).
my gripe about tiff is that it 's far too complicated and nearly
infinitely easier to write than to read , which i think hurts your
acceptance by anything that will need to read those images (e.g. ,
paint programs).

in a nutshell , i do n't think tiff is salvageable unless the fat is
trimmed significantly and then it would n't be tiff anymore. they
keep trying to cut it back , but it 's late now. maybe they will fix it ,
and change that magic number to signify the lack of compatibility.
that would probably make me happy.

ab

from kinder@nervm.nerdc.ufl.edu (jim cobb)
subject et 4000 w32 vl bus cards
organization university of florida , nerdc
lines 3
nntp posting host nervm.nerdc.ufl.edu
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2

does anyone know of a vl bus video card based on the et4000 w32 card \?
if so how much will it cost , where can i get one , does it come with more
than 1mb of ram , and what is the windows performance like \?

from tsa@cellar.org (the silent assassin)
subject questions about plane eqn method of hidden surface removal
organization the cellar bbs and public access system
lines 18

what are the main advantages of this method \? i have seen it described , and
the algiorithm seems a little bit long. i developed my own method , which
requires that the points be in a counter clockwise order , and returns
whether you are looking at the back or the front , similar to the plane eqn
method. it uses few calculations however , basically it is several
comparisons. the only disadvantage i see is that it must be done after the
transformation from view coordinates to coordinates to display on the
screen , which means that a little more calculation isneeded beforehand. my
method basically figures out whether the points that will appear on the
screen are clockwise or counterclockwise. when looking at the back of
something , the points occur in an opposite direction from the front , so
merely by figuring out which way the points go , you can tell whether you are
looking at the back or front of a 2d polygon. has anyone heard of this
method before \? it is so simple , i doubt i am the first to think of it.

libertarian , atheist , semi anarchal techno rat.

i define myself tsa@cellar.org

from mark a. cartwright markc@emx.utexas.edu
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42 (silly)
organization university of texas @ austin , comp. center
lines 21
distribution world
nntp posting host aliester.cc.utexas.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1

well ,

42 is 101010 binary , and who would forget that its the
answer to the question of life , the universe , and everything else.
that is to quote douglas adams in a round about way.

of course the question has not yet been discovered...


mark a. cartwright , n5snp
university of texas @ austin
computation center , graphics facility
markc@emx.utexas.edu
markc@sirius.cc.utexas.edu
markc@hermes.chpc.utexas.edu
(512) 471 3241 x 362

pp asel 9 92

a.) often in error , never in doubt.
b.) this situation has no gravity , i would like a refund please.

from arowatt@massey.ac.nz (a.j. rowatt)
subject page flipping in vga 320x200x256 mode.
organization massey university , palmerston north , new zealand
x reader netnews pc version 2c
lines 12

help !
how do you write to the second bank page of memory when in vga
320x200x256 colour mode \? . ie to perform page flipping animation
and buffering of the screen.
i have tried using the map mask registers , but this does not
perform the required task (although it does do something).

note it must be able to work on a standard vga (ie not
necessarily a svga card).

many thanx in advance...
andrew

from sloan@cis.uab.edu (kenneth sloan)
subject re removing distortion from bitmapped drawings \?
organization cis , university of alabama at birmingham
lines 135

in article 1993apr19.141034.24731@sctc.com boebert@sctc.com (earl boebert) writes
let 's say you have a scanned image of a line drawing in this case a
boat , but it could be anything. on the drawing you have a set of
reference points whose true x , y positions are known.

now you digitize the drawing manually (in this case , using yaron
danon 's excellent digitize program). that is , you use a program which
converts cursor positions to x , y and saves those values when you click
the mouse.

upon digitizing you notice that the reference point values that come
out of the digitizing process differ in small but significant ways
from the known true values. this is understandable because the
scanned drawing is a reproduction of the original and there are
successive sources of distortion such as differential expansion and
contraction of paper , errors introduced in the printing process ,
scanner errors and what have you.

the errors are not uniform over the entire drawing , so global
adjustments such as stretching contracting uniformly over x or y , or
rotating the whole drawing , are not satisfactory.

so the question is does any kind soul know of an algorithm for
removing such distortion \? in particular , if i have three sets of
points

reference(x , y) (the known true values)

distortedreference(x , y) (the same points , with known errors)

distorteddata(x , y) (other points , with unknown errors)

what function of reference and distorted could i apply to
distorteddata to remove the errors.

i suspect the problem could be solved by treating the distorted
reference points as resulting from the projection of a bumpy 3d
surface , solving for the surface and then flattening it to remove
the errors in the other data points.

it helps to have some idea of the source of the distortion or at least
a reasonable model of the class of distortion. below is a very short
description of the process which we use if you have further questions ,
feel free to poke me via e mail.


assume locally smooth distortion

0) compute the delaunay triangulation of your (x , y) points. this
defines the set of neighbors for each point. if your data are
not naturally convex , you may have very long edges on the convex hull.
consider deleting these edges.

1) now , there are two goals

a) move the distorteddata(x , y) to the reference(x , y)
b) keep the length(e) (as measured from the current (x , y) 's)
as close as possible to the digitizedlength(e) (as measured
using the digitized (x , y) 's).

2) for every point , compute a displacement based on a) and b). for
example

a) for (x , y) points for which you know the reference(x , y) , you
can move alpha0 (reference(x , y) current(x , y)). this will
slowly move the distortedreference(x , y) towards the
reference(x , y).
b) for all other points , examine the current length of each edge.
for each edge , compute a displacement which would make that edge
the correct length (where correct is the digitizedlength).
take the vector sum of these edge displacements , and move the
point alpha1 sumofedgedisplacements. this will keep the
triangulated mesh consistent with your digitized mesh.

3) iterate 2) until you are happy (for example , no point moves very much).

alpha0 and alpha1 need to be determined by experimentation. consider
how much you believe the reference(x , y) i.e. , do you absolutely insist
on the final points exactly matching the references , or do you want to
balance some error in matching the reference against changes in length
of the edges.

warning there are a couple of geometric invariants which must be
observed (essentially , you ca n't allow the convex hull to change , and
you ca n't allow triangles to fold over neighboring triangles. both of
these can be handled either by special case checks on the motion of
individual points , or by periodically re triangulating the points (using
the current positions but still calculating digitizedlength from the
original positions. when we first did this , the triangulation time was
prohibitive , so we only did it once. if i were motivated to try and
change code that has been working in production mode for 5 years , i
might go back and re triangulate on every iteration. if you have more
compute power than you know what to do with , you might consider having
every point interact with every other point....but first read up on
linear solutions to the n body problem.

there are lots of papers in the last 10 years of siggraph proceedings on
springs , constraints , and energy calculations which are relevant. the
above method is described , in more or less detail in

@inproceedings sloan86 ,
author sloan , jr. , kenneth r. and david meyers and christine a. curcio ,
title reconstruction and display of the retina ,
booktitle proceedings graphics interface '86 vision interface '86 ,
address vancouver , canada ,
pages 385 389 ,
month may ,
year 1986

@techreport curcio87b ,
author christine a. curcio and kenneth r. sloan and david meyers ,
title computer methods for sampling , reconstruction , display , and
analysis of retinal whole mounts ,
number tr 87 12 03 ,
institution department of computer science , university of washington ,
address seattle , wa ,
month december ,
year 1987

@article curcio89 ,
author christine a. curcio and kenneth r. sloan and david meyers ,
title computer methods for sampling , reconstruction , display , and
analysis of retinal whole mounts ,
journal vision research ,
volume 29 ,
number 5 ,
pages 529 540 ,
year 1989



kenneth sloan computer and information sciences
sloan@cis.uab.edu university of alabama at birmingham
(205) 934 2213 115a campbell hall , uab station
(205) 934 5473 fax birmingham , al 35294 1170

from joachim@kih.no (joachim lous)
subject re xv for ms dos ! ! !
organization kongsberg ingeniorhogskole
lines 20
nntp posting host samson.kih.no
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

noe mailaddress@eicn.etna.ch wrote
i'm sorry for...

1) the late of the answer but i could n't find xv221 for msdos 'cause
i forgot the address...but i 've retrieve it..

2) posting this answer here in comp.graphics 'cause i ca n't use e mail ,
not yet....

2) my bad english 'cause i'm a swiss and my language is french....

if french is your language , try counting in french in stead , maybe
it will work better.... )


l . one thing is for sure the sheep
) ()( ( ) )) ()( ) is not a creature of the earth.
) ( joachim@kih.no
the back masking on 'haaden ii'
from 'exposure' by robert fripp.

from g9134255@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au (coronado emmanuel abad)
subject need polygon splitting algo...
organization university of wollongong , nsw , australia.
lines 11
nntp posting host wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au
keywords polygons , splitting , clipping


the idea is to clip one polygon using another polygon (not
necessarily rectangular) as a window. my problem then is in
finding out all the new vertices of the resulting subpolygons
from the first one. is this simply a matter of extending the
usual algorithm whereby each of the edges of one polygon is checked
against another polygon \? \? \? is there a simpler way \? \?

comments welcome.

noel.

from aleahy@cch.coventry.ac.uk (odd frog)
subject re photoshop for windows
nntp posting host cc sysh
organization odd frogs balloon shop
lines 21

in article c5uhim.jfq@rot.qc.ca beaver@rot.qc.ca (andre boivert) writes


i am looking for comments from people who have used heard about photoshop
for windows. is it good \? how does it compare to the mac version \? is there
a lot of bugs (i heard the windows version needs fine tuning) \?


also photoshopii is out soon , has anyone got a date and any cofmments \?
andy


andrew leahy aleahy@cch.coventry.ac.uk odd frog


what a piece of work is man ! how noble in reason ! how infinite in faculties !
in form and moving , how express and admirable ! in action how like an angel !
in apprehension how like a god ! the beauty of the world , the paragon of
animals ! and yet to me what is the quintessence if dust \?
man delights not me.......
shakespeare , hamlet

from holler@holli.augs1.adsp.sub.org (jan holler)
subject re newsgroup split
reply to holli ! holler@augs1.adsp.sub.org
organization private
lines 24
x newssoftware grn 1.16f (10.17.92) by mike schwartz michael b. smith

in article nerone.93apr20085951@sylvester.cc.utexas.edu nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (michael nerone) writes
in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu , tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes

ch concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in

also , it is readily observable that the current spectrum of amiga
groups is already plagued with mega crossposting thus the group split
would not , in all likelihood , bring about a more structured
environment.

am i glad you write that. i got flamed all along because i begged not to
crosspost some nonsense articles.

the problem with crossposting is on the first poster. i am aware that this
posting is a crossposting too , but what else should one do. you never know
where the interested people stay in.

to split up newsgroups brings even more crossposting.



jan holler , bern , switzerland good is not good enough , make it better !
holli ! holler@augs1.adsp.sub.org ((second chance holler@iamexwi.unibe.ch))

(( fast mail cbmehq ! cbmswi ! augs1 ! holli ! holler@cbmvax.commodore.com ))

from rcomg@melomys.co.rmit.oz.au (mark gregory)
subject avi file format \?
summary avi file format \?
keywords avi file format \?
organization royal melbourne institute of technology
lines 18
nntp posting host melomys.cse.rmit.edu.au


hi ,
would someone please email the new avi file
format. i'm sure that many people would
like to know what it is exactly.

thank you


mark gregory lecturer m.gregory@rmit.edu.au ph(03)6603243 fax(03)6621060
royal melbourne institute of technology ,
department of communication and electronic engineering ,
p.o. box 2476v , melbourne , victoria , 3001. australia.

mark gregory lecturer m.gregory@rmit.edu.au ph(03)6603243 fax(03)6621060
royal melbourne institute of technology ,
department of communication and electronic engineering ,
p.o. box 2476v , melbourne , victoria , 3001. australia.

from mart4678@mach1.wlu.ca (phil martin u)
subject re newsgroup split
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
organization wilfrid laurier university
lines 17

chris herringshaw (tdawson@engin.umich.edu) wrote
concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon


yes. i also like knowing where to go to ask a question without getting
hell for putting it in the wrong newsgroup.

phil martin.

from bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth)
subject re cview answers
keywords stupid programming
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 18

in 1qlobb p5a@tuegate.tue.nl renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
most info regarding dangers of reading from floppy disks omitted
unrevcoverable way. so be careful ! it is incredibly poor programming for a
program to do this. on the other hand , when choosing files in the open files
menu , cview insists on doing a few disk reads every time one moves the
hi lighter square. incredibly annoying when it could do them all at once
when it gets the directory info. and really , how much effort does it take to
sort a directory listing \?

in all fairness , how many people do you know personally who read images
from floppy drives \? i have n't tried it with jpegs , but i do realize how
agonizingly slow it is with gif files.

nevertheless , it is an important bug that needs to be squashed. i am
merely pointing out that it was probably overlooked. while it is serious ,
one must keep in mind that it will probably affect at most 5 of the
targeted users of cview.


from stgprao@st.unocal.com (richard ottolini)
subject re images of earth
organization unocal corporation
lines 16

in article 1993apr19.144533.6779@cs.ruu.nl clldomps@cs.ruu.nl (louis van dompselaar) writes
in c5q0hk.kod@hawnews.watson.ibm.com ricky@watson.ibm.com (rick turner) writes

look in the pub space directory on ames.arc.nasa.gov there are a number
of earth images there. you may have to hunt around the subdirectories as
things tend to be filed under the mission (ie , apollo ) rather than under
the image subject.

for those of you who do n't need 24 bit , i got a 32 colour amiga iff
of a cloudless earth (scanned). looks okay when mapped on a sphere.
e mail me and i 'll send it you...

beware. there is only one such copyrighted image and the company
that generated is known to protect that copyright. that image took
hundreds of man hours to build from the source satellite images ,
so it is unlikely that competing images will appear soon.

from wlm@wisdom.attmail.com (bill myers)
subject re graphics libraries
in reply to ch41@prism.gatech.edu 's message of 21 apr 93 12 56 08 gmt
organization usr1 lib news organization
lines 28


does anyone out there have any experience with figaro form tgs or
hoops from ithaca software \? i would appreciate any comments.

yes , i do. a couple of years ago , i did a comparison of the two
products. some of this may have changed , but here goes.

as far as a phigs implementation , figaro is fine. but , its phigs !
personally , i hate phigs because i find it is too low level. i also
dislike structure editing , which i find impossible , but enough about
phigs.

i have found hoops to be a system that is full featured and easy to
use. they support all of their rendering methods in software when
there is no hardware support , their documentation is good , and they
are easily portable to other systems.

i would be happy to elaborate further if you have more specific
questions.


here 's lookin' at ya.

`o @' bill wlm@wisdom.attmail.com
@ @ phone (216) 831 2880 x2002




from mikec@sail.labs.tek.com (micheal cranford)
subject disney animation
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 5



can anyone tell me anything about the disney animation software package \?
note the followup line (this is not for me but for a colleague).


subject xv under ms dos \? ! \?
from no e mail address@eicn.etna.ch
organization eicn , switzerland
lines 24

hi ... recently i found xv for ms dos in a subdirectory of gnu cc (gnuish). i
use frequently xv on a sun spark station 1 and i never had problems , but when i
start it on my computer with h option , it display the help menu and when i
start it with a gif file my hard disk turns 2 or 3 seconds and the prompt come
back.

my computer is a little 386 25 with copro , 4 mega rams , tseng 4000 (1m) running
ms dos 5.0 with himem.sys and no emm386.sys. i had the go32.exe too... but no
driver who run with it.

do somenone know the solution to run xv \? \? \? any help would be apprecied..

thanx in advance ! ! ! !




pascal perret perret@eicn.etna.ch
ecole d'ing nieur ets (not available at this time)
2400 le locle
suisse
! ! ! ! enjoy computer ! ! ! !



from davidr@rincon.ema.rockwell.com (david j. ray)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization rockwell international
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 16

martin preston (prestonm@cs.man.ac.uk) wrote
in c5scgu.1ll@mentor.cc.purdue.edu ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b) writes

i 've got the 6.0 spec (obviously since i quoted it in my last posting).
my gripe about tiff is that it 's far too complicated and nearly
infinitely easier to write than to read , ...

why not use the pd c library for reading writing tiff files \? it took me a
good 20 minutes to start using them in your own app.

martin

what is the name of this pd c library for tiff. i 'd like to get a copy of it ,
but i ca n't archie for something i do n't have the filename for.

thanks.

from hans@cs.kuleuven.ac.be (hans baele)
subject conversion of pic format files to hpgl files
nntp posting host glasnost.cs.kuleuven.ac.be
organization dept. computerwetenschappen
lines 20

hello ,

can anybody help me with the conversion of pic format files
to hpgl files. the question is as follows

is it possible to convert files that have been generated in the
pic preprocessor format into hpgl format , suitable for sending
to a plotter. the hardware involved is ibm risc 6000 running aix
3.2.3. how should this be done and what software is involved ,
where is it available , what does it cost , what are the problems \?

regards ,

dani


cimad consultants
antwerp , belgium
dani@cimad.be


from danny hawrysio danny.hawrysio@canrem.com
subject radiosity
reply to danny hawrysio danny.hawrysio@canrem.com
organization canada remote systems
distribution comp
lines 9


i am looking for source code for the radiosity method.

i do n't know what kind of machine you want it for , but the program
radiance comes with 'c' source code i do n't have ftp access so i
could n't tell you where to get it via that way.

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

from amann@iam.unibe.ch (stephan amann)
subject re more on radiosity
reply to amann@iam.unibe.ch
organization university of berne , institute of computer science and applied mathematics , special interest group computer graphics
lines 80

in article 66319@yuma.acns.colostate.edu , xz775327@longs.lance.colostate.edu (xia zhao) writes


in article 1993apr19.131239.11670@aragorn.unibe.ch , you write


let 's be serious... i'm working on a radiosity package , written in c .
i would like to make it public domain. i 'll announce it in c.g. the minute
i finished it.

that were the good news. the bad news it 'll take another 2 months (at least)
to finish it.


are you using the traditional radiosity method , progressive refinement , or
something else in your package \?


my package is based on several articles about non standard radiosity and
some unpublished methods.

the main articles are

cohen , chen , wallace , greenberg
a progressive refinement approach to fast radiosity image generation
computer graphics (siggraph) , v. 22(no. 4) , pp 75 84 , august 1988

silion , puech
a general two pass method integrating specular and diffuse reflection
computer graphics (siggraph) , v23(no. 3) , pp335 344 , july 1989

if you need to project patches on the hemi cube surfaces , what technique are
you using \? do you have hardware to facilitate the projection \?


i do not use hemi cubes. i have no special hardware (sun sparcstation).



in the meantime you may have a look at the file
radiosity code.tar.z
located at
compute1.cc.ncsu.edu


what are the guest username and password for this ftp site \?


use anonymous as username and your e mail address as password.



(there are some other locations have a look at archie to get the nearest)

hope that 'll help.

yours

stephan



thanks , stephan.


josephine


stephan.




stephan amann sig computer graphics , university of berne , switzerland
amann@iam.unibe.ch
tel 41 31 65 46 79 fax 41 31 65 39 65

projects radiosity , raytracing , computer graphics



from ch41@prism.gatech.edu (claye hart)
subject graphics libraries
keywords graphics , libraries
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 16

i am interested in a 2d 3d graphics library which will allow our design
team to write graphics software for unix workstations and be as portable as
possible. eventually this software will have to be moved to microsoft
windows. it is my opinion that a good api with hooks to pex underneath
would prove most portable.

does anyone out there have any experience with figaro form tgs or
hoops from ithaca software \? i would appreciate any comments.

claye hart


claye k. hart 404 894 9729
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332
uucp ... ! decvax , hplabs , ncar , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! ch41
internet claye.hart@gtri.gatech.edu

from ccgwt@trentu.ca (grant totten)
subject ms windows graphics viewer \?
keywords ms windows jpeg gif tiff
lines 31
reply to ccgwt@trentu.ca (grant totten)
organization trent university


howdy all ,

i was wondering if people could e mail me their opinions on
the various graphics viewers available for ms windows 3.x... i'm
working on a project to set up our scanner and write documentation on
how to use it and it would be nice to have a snazzy image viewer
to look at (and maybe even edit \? ) the image you just scanned.

the file formats i'm looking for

gif
jpeg
tiff
pcx
whatever other 'major' file formats there are.

thanks a lot for your help

grant


grant totten , programmer analyst , trent university , peterborough ontario
gtotten@trentu.ca phone (705) 748 1653 fax (705) 748 1246

in the days of old ,
when knights were bold ,
and women were too cautious
oh , those gallant days ,
when women were women ,
and men were really obnoxious ...

from kardank@ere.umontreal.ca (kardan kaveh)
subject re newsgroup split
organization universite de montreal
lines 8

i have n't been following this thread , so appologies if this has already been
mentioned , but how about

comp.graphics.3d


kaveh kardan
kardank@ere.umontreal.ca

from kph2q@onyx.cs.virginia.edu (kenneth hinckley)
subject voice input vendor information needed
reply to kph2q@onyx.cs.virginia.edu (kenneth hinckley)
organization university of virginia
lines 27


hello ,
i am looking to add voice input capability to a user interface i am
developing on an hp730 (unix) workstation. i would greatly appreciate
information anyone would care to offer about voice input systems that are
easily accessible from the unix environment.

the names or adresses of applicable vendors , as well as any
experiences you have had with specific systems , would be very helpful.

please respond via email i will post a summary if there is
sufficient interest.


thanks ,
ken


p.s. i have found several impressive systems for ibm pc 's , but i would
like to avoid the hassle of purchasing and maintaining a separate pc if
at all possible.


ken hinckley (kph2q@virginia.edu)
university of virginia
neurosurgical visualization laboratory


from bernard@cs.su.oz.au (bernard gardner)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
organization basser department of computer science
keywords polygon , needed
lines 10

for some reason i never saw the original post on this thread , but if you are
looking for fast polygon routines on vga on a pc , you really ca n't go past
the mode x stuff from dr dobbs. this code is all p.domain (as far as i know) ,
and in the original articles , the routines were all presented as dumb vga
routines , and then optimised to modex with some interesting discussion along
the way.
if you are interested , i could find out more details of the issues in question ,
(i have them at home).

bernard.

from cheinan@access.digex.com (cheinan marks)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 100
nntp posting host access.digex.net
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

robert g. carpenter writes

hi netters ,

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

i 'll also need contact info (name , address , email...) if you can find it.

thanks

(please post your responses , in case others have same need)

bob carpenter


the following is extracted from sumex aim.stanford.edu. it should also be on
the mirrors. i think there is source for some applications that may have some
bearing on your project. poke around the source directory. i 've never used
this package , nor do i know anyone who did , but the price is right )

hope this helps.

cheinan

abstracts of files as of thu apr 1 03 11 39 pst 1993
directory info mac source

binhex 3d grafsys 121.hqx

date fri , 5 mar 93 14 13 07 0100
from christian steffen ove franz cfranz@iiic.ethz.ch
to questions@mac.archive.umich.edu
subject 3d grafsys 1.21 in incoming directory
a 3d grafsys short description follows

programmers 3d grafsys vers 1.21 now available.

version 1.21 is mainly a bugfix for think c users. this version
now runs with think c , i promise ! the docs now contain a chapter for
c programmers on how to use the grafsys. if you have problems , feel free
to contact me.
the other change is that i removed the fastperftrig calls from
the fpu version to make it run faster.

those of you who do n't know what all this is about , read on.



programmers 3d grafsys what it is


did n't you always have this great game in mind where you needed some way of
drawing three dimensional scenes \?

did n't you always want to write this program that visualized the structure
of three dimensional molecules \?

and did n't the task of writing your 3d conversions routines keep you from
actually doing it \?

well if the answer to any of the above questions is 'yes , but what has it to
do with this package \? \? \? ' , read on.

grafsys is a think pascal c library that provides you with simple routines
for building , saving , loading (as resources) , and manipulating
(independent rotating around arbitrary achses , translating and scaling)
three dimensional objects. objects , not just simple single line drawings.

grafsys supports full 3d clipping , animation and some (primitive) hidden
line hidden surface drawing with simple commands from within your program.

grafsys also supports full eye control with both perspective and parallel
projections (if you ca n't understand a word , do n't worry , this is just showing
off for those who know about it. the docs that come with it will try to explain
what it all means later on).

grafsys provides a powerful interface to supply your own drawing routines with
data so you can use grafsys to do the 3d transformations and your own routines
to do the actual drawing. (note that grafsys also provides drawing routines so
you do n't have to worry about that if you do n't want to)

grafsys 1.11 comes in two versions. one for the 881 and 020 or above
processors. the other version uses fixed point arithmetic and runs on any mac.
both versions are 100 source compatibel .

grafsys comes with an extensive manual that teaches you the fundamentals of 3d
graphics and how to use the package.

if demand is big enough i will convert the grafsys to an object class library.
however , i feelt that the way it is implemented now makes it easier to use for
a lot more people than the select 'oop guild'.

grafsys is free for any non commercial usage. read the documentation enclosed.


enjoy ,
christian franz

from mmadsen@bonnie.ics.uci.edu (matt madsen)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
nntp posting host bonnie.ics.uci.edu
reply to mmadsen@ics.uci.edu (matt madsen)
organization univ. of calif. , irvine , info. computer sci. dept.
lines 27

robert g. carpenter writes

hi netters ,

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

i 'll also need contact info (name , address , email...) if you can find it.

thanks

(please post your responses , in case others have same need)

bob carpenter


i too would like a 3d graphics library ! how much do c libraries cost
anyway \? can you get the tools used by , say , renderman , and can you get
them at a reasonable cost \?

sorry that i do n't have any answers , just questions...

matt madsen
mmadsen@ics.uci.edu


from sp1marse@kristin (marco seirio)
subject flat globe
lines 13
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3


does anybody have an algorithm for flattening out a globe , or any other
parametric surface , that is definied parametrically.
that is , i would like to take a sheet of paper and a knife and to be
able to calculate how i must cut in the paper so i can fold it to a
globe (or any other object).


marco seirio in real life sp1marse@caligula.his.se





from neideck@nestvx.enet.dec.com (burkhard neidecker lutz)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
organization cec karlsruhe
lines 17
nntp posting host nestvx
keywords 3do arm qt compact video

in article 2bd07605.18974@news.service.uci.edu rbarris@orion.oac.uci.edu (robert c. barris) writes
i'm not sure how a centris 20mhz 040 stacks up against the 25 mhz arm in
the 3do box. obviously the arm is faster , but how much \?

why would it have to be much faster (it probably is) \? assuming an arm
is about as efficient as a mips r3000 for integer calculations , doing
a compact video like digital video codec is an easy task. for software
motion pictures (which is a lot like compact video , though it predates
it) , we get 48 frames sec. at 320x240 on a decstation 5000 200. that
machine has a 25 mhz mips r3000.

burkhard neidecker lutz

distributed multimedia group , cec karlsruhe eerp portfolio manager
software motion pictures berkom ii project multimedia base technology
digital equipment corporation
neidecker@nestvx.enet.dec.com

from robert@cpuserver.acsc.com (robert grant)
subject virtual reality for x on the cheap !
organization uscacsc , los angeles
lines 187
distribution world
reply to robert@cpuserver.acsc.com (robert grant)
nntp posting host cpuserver.acsc.com

hi everyone ,

i thought that some people may be interested in my vr
software on these groups

announcing the release of multiverse 1.0.2

multiverse is a multi user , non immersive , x windows based virtual reality
system , primarily focused on entertainment research.

features

client server based model , using berkeley sockets.
no limit to the number of users (apart from performance).
generic clients.
customizable servers.
hierachical objects (allowing attachment of cameras and light sources).
multiple light sources (ambient , point and spot).
objects can have extension code , to handle unique functionality , easily
attached.

functionality

client
the client is built around a 'fast' render loop. basically it changes things
when told to by the server and then renders an image from the user 's
viewpoint. it also provides the server with information about the user 's
actions which can then be communicated to other clients and therefore to
other users.

the client is designed to be generic in other words you do n't need to
develop a new client when you want to enter a new world. this means that
resources can be spent on enhancing the client software rather than adapting
it. the adaptations , as will be explained in a moment , occur in the servers.

this release of the client software supports the following functionality

o hierarchical objects (with associated addressing)

o multiple light sources and types (ambient , point and spot)

o user interface panels

o colour polygonal rendering with phong shading (optional wireframe for
faster frame rates)

o mouse and keyboard input

(some people may be disappointed that this software does n't support the
powerglove as an input device this is not because it ca n't , but because
i do n't have one ! this will , however , be one of the first enhancements ! )

server(s)
this is where customization can take place. the following basic support is
provided in this release for potential world server developers

o transparent client management

o client message handling

this may not sound like much , but it takes away the headache of
accepting and
terminating clients and receiving messages from them the
application writer
can work with the assumption that things are happening locally.

things get more interesting in the object extension functionality. this is
what is provided to allow you to animate your objects

o server selectable extension installation
what this means is that you can decide which objects have extended
functionality in your world. basically you call the extension
initialisers you want.

o event handler registration
when you develop extensions for an object you basically write callback
functions for the events that you want the object to respond to.
(current events supported init , move , change , collide terminate)

o collision detection registration
if you want your object to respond to collision events just provide
some basic information to the collision detection management software.
your callback will be activated when a collision occurs.

this software is kept separate from the worldserver applications because
the application developer wants to build a library of extended objects
from which to choose.

the following is all you need to make a world server application

o provide an initworld function
this is where you choose what object extensions will be supported , plus
any initialization you want to do.

o provide a positionobject function
this is where you determine where to place a new client.

o provide an installworldobjects function
this is where you load the world (.wld) file for a new client.

o provide a getworldtype function
this is where you tell a new client what persona they should have.

o provide an animateworld function
this is where you can go wild ! at a minimum you should let the objects
move (by calling a move function) and let the server sleep for a bit
(to avoid outrunning the clients).

that 's all there is to it ! and to prove it here are the line counts for the
three world servers i 've provided

generic 81 lines
dactyl 270 lines (more complicated collision detection due to the
stairs ! will probably be improved with future
versions)
dogfight 72 lines

location

this software is located at the following site
ftp.u.washington.edu

directory
pub virtual worlds

file
multiverse 1.0.2.tar.z

futures

client

o texture mapping.

o more realistic rendering i.e. z buffering (or similar) , gouraud shading

o hmd support.

o etc , etc....

server

o physical modelling (gravity , friction etc).

o enhanced object management interaction

o etc , etc....

both

o improved comms ! ! !

i hope this provides people with a good understanding of the multiverse
software ,
unfortunately it comes with practically zero documentation , and i'm not sure
whether that will ever be able to be rectified ! (

i hope people enjoy this software and that it is useful in our explorations of
the virtual universe i 've certainly found fascinating developing it , and i
would love to add support for the powerglove...and an hmd ) ! !

finally one major disclaimer

this is totally amateur code. by that i mean there is no support for this code
other than what i , out the kindness of my heart , or you , out of pure
desperation , provide. i cannot be held responsible for anything good or bad
that may happen through the use of this code use it at your own risk !

disclaimer over !

of course if you love it , i would like to here from you. and anyone with
positive contributions criticisms is also encouraged to contact me. anyone who
hates it dev null !



and if anyone wants to let me do this for a living you know where to
write ) !



thanks ,

robert.

robert@acsc.com


from eylerken@stein.u.washington.edu (ken eyler)
subject 3d animation station
article i.d. shelley.1r75bginnob9
distribution world
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 18
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu


i am looking for some information about 3d animation stations that
are currently on the market. the price of the station can be from 5k 20k ,
but no more than 20 , 000.00. type of workstation doesnt matter (pc , mac ,
sgi etc..) . if you use or have bought looked at one or can suggest your
dream machine , then please mail me your configurations. i need the following.

1. type of station (pc , mac etc.. )
2. expandibilty of the machine.
3. software that can run on it
4. vtr controller and or vtr deck model name.
5. vendors names and numbers.

thanks in advance.

ken eyler
eylerken@u.washington.edu
the evergreen state college

from jonas y@isy.liu.se (jonas yngvesson)
subject re point within a polygon
keywords point , polygon
organization dept of ee , university of linkoping
lines 129

scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk (simon crowe) writes

i am looking for an algorithm to determine if a given point is bound by a
polygon. does anyone have any such code or a reference to book containing
information on the subject \?

well , it 's been a while since this was discussed so i take the liberty of
reprinting (without permission , so sue me) eric haines reprint of the very
interesting discussion of this topic...

jonas

o o
x snip snip x
o o

give a man a fish , and he 'll eat one day.
give a man a fishing rod , and he 'll laze around fishing and never do anything.

with that in mind , i reprint (without permission , so sue me) relevant
information posted some years ago on this very problem. note the early use of
postscript technology , predating many of this year 's papers listed in the
april 1st siggraph program announcement posted here a few days ago.

eric


intersection between a line and a polygon (undecidable \? \? ) ,
by dave baraff , tom duff

from deb@charisma.graphics.cornell.edu
newsgroups comp.graphics
keywords p , np , jordan curve separation , ursyhon metrization theorem
organization program of computer graphics

in article ... ncsmith@ndsuvax.uucp (timothy lyle smith) writes

i need to find a formula algorithm to determine if a line intersects
a polygon. i would prefer a method that would do this in as little
time as possible. i need this for use in a forward raytracing
program.

i think that this is a very difficult problem. to start with , lines and
polygons are semi algebraic sets which both contain uncountable number of
points. here are a few off the cuff ideas.

first , we need to check if the line and the polygon are separated. now , the
jordan curve separation theorem says that the polygon divides the plane into
exactly two open (and thus non compact) regions. thus , the line lies
completely inside the polygon , the line lies completely outside the polygon ,
or possibly (but this will rarely happen) the line intersects the polyon.

now , the phrasing of this question says if a line intersects a polygon , so
this is a decision problem. one possibility (the decision model approach) is
to reduce the question to some other (well known) problem q , and then try to
solve q. an answer to q gives an answer to the original decision problem.

in recent years , many geometric problems have been successfully modeled in a
new language called postscript. (see postscript language , by adobe systems
incorporated , isbn 0 201 10179 3 , co. 1985).

so , given a line l and a polygon p , we can write a postscript program that
draws the line l and the polygon p , and then outputs the answer. by
output , we mean the program executes a command called showpage , which
actually prints a page of paper containing the line and the polygon. a quick
examination of the paper provides an answer to the reduced problem q , and thus
the original problem.

there are two small problems with this approach.

(1) there is an infinite number of ways to encode l and p into the
reduced problem q. so , we will be forced to invoke the axiom of
choice (or equivalently , zorn 's lemma). but the use of the axiom of
choice is not regarded in a very serious light these days.

(2) more importantly , the question arises as to whether or not the
postscript program q will actually output a piece of paper or in
other words , will it halt \?

now , postscript is expressive enough to encode everything that a
turing machine might do thus the halting problem (for postscript) is
undecidable. it is quite possible that the original problem will turn
out to be undecidable.


i wo n't even begin to go into other difficulties , such as aliasing , finite
precision and running out of ink , paper or both.

a couple of references might be

1. principia mathematica. newton , i. cambridge university press , cambridge ,
england. (sorry , i do n't have an isbn for this).

2. an introduction to automata theory , languages , and computation. hopcroft , j
and ulman , j.

3. the c programming language. kernighan , b and ritchie , d.

4. a tale of two cities. dickens , c.



from td@alice.uucp (tom duff)
summary overkill.
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill nj

the situation is not nearly as bleak as baraff suggests (he should know
better , he 's hung around the labs for long enough). by the well known
dobbin dullman reduction (see j. dullman d. dobbin , j. comp. obfusc.
37 , ii pp. 33 947 , lemma 17(a)) line polygon intersection can be reduced to
hamiltonian circuit , without( ! ) the use of grobner bases , so lpi (to coin an
acronym) is probably only np complete. besides , turing completeness will no
longer be a problem once our cray 3 is delivered , since it will be able to
complete an infinite loop in 4 milliseconds (with scatter gather.)



from deb@svax.cs.cornell.edu (david baraff)

well , sure its no worse than np complete , but that 's only if you restrict
yourself to the case where the line satisfies a lipschitz condition on its
second derivative. (i think there 's an '89 siggraph paper from caltech that
deals with this).



j o n a s y n g v e s s o n email jonas y@isy.liu.se
dept. of electrical engineering voice 46 (0)13 282162
university of linkoping , sweden fax 46 (0)13 139282

from bates@spica.ucsb.edu (andrew m. bates)
subject renderman shaders discussion \?
organization university of california , santa barbara
lines 12


does anyone know of a site where i could ftp some renderman shaders \?
or of a newsgroup which has discussion or information about renderman \? i'm
new to the renderman (mac) family , and i 'd like to get as much info i can
lay my hands on. thanks !

andy bates.



andy bates.


from jbrandt@neosoft.com (j brandt)
subject beta testers wanted for graphics libraries
organization neosoft communications services (713) 684 5900
keywords xeg ceg beta imsl vni x graphics
lines 48


visual numerics inc. (formerly imsl and precision visuals) is in the
process of securing sites for beta testing x exponent graphics 1.0
and c exponent graphics 2.0. (both x exponent graphics and c exponent
graphics are 3gl products). the beta period is from april 26 through
june 18. the platform is hp9000 700 running under os 8.07 with
ansi c 8.71 compiler. the media will be sent on 4mm dat cartridge
tape. here are some of the key facts about the two products.

x exponent graphics 1.0 key facts

1. complete collection of high level 2d and 3d application plot types
available through a large collection of x resources.
2. cstom widget for osf motif developers.
3. built in interactive gui for plot customization.
4. easily implemented callbacks for customized application feedback.
5. xeg 1.0 , being built on the xt toolkit provides the user a widget
library that conforms to the expected syntax and standards familar
to x programmers.
6. xeg will also be sold as a bundle with visual edge 's uim x product.
this will enable user to use a gui builder to create the graphical
layout of an application.

c exponent graphics 2.0 key facts

1. written in c for c application programmers developers. the library
is 100 written in c , and the programming interface conforms to c
standards , taking advantage fo the most desirable features of c.
2. build in gui for interactive plot customization. through mouse
interaction , the user has complete interactive graph output control
with over 200 graphics attributes for plot customization.
3. large collection of high level application functions for two call
graph creation. a wide variety of 2d and 3d plot types are available
with minimal programming effort.
4. user ability to interrupt and control the x event. by controlling
the x event loop , when the user use the mouse to manipulate the plot
the user can allow ceg to control the event loop or the user can
control the event loop.

if anyone is interested in beta testing either of the products , please
contact wendy hou at visual numerics via email at hou@imsl.com or call
713 279 1066.



jaclyn brandt
jbrandt@neosoft.com


from fombaron@ufrima.imag.fr (fombaron marc)
subject 3d studio v2.01 any differences with previous version
keywords 3d studio 2.01
nntp posting host boole imag
organization university of grenoble (france)
lines 9

are there significant differences between v2.01 and v2.00 \?
thank you for helping

marc.

e mail marc.fombaron@ufrima.imag.fr

marc fombaron.
grenoble.

from schaefer@imag.imag.fr (arno schaefer)
subject re cview answers
nntp posting host silene
organization institut imag , grenoble , france
lines 32

in article c5lerr.1j3@rahul.net , bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth) writes
in 1993apr16.114158.2246@whiting.mcs.com sean@whiting.mcs.com (sean gum) writes

a stupid question , but what will cview run on and where can i get it \? i
am still in need of a gif viewer for linux. (without x windows.)
thanks !


ho boy. there is no way in hell you are going to be able to view gifs or do
any other graphics in linux without x windows ! i love linux because it is
so easy to learn.. you want text \? okay. use linux. you want text and
graphics \? use linux with x windows. simple. painless. required to have
x windows if you want graphics ! this includes fancy word processors like
doc , image viewers like xv , etc.


sorry , bryan , this is not quite correct. remember the vgalib package that comes
with linux sls \? it will switch to vga 320x200x256 mode without xwindows.
so at least it is possible to write a gif viewer under linux. however i do n't
think that there exists a similar svga package , and viewing gifs in 320x200 is
not very nice.

best regards ,

arno



arno schaefer ensimag , 2e annee
email schaefer@silene.imag.fr
tel. (33) 76 51 79 95 )


from bsaffo01@cad.gmeds.com (brian h. safford)
subject iges viewer for dos windows
organization eds cadillac
lines 10
nntp posting host ccadmn1.cad.gmeds.com

anybody know of an iges viewer for dos windows \? i need to be able to display
computervision iges files on a pc running windows 3.1. thanks in advance.


brian h. safford email bsaffo01@cad.gmeds.com
electronic data systems phone (313) 696 6302

note the views and opinions expressed herein are mine ,
and do not reflect those of electronic data systems corp.


from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization purdue university
lines 39

in article prestonm.735400848@cs.man.ac.uk prestonm@cs.man.ac.uk (martin
preston) writes
why not use the pd c library for reading writing tiff files \? it took me a
good 20 minutes to start using them in your own app.

i certainly do use it whenever i have to do tiff , and it usually works
very well. that 's not my point. i'm philosophically opposed to it
because of its complexity.

this complexity has led to some programs' poor tiff writers making
some very bizarre files , other programs' inability to load tiff
images (though they 'll save them , of course) , and a general
inability to interchange images between different environments
despite the fact they all think they understand tiff.

as the saying goes , it 's not me i'm worried about it 's all the
other assholes out there ! i 've had big trouble with misuse and
abuse of tiff over the years , and i chalk it all up to the immense (and
unnecessary) complexity of the format.

in the words of the tiff 5.0 spec , appendix g , page g 1 (capitalized
emphasis mine)

the only problem with this sort of success is that tiff was designed
to be powerful and flexible , at the expense of simplicity. it takes a
fair amount of effort to handle all the options currently defined in
this specification (probably no application does a complete job) ,
and that is currently the only way you can be sure that you will be
able to import any tiff image , since there are so many
image generating applications out there now.


if a program (or worse all applications) ca n't read every tiff
image , that means there are some it wo n't some that i might have to
deal with. why would i want my images to be trapped in that format \? i
do n't and neither should anyone who agrees with my reasoning not
that anyone does , of course ! )

ab

from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject re point within a polygon
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu
keywords point , polygon


in article 1993apr14.102007.20664@uk03.bull.co.uk , scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk (simon crowe) writes
i am looking for an algorithm to determine if a given point is bound by a
polygon. does anyone have any such code or a reference to book containing
information on the subject \?

regards

simon

basically , there are two algorithms determining whether a point is inside ,
outside or on the polygon. the first one is ray (or half line) method. in
this method , you can draw any ray , if the number of the intersection point
of the ray and the polygon is even , then it is outside. if the number is odd ,
then it is inside. of cause , you have to deal with the special cases which
may make you headache.

the second method is pi algorithm. draw the lines between the point and
all the vertices on the polygon. calculate and sum the angles of the
successive lines. if the result is 2 pi , then it is inside. if pi , then
it is on the polygon. otherwise it is outside.

my experience tells the second method is relible.

hope this helps.

yeh
usc

from ger@cv.ruu.nl (ger timmens)
subject re postscript drawing prog
nntp posting host triton.cv.ruu.nl
organization university of utrecht , 3d computer vision research group
lines 30

in 0010580b.vma7o9@diablo.uucp diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel) writes


in article 1993apr19.171704.2147@informatik.tu muenchen.de (comp.graphics.gnuplot , comp.graphics) , rdd@uts.ipp garching.mpg.de (reinhard drube) writes
in article c5ecnn.7qo@mentor.cc.purdue.edu , nish@cv4.chem.purdue.edu (nishantha i.) writes
could somebody let me know of a drawing utility that can be
used to manipulate postscript files.i am specifically interested in
drawing lines , boxes and the sort on postscript contour plots.
i have tried xfig and i am impressed by it 's features. however
it is of no use since i cannot use postscript files as input for the
programme.is there a utility that converts postscript to xfig format \?
any help would be greatly appreciated.
nishantha
have you checked out adobe illustrator \? there are a few unix versions
for it available , depending on your platform. i know of two unix versions
one for mach (next) and for irix (sgi). there may be others , such
as for sun sparcstation , but i do n't know for sure.

you can include postscript epsi files in xfig (encapsulated postscript
info files). you ca n't actually edit the postscript file , but you 're able
to draw over the postscript file.

there a eps to epsi converter eps2epsi (perl program) ,

succes ,

ger timmens (ger@cv.ruu.nl) 3dcv research group , utrecht , the netherlands
tel. 31 30 50 67 11 room f.01.7.03 fax. 31 30 51 33 99
unquestionably , there is progress. the average american now pays out
twice as much in taxes as he formerly got in wages. h. l. mencken

from ldawes@uahcs2.cs.uah.edu (lisa dawes)
subject gif aerial maps \?
reply to ldawes@uahcs2.cs.uah.edu (lisa dawes)
organization computer science dept. univ. of alabama in huntsville
lines 5

is there an ftp site for maps of the us. preferably aerial
photographs \?

thanks


from davidr@rincon.ema.rockwell.com (david j. ray)
subject re fractals \? what good are they \?
organization rockwell international
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 16

in regards to fractal commpression , i have seen 2 fractal compressed movies .
they were both fairly impressive. the first one was a 64 gray scale movie of
casablanca , it was 1.3mb and had 11 minutes of 13 fps video. it was a little
grainy but not bad at all. the second one i saw was only 3 minutes but it
had 8 bit color with 10fps and measured in at 1.2mb.

i consider the fractal movies a practical thing to explore. but unlike many
other formats out there , you do end up losing resolution. i do n't know what
kind of software hardware was used for creating the movies i saw but the guy
that showed them to me said it took 5 15 minutes per frame to generate. but as
i said above playback was 10 or more frames per second. and how else could you
put 11 minutes on one floppy disk \?

davidr@rincon.ema.rockwell.com
my opinions are my own except where they are shared by others in which case i
will probably change my mind.

from eapu207@orion.oac.uci.edu (john peter kondis)
subject i need to make my vga do shades.
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
lines 12

i have a routine that changes the color (rgb) attributes on my
vga adapter , but it does n't work in the mode that i need.
specifically 68 hex. an obscure mode , of course , but i need to
change the zillions of colors to 64 shade greyscale , but i do
not have the correct memory address for the pointer i need.

please , someone , i need the starting address , or maybe somewhere
i can find it. thank you.

john kondis
eapu207@orion.oac.uci.edu


from schwartz@ils.nwu.edu (diane schwartz)
subject sigkids research showcase call
organization institute for the learning sciences
lines 250
distribution world
nntp posting host schwartz.ils.nwu.edu

sigkids call for participation
sigkids research showcase is where learning is hip. pushing the edge in
education , computer graphics , and new technologies , the sigkids research
showcase will provide siggraph 's attendees with the latest in applying
computer technology to form state of the art educational experiences. so
hop to it ! submit any works which converge the disciplines of education
and computer technology.

possible categories and domains include but are not limited to

interactive stand alone applications
self run demonstrations and tutorials
museum installations
groupware collaborative systems
hypermedia
virtual reality
scientific visualization
interactive art
microworlds

deadlines

may 21 , 1993 submissions due


submit to

diane schwartz
siggraph '93 sigkids committee
c o the institute for the learning sciences
1890 maple avenue , suite 150
evanston , illinois 60201
fax 708.491.5258
schwartz@ils.nwu.edu

electronic submission form
schwartz@ils.nwu.edu

how to submit
1. fill out the 'permission to use' form (see page 19 of the siggraph '93
call for participation or send email to schwartz@ils.nwu.edu to have one
faxed to you.)

2. fill out the sigkids '93 research showcase submission form (below).

3. send an abstract description of the submission (approximately 100 words)
in one of the following ways

a. send 3 hard copies to diane schwartz (via surface mail) at the above
address
or
b. fax 1 copy to diane schwartz at (708)491 5258
or
c. email 1 copy to diane schwartz at schwartz@ils.nwu.edu

4. if it is necessary to explain the project , additional support material
such as videotapes and slides that will assist the selection committee in
reaching a decision are highly reccommended.

fax and email submissions are acceptable.

please send all of your submission material in the same form (either
surface mail , email , or fax. the only exception to this should be the
additional support material which should only be sent via surface mail).

note due to our very limited budget , if the submitter chooses to have a
dedicated machine for their work , they will have to pay rental fees
for the hardware personally.

note contributors outside for the united states should be aware of customs
and carrier delays and send submissions early.

cut
here

acm siggraph '93 sigkids research showcase entry form


a copy of this form must accompany each proposal you submit. send sigkids
research showcase entries to

diane schwartz
siggraph '93 sigkids committee
c o the institute for the learning sciences
1890 maple avenue , suite 150
evanston , illinois 60201
fax 708.491.5258
schwartz@ils.nwu.edu

please print legibly.

contact information
name

company

address

city

state postal code country

daytime phone evening phone

fax email

additional information

title or theme of piece

participant(s') name(s)

collaborator(s') name(s)

hardware (platform and periferals)

1. what is
needed





2. supplied by participant

yes no

3. dedicated machine \?

yes no

note due to our very limited budget the participant must pay the rental
fees for any dedicated hardware.

need assistance
(specify)






software





statement please tell us the significance of the work.
(less than 50 words)










medium

other (describe i.e. virtual reality , virtual sculpture , interactive
multimedia installation ,
etc.)






special requirements

physical
description





power





dimensions





other





authorization

permission to use visual and audio in the event that materials used in my
acm siggraph'93 sigkids research showcase entry contain the work of other
individuals or organizations (including any copyrighted musical
compositions or excerpts thereof) , i understand that it is my
responsibility to secure any necessary permissions and or liscenses.

yes no my piece contains images , audio , or video components.
if yes
yes no i have the necessary rights and or permissions
to
use the images , audio , or video components in
my
piece.

conference presentation release by signing this form , i grant siggraph'93
permission to consider my piece for the sigkids research showcase. i
maintain the copyright to my work and will receive full credit wherever
this work is used.

conference promotional material i grant acm siggraph the right to use my
slides for conference and organization publicity , both now and in the
future. this includes usage on posters , brochures , catalogs , promotional
items , or media broadcast. in exchange , siggraph provides full
author artist credit information on all promotional material.

yes no i grant acm siggraph permission to use slides of my work
for conference and organization publicity.

signature date

acm siggraph makes every attempt to respect and protect intellectual
property rights of people and organizations preparing material for
siggraph conferences. this entry form explains the uses siggraph will
make of the material and requires you to acknowledge that you have
permission to use this material. this may involve seeking clearance from
your employer or from others who have loaned you material , such as
videotapes and slides. this form helps prevent situations whereby
siggraph'93 presentations include material without permission that
might lead to complaints or even legal action.

this form also asks you to grant siggraph the right to distribute your
work , while you maintain the copyright. slide sets and catalogs are
publications for which you grant siggraph nonexclusive worldwide
distribution rights. siggraph marks each item in these publications with a
proper copyright notice , which informs viewers that these items may not be
copied , reproduced , broadcast , or used for commercial purposes without the
explicit permission of the indivicual copyright owners. in addition , this
form asks if acm siggraph may use the your materials for conference and
organizational promotional material in exchange for full author artist
credit information.

from weston@ucssun1.sdsu.edu (weston t)
subject graphical representation of vector valued functions
organization sdsu computing services
lines 13
nntp posting host ucssun1.sdsu.edu

gnuplot , etc. make it easy to plot real valued functions of 2 variables
but i want to plot functions whose values are 2 vectors. i have been
doing this by plotting arrays of arrows (complete with arrowheads) but
before going further , i thought i would ask whether someone has already
done the work. any pointers \? \?

thanx in advance


tom weston usenet weston@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
department of philosophy (619) 594 6218 (office)
san diego state univ. (619) 575 7477 (home)
san diego , ca 92182 0303

from john@goshawk.mcc.ac.uk (john heaton)
subject pov reboots pc after memory upgrade
reply to john@nessie.mcc.ac.uk
organization mcc network unit
lines 13

up until last week , i have been running povray v1.0 on my 486 33 under dos5
without any major problems. over easter i increased the memory from 4meg to
8meg , and found that povray reboots the system every time under dos5. i had
a go at running povray in a dos window when running win3.1 on the same system
and it now works fine , even if a lot slower. i would like to go back to
using povray directly under dos , anyone any ideas \? \? \?

john

john heaton nrs central administrator
mcc network unit , the university , oxford road , manchester , m13 9pl
phone ( 44) 61 275 6011 fax ( 44) 61 275 6040
packet g1yyh @ g1yyh.gb7pwy. 16.gbr.eu

from freemant@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (toby freeman , tjf , g151 , 3344813 , oct95 , )
subject re coreldraw bitmap to scodal
nntp posting host speedwell
reply to freemant@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk
organization dept. of computing science , glasgow university , glasgow.
lines 38

does anyone know of software that will allow
you to convert coreldraw (.cdr) files
containing bitmaps to scodal , as this is the
only format our bureau 's filmrecorder recognises.

jeff lyall

i used this combination for a while a qcr z recorder ,
i think and as far as i remember corel can export in
scodal (.scd) format. just select 'export' on the main
file menu. this may not be implemented in earlier versions ,
of course , in which case you 're on your own ! ! !

also , i seem to think that the s w for the qcr z (at the time)
did strange (and very undesirable) things if any part of the
pic was outside the screen area on corel. i once spent an
afternoon painfully discovering that one pixel had somehow
strayed off screen , causing my whole slide to be blank ! ! !

the qcr z also could n't handle grad fill over grad fill
so if you use a graduated colour background , if you then
grad fill an object on top of this , the fill appears on the
final slide as a circle (i think) and totally ignores the
shape of the object being filled ! ! !

of course , if the recorder is n't a qcr , you can ignore all
this and feel suitably )

cheers , toby.
. . . . . . . .
! ! ! ! ! !
! ! ! . . ! . . . . . . . ! ! .
! toby freeman ! ! ! ! ! ! ! . ! ! . . !
! glasgow university ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! . ! !
! freemant@uk.ac.glasgow.dcs ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! . ! ! ! .
! ! ! ! ! ! ! !


from tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw)
subject wingcommanderii graphics
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 8
distribution world
nntp posting host antithesis.engin.umich.edu

i was wondering if anyone knows where i can get more information about
the graphics in the wingcommander series , and the realspace system they use.
i think it 's really awesome , and would n't mind being able to use similar
features in programs. thanks in advance.


daemon


from lulagos@cipres.cec.uchile.cl (admirador)
subject oak vga 1mb. please , i needd vesa tsr ! ! ! 8 )
originator lulagos@cipres
nntp posting host cipres.cec.uchile.cl
organization centro de computacion (cec) , universidad de chile
lines 15


hi there ! ...
well , i have a 386 40 with svga 1mb. (oak chip 077) and i do n't
have vesa tsr program for this card. i need it .
please... if anybody can help me , mail me at
lulagos@araucaria.cec.uchile.cl

thanks.
mackk.

'o.o'
( )
u
ack !

from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization boeing computer services
lines 15

hi netters ,

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

i 'll also need contact info (name , address , email...) if you can find it.

thanks

(please post your responses , in case others have same need)

bob carpenter


from emarciniak@email.bony.com
subject image of pictures...
lines 8
organization

hi there ,
i am looking for advice on software hardware package for making ,
storing and processing of pictures. the ideal software would allow me to
cahnge size of the picture , edit it ( it means add text below , above...)
and the most important is it would have dos command interface...
thank you in advance...
emanuel marciniak
the bank of new york..

subject e mail of michael abrash \?
from gmontem@eis.calstate.edu (george a. montemayor)
organization calif state univ electronic information services
lines 0


from wbdst @pitt.edu (william b dwinnell)
subject diamond stelth 24 any good \?
organization university of pittsburgh
lines 4


i am in the market for a 24 bit graphics card for a pc (isa bus) , and
was wondering if anyone had any comments (good \? bad \? otherwise \? ) regarding
the diamond stealth 24 \?

from jejones@microware.com (james jones)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
nntp posting host snake
organization microware systems corp. , des moines , iowa
lines 19

in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.144843.19549@rchland.ibm.com ricardo hernandez
muchado , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes
and cd i 's cpu does n't help much either. i understand it is
a 68070 (supposedly a variation of a 68000 68010) running at something
like 7mhz. with this speed , you truly need sprites.

wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these ,
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup. 8 d

do n't get too excited signetics , not motorola , gave the 68070 its number.
the 68070 , if i understand rightly , uses the 68000 instruction set , and has
an on chip serial port and dma. (it will run at up to 15 mhz i'm typing
at a computer using a 68070 running at that rate , so i know that it can
do so so i seriously doubt the clock rate that ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
claims.)

james jones

from stgprao@st.unocal.com (richard ottolini)
subject re images of earth
organization unocal corporation
lines 39

in article 1993apr20.143434.5069@cs.ruu.nl clldomps@cs.ruu.nl (louis van dompselaar) writes
in 1993apr19.193758.12091@unocal.com stgprao@st.unocal.com (richard ottolini) writes

beware. there is only one such copyrighted image and the company
that generated is known to protect that copyright. that image took
hundreds of man hours to build from the source satellite images ,
so it is unlikely that competing images will appear soon.

so they should sue the newspaper i got it from for printing it.
the article did n't say anything about copyrights.

(1) no explicit (c) is necessary. if it the image is attributed to the
geosphere company , then there is a likelihood permission is has been
given to reprint.

(2) unlikely that the owner can or will go after individuals.
however , interesting images do make their way into ads and
computer demos. that is when a pirate might get some flak.
this image is considered so interesting that many people would
like to use it whenever some global map is needed , so there
is lots of temptation.

(3) one mail person said since the source data satellite imagery
is not copyrighted , then the derived image ca n't be. not true.
a new , distinctive , creative expression of the data can be protected.
this image is certainly fits such , since no one else has taken the
tremendous effort to re create it themselves. precedent is a recent
telephone book court case. ma bell tried to copyright the data in
their books and prevent competitors from copying it (there are
trick entries in the book). but the court only permitted copyright
of the expression of the data , and not the data themselves. (you cant
xerox and sell the telephone book.)

(4) there will be more attention to digital copyrights in the future
and computer becomes a mass product and moguls such as bill gates
are currently hoarding the digital copyrights.

(5) i 'd prefer that geosphere put this data in the public domain because
it is very interesting to me and others , but that 's the way things are.

from prestonm@cs.man.ac.uk (martin preston)
subject problems grabbing a block of a starbase screen.
keywords starbase , hp
lines 26

at the moment i'm trying to grab a portion of a starbase screen , and store it
in an area of memory. the data needs to be in a 24 bit format (which
should n't be a problem as the app is running on a 24 bit screen) , though
i'm not too fussy about the exact format.

(i actually intend to write the data out as a tiff but that bits not the
problem)

does anyone out there know how to grab a portion of the screen \? the
block read call seems to grab the screen , but not in 24 bit colour ,
whatever the screen window type i get 1 byte per pixel.

thanks in advance ,

martin






martin preston , (m.preston@manchester.ac.uk) computer graphics
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , is just
university of manchester , a load of balls.
manchester , u.k. , m13 9pl phone 061 275 6095


from ccraig@nmt.edu (catherine craig)
subject re trying to view pov files.....
organization new mexico tech
lines 23

in article 1993apr11.132604.13400@ornl.gov ednobles@sacam.oren.ortn.edu (edward d nobles) writes

i 've been trying to view .tga files created in povray. i have the diamond
speedstar 24 video board (not the 24x ). so far i can convert them to
jpeg using cjpeg and view them with cview but that only displays 8 bit color.

i'm looking for some way to convert and or view them in 24 bit.


just want to see the darn things in real color...

thanks ,

jim nobles


the best program i 've seen for viewing such files is vpic. you 'll want version 5.9 or later. (6.0x is current.) it allows you to view in 15 and 24 bit modes. it really is quite nice.

now , for a return question do you run windows \? if so , what are the dates on your drivers \? the newest ones i can find are from around 4 \? \? 92 ! ! my problem is they conflict with star trek after dark , and other things as well. i'm willing to bet that it 's the drivers , and not the programs. anyone out there have info on newer ss24 (not x) drivers for windows or os 2 \?

thanks ,
justin


from spl@dim.ucsd.edu (steve lamont)
subject re finding equally spaced points on a sphere.
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource
lines 326
nntp posting host dim.ucsd.edu

in article 4615trd@rpi.edu deweeset@ptolemy2.rdrc.rpi.edu (thomas e. deweese) writes
hello , i know that this has been discussed before. but at the time
i did n't need to teselate a sphere. so if any kind soul has the code
or the alg , that was finally decided upon as the best (as i recall it
was a nice , iterative subdivision meathod) , i would be very
appreciative.

here is one by andrew graphics gems glassner that i got from a
collegue of mine. i think i fiddled with it a little bit to make it
deal with whatever bizarre problem i was working on at the time but it
is known to work.

spl

spheres
asg 9 feb 85
spl thu mar 8 17 17 40 est 1990

include stdio.h
include math.h

define pi 3.141592654

struct point struct
double x , y , z


static double radius
static double xorg
static double yorg
static double zorg

do sphere( r , freq , x , y , z )

double r
int freq
double x
double y
double z



int pole
double northy , southy , poley
double rtheta , rtheta2 , ntheta , ntheta2 , magicangle
double theta , thetastart , thisy , den , t
struct point node pnp
struct point struct p1 , p2 , p3 , p4 , n1 , n2 , n3 , n4 , pt

radius r
xorg x
yorg y
zorg z

north pole

magicangle 30.0 pi 180.0
northy radius sin(magicangle)
southy radius sin(magicangle)
for (pole 0 pole 2 pole )

if (pole 0)

poley radius
thisy northy
thetastart 0.0


else

poley radius
thisy southy
thetastart 36.0


for ( theta thetastart theta 360.0 theta 60.0 )

rtheta theta pi 180.0
rtheta2 (theta 60.0) pi 180.0
p1.x 0.0
p1.y poley
p1.z 0.0
p2.x radius cos(rtheta)
p2.y thisy
p2.z radius sin(rtheta)
p3.x radius cos(rtheta2)
p3.y thisy
p3.z radius sin(rtheta2)

if (pole 0)

make ring go the other way so normals are right

pt.x p3.x
pt.y p3.y
pt.z p3.z
p3.x p2.x
p3.y p2.y
p3.z p2.z
p2.x pt.x
p2.y pt.y
p2.z pt.z



den (p1.x p1.x) (p1.y p1.y) (p1.z p1.z)
den sqrt(den)

if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p1.x t
p1.y t
p1.z t



den (p2.x p2.x) (p2.y p2.y) (p2.z p2.z)
den sqrt(den)

if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p2.x t
p2.y t
p2.z t



den (p3.x p3.x) (p3.y p3.y) (p3.z p3.z)
den sqrt(den)

if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p3.x t
p3.y t
p3.z t



subdivide tri( p1 , p2 , p3 , freq)





now the body

for (theta 0.0 theta 360.0 theta 60.0)

rtheta theta pi 180.0
rtheta2 (theta 60.0) pi 180.0
ntheta (theta 36.0) pi 180.0
ntheta2 (theta 96.0) pi 180.0
p1.x radius cos(rtheta)
p1.y northy
p1.z radius sin(rtheta)
p2.x radius cos(rtheta2)
p2.y northy
p2.z radius sin(rtheta2)
p3.x radius cos(ntheta)
p3.y southy
p3.z radius sin(ntheta)
p4.x radius cos(ntheta2)
p4.y southy
p4.z radius sin(ntheta2)

den (p1.x p1.x) (p1.y p1.y) (p1.z p1.z)
den sqrt(den)

if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p1.x t
p1.y t
p1.z t



den (p2.x p2.x) (p2.y p2.y) (p2.z p2.z)
den sqrt(den)

if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p2.x t
p2.y t
p2.z t


den (p3.x p3.x) (p3.y p3.y) (p3.z p3.z)
den sqrt(den)
if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p3.x t
p3.y t
p3.z t


den (p4.x p4.x) (p4.y p4.y) (p4.z p4.z)
den sqrt(den)
if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p4.x t
p4.y t
p4.z t



subdivide tri( p1 , p2 , p3 , freq)
subdivide tri( p3 , p2 , p4 , freq)



return



define norm pt(v) register double r sqrt( ( ( v ) x ( v ) x )
( ( v ) y ( v ) y )
( ( v ) z ( v ) z ) )
( v ) x r
( v ) y r
( v ) z r


subdivide tri(p1 , p2 , p3 , a)

struct point struct p1 , p2 , p3
int a



struct point struct n1 , n2 , n3
struct point struct p12 , p13 , p23
double den , t

if (a 0)

p12.x (p1 x p2 x) 2.0
p12.y (p1 y p2 y) 2.0
p12.z (p1 z p2 z) 2.0
den (p12.x p12.x) (p12.y p12.y) (p12.z p12.z)
den sqrt(den)
if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p12.x t
p12.y t
p12.z t


p13.x (p1 x p3 x) 2.0
p13.y (p1 y p3 y) 2.0
p13.z (p1 z p3 z) 2.0
den (p13.x p13.x) (p13.y p13.y) (p13.z p13.z)
den sqrt(den)
if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p13.x t
p13.y t
p13.z t


p23.x (p2 x p3 x) 2.0
p23.y (p2 y p3 y) 2.0
p23.z (p2 z p3 z) 2.0
den (p23.x p23.x) (p23.y p23.y) (p23.z p23.z)
den sqrt(den)
if (den ! 0.0)

t radius den
p23.x t
p23.y t
p23.z t


subdivide tri(p1 , p12 , p13 , a 1)
subdivide tri( p12 , p2 , p23 , a 1)
subdivide tri( p13 , p23 , p3 , a 1)
subdivide tri( p12 , p23 , p13 , a 1)

else

n1.x p1 x
n1.y p1 y
n1.z p1 z
norm pt( n1)
n2.x p2 x
n2.y p2 y
n2.z p2 z
norm pt( n2)
n3.x p3 x
n3.y p3 y
n3.z p3 z
norm pt( n3)

nothing special about this poly

printf( f f f f f f n , p1 x xorg ,
p1 y yorg ,
p1 z zorg ,
n1.x , n1.y , n1.z )
printf( f f f f f f n , p2 x xorg ,
p2 y yorg ,
p2 z zorg ,
n2.x , n2.y , n2.z )
printf( f f f f f f n , p3 x xorg ,
p3 y yorg ,
p3 z zorg ,
n3.x , n3.y , n3.z )



return



steve lamont , sciviguy (619) 534 7968 spl@szechuan.ucsd.edu
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608
my other car is a car , too.
bumper strip seen on i 805

from stgprao@st.unocal.com (richard ottolini)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
organization unocal corporation
lines 5

they need a hit software product to encourage software sales of the product ,
i.e. the pong , pacman , visicalc , dbase , or pagemaker of multi media.
there are some multi media and digital television products out there already ,
albeit , not as capable as 3do 's. but are there compelling reasons to buy
such yet \? perhaps someone in this news group will write that hit software )

from ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (ricardo hernandez muchado)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm
nntp posting host rs43873.rchland.ibm.com
organization ibm rochester
lines 74

in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu , sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.144843.19549@rchland.ibm.com ricardo hernandez
muchado , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes
and cd i 's cpu does n't help much either. i understand it is
a 68070 (supposedly a variation of a 68000 68010) running at something
like 7mhz. with this speed , you truly need sprites.

wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these ,
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup. 8 d

sean , the 68070 exists ! )


ricardo , the animation playback to which lawrence was referring in an
earlier post is plain old quicktime 1.5 with the compact video codec.
i 've seen digitized video (some of apple 's early commercials , to be
precise) running on a centris 650 at about 30fps very nicely (16 bit
color depth). i would expect that using the same algorithm , a risc
processor should be able to approach full screen full motion animation ,
though as you 've implied , the processor will be taxed more with highly
dynamic material.

sean mcmains check out the gopher phone 817.565.2039
university of north texas new bands info server fax 817.565.4060
p.o. box 13495 at seanmac.acs.unt.edu e mail
denton tx 76203 mcmains@unt.edu


sean , i do n't want to get into a 'mini war' by what i am going to say ,
but i have to be a little bit skeptic about the performance you are
claiming on the centris , you 'll see why (please , no flames , i reserve
those for c.s.m.a ) )

i was in chicago in the last consumer electronics show , and apple had a
booth there. i walked by , and they were showing real time video capture
using a (radious or supermac \? ) card to digitize and make right on the spot
quicktime movies. i think the quicktime they were using was the old one
(1.5).

they digitized a guy talking there in 160x2xx something. it played back quite
nicely and in real time. the guy then expanded the window (resized) to 25x by
3xx (320 in y i think) and the frame rate decreased enough to notice that it
was n't 30fps (or about 30fps) anymore. it dropped to like 15 fps. then he
increased it just a bit more , and it dropped to 10 12 fps.

then i asked him what mac he was using... he was using a quadra (do n't know
what model , 900 \? ) to do it , and he was telling the guys there that the quicktime
could play back at the same speed even on an lcii.

well , i spoiled his claim so to say , since a 68040 quadra mac was having
a little bit of trouble. and this was n't even from the hardisk ! this was
from memory !

could it be that you saw either a newer version of quicktime , or some
hardware assisted centris , or another software product running the
animation (like supposedly macromind 's accelerator \? ) \?

do n't misunderstand me , i just want to clarify this.

but for the sake of the posting about a computer doing it or not , i can
claim 320x200 (a tad more with overscan) being done in 256 , 000 colors in
my computer (not from the hardisk) at 30fps with scala mm210.

but i agree , if we consider mpeg stuff , i think a multimedia consumer
low priced box has a lot of market... i just think 3do would make it ,
no longer cd i.


raist new a1200 owner 320 1280 in x , 200 600 in y
in 256 , 000 colors from a 24 bit palette. i love it ! new low fat .sig
do n't e mail me i do n't have a valid address nor can i send e mail



from rws@cs.arizona.edu (ronald w. schmidt)
subject outlining of spline surface
keywords spline rasterization
lines 38


about a year ago i started work on a problem that appeared to
be very simple and turned out to be quite difficult. i am wondering if
anyone on the net has seen this problem and (hopefully) some published
solutions to it.

the problem is to draw an outline of a surface defined by two
roughly parallel cubic splines. for inputs the problem essentially
starts with two sets of points where each set of points is on the
edge of an object which we treat as two dimensional , i.e. only extant
between the edges , but which exists in three dimensional space. to draw
the object we

1) fit a cubic spline through the points. each spline is effectively
computed as a sequence of line segments approximating the
curve. each spline has an equal number of segments. we assume
that the nth segment along each spline is roughly , but not
exactly , the same distance along each spline by any reasonable
measure.
2) take each segment (n) along each spline and match it to the nth segment
of the opposing spline. use the pair of segments to form two
triangles which will be filled in to color the surface.
3) depth sort the triangles
4) take each triangle in sorted order , project onto a 2d pixmap , draw
and color the triangle. take the edge of the triangle that is
along the edge of the surface and draw a line along that edge
colored with a special edge color

it is the edge coloring in step 4 that is at the heart of the
problem. the idea is to effectively outline the edge of the surface.
the net result however generally has lots of breaks and gaps in
the edge of the surface. the reasons for this are fairly complicated.
they involve both rasterization problems and problems resulting
from the projecting the splines. if anything about this problem
sounds familiar we would appreciate knowing about other work in this
area.

thanks

from d9hh@dtek.chalmers.se (henrik harmsen)
subject re 16 million vs 65 thousand colors
nntp posting host hacke11.dtek.chalmers.se
organization chalmers university of technology , gothenburg sweden
lines 37

andrey@cco.caltech.edu (andre t. yew) writes

d9hh@dtek.chalmers.se (henrik harmsen) writes

1 4 bits per r g b gives horrible machbanding visible in almost any picture.

5 bits per r g b (32768 , 65000 colors) gives visible machbanding

color gradient picture has almost no machbanding. this color resolution is

see some small machbanding on the smooth color gradient picture , but all in all ,
there are situiations where you get visible mach banding even in
a 24 bit card. if
you create a very smooth color gradient of dark green white yellow
or something and turn
up the contrast on the monitor , you will probably see some mach banding.

while i do n't mean to damn henrik 's attempt to be helpful here ,
he 's using a common misconception that should be corrected.

mach banding will occur for any image. it is not the color
quantization you see when you do n't have enough bits. it is the
human eye 's response to transitions or edges between intensities.
the result is that colors near the transistion look brighter on
the brighter side and darker on the darker side.

andre

yeah , of course... the term 'mach banding' was not the correct one , it should 've
been 'color quantization effect'. although a bad color quantization effect could
result in some visible mach bands on a picture that was smooth before it was
quantizised.


henrik harmsen internet d9hh@dtek.chalmers.se
chalmers university of technology , sweden.
i have n't lost my mind it 's backed up on tape somewhere.

from donh@cup.portal.com (don hirschfeld)
subject re ms windows graphics viewer \?
organization the portal system (tm)
lines 7

check out image pals v1.2 from u lead (until may , special 99 intro price ,
310 523 9393). it has the basic image processing tools for all major formats ,
does screen grabbing , and allows all your image files to be calalogged into
a thumbnail database. it 's great !


don

from kreyling@lds.loral.com (ed kreyling 6966)
subject sun os and 8bit ascii graphics
organization loral data systems
distribution comp.graphics
lines 7

i would like to know if anyone has had any luck using the upper 128 ascii
characters on a sun station. i am trying to convert a fortran program to run
on a sun. when we write character buffers to the sun which contain char(218)
or char(196) or char(197) etc. we get characters on the screen but they are
not the characters in the standard ascii tables.

any ideas or help will be appreciated.

from pest@konech.uucp (wolfgang pest)
subject speedstar 24 how to program the truecolor mode \?
distribution world
organization kontron elektronik gmbh eching , germany
lines 17

hello ,
i purchased my new 486 with a noname graphics card installed which is obviously
speedstar 24 compatible. its name is vga 4000 truecolor .
it is accompanied with some drivers and the utilities vmode , xmode and
at least one more mode , as well as some drivers for lotus , windows , etc.
only one of the drivers is told to provide the truecolor mode , namely
the windows 3.1 driver.
nowhere else , except in the ad , is any pointer to the truecolor mode.
some articles in this group about the speedstar 24 and some other facts
made me believe that my card is compatible to that one.

does anybody out there know how this mode can be adjusted \? how can i write
a driver which allows me to have 16.7 millions of colors with a resolution
of 640 x 480 with 45 hz interlaced \?

greetings ,
wolfgang

from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re point within a polygon
keywords obfuscated postscript
organization purdue university
lines 60

in article jonas y.734802983@gouraud jonas y@isy.liu.se (jonas yngvesson)
writes
intersection between a line and a polygon (undecidable \? \? ) ,
by dave baraff , tom duff

from deb@charisma.graphics.cornell.edu
in recent years , many geometric problems have been successfully modeled in a
new language called postscript. (see postscript language , by adobe systems
incorporated , isbn 0 201 10179 3 , co. 1985).

so , given a line l and a polygon p , we can write a postscript program that
draws the line l and the polygon p , and then outputs the answer. by
output , we mean the program executes a command called showpage , which
actually prints a page of paper containing the line and the polygon. a quick
examination of the paper provides an answer to the reduced problem q , and
thus
the original problem.

curiously , in modern postscript , the point in a polygon problem can
be solved even more easily. to wit

!
title point in polygon
creator allen b (ab@cc.purdue.edu)
for the amusement of comp.graphics regulars
languagelevel 2
documentneededresource humor sense thereof
endcomments

this program will test whether a point is inside a given polygon.
currently it uses the even odd rule , but that can be changed by
replacing ineofill with infill. these are level 2 operators ,
so if you 've only got level 1 you 're out of luck.

the result will be printed on the output stream.

caution only accurate to device pixels !
put a huge scale in first if you are n't sure.

point to test
put x and y coordinates here

50 75

vertices of polygon in counter clockwise order
put array of pairs of coordinates here

0 0
100 0
100 100
67 100
67 50
33 50
33 100
0 100


dup 0 get aload pop moveto dup length 1 dup 3 1 roll
sub getinterval aload pop lineto forall closepath
ineofill (yes ! ) (no ! ) ifelse

from geoffrey hansen@mindlink.bc.ca (geoffrey hansen)
subject re vesa on the speedstar 24
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 12

using the vmode command , all you need to do is type vmode vesa at the dos
prompt. vmode is included with the speedstar 24. i have used the vesa mode
for autodesk animator pro.



geoffrey hansen@mindlink.bc.ca

inumerable confusions and a feeling of despair invariably emerge
in periods of great technological and cultural transition.
marshall mcluhan


from u7711501@bicmos.ee.nctu.edu.tw (jih shin ho)
subject disp135 0 7
organization national chiao tung university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 285



i have posted disp135.zip to alt.binaries.pictures.utilities


you may distribute this program freely for non commercial use
if no fee is gained.
there is no warranty. the author is not responsible for any
damage caused by this program.


important changes since version 1.30
fix bugs in file management system (file displaying).
improve file management system (more user friendly).
fix bug in xpm version 3 reading.
fix bugs in targa reading writng.
fix bug in gem img reading.
add support for pcx and gem img writing.
auto skip macbinary header.


(1) introduction
this program can let you read , write and display images with different
formats. it also let you do some special effects(rotation , dithering ....)
on image. its main purpose is to let you convert image among different
formts.
include simple file management system.
support 'slide show'.
there is no limit on image size.
currently this program supports 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits display.
if you want to use hicolor or truecolor , you must have vesa driver.
if you want to modify video driver , please read section (8).


(2) hardware requirement
pc 386 or better. msdos 3.3 or higher.
min amount of ram is 4m bytes(maybe less memory will also work).
(i recommend min 8m bytes for better performance).
hard disk for swapping(virtual memory).

the following description is borrowed from djgpp.

supported wares

up to 128m of extended memory (expanded under vcpi)
up to 128m of disk space used for swapping
supervga 256 color mode up to 1024x768
80387
xms vdisk memory allocation strategies
vcpi programs , such as qemm , desqview , and 386max

unsupported

dpmi
microsoft windows

features 80387 emulator , 32 bit unix ish environment , flat memory
model , svga graphics.


(3) installation
video drivers , emu387 and go32.exe are borrowed from djgpp.
(if you use western digital vga chips , read readme.wd)
(this go32.exe is a modified version for vesa and is completely compatible
with original version)
but some people report that this go32.exe is not compatible with
other djgpp programs in their system. if you encounter this problem ,
don't put go32.exe within search path.

please read runme.bat for how to run this program.

if you choose xxxxx.grn as video driver , add 'nc 256' to environment
go32.

for example , go32 driver x xxxxx xxxxx.grn nc 256

if you do n't have 80x87 , add 'emu x xxxxx emu387' to environment go32.

for example , go32 driver x xxxxx xxxxx.grd emu x xxxxx emu387

notes 1. i only test tr8900.grn , et4000.grn and vesa.grn.
other drivers are not tested.
2. i have modified et4000.grn to support 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits
display. you do n't need to use vesa driver.
if et4000.grn does n't work , please try vesa.grn.
3. for those who want to use hicolor or truecolor display ,
please use vesa.grn(except et4000 users).
you can find vesa bios driver from
wuarchive.wustl.edu mirrors msdos graphics
godzilla.cgl.rmit.oz.au kjb mgl


(4) command line switch

usage display d display initial display type
s sort sort method
h \?

display type 8(svga , default) , 15 , 16(hicolor) , 24(truecolor)
sort method 'name' , 'ext'


(5) function key

f2 change disk drive

ctrl a ctrl z change disk drive.

f3 change filename mask (see match.doc)

f4 change parameters

f5 some effects on picture , eg. flip , rotate ....

f7 make directory

t tag file

tag group files (see match.doc)

t tag all files

u untag file

untag group files (see match.doc)

u untag all files

ins change display type (8 , 15 , 16 , 24) in 'read' 'screen' menu.

f6 , m , m move file(s)

f8 , d , d delete file(s)

r , r rename file

c , c copy file(s)

z , z display first 10 bytes in ascii , hex and dec modes.

f , f display disk free space.

page up down move one page

tab change processing target.

arrow keys , home , end , page up , page down scroll image.
home left most.
end right most.
page up top most.
page down bottom most.
in 'screen' 'effect' menu
left , right arrow change display type(8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits)

s , s slide show. escape to terminate.

alt x quit program without prompting.

alt a reread directory.

escape abort function and return.


(6) support format

read gif(.gif) , japan mag(.mag) , japan pic(.pic) , sun raster(.ras) ,
jpeg(.jpg) , xbm(.xbm) , utah rle(.rle) , pbm(.pbm) , pgm(.pgm) ,
ppm(.ppm) , pm(.pm) , pcx(.pcx) , japan mki(.mki) , tiff(.tif) ,
targa(.tga) , xpm(.xpm) , mac paint(.mac) , gem img(.img) ,
iff ilbm(.lbm) , window bmp(.bmp) , qrt ray tracing(.qrt) ,
mac pict(.pct) , vis(.vis) , pds(.pds) , viking(.vik) , vicar(.vic) ,
fits(.fit) , usenix face(.fac).

the extensions in () are standard extensions.

write gif , sun raster , jpeg , xbm , pbm , pgm , ppm , pm , tiff , targa ,
xpm , mac paint , ascii , laser jet , iff ilbm , window bmp ,
mac pict , vis , fits , face , pcx , gem img.

all read write support full color(8 bits) , grey scale , b w dither ,
and 24 bits image , if allowed for that format.


(7) detail

initialization
set default display type to highest display type.
find allowable screen resolution(for .grn video driver only).

1. when you run this program , you will enter 'read' menu. whthin this
menu you can press any function key except f5. if you move or copy
files , you will enter 'write' menu. the 'write' menu is much like
'read' menu , but only allow you to change directory.
the header line in 'read' menu includes (d xx , f xx , t xx) .
d display type. f number of files. t number of tagged files.
pressing space in 'read' menu will let you select which format to use
for reading current file.
pressing return in 'read' menu will let you reading current file. this
program will automatically determine which format this file is.
the procedure is first , check magic number. if fail , check
standard extension. still fail , report error.
pressing s or s in 'read' menu will do 'slide show'.
if delay time is 0 , program will wait until you hit a key
(except escape).
if any error occurs , program will make a beep.
escape to terminate.
pressing ins in 'read' menu will change display type.
pressing alt x in 'read' menu will quit program without prompting.

2. once image file is successfully read , you will enter 'screen' menu.
within this menu f5 is turn on. you can do special effect on image.
pressing return show image.
in graphic mode , press return , space or escape to return to text
mode.
pressing tab change processing target. this program allows you to do
special effects on 8 bit or 24 bit image.
pressing left , right arrow change display type. 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits.
pressing space save current image to file.
b w dither save as black white image(1 bit).
grey scale save as grey image(8 bits).
full color save as color image(8 bits).
true color save as 24 bit image.

this program will ask you some questions if you want to write image
to file. some questions are format dependent. finally this program
will prompt you a filename. if you want to save file under another
directory other than current directory , please press space. after
pressing space , you will enter 'write2' menu. you can change
directory to what you want. then ,

pressing space this program will prompt you 'original' filename.
pressing return this program will prompt you 'selected' filename
(filename under bar).


3. this program supports 8 , 15 , 16 , 24 bits display.

4. this program is memory greedy. if you do n't have enough memory ,
the performance is poor.

5. if you want to save 8 bits image
try gif then tiff(lzw) then targa then sun raster then bmp then ...

if you want to save 24 bits image (lossless)
try tiff(lzw) or targa or ilbm or sun raster
(no one is better for true 24bits image)

6. i recommend jpeg for storing 24 bits images , even 8 bits images.

7. not all subroutines are fully tested

8. this document is not well written. if you have any problem , suggestion ,
comment about this program ,
please send to u7711501@bicmos.ee.nctu.edu.tw (140.113.11.13).
i need your suggestion to improve this program.
(there is no anonymous ftp on this site)


(8) tech. information
program (user interface and some subroutines) written by jih shin ho.
some subroutines are borrowed from xv(2.21) and pbmplus(dec 91).
tiff(v3.2) and jpeg(v4) reading writing are through public domain
libraries.
compiled with djgpp.
you can get whole djgpp package from simtel20 or mirror sites.
for example , wuarchive.wustl.edu mirrors msdos djgpp


(9) for thoese who want to modify video driver
1. get grx source code from simtel20 or mirror sites.
2. for hicolor and truecolor
15 bits of colors is set to 32768.
16 bits of colors is set to 0xc010.
24 bits of colors is set to 0xc018.


acknowledgment
i would like to thank the authors of xv and pbmplus for their permission
to let me use their subroutines.
also i will thank the authors who write tiff and jpeg libraries.
thank dj. without djgpp i ca n't do any thing on pc.


jih shin ho
u7711501@bicmos.ee.nctu.edu.tw

from young@is.s.u tokyo.ac.jp (young shio hong)
subject looking for dr. bala r. vatti 's email address
nntp posting host rabbit gw
organization dept. of information science , univ. of tokyo , japan.
distribution comp.graphics
x bytes 660
lines 27

hi !

i am looking for the email address of the author to
a generic solution to polygon clipping ,
communication of the acm , july 1992 , vol. 35 , no. 7.
i got information about the author as follows
mr. bala r. vatti
lcec , 65 river road , hudson , n.h. 03051
email vatti@waynar.lcec.lockheed
i want to get some related and detailed papers about the
same topic from the author. but i failed to send my email
to the address. any information is appreciated.

thank you very much.

best regards.

s. h. young
kunii lab
dept. of information science
faculty of science
university of tokyo
bunkyo ku , hongo 7 3 1
113 tokyo , japan
email young@is.s.u tokyo.ac.jp


from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re fractals \? what good are they \?
organization purdue university
lines 17

in article 7208@pdxgate.uucp idr@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (ian d romanick) writes
they talked about another routine that could yield up to 150 to 1
compress with no image loss that i could notice. the draw back is that it
takes a hell of a long time to compress something. i 'll have to see if i can
find the book so that i can give more exact numbers. ttyl.

that 's a typical claim , though they say they 've improved
compression speed considerably. did you find out anything else
about the book \? i 'd be interested in looking at it if you could give me
any pointers.

reportedly , early fractal compression times of 24 100 hours used
that marvelous piece of hardware called grad students to do the
work. supposedly it 's been automated since about 1988 , but i'm still
waiting to be impressed.

allen b (sign me cynical )

from orourke@sophia.smith.edu (joseph o'rourke)
subject re delaunay triangulation
organization smith college , northampton , ma , us
lines 22

in article lsk1v9inn93c@caspian.usc.edu zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh) writes

does anybody know what delaunay triangulation is \?
is there any reference to it \?
is it useful for creating 3 d objects \? if yes , what 's the advantage \?

there is a vast literature on delaunay triangulations , literally
hundreds of papers. a program is even provided with every copy of
mathematica nowadays. you might look at this if you are interested in
using it for creating 3d objects

@article boissonnat5 ,
author j.d. boissonnat ,
title geometric structures for three dimensional shape representation ,
journal acm transactions on graphics ,
month october ,
year 1984 ,
volume 3 ,
number 4 ,
pages 266 286



from sloan@cis.uab.edu (kenneth sloan)
subject re more gray levels out of the screen
organization cis , university of alabama at birmingham
lines 22

in article c51c4r.btg@csc.ti.com rowlands@hc.ti.com (jon rowlands) writes

a few years ago a friend and i took some 256 grey level photos from
a 1 bit mac plus screen using this method. displaying all 256 levels
synchronized to the 60hz display took about 10 seconds.

why did n't you create 8 grey level images , and display them for
1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , 128... time slices \?

this requires the same total exposure time , and the same precision in
timing , but drastically reduces the image preparation time , no \?







kenneth sloan computer and information sciences
sloan@cis.uab.edu university of alabama at birmingham
(205) 934 2213 115a campbell hall , uab station
(205) 934 5473 fax birmingham , al 35294 1170

from n020ba@tamvm1.tamu.edu
subject help ! need 3 d graphics code package for dos ! ! !
organization texas a m university
lines 7
nntp posting host tamvm1.tamu.edu

help ! ! i need code package whatever to take 3 d data and turn it into
a wireframe surface with hidden lines removed. i'm using a dos machine , and
the code can be in ansi c or c , ansi fortran or basic. the data i'm using
forms a rectangular grid.
please post your replies to the net so that others may benefit. imho , this
is a general interest question.
thank you ! ! ! ! ! !

from mike peredo@mindlink.bc.ca (mike peredo)
subject re fake virtual reality
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 11

the most ridiculous example of vr exploitation i 've seen so far is the
virtual reality clothing company which recently opened up in vancouver. as
far as i can tell it 's just another chic clothes spot. although it would be
interesting if they were selling virtual clothing ....

e mail me if you want me to dig up their phone and you can probably get
some promotional lit.

mp
(8 )


from d91 hes@tekn.hj.se (stefan hermansson)
subject re vesa on the speedstar 24
organization h gskolan i j nk ping
lines 8
nntp posting host pc9 b109.et.hj.se



just posting to john cormack.
i wanted to tell you that there is a slight difference between
speedstar 24 and speedstar 24x


stefan

from 8910782@sunvax.sun.ac.za
subject rayshade query
article i.d. sunvax.1993apr23.104107.5742
organization university of stellenbosch
lines 23

hi there

i am very interested in rayshade 4.00. i have managed to make a chessboard
for rayshade. unfortunately i still have to do the knight (horse). any ideas \?
i am also looking for a surface for the chesspieces. the board is marble.
unfortunately black wo n't work very well for the one side. anybody with ideas
for nice surfaces \?

i would also like to use the image command of rayshade and the heightfield
command. unfortunately the manual is very vague about this , and i do n't have
craig kolb 's email address. anybody with ideas , because this is essential
for my next venture into raytracing.

where should i post the finished chessboard \?

is there anybody else using rayshade on non unix systems \?

how fast does unix render \?

thanks

rayshade is the best program for people who loves graphics , but have no
artistic talent.

from ianf@random.se (ian feldman , the other internet worm tm )
1omb6finnm7s@lynx.unm.edu a7d56e52@random.se
content type setext plain charset ascii 827
organization random design opinions , cheaply
lines 138
summary formatted as two 69 line pages (use a monospaced font ! )
subject scip fi fiction set in comp science programming environs



scip fi ction set in c sci programming environs list by ian feldman
..........
written by book title publisher'year , pp v2.7 isbn

john brunner shockwave rider ray ballantine'84 5 0 345 32431 5
cracking the net to free information for the common good
pat cadigan mindplayers ( an absolute must have bruce sterling)
pat cadigan synners bantam 5 (virtual reality) 0 553 28254 9
orson scott card lost boys harper collins'92 (programmer and family
encounters strange events in north carolina)
denise danks frame grabber st.martin 's , hrdb gbp 17 0 312 08786 1
computer illiterate journalix tracks down murderer via bbs
toni dwiggins interrupt ( a techno mystery set in silicon valley )
michael frayn the tin men fontana , ( inspired lunacy but out of print)
david gerrold when harlie was one release 2.0 bantam'88 0 553 26465 6
william gibson count zero (computers as gods , part of a trilogy)
william gibson mona lisa overdrive (virtual reality) 0 553 28174 7
william gibson burning chrome (cyberpunk short stories) 0 441 08934 8
william gibson neuromancer (industrial espionage) 0 441 56959 5
(author guilty of inventing the cyberpunk genre)
james hogan the genesis machine del ray'87 3 0 345 34756 0
james hogan thrice upon a time ( time travel for information )
james hogan the two faces of tomorrow del ray'79 0 345 27517 9
ultimate test of ai os by letting it run a spacelab amok
stanislaw lem his master 's voice (failed attempt to decode et message)
tom maddox halo ( remarkable sf of robots artificial intelligence )
george rr martin nightflyers tor books'87 0 8125 4564 8
r a macavoy tea with the black dragon ( mystery around a computer
fraud situation computing bits ring true. )
vonda n mcintyre steelcollar worker in analog nov'92 (blue collar vr)
marge piercy body of glass penguin'92 , 584pp (data piracy ) review
finger books body of glass danny @orthanc.cs.su.oz.au
david pogue hard drive diamond'93 5 , 304pp 1 55773 884 x
( programmer dies in accident , leaves no documentation
behind software firms fight for market share with virii
right out of the pages of macworld steve brock)
richard powers the gold bug variations morrow '91 , (famous molecular
scientist ponders on the \? why \? of love , life in edp dept.)
paul preuss human error (nanotech computer infects brain damaged kid)
thomas j ryan the adolescence of p1 ace'79 0 671 55970 2
(runaway ai experiment takes over mainframes , wrecks havoc)
bruce sterling the difference engine (with w gibson) bantam'91 finger
books the difference engine danny @orthanc.cs.su.oz.au
cliff stoll the cuckoo 's egg (non fiction but reads like one) review
ftp garbo.uwasa.fi mac tidbits 1991 tb048 18 mar 91.etx
tom t thomas me ( smart computers )
vernor vinge across realtime baen books several titles
vernor vinge tatja grimm 's world baen books soon available
vernor vinge the witling baen books as millennium
vernor vinge threats and other promises baen books books in uk
vernor vinge true names other dangers baen books'87 0 671 65363 6
vernor vinge a fire upon the deep tor books , 640p , 6 0 8125 1528 5
( essentially about the future of the internet )
john varley press enter ( short story , gruesome , but good )
ed yourdon silent witness ( computer crime caper story gumshoe
has to explain intricacies of computer os to girlfriend )
herbert w franke das zentrum der milchstrasse ( the center of the galaxy )
herbert w franke letzte programmierer ( 'the last programmer'
i do not mean frank herbert ! )
emil zopfi computer fuer 1001 nacht limmat verlag , switzerland
emil zopfi jede minute kostet 33 franken (last 4 in german last 2
set in the commercial computing world of the early 70 's )

current version of this list via `finger scip fi danny @orthanc.cs.su.oz.au'

compiled 930424 mail s additions comments updates ianf@random.se




statistical breakdown

scip fiction
nominations title author books nominated

5 the adolescence of p 1 ryan vinge 10 6 titles
5 neuromancer gibson gibson 10 5 titles
4 true names and other dangers vinge ryan 5 the adolescence..
4 shockwave rider brunner brunner 4 shockwave rider
4 when h.a.r.l.i.e was one gerrold gerrold 4 when h.a.r.l.i.e.
4 a fire upon the deep vinge hogan 3 3 titles
2 threats and other promises vinge lem 3 fiasco hmv solar.

total nominations 85 authors 27 female 5 \? 6 sent in by 42 readers



contributions by unsorted fifo

from sbrock@teal.csn.org (steve brock)
from john lacey johnl@cs.indiana.edu
from malloy@nprdc.navy.mil (sean malloy)
from thom kevin gillespie thom@silver.ucs.indiana.edu
from paul christopher workman pw0l @andrew.cmu.edu
from kellys@code3.code3.com (kelly sorensen)
from whughes@lonestar.utsa.edu (william w. hughes)
from north tj@cc.curtin.edu.au (tim north)
from loreti@fnal.fnal.gov (maurizio loreti)
from stephen hart stephenh@cs.mun.ca
from duane f marble dmarble@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
from matthias neeracher neeri@iis.ee.ethz.ch
from wolfram wagner ww@mpi sb.mpg.de
from webb@tsavo.hks.com (peter webb)
from setzer@ssd.comm.mot.com (thomas setzer)
from kevles@acf3.nyu.edu (beth kevles)
from dp@world.std.com (jeff delpapa)
from rsquires@cyclops.eece.unm.edu (roger squires)
from hartman@ulogic.com (richard hartman)
from vernor vinge vinge saturn@sdsu.edu
from paul lebeau plebeau@cix.compulink.co.uk
from lawrence rounds ljr@beach.cis.ufl.edu
from phydeaux@cumc.cornell.edu (david weingart)
from chgs02@vaxa.strath.ac.uk (by learning courtesy)
from rowan fairgrove rowanf@cache.crc.ricoh.com
from peterc@suite.sw.oz.au.sw.oz.au (peter chubb , x114 , 6982322 , 3982735)
from gara pruesse gara@cs.toronto.edu
from russell@alpha3.ersys.edmonton.ab.ca (russell schulz)
from ahm@spatula.rent.com (andreas meyer)
from jon@cs.washington.edu (jon jacky)
from eugene@nas.nasa.gov (eugene n. miya)
from a.m.mair chgs02@vaxb.strathclyde.ac.uk
from mengel@dcdmwm.fnal.gov (marc mengel)
from roger scowen rss@seg.npl.co.uk
from kevino@clbooks.com (kevin oster system administrator)
from chavey@cs.wisc.edu (darrah chavey)
from vonda mcintyre mcintyre@cpac.washington.edu
from bruce sterling bruces@well.sf.ca.us
from scott thomas yabiku yabi@midway.uchicago.edu
from thomas adshead uad1212@dircon.co.uk
from paul andrews 76050.161@compuserve.com
mucho thanks to all !


ian the other internet worm tm feldman ianf@random.se


from clump@acaps.cs.mcgill.ca (clark verbrugge)
subject re bgi drivers for svga
organization socs , mcgill university , montreal , canada
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 29

dominic lai (cs cylai@cs.ust.hk) wrote
simon crowe (scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk) wrote
8 i require bgi drivers for super vga displays and super xvga displays. does
8 anyone know where i could obtain the relevant drivers \? (ftp sites \? \? )

i would like to know too !

regards ,
dominic

garbo.uwasa.fi (or one of its many mirrors) has a file
called svgabg40 in the programming subdirectory.
these are svga bgi drivers for a variety of cards.

from the readme
card types supported (supervga drivers)
ahead , ati , chips tech , everex , genoa , paradise , oak , trident (both 8800
and 8900 , 9000) , tseng (both 3000 and 4000 chipsets) and video7.
these drivers will also work on video cards with vesa capability.
the tweaked drivers will work on any register compatible vga card.

enjoy ,
clark verbrugge
clump@cs.mcgill.ca



honk honk blat wak wak wak wak wak ungow !


from ricky@watson.ibm.com (rick turner)
subject re images of earth
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host danebury.hursley.ibm.com
organization ibm uk labs
lines 6

look in the pub space directory on ames.arc.nasa.gov there are a number
of earth images there. you may have to hunt around the subdirectories as
things tend to be filed under the mission (ie , apollo ) rather than under
the image subject.

rick

from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re fractals \? what good are they \?
organization purdue university
lines 16

in article mdpyssc.2@fs1.mcc.ac.uk mdpyssc@fs1.mcc.ac.uk (sue cunningham)
writes
we have been using iterated systems compression board to compress
pathology images and are getting ratios of 40 1 to 70 1 without too
much loss in quality. it is taking about 4 mins per image to compress ,
on a 25mhz 486 but decompression is almost real time on a 386 in software
alone.

how does that compare with jpeg on the same images and hardware as far
as size , speed , and image quality are concerned \?

despite my skeptical and sometimes nearly rabid postings
criticizing barnsley and company , i am very interested in the
technique. if i were n't i probably would n't be so critical. )

ab

from sigma@rahul.net (kevin martin)
subject re stay away from mag innovision ! ! !
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 10

in 16bb58b33.d1sar@vm1.cc.uakron.edu d1sar@vm1.cc.uakron.edu (steve rimar) writes
my mag mx15f works fine....................

mine was beautiful for a year and a half. then it went foomp . i bought
a viewsonic 6fs instead. another great monitor , imho.


kevin martin
sigma@rahul.net
i gotta get me another hat.

from havardn@edb.tih.no (haavard nesse , o92a)
subject help ! ! ! grasp
reply to havardn@edb.tih.no
posting front end winix conference v 92.05.15 1.20 (running under ms windows)
lines 13

hi !

could anyone tell me if it 's possible to save each frame
of a .gl (grasp) animation to .gif , .jpg , .iff or any other
picture formats.

(i 've got some animations that i 'd like to transfer to my amiga)

i really hope that someone can help me.

cheers

haavard nesse trondheim college of engineering , trondheim , norway

from valentin e. vulihman vulih@ipmce.su
subject attractive drawing on the sphere
lines 23
reply to vulih@ipmce.su
organization inst. of prec. mech. comp. equip. , moscow , russia


s p h e r i c a l d e s i g n i n g

i have made an attractive program on at computer for drawing
on the sphere and pasting it of paper. for children , artists
and education. i can send an example to alt.source.wanted , on
which you can see the rotation of the sphere , if you are
interested. children can design tesselations of the many
famous regular polyhedra without serious difficaltis , and
print patterns to paste their spherical models. moscow , tel.
280 53 53 , after 21 o'clock , or e mail , valentin vulihman.













from bob@black.ox.ac.uk (bob douglas)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization oxford university computing service , 13 banbury rd , oxford , u
lines 94
originator bob@black

in article 2406@hcrlgw92.crl.hitachi.co.jp steve@hcrlgw (steven collins) writes
in article 1qkgbuinns9n@shelley.u.washington.edu bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson) writes
boy , this will be embarassing if it is trivial or an faq

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \? i know how to do it
for a circle (from 3 points) , but do not immediately see a
straightforward way to do it in 3 d. i have checked some
geometry books , graphics gems , and farin , but am still at a loss \?
please have mercy on me and provide the solution \?

would n't this require a hyper sphere. in 3 space , 4 points over specifies
a sphere as far as i can see. unless that is you can prove that a point
exists in 3 space that is equi distant from the 4 points , and this may not
necessarily happen.

correct me if i'm wrong (which i quite possibly am ! )

steve

sorry ! ! )

call the four points a , b , c and d. any three of them must be
non collinear (otherwise all three could not lie on the surface
of a sphere) and all four must not be coplaner (otherwise either
they cannot all lie on a sphere or they define an infinity of them).

a , b and c define a circle. the perpendicular bisectors of ab , bc
and ca meet in a point (p , say) which is the centre of this circle.
this circle must lie on the surface of the desired sphere.

consider the normal to the plane abc passing through p. all points
on this normal are equidistant from a , b and c and its circle (in
fact it is a diameter of the desired sphere). take the plane
containing this normal and d (if d lies on the normal any
plane containing the normal will do) this plane is at right angles
to the abc one.

let e be the point (there are normally two of them) on the circumference
of the abc circle which lies in this plane. we need a point q on the
normal such that eq dq. but the intersection of the perpendicular
bisector of ed and the normal is such a point (and it exists since d is
not in the plane abc , and so ed is not at right angles to the normal).


algorithm

is the sphere well defined \?
(1) check that a and b are not coincident ( failure).
(2) find the line ab and check that c does not lie on it ( failure).
(3) find the plane abc and check that d does not lie in it ( failure).
yes. find its centre.
(1) find the perpendicular bisectors of ab and ac.
(2) find their point of intersection (p).
(3) find the normal to the plane abc passing through p (line n).
(4) find the plane containing n and d find the point e on the
abc circle in this plane (if d lies on n , take e as a).
(4) find the perpendicular bisector of ed (line l)
(5) find the point of intersection of n and l (q).
q is the centre of the desired sphere


pictures

(1) in the plane abc

a


p

b c

(2) at right angles to abc , in the plane containing n and d

e


d

line n
p q


numerically

if ed ep then q will be very close to p (relative to the radius
of the abc circle) and subject to error. it 's best to choose d so
that the least of ad , bd and cd is larger than for any other choice.

bob douglas computing services , university of oxford
internet bob@oxford.ac.uk
address 13 banbury road , oxford ox2 6nn , uk
telephone 44 865 273211

from lm001@rrz.uni koeln.de (erwin h. keeve)
subject polygon reduction for marching cubes
organization regional computing center , university of cologne
lines 36
distribution world
nntp posting host rs1.rrz.uni koeln.de
keywords polygon reduction , marching cubes , surfaces , midical visualisation


dear reader ,


i'am searching for an implementation of a polygon reduction algorithm
for marching cubes surfaces. i think the best one is the reduction algorithm
from schroeder et al. , siggraph '92. so , is there any implementation of this
algorithm , it would be very nice if you could leave it to me.

also i'am looking for a fast ! ! ! connectivity
test for marching cubes surfaces.

any help or hints will be very useful.
thanks a lot


, , ,
(o o)
ooo ( ) ooo



erwin keeve adress peter welter platz 2
w 5000 cologne 1 , germany

dept. of computergraphics phone 49 221 20189 132 ( 192)
computeranimation fax 49 221 20189 17

academy of media arts cologne email keeve@khm.uni koeln.de








from sherry@a.cs.okstate.edu (sherry robert mich)
subject re .scf files , help needed
organization oklahoma state university
lines 27

from article 1993apr21.013846.1374@cx5.com , by tlc@cx5.com


i 've got an old demo disk that i need to view. it was made using rix softworks.
the files on the two diskette set end with .scf

the demo was vga resolution (256 colors) , but i do n't know the spatial
resolution.


according to my colorix manual .scf files are 640x480x256

first problem when i try to run the demo , the screen has two black bars that
cut across (horizontally) the screen , in the top third and bottom third of the
screen. the bars are about 1 inch wide. other than this , the demo (the
animation part) seems to be running fine.

second problem i ca n't find any graphics program that will open and display
these files. i have a couple of image conversion programs , none mention .scf
files.


you may try vpic , i think it handles the 256 color rix files ok..


rob sherry
sherry@a.cs.okstate.edu

from johnsh@rpi.edu (hugh johnson)
subject re quicktime movie available
article i.d. mustang.johnsh 060493161931
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute
lines 31
nntp posting host mustang.stu.rpi.edu

in article johnsh 040493161915@mustang.stu.rpi.edu , i wrote

i 've used the recently released macintosh application mpeg to quicktime to
convert the excellent mpeg canyon.mpg into a quicktime movie. while
anyone who would want this movie is perfectly able to convert it
themselves , i thought i 'd let the net know that i 'd be glad to mail copies
of mine out. the movie conversion took close to six hours on my poor
little iicx in other words , unless you 've got a quadra , you might not want
to tie up your machine in converting this file.

the movie is a fast fly through of a fractal generated canyon landscape.
the movie is 58 seconds long , and uses the compact video compressor (i.e. ,
quicktime v1.5). the movie looks okay on 8 bit displays , and looks
absolutely awesome on 16 and 24 bit displays.

i 'd be happy to mail this movie to the first 20 or so people who ask for
it. the only caveat is you need to be able to receive a nine megabyte mail
message (the movie was stuff it'ed down to seven megs , but binhex ruined
that party). if more then 20 people want this movie , then it 's just more
evidence that the net needs a dedicated quicktime ftp archive site. c'mon ,
someone 's gotta have a spare 1.2gb drive out there...

okay , i 've received a whole lot of requests for the movie , so for
simplicity 's sake i ca n't mail out any more than i 've already received (as
of 16 30 edt , tuesday). maybe it 'll pop up on a site sooner or later.


hugh johnson (johnsh@rpi.edu)
rensselaer polytechnic institute welcome to macintosh.
troy , new york , usa


from imaging.club@office.wang.com ( imaging club )
subject re signature image database
organization mail to news gateway at wang labs
lines 21

contact signaware corp
800 4583820
800 6376564

original memo
bcc vincent wall from imaging club
subject signature verification \? date sent 05 04 93

sci.image.processing
from yyqi@ece.arizona.edu (yingyong qi)
subject signature image database
organization u of arizona electrical and computer engineering

hi , all

could someone tell me if there is a database of handwriting signature
images available for evaluating signature verification systems.

thanks.

yy

from michael maier@qmgate.anl.gov (michael maier)
subject round vs elliptical dot screens
organization anl
lines 15

when using photoshop is there anyway to get an elliptical dot for the
halftone screen rather than a round dot \? my printer would prefer an
elliptical dot , but i'm not sure how to set it up. i'm sending from a mac
iici to a linotronic l300 imagesetter and i am using photoshop 2.0.1 to
make my separations.

any help would be greatly appreshed. t.i.a.

michael (unscene)


michael maier , computer artist , anl z glued to the veiw.

email michael maier@qmgate.anl.gov tv is the milk of amnesia.
phone 708 252 5298 michael maier

from mor@expo.lcs.mit.edu (ralph mor)
subject re tom gaskins pexlib vs phigs programming manuals (o'reilly)
organization x consortium , mit laboratory for computer science
lines 49

merlin@neuro.usc.edu (merlin) writes

could someone explain the difference between tom gaskins' two books

o pexlib programming manual
o phigs programming manual

why would i want to buy one book vs the other book \? i have an 80386
running sco unix (x11r4) on my desktop , a sun iv 360 in my lab , and
access to a variety of other systems (alliant fx 2800 , cray y mp) on
the network. mostly , we would like to do 3d modeling visualization
of rat , rabbit , monkey , and human brain structure.

rather than decide which book you want to buy , you need to decide which
programming interface you want to use , then buy the appropriate book.

i wrote an article for the x resource which discusses the differences
between phigs and pexlib (it will appear in issue 6 which should be out
pretty soon). but here 's a brief summary...

phigs is a graphics api which was designed to be portable to many
devices. most implementations support the x window system and take
advantage of a 3d extension to x called pex . pexlib is a slightly
lower level api which was designed to efficiently support the pex
extension to x.

some advantages of using pexlib...
integrates with xlib , xt , motif , etc. better than phigs
provides immediate mode capabilities
is free of policy
pex supports phigs , but is currently being extended to support
features not found in phigs (like texture mapping , anti aliasing).
pexlib will give you access to all of these features.

some advantages of using phigs...
support for multiple devices , not just x based ones
support for archiving , metafiles , hardcopy output
phigs has predefined input devices to make input easier
phigs can handle exposure events and resizing for you
phigs can help you with colormap selection creation.

if you 're working strictly in x and do n't care about things like
archiving , i would go with pexlib. either way , you will find that
both api 's have a lot in common.

ralph mor
mit x consortium



from squeegee@world.std.com (stephen c. gilardi)
subject need postscript strokeadjust info
summary seeking algorithm for endpoint snapping
keywords postscript emulation adjust stroke strokeadjust
organization sq software via the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 31

i need information on the display postscript strokeadjust feature.
this feature adjusts the endpoints of lines so that the displayed line
looks better on low resolution devices.

the postscript literature explains the process to some extent. they
also give an example of how to emulate strokeadjust in postscript
environments where it is absent.

the suggested emulation is to modify the coordinates of the endpoints
of a line using the following formula for each coordinate

new coord (round (old coord 0.25)) 0.25

doing this we end up with all coordinates ending in .25 . from
reading i thought that what they might actually do is

new coord ((trunc (old coord 2)) 2) 0.25

this results in all the coordinates ending in either 0.25 or 0.75
whichever is closer.

by doing some actual comparisons with display postscript , i find that
neither of these is what dps really uses. since i like how the dps
result looks better than how my stuff looks , i 'd like to know if
anyone who knows how dps does it is willing able to tell me.

thanks ,

steve
squeegee@world.std.com


from yoo@engr.ucf.edu (hoi yoo)
subject ribbon information \?
organization engineering , university of central florida , orlando
distribution usa
lines 20



does anyone out there have or know of , any kind of utility program for

ribbons \?


ribbons are a popular representation for 2d shape. i am trying to
find symmetry axis in a given any 2d shape using ribbons.


any suggestions will be greatly appreciated how to start program.


thanks very much in advance ,
hoi


yoo@engr.ucf.edu


from idr@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (ian d romanick)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
article i.d. pdxgate.7306
organization portland state university , computer science dept.
lines 23

in article c5nf8t.gsq@news.cso.uiuc.edu osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski) writes
in article 1993apr17.192947.11230@sophia.smith.edu orourke@sophia.smith.edu (joseph o'rourke) writes
a fast polygon routine to do what \?
to draw polygons of course. its a vga mode 13h (320x200) game , done in c and
asm. i need a faster way to draw concave polygons that the method i have right
now , which is very slow.

what kind of polygons \? shaded \? texturemapped \? hm \? more comes into play with
fast routines than just polygons . it would be nice to know exaclty what
system (vga is a start , but what processor \? ) and a few of the specifics of the
implementation. you need to give more info if you want to get any answers ! p

ian romanick
dancing fool of epsilon


were the contained thoughts 'opinions' , epn.ntsc.quality best
psu would probably not agree with them.

look , i do n't know anything about
douche , but i do know anti freeze
when i see it ! the dead milkmen


from tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran)
subject re .gif to .bmp
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
distribution usa
lines 21

scott zabolotzky (saz@hook.corp.mot.com) wrote
i'm not sure if this is the correct place to ask this question. if not ,
please forgive me and point me in the right direction.

does anybody know of a program that converts .gif files to .bmp files
and if so , where can i ftp it from \? any help would be greatly
appreciated.

please respond via e mail as i do not read this group very often.

thanks...scott

sorry scott , if you post it here , you can read it here. there is a shareware
program available via anonymous ftp that will suit your needs. you 'll find
it at oak.oakland.edu in the subdirectory pub msdos graphics. the file is
called grfwk61t.zip.

tmc.
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)



from seth@north6.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman)
subject morphing
reply to seth@north6.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman)
lines 6
nntp posting host north6.acpub.duke.edu


keywords

i am looking for some morphing programs for dec 's or pc 's. i looked for a program
called dmorph using archie but could not find it. i found a progrmam call
morpho but it only did grayscale images. does anyone know where i should look \?

from rsc@altair.csustan.edu (steve cunningham)
subject re siggraph
summary no free lunch this year !
organization csu stanislaus
lines 27

srnelson@speedsail.eng.sun.com (scott r. nelson) writes

dave.mikelson@almac.co.uk (dave mikelson) writes
...
does anyone know if there is an 'open day' for the public at any time \?
that is , not to attend conferences , but just browse around the
exhibits. or are the exhibits etc just for fully registered attendees \?
was free as long as you got it to siggraph on or before july 7.
for 1991 , it was similar 20.00 or free before july 9. it is safe
to assume that the same kind of deal will be available this year.

i just got my advance program and the card in the back is for the
exhibits plus program the exhibits plus admission to a number of
conference venues , including a special general session , behind the
scenes computer graphics in film. admission is not free , but is a
nominal 30 (exhibits are open august 3 5).

to get a copy of the advance program , you can call 312 321 6830 the
advance program itself is a good indication of the excitement of the
conference !


register early and get in for free.

sorry does n't work this year !

steve cunningham

from ebuhcb@ebu.ericsson.se (cuyler buckwalter 66678)
subject re so what is the fastest windows video c
reply to ebuhcb@ebu.ericsson.se
organization ericsson business communications , inc.
lines 9
nntp posting host bones.ebu.ericsson.se
x disclaimer this article was posted by a user at ericsson.
any opinions expressed are strictly those of the
user and not necessarily those of ericsson.

in article 16apr199309101156@trentu.ca , ayounes@trentu.ca (amro younes , trent university , c.c. 314 , peterborough , on , canada k9j 7b8. (705) 749 0391) writes
i have the ati graphics ultra pro eisa version. i must admit it has
received bad press but that was due to the faulty drivers it had.

pc magazine seems to be impressed with the ati card in their most recent
reviews. in the april 13th issue they rate the ati graphics ultra pro
(eisa version) as their editor 's choice . they noted that the drivers
had improved since they tested the isa version in january...
...cuyler

from jack@robotics.jpl.nasa.gov (jack morrison)
subject fixed point math library
organization jet propulsion laboratory
lines 11
distribution usa
reply to jack@robotics.jpl.nasa.gov
nntp posting host medusa.jpl.nasa.gov

has anyone written or seen a c library or c class for fixed point math ,
or good articles about same \?

i pretty much know how to do this , but i have a few other wheels to invent
at the moment...

thanks !

how am i typing \? call 1 818 354 7782 jack@robotics.jpl.nasa.gov
jack morrison jet propulsion lab ms107 102 4800 oak grove dr , pasadena ca 91109


from peter.vanderveen@visser.el.wau.nl (peter van der veen)
subject re fonts in pov \? \?
lines 30
organization wageningen agricultural university
x newsreader ftpnuz (dos) v1.0

in article 1qg9fc et9@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au g9134255@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au (coronado emmanuel abad) says


i have seen several ray traced scenes (from mtv or was it
rayshade \? \? ) with stroked fonts appearing as objects in the image.
the fonts chars had color , depth and even textures associated with
them. now i was wondering , is it possible to do the same in pov \? \?


thanks ,

noel

yes , there are serveral programs which can convert font files (eq the borland
fonts) to objects consisting of spheres , cones etc.
i 've used a program (forgot its name place , but i can look for it) which
converted these borland fonts to three different raytracers. vivid , pov and
polyray (which i like more (more flexibel faster use of expressions etc).
the program has a lot nice features.
so if interested give me a mail.


peter.vanderveen@visser.el.wau.nl
o.o department of genetics
( ) agricultural university
u wageningen , the netherlands


from robert@cpuserver.acsc.com (robert grant)
subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap !
organization uscacsc , los angeles
lines 32
distribution world
reply to robert@cpuserver.acsc.com (robert grant)
nntp posting host cpuserver.acsc.com

hi steve ,

as the author of multiverse , i feel i had better respond to your
mailnote questioning whether anyone had managed to compile this
software the quick answer is yes ! the long answer is yes but a
few have had a few problems with their platforms not all unix 's are
the same , you know ! as far as many bugs go , it would probably be more
useful to everyone (including you) if you were a bit more explicit ! )

platforms it has succesfully compiled and run on are rs6000 , dec ultrix
sun solaris so it is possible.

the main problem is that i do n't have access to other platforms than the
rs6000 , so if there are portability problems then the only way i hear
about them is by people letting me know and giving me a clue as to
how to fix it.

as far as the software not doing anything , do you really think i would
bother releasing it , if that was the case \? perhaps you did n't read the
few docs that are supplied. the dogfight world is made up of clients
only , so if you 're in there on your own , then you 're not going to see
anything ! the dactyl world has quite a lot of scenary so if you do n't
see anything there , then this is definitely a problem !

one final word if you 're not interested , do n't bother with it.
if you are interested , then please remember that i'm not asking for
any money ! so why not try a little patience and constructive criticism ,
maybe that will get results \? \?

robert.
robert@acsc.com


from prestonm@cs.man.ac.uk (martin preston)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
lines 18

in c5scgu.1ll@mentor.cc.purdue.edu ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b) writes

i 've got the 6.0 spec (obviously since i quoted it in my last posting).
my gripe about tiff is that it 's far too complicated and nearly
infinitely easier to write than to read , ...

why not use the pd c library for reading writing tiff files \? it took me a
good 20 minutes to start using them in your own app.

martin



martin preston , (m.preston@manchester.ac.uk) computer graphics
computer graphics unit , manchester computing centre , is just
university of manchester , a load of balls.
manchester , u.k. , m13 9pl phone 061 275 6095


from mz@moscom.com (matthew zenkar)
subject re cview answers
organization moscom corp. , e. rochester , ny
lines 18
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

cyberspace buddha (cb@wixer.bga.com) wrote
renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
over where it places its temp files it just places them in its
current directory .

i have to beg to differ on this point , as the batch file i use
to launch cview cd 's to the dir where cview resides and then
invokes it. every time i crash cview , the 0 byte temp file
is found in the root dir of the drive cview is on.

this is what i posted that cview uses the root directory of the drive
cview is on. however , since it has so much trouble reading large files
from floppy , i suspect that it uses the root directory of the drive the
image files are on.

matthew zenkar
mz@moscom.com


from bprofane@netcom.com (gert niewahr)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
article i.d. netcom.bprofanec51whz.hio
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 39

in article c51eyz.4ix@optimla.aimla.com lex@optimla.aimla.com (lex van sonderen) writes
in article h1p4s4g@zola.esd.sgi.com erik@westworld.esd.sgi.com (erik fortune) writes
better than cdi
much better than cdi.
of course , i do not agree. it does have more horsepower. horsepower is not
the only measurement for 'better'. it does not have full motion , full screen
video yet. does it have cd rom xa \?

starting in the 4 quarter of 1993
the first 3do multiplayer will be manufactured by panasonic and will be
available late this year. a number of other manufacturers are reported to
have 3do compatible boxes in the works.
which other manufacturers \?
we shall see about the date.

a 3do marketing rep. recently offered a phillips marketing rep. a 100
bet that 3do would have boxes on the market on schedule. the phillips
rep. declined the bet , probably because he knew that 3do players are
already in pre production manufacturing runs , 6 months before the
commercial release date.

by the time of commercial release , there will be other manufacturers of
3do players announced and possibly already tooling up production. chip
sets will be in full production. the number of software companies
designing titles for the box will be over 300.

how do i know this \? i was at a bar down the road from 3do headquarters
last week. some folks were bullshitting a little too loudly about
company business.

all this information is third hand or so and worth what you paid for it ).
this is second hand , but it still hard to look to the future ).

lex van sonderen
lex@aimla.com
philips interactive media


what an impartial source !

from gmt@beach.cis.ufl.edu (gary mctaggart)
subject 3d animation studio file format \? \?
organization univ. of florida cis dept.
lines 7
distribution world
nntp posting host beach.cis.ufl.edu

is the .3ds file format for autodesk 's 3d animation studio available \?

thanks ,
gary

(please respond by email. i have a hell of a time keeping up with news ! !
) )

from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization purdue university
lines 20

in article 1993apr10.160929.696@galki.toppoint.de ulrich@galki.toppoint.de
writes
according to the tiff 5.0 specification , the tiff version number
(bytes 2 3) 42 has been chosen for its deep philosophical
significance .
last week , i read the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy ,
is this actually how they picked the number 42 \?

i'm sure it is , and i am not amused. every time i read that part of the
tiff spec , it infuriates me and i'm none too happy about the
complexity of the spec anyway because i think their arbitrary but
carefully chosen number is neither. additionally , i find their
choice of 4 bytes to begin a file with meaningless of themselves why
not just use the letters tiff \?

(and no , i do n't think they should have bothered to support both word
orders either and i 've found that many tiff readers actually
do n't.)

ab

from doug@hparc0.aus.hp.com (doug parsons)
subject 3d2 files what are they \?
organization hp australasian response centre (melbourne)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.5
lines 12

i was chaining around in the anonymous ftp world looking for 3d studio
meshes and other interesting graphical stuff for the program , and found
a few files with the extension 3d2. my 3ds v2.01 does n't know this type
of file , so what are they \?

and of course , the perennial... where are some meshes , fli files , etc.
out there \? i would have thought that someone would have collected a few
and put them somewhere , but alas i am without this knowledge.

mucho appreciato

douginoz.

from bosch@rz.uni karlsruhe.de (gerhard bosch)
subject re newsgroup split
organization university of karlsruhe , germany
lines 55
distribution world
nntp posting host ifh hp2.bau verm.uni karlsruhe.de
mime version 1.0
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1
content transfer encoding 8bit

in article nerone.93apr20085951@sylvester.cc.utexas.edu , nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (michael nerone) writes
in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu , tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes

ch concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in
ch favor of doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of
ch graphics by reading this group , from code to hardware to
ch algorithms. i just think making 5 different groups out of this
ch is a wate , and will only result in a few posts a week per group.
ch i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum for
ch discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
ch just curious.

i must agree. there is a dizzying number of c.s.amiga. newsgroups
already. in addition , there are very few issues which fall cleanly
into one of these categories.

also , it is readily observable that the current spectrum of amiga
groups is already plagued with mega crossposting thus the group split
would not , in all likelihood , bring about a more structured
environment.



michael nerone i shall do so with my customary lack of tact and
internet address since you have asked for this , you will be obliged
nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu to pardon it. sagredo , fictional char of galileo.

hi ,
it might be nice to know , what 's possible on different hard ware platforms.
but usually the hard ware is fixed ( in my case either unix or dos pc ).
so i'm not much interested in amiga news.

in the case of software , i wo n't get any comercial software mentioned in this
newgroup to run on a unix platform , so i'm not interested in this information.

i would suggest to split the group. i do n't see the problem of cross posting.
then you need to read just 2 newgroups with half the size.

but what would be more important is to have a faq. this would reduce the
traffic a lot.

sincerely , gerhard

i'm writing this as a privat person , not reflecting any opinions of the inst.
of hydromechanics , the university of karlsruhe , the land baden wuerttemberg ,
the federal republic of germany and the european community. the address and
phone number below are just to get in touch with me. everything i'm saying ,
writing and typing is always wrong ! (statement necessary to avoid law suits)

dipl. ing. gerhard bosch m.sc. voice (0721) 608 3118
institute for hydromechanic fax (0721) 608 4290
university of karlsruhe , kaiserstrasse 12 , 7500 karlsruhe , germany
internet bosch@ifh hp2.bau verm.uni karlsruhe.de
bitnet nd07@dkauni2.bitnet


from rosa@ghost.dsi.unimi.it (massimo rossi)
subject 3d studio works changes ! ! ! !
organization computer science dep. milan university
lines 28

hi guys
like all people in this group i'm a fans of fractal and render sw
my favourite are fractint pov 3dstudio 2.0
now listen my ideas
i'have just starting now to be able to use 3dstudio quite well
so i'm simulating a full animation of a f1 grand prix
unfortanatly just some lap(10 \? )
i' m very interested about all kind of .prj .3ds and so on
concerning about cars or parts of its (motors wheel ...)
(dxf are good enough)
does anyone have object to give me to complete my hard animation


anyway any exchanges about object material project will
be very apreciate ! ! ! ! !

is there a ftp site where i can find its \?

i' m looking for .pov files too
(i 'm interested about cpu time comparision rendering images on
pov 3dstusio)

thank to all


email me at rosa@ghost.sm.dsi.unimi.it



from sloan@cis.uab.edu (kenneth sloan)
subject re surface normal orientations
article i.d. cis.1993apr6.181509.1973
organization cis , university of alabama at birmingham
lines 16

in article 1993apr6.175117.1848@cis.uab.edu sloan@cis.uab.edu (kenneth sloan) writes

a brilliant algorithm. not

seriously it 's correct , up to a sign change. the flaw is obvious , and
will therefore not be shown.

sorry about that.




kenneth sloan computer and information sciences
sloan@cis.uab.edu university of alabama at birmingham
(205) 934 2213 115a campbell hall , uab station
(205) 934 5473 fax birmingham , al 35294 1170

from djmst19@unixd2.cis.pitt.edu (david j madura)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
lines 13
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3

dave@optimla.aimla.com (dave ziedman) writes

3do is still a concept.
the software is what sells and what will determine its
success.


apparantly you dont keep up on the news. 3do was shown
at ces to developers and others at private showings. over
300 software licensees currently developing software for it.

i would say that it is a lot more than just a concept.


from jbulf@balsa.berkeley.edu (jeff bulf)
subject re detecting double points in bezier curves
reply to jbulf@balsa.berkeley.edu (jeff bulf)
organization kubota pacific computers inc.
lines 20

in article ia522b1w165w@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl , ferdinan@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl (ferdinand oeinck) writes
i'm looking for any information on detecting and or calculating a double
point and or cusp in a bezier curve.

an algorithm , literature reference or mail about this is very appreciated ,

there was a very useful article in one of the 1989 issues of
transactions on graphics. i believe maureen stone was one of
the authors. sorry not to be more specific. i do n't have the
reference here with me.

the article actually was more general than this , giving a way to decide
whether a given (cubic) bezier curve contains cusps , intersection points
or whatever wierdness. the same treatment is also available in siggraph 89
course notes for the course called math for siggraph or something like
that.


dr memory
jbulf@kpc.com

from rubery@saturn.aitc.rest.tasc.com. (dan rubery)
subject graphic formats
organization tasc
lines 7
nntp posting host saturn.aitc.rest.tasc.com

i am writing some utilies to convert regis and tektonic esacpe sequences
into some useful formats. i would rather not have to goto a bitmap format.
i can convert them to window meta files easily enough , but i would rather
convert them to corel draw , .cdr , or ms power point , .ppt , files.
microsoft would not give me the format. i was wondering if anybody out
there knows the formats for these two applications.


from quan@sol.surv.utas.edu.au (stephen quan)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
organization university of tasmania , australia.
lines 22

osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski) writes

in article 1993apr17.192947.11230@sophia.smith.edu orourke@sophia.smith.edu (joseph o'rourke) writes
in article c5n3x0.b5l@news.cso.uiuc.edu osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski) writes
... , but i'm looking for a fast polygon routine to be used in a 3d game.
a fast polygon routine to do what \?
to draw polygons of course. its a vga mode 13h (320x200) game , ...

hi , i 've come across a fast triangle fill draw routine for mode 13h. by
calling this routine enough times , you have a fast polygon drawing routine.

i think i ftp'ed from wuarchive.wustl.edu pub msdos uploads programming.
i have a copy of it so i reupload it there. the triangle.txt file has this
to say

c and inline assembly source for a vga mode 13h triangle drawer.


stephen quan (quan@sol.surv.utas.edu.au) tel 002 202844 (local)
research fellow , computer scientist , fax 002 240282 (local)
centre for spatial information systems , tel 61 02 202844
university of tasmania , australia. fax 61 02 240282

from ykim@cs.columbia.edu (yong su kim)
subject fast wireframe graphics
distribution usa
organization columbia university department of computer science
lines 29


i am working on a program to display 3d wireframe models with the user
being able to arbitrarily change any of the viewing parameters. also ,
the wireframe objects are also going to have dynamic attributes so
that they can move around while the user is exploring the wireframe
world.

to do this , i am thinking of using the srgp package described in the
van dam , foley and feiner book , but i was wondering if there was
another pd graphics package out there which was faster. i would like
to make the program as fast as possible so that it provides
satisfactory real time performance on a sun ipx.

ideally , i'm looking for a pd graphics package which will allow me to
open a new window under x , and allow me to draw lines within the
window. also , it would also need to have some sort of event driven
interaction handling since the user is going to move around the
wireframe models using the keyboard.

if you know or wrote such a package , i would be grateful if you could
direct me to a ftp site which contains the package.

thank you.



yong su kim , class of 1993 internet yk4@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
columbia college , columbia university or ykim@cs.columbia.edu


from nfotis@ntua.gr (nick c. fotis)
subject (17 apr 93) computer graphics resource listing weekly part 1 3
lines 1566
reply to nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr (nick (nikolaos) fotis)
organization national technical univ. of athens

archive name graphics resources list part1
last modified 1993 04 17


computer graphics resource listing weekly posting part 1 3

last change 17 april 1993

many faqs , including this listing , are available on the archive site
pit manager.mit.edu (alias rtfm.mit.edu) 18.172.1.27 in the directory
pub usenet news.answers. the name under which a faq is archived appears
in the archive name line at the top of the article.
this faq is archived as graphics resources list part 1 3

there 's a mail server on that machine. you send a e mail message to
mail server@pit manager.mit.edu containing the keyword help (without
quotes ! ) in the message body.

you can see in many other places for this listing. see the item

0. places to find the resource listing

for more information.

items changed


re arranged the subjects , in order to fir better in the 63k article limit.
i plan on changing headers soon , so be careful ! only the resource listing
keys are sure to remain in the subject line !

0. places to find the resource listing
6. 3d graphics editors
a. public domain , free and shareware systems
9. plotting packages
18. molecular visualization stuff

i'm thinking of making this post bi weekly. what do you think \? \? \?



lines which got changed , have the ` ' character in front of them.
added lines are prepended with a ` '
removed lines are just removed. use 'diff' to locate these changes.



this text is (c)copyright 1992 , 1993 of nikolaos c. fotis. you can copy
freely this file , provided you keep this copyright notice intact.

compiled by nikolaos (nick) c. fotis , e mail nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr

please contact me for updates , corrections , etc.

disclaimer i do not guarantee the accuracy of this document.
use it at your own risk.



this is mainly a guide for computer graphics software.
i would suggest reading the comp. graphics faq for image analysis stuff.

it 's entitled
(date) comp.graphics frequently asked questions (faq)

john t. grieggs grieggs@jpl devvax.jpl.nasa.gov is the poster of the
official comp.graphics faq

i have included my comments within braces ' ' and ' '.

nikolaos fotis



contents of the resource listing


part1

0. places to find the resource listing
1. archie
2. notes
3. computer graphics ftp site list , by eric haines
4. mail servers and graphics oriented bbses
5. ray tracing graphics related mailing lists.
6. 3d graphics editors
a. public domain , free and shareware systems
b. commercial systems
7. scene description languages
8. solids description formats

part2


9. plotting packages
10. image analysis software image processing and display

part3

11. scene generators geographical data maps data files
12. 3d scanners digitized 3d data.
13. background imagery textures datafiles
14. introduction to rendering algorithms
a. ray tracing
b. z buffer (depth buffer)
c. others
15. where can i find the geometric data for the
a. teapot \?
b. space shuttle \?
16. image annotation software
17. scientific visualization stuff
18. molecular visualization stuff
19. gis (geographical information systems software)

future additions
please send me updates info !



0. places to find the resource listing


this file is crossposted to comp.graphics , comp.answers and news.answers ,
so if you ca n't locate it in comp.graphics , you 're advised to search in
comp.answers or news.answers
(the latter groups usually are archived in your site. contact your sysadmin
for more info).

these 3 articles are posted to comp.graphics 3 4 times a month and are kept in
many places (see below)



many faqs , including this one , are available on the archive site
pit manager.mit.edu (alias rtfm.mit.edu) 18.172.1.27 in the directory
pub usenet news.answers. the name under which a faq is archived appears
in the archive name line at the top of the article.
this faq is archived as graphics resources list part 1 3

there 's a mail server on that machine. you send a e mail message to
mail server@pit manager.mit.edu containing help in the subject field



the inria graphlib mail server mirrors this posting (see under the
subject 4 mail servers )



the resource listing is accesible through wais in the machine
enuxva.eas.asu.edu (port 8000) under the name graphics resources list.
it 's got a digest type line before every numbered item for purposes of
indexing.



another place that monitors the listing is the maasinfo files.
for more info contact robert e. maas rem@btr.com



yet another place to search for faqs in general is the switch
(swiss academic and research network) system in switzerland

interactive
telnet nic.switch.ch 130.59.1.40 , login as info . move to the
info service usenet periodic postings directory. search in the
00index file by typing and the word to look for.
you may then just read the faq in the faqs directory , or decide
to fetch it by one of the following methods.

ftp
login to nic.switch.ch 130.59.1.40 as user anonymous and
enter your internet style address after being prompted for a
password.

cd info service usenet periodic postings

mail
send e mail to

rfc 822
archive server@nic.switch.ch
x.400
s archive server ou nic o switch prmd switch admd arcom c ch

enter 'help' in the bodypart to receive instructions. no information
is required in the subject header line.


1. archie


the archie is a service system to locate ftp places for
requested files. it 's appreciated that you will use archie
before asking help in the newsgroups.

archie servers
archie.au or 139.130.4.6 (aussie nz)
archie.funet.fi or 128.214.6.100 (finland eur.)
archie.th darmstadt.de or 130.83.128.111 (ger.)
cs.huji.ac.il or 132.65.6.5 (israel)
archie.kuis.kyoto u.ac.jp or 130.54.20.1 (japan)
archie.sogang.ac.kr or 163.239.1.11 (korea)
archie.ncu.edu.tw or telnet 140.115.19.24 (twn)
archie.doc.ic.ac.uk or 146.169.3.7 (uk ireland)
archie.sura.net or 128.167.254.179 (usa md )
archie.unl.edu (password archie1) (usa ne )
archie.ans.net or 147.225.1.2 (usa ny )
archie.rutgers.edu or 128.6.18.15 (usa nj )
archie.nz or 130.195.9.4 (new zealand)

connect to archie server with telnet and type archie as username.
to get help type 'help'.
you can get 'xarchie' or 'archie' , which are clients that call archie
without the burden of a telnet session.
'xarchie' is on the x11.r5 contrib tape , and 'archie' on comp.sources.misc ,
vol. 27.

to get information on how to use archie via e mail , send mail with
subject help to archie account at any of above sites.

(note to janet pss users the united kingdom archie site is
accessible on the janet host doc.ic.ac.uk 000005102000 .
connect to it and specify archie as the host name and archie as
the username.)



2. notes

(excerpted from the faq article)

please do not post or mail messages saying i ca n't ftp , could
someone mail this to me \? there are a number of automated mail servers
that will send you things like this in response to a message.

there are a number of sites that archive the usenet sources newsgroups
and make them available via an email query system. you send a message
to an automated server saying something like send comp.sources.unix fbm ,
and a few hours or days later you get the file in the mail.



3. computer graphics ftp site list , by eric haines


computer graphics related ftp sites (and maintainers) , 26 03 93
compiled by eric haines , erich@eye.com
and nick fotis , nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr

ray tracers


rayshade a great ray tracer for workstations on up , also for pc , mac amiga.
pov son and successor to dkb trace , written by compuservers.
(for more questions call drew wells
73767.1244@compuserve.com or dave buck david buck@carleton.ca)
art ray tracer with a good range of surface types , part of vort package.
dkbtrace another good ray tracer , from all reports pcs , mac ii ,
amiga , unix , vms (last two with x11 previewer) , etc.
rtrace portugese ray tracer , does bicubic patches , csg , 3d text , etc. etc.
an ms dos version for use with djgpp dos extender (go32) exists also ,
as a mac port.
vivid2 a shareware raytracer for pcs binary only (286 287). author
stephen coy (coy@ssc vax.boeing.com). the 386 387 (no source) version
is available to registered users (us 50) direct from the author.
ray4 steve hollasch 's 4 dimensional ray tracer renders hyperspheres ,
hypertetrahedra , hyperplanes , and hyperparallelepipeds (there 's
a separate real time wireframe viewer written in gl called wire4 ) .
mtv , qrt , dbw yet more ray tracers , some with interesting features.

distributed parallel raytracers


xdart a distributed ray tracer that runs under x11. there are server binaries
which work only on decstations , sparcs , hp snakes (7x0 series) and next.
the clients are distributed as binaries and c source.
inetray a network version of rayshade 4.0. needs sun rpc 4.0 or newer.
contact andreas thurnherr (ant@ips.id.ethz.ch)
prt , vm pray parallel ray tracers.

volume renderers


vrend cornell 's volume renderer , from kartch devine caffey warren (fortran).

radiosity (and diffuse lighting) renderers


radiance a ray tracer w radiosity effects , by greg ward. excellent shading
models and physically based lighting simulation. unix x based , though
has been ported to the amiga and the pc (386).
india an indian radiosity package based on radiance.
sgi rad an interactive radiosity package that runs on sgi machines with a
spaceball. it includes a house database.
author guy moreillon moreillo@ligsg1.epfl.ch
rad a simple public domain radiosity package in c. the solution can be run
stand alone on any unix box , but the walk through requires a sgi 4d.
author bernard kwok g kwok@cs.yorku.ca

renderers which are not raytracers , and graphics libraries


sipp scan line z buffer and phong shading renderer.
now uses the shadow buffer algorithm.
tcl sipp a tcl command interface to the sipp rendering
program. tcl sipp is a set of tcl commands used to programmed
sipp without having to write and compile c code.
commands are used to specify surfaces , objects ,
scenes and rendering options.
it renders either in ppm format or in utah raster toolkit rle format
or to the photo widget in the tk based x11 applications.

vogle graphics learning environment (device portable).
vogl an sgi gl like library based on vogle.
rend386 a fast polygon renderer for intel 386s and up. version 2 on up.
it 's not photorealistic , but rather a real time renderer
xsharp21 dr. dobb 's journal pc renderer source code , with budget texture
mapping.

modellers , wireframe viewers


vision 3d mac modeler , can output radiance rayshade files.
irit a csg solid modeler , with support for freeform surfaces.
x3d a wireframe viewer for x11.
3dv 3 d wireframe graphics toolkit , with c source , 3dv objects , other stuff
look at major pc archives like wuarchive. one such file is 3dkit1.zip
pv3d a shareware front end modeler for povray , still in beta test.
french docs for now , price for registering 250 french francs. save disabled.
some extra utilities , dxf files for the registered version.

geometric viewers


salem a gl based package from dobkin et al. for exploring mathematical
structures.
geomview a gl based package for looking and interactively manipulating
3d objects , from geometry center at minnesota.
xyz geobench (experimental geometry zurich) is a workbench for geometric
computation for macintosh computers.
wire4 gl wireframe previewer for steve hollasch 's ray4 (see above)

data formats and data sets for ray tracing


spd a set of procedural databases for testing ray tracers.
nff simplistic file format used by spd.
off another file format.
p3d a lispy file format.
tddd imagine (3d modeler) format , has converters for rayshade , nff , off , etc.
also includes a nice postscript object displayer. some great models.
ttdddlib converts to from tddd ttddd , off , nff , rayshade 4.0 , imagine ,
and vort 3d objects. also outputs framemaker mif files and isometric
views in postscript. registered users get a tex pk font converter and
a superquadric surfaces generator.
glenn lewis glewis@pcocd2.intel.com
note ttdddlib is also known as t3dlib
chvrtd chapel hill volume rendering test datasets , includes volume sets for
two heads , a brain , a knee , electron density maps for rna and others.

written material on rendering


rt news collections of articles on ray tracing.
rt bib references to articles on ray tracing in refer format.
rad bib references to articles on radiosity (global illumination).
speer rt bib rick speer 's cross referenced rt bib , in postscript.
rt abstracts collection by tom wilson of abstracts of many rt articles.
paper bank project various technical papers in electronic form. contact
juhana kouhia jk87377@cs.tut.fi
online bibliography project
the acm siggraph online bibliography project is a database of
over 15 , 000 unique computer graphics and computational geometry
references in bibtex format , available to the computer graphics
community as a research and educational resource.

the database is located at siggraph.org . users may download
the bibtex files via ftp and peruse them offline , or telnet to
siggraph.org and log in as biblio and interactively search
the database for entries of interest , by keyword.
for the people without internet access , there 's also an e mail
server. send mail to

archive server@siggraph.org

and in the subject or the body of the message include the message send
followed by the topic and subtopic you wish. a good place to start is
with the command
send index
which will give you an up to date list of available information.

additions corrections suggestions may be directed to the admin ,
bibadmin@siggraph.org .

image manipulation libraries


utah raster toolkit nice image manipulation tools.
pbmplus a great package for image conversion and manipulation.
libtiff library for reading writing tiff images.
imagemagick x11 package for display and interactive manipulation
of images. uses its own format (miff) , and includes some converters.
xv x based image display , manipulation , and format converter.
xloadimage , xli displays various formats on an x11 screen.
khoros a huge , excellent system for image processing , with a visual
programming interface and much much more. uses x windows.
fbm another set of image manipulation tools , somewhat old now.
img image manipulation , displays on x11 screen , a bit old now.
xflick plays .fli animation under x11
xanim plays any resolution fli along with gif 's(including gif89a animation
extensions) , dl 's and amiga iff animations(3 , 5 , j , l) and iff
pictures(including ham , ehb and color cycling)
sdsc sdsc image tools package (san diego supercomputing center)
for image manipulation and conversion
clrpaint a 24 bit paint program for sgi 24bit workstations and 8bit indigos.

libraries with code for graphics


graphics gems i , ii , iii code from the ever so useful books.
spline patch.tar.z spline patch ray intersection routines by sean graves
kaleido computation and 3d display of uniform polyhedra. mirrored in
wuarchive. this package computes (and displays) the metrical
properties of 75 polyhedra. author dr. zvi har'el ,
e mail rl@gauss.technion.ac.il

( ) means site is an official distributor , so is most up to date.


north america (please look for things on your own continent first...)


wuarchive.wustl.edu 128.252.135.4 graphics graphics get contents file
for a roadmap. graphics graphics objects tddd the ttddd objects
and converters , mirrors unix c graphics rayshade ray tracer , mtv
ray tracer , vort ray tracer , fbm , pbmplus , popi , utah raster toolkit.
mirrors msdos graphics dkb ray tracer , fli raytracker demos.
pub rad.tar.z sgi rad , graphics graphics radiosity radiance
and indian radiosity package. msdos ddjmag ddj9209.zip version 21
of xsharp , with fast texture mapping. there 's lots more , including
bibs , graphics gems i ii code , off , rtn , radiance , nff , sipp , spline
patch intersection routines , textbook errata , source code from roy
hall 's book illumination and color in computer generated imagery , etc
graphics graphics packages kaleido kaleido
george kyriazis kyriazis@turing.cs.rpi.edu

princeton.edu 128.112.128.1 pub graphics (note capital g ) rayshade
4.0 ray tracer (and separate 387 executable) , color quantization
code , spd , rt news , wilson 's rt abstracts , rt bib , utah
raster toolkit , newer fbm , graphics gems i , ii iii code .
pub graphics directory salem and other stuff.
craig kolb cek@princeton.edu
replaces weedeater.math.yale.edu note the capital g in
pub graphics because there 's a trouble with princeton 's incoming
area , you can upload rayshade specific stuff to
weedeater.math.yale.edu 128.36.23.17

alfred.ccs.carleton.ca 134.117.1.1 pub dkbtrace dkb ray tracer ,
pub pov ray pov ray1.0 pvray compuserve group ray tracer (or pov) .
david buck david buck@carleton.ca

avalon.chinalake.navy.mil 129.131.31.11 3d objects (multiple formats) ,
utilities , file format documents.
this site was created to be a 3d object repository for the net.
francisco x dejesus dejesus@archimedes.chinalake.navy.mil

omicron.cs.unc.edu 152.2.128.159 pub softlab chvrtd chapel hill
volume rendering test datasets.

ftp.mv.com 192.80.84.1 official ddj ftp repository.
xsharp

peipa.essex.ac.uk 155.245.115.161 the pilot european image processing
archive in a directory ipa synth or something like that , there are
image synthesis packages.
adrian clarke alien@essex.ac.uk

barkley.berkeley.edu 128.32.142.237 tcl extensions tsipp3.0b.tar.z
tcl sipp
mark diekhans markd@grizzly.com or markd@neosoft.com

acs.cps.msu.edu 35.8.56.90 pub sass x window fonts converter into
rayshade 3.0 polygons , rayshade animation tool(s).
ron sass sass@cps.msu.edu

hobbes.lbl.gov 128.3.12.38 radiance ray trace radiosity package.
greg ward gjward@lbl.gov

geom.umn.edu 128.101.25.31 pub geomview geomview
contact (for geomview) software@geom.umn.edu

ftp.arc.umn.edu 137.66.130.11 pub gvl.tar.z the latest version of bob ,
icol and raz. source , a manual , man pages , and binaries for
irix 4.0.5 are included (bob is a real time volume renderer)
pub contains also many volume datasets.
ken chin purcell ken@ahpcrc.umn.edu

ftp.kpc.com 144.52.120.9 pub graphics holl91 steve hollasch 's
thesis , pub graphics ray4 ray4 , pub graphics wire4 wire4 .
pub mirror avalon mirror of avalon 's 3d objects repository.
steve hollasch hollasch@kpc.com

swedishchef.lerc.nasa.gov 139.88.54.33 programs hollasch 4d ray4 ,
sgi explorer modules and postscript manual , etc.

zamenhof.cs.rice.edu 128.42.1.75 pub graphics.formats various electronic
documents about many object and image formats.
mark hall foo@cs.rice.edu
will apparently no longer be maintaining it , see ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu.

rascal.ics.utexas.edu 128.83.144.1 misc mac inqueue vision 3d facet
based modeller , can output rayshade and radiance files.

ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu 141.142.20.50 misc file.formats graphics.formats
contains various image and object format descriptions. many scivi
tools in various directories , e.g. sgi alpha shape alvis 1.0.tar.z
3d alpha shape visualizer (sgi machines only) ,
sgi polyview3.0 polyview.z interactive visualization and analysis of
3d geometrical structures.
quincey koziol koziol@ncsa.uiuc.edu

tucana.noao.edu 140.252.1.1 iraf the iraf astronomy package

ftp.ipl.rpi.edu 128.113.14.50 sigma erich spd images and haines thesis
images. pub images various 24 and 8 bit image stills and sequences.
kevin martin sigma@ipl.rpi.edu

ftp.psc.edu 128.182.66.148 pub p3d p3d 2 0.tar p3d lispy scene
language renderers. joel welling welling@seurat.psc.edu

ftp.ee.lbl.gov 128.3.254.68 pbmplus.tar.z , rayshade data files.
jef poskanzer jef@ace.ee.lbl.gov

george.lbl.gov 128.3.196.93 pub ccs lib ccs.tar.z ccs (complex
conversion system) , a standard software interface for image processing

hanauma.stanford.edu 36.51.0.16 pub graphics comp.graphics best of
comp.graphics (very extensive) , ray tracers dbw , mtv , qrt , and more.
joe dellinger joe@hanauma.stanford.edu

ftp.uu.net 192.48.96.2 graphics irit , rt news back issues (not
complete) , nurbs models , other graphics related material.
graphics jpeg jpegsrc.v \? .tar.z independent jpeg group package for
reading and writing jpeg files.

freebie.engin.umich.edu 141.212.68.23 utah raster toolkit ,
spencer thomas thomas@eecs.umich.edu

export.lcs.mit.edu 18.24.0.12 contrib pbmplus , image magick , xloadimage ,
xli , xv , img , lots more. pub r5untarred mit demos gpc ncga graphics
performance characterization (gpc) suite.

life.pawl.rpi.edu 128.113.10.2 pub ray kyriazis stochastic ray tracer .
george kyriazis kyriazis@turing.cs.rpi.edu

cs.utah.edu 128.110.4.21 pub utah raster toolkit , nurbs databases .
jamie painter jamie@cs.utah.edu

gatekeeper.dec.com 16.1.0.2 pub dec off.tar.z off models ,
also gpc benchmark files (planned , but not checked).
randi rost rost@kpc.com

hubcap.clemson.edu 130.127.8.1 pub amiga incoming imagine stuff for the
amiga imagine turbo silver ray tracers. pub amiga ttdddlib
ttdddlib pub amiga incoming imagine objects many objects.
glenn lewis glewis@pcocd2.intel.com

pprg.eece.unm.edu 129.24.24.10 pub khoros khoros image processing
package (huge , but great) .
danielle argiro danielle@bullwinkle.unm.edu

expo.lcs.mit.edu 18.30.0.212 contrib pbmplus portable bitmap package ,
poskbitmaptars bitmap collection , raveling img , xloadimage. jef
poskanzer jef@well.sf.ca.us

venera.isi.edu 128.9.0.32 pub img.tar.z and img.tar.z some image
manipulation , pub images rgb separation photos.
paul raveling raveling@venera.isi.edu

ucsd.edu 128.54.16.1 graphics utah rle toolkit , pbmplus , fbm ,
databases , mtv , dbw and other ray tracers , world map , other stuff.
not updated much recently.

castlab.engr.wisc.edu 128.104.52.10 pub x3d.2.2.tar.z x3d
pub xdart.1.1. xdart
mark spychalla spy@castlab.engr.wisc.edu

sgi.com 192.48.153.1 graphics tiff tiff 6.0 spec libtiff software
and pics. also much sgi and gl related stuff (e.g. opengl manuals)
sam leffler sam@sgi.com
supercedes okeeffe.berkeley.edu for the libtiff stuff

surya.waterloo.edu 129.97.129.72 graphics fbm , ray tracers

ftp.sdsc.edu 132.249.20.22 sdscpub sdsc

ftp.brl.mil 128.63.16.158 brl cad information on how to get the
brl cad package ray tracer. images various test images.
a texture library has also begun here.
lee a. butler butler@brl.mil

cicero.cs.umass.edu 128.119.40.189 texture temp 512x512 grayscale
brodatz textures ,
from julien flack julien@scs.leeds.ac.uk .

karazm.math.uh.edu 129.7.7.6 pub graphics rtabs.shar.12.90.z wilson 's
rt abstracts , vm pray.
j. eric townsend jet@karazm.math.uh.edu or jet@nas.nasa.gov

ftp.pitt.edu 130.49.253.1 users qralston images 24 bit image archive
(small). james ralston crawford qralston@gl.pitt.edu

ftp.tc.cornell.edu 128.84.201.1 pub vis vrend

sunee.waterloo.edu 129.97.50.50 pub raytracers vivid , rend386
or sunee.uwaterloo.ca

archive.umich.edu 141.211.164.153 msdos graphics pc graphics stuff.
msdos graphics raytrace vivid2.

apple.apple.com 130.43.2.2 \? pub archivevol2 prt.

research.att.com 192.20.225.2 netlib graphics spd package , polyhedra
polyhedra databases . (if you do n't have ftp , use the netlib
automatic mail replier uucp research ! netlib , internet
netlib@ornl.gov. send one line message send index for more info ,
send haines from graphics to get the spd)

siggraph.org 128.248.245.250 siggraph archive site.
publications online bibliography project , conference proceedings
in various electronic formats (papers , panels) , siggraph video review
information and order forms.
other stuff in various directories.
automatic mailer is archive server@siggraph.org ( send index ).

ftp.cs.unc.edu 128.109.136.159 pub reaction diffusion greg turk 's work on
reaction diffusion textures , x windows code (siggraph '91)

avs.ncsc.org 128.109.178.23 ftp volvis92 volume datasets from the
boston workshop on volume visualization '92. this site is also the
international avs center.
terry myerson tvv@ncsc.org

uvacs.cs.virginia.edu 128.143.8.100 pub suit demo sparc , dec , etc suit
(simple user interface toolkit). finger suit@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu
to get detailed instructions.

nexus.yorku.ca 130.63.9.66 pub reports radiosity code.tar.z rad
pub reports radiosity thesis.ps.z rad msc. thesis
this site will be changed to ftp.yorku.ca in the near future

milton.u.washington.edu 128.95.136.1 ftp public veos veos virtual
reality and distributed applications prototyping environment
for unix. veos software support veos support@hitl.washington.edu
oldpublic fly fly ! 3d visualization software demo.
that package is built for fly throughs from various datasets in
near real time. there are binaries for many platforms.
also , much other virtual reality stuff.

zug.csmil.umich.edu 141.211.184.2 x xpecs 3d files (an lcd glass shutter
for amiga computers great for vr stuff ! )

sugrfx.acs.syr.edu 128.230.24.1 various stereo pair images.
has closed down (

sunsite.unc.edu 152.2.22.81 pub academic computer science virtual reality
final copy of the sugrfx.acs.syr.edu archive that ceased to exist.
it contains powerglove code , vr papers , 3d images and irc research
material.
jonathan magid jem@sunsite.unc.edu

archive.cis.ohio state.edu 128.146.8.52 pub siggraph92 code for
siggraph '92 course 23 (procedural modeling and rendering techniques)
dr. david s. ebert ebert@cis.ohio state.edu

lyapunov.ucsd.edu 132.239.86.10 this machine is considered the
repository for preprints and programs for nonlinear dynamics ,
signal processing , and related subjects (and fractals , of course ! )
matt kennel mbk@inls1.ucsd.edu

cod.nosc.mil 128.49.16.5 pub grid. ps , tex , ascii a short survey of
methods to interpolate and contour bivariate data

ics.uci.edu 128.195.1.1 honig various stereo pair images ,
movie.c animates a movie on an x display (8 bit and mono) with
digital subtraction.

taurus.cs.nps.navy.mil 131.120.1.13 pub dabro cyberware demo.tar.z human
head data

pioneer.unm.edu 129.24.9.217 pub texture maps hans du buf 's grayscale
test textures (aerial swatches , brodatz textures , synthetic swatches).
space planetary image repository. provides access to 150 cd roms
with data images (3 on line at a time).
pub info beginner info here you should start browsing.
colby kraybill opus@pioneer.unm.edu .

cs.brown.edu 128.148.33.66 srgp sphigs . for more info on srgp sphigs
mail s 'software distribution' graphtext@cs.brown.edu

pdb.pdb.bnl.gov 130.199.144.1 has data about various organic molecules ,
bonds between the different atoms , etc.
atomic coordinates (and a load of other stuff) are contained in the
.ent files , but the actual atomic dimemsions seem to be missing.
you could convert these data to pov , rayshade , etc.

biome.bio.ns.ca 142.2.20.2 pub art some renoir paintings ,
escher 's pictures , etc.

ic16.ee.umanitoba.ca specmark sample set of images from the
`images from the edge' cd rom (images of atomic landscapes , advanced
semiconductors , superconductors and experimental surface
chemistry among others). contact ruskin@ee.umanitoba.ca

explorer.dgp.toronto.edu 128.100.1.129 pub sgi clrpaint clrpaint
pub sgi clrview. clrview , a tool that aids in visualization
of gis datasets in may formats like dxf , dem , arc info , etc.

ames.arc.nasa.gov 128.102.18.3 pub space cdrom images from magellan
and viking missions etc. get pub space index first.
pub spacelink has most of the spacelink service data (see below)
e mail server available send mail to archive server@ames.arc.nasa.gov
(or ames ! archive server) with subject help
or send space index (without the quotes ! )
peter yee yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov

pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov 128.149.6.2 images , other data , etc. from jpl
missions. modem access at (818) 354 1333 (no parity , 8 data bits , 1
stop bit).
newsdesk@jplpost.jpl.nasa.gov or phone (818) 354 7170

spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov 128.158.13.250 (passwd guest) space graphics
and gif images from nasa 's planetary probes and the hubble telescope.
main function is support for teachers (you can telnet also to this
site). dial up access (205) 895 0028 (300 1200 2400 9600(v.32) baud ,
8 bits , no parity , 1 stop bit).

stsci.edu 130.167.1.2 hubble space telescope stuff (images and other
data). read the readme first !
pete reppert reppert@stsci.edu or chris o'dea odea@stsci.edu

pit manager.mit.edu 18.172.1.27 pub usenet news.answers the land of
faqs. graphics and pictures directories of particular interest.
also available from mail server@pit manager.mit.edu by sending a mail
message containing help

uucp archive avatar rt news back issues. for details , write kory hamzeh
kory@avatar.avatar.com


europe


nic.funet.fi 128.214.6.100 pub sci papers paper bank project ,
including pete shirley 's entire thesis (with pics) , wilson 's rt
abstracts , pub misc cia worldmap cia world data bank ,
comp.graphics.research archive , india , and much , much more.
juhana kouhia jk87377@cs.tut.fi

dasun2.epfl.ch 128.178.62.2 radiance. good for european sites , but
does n't carry the add ons that are available for radiance.

isy.liu.se 130.236.1.3 pub sipp sipp 3.0.tar.z sipp scan line z buffer
and phong shading renderer. jonas yngvesson jonas y@isy.liu.se

irisa.fr 131.254.2.3 ipsc2 vm pray ray tracer , spd , nff many non spd
nff format scenes , rayshade data files. didier badouel
badouel@irisa.irisa.fr may have disappeared

phoenix.oulu.fi 130.231.240.17 fli raytracker animation files (pc vga)
also big .flis (640 480) rayscene demos americans check wuarchive
first . more animations to come. jari kahkonen
hole@phoenix.oulu.fi

jyu.fi 128.214.7.5 pub graphics ray traces many ray tracers , including
vm pray , dbw , dkb , mtv , qrt , rayshade , some rt news , nff files. jari
toivanen toivanen@jyu.fi

garbo.uwasa.fi 128.214.87.1 much pc stuff , etc. , pc source contour.f
fortran program to contour scattered data using linear triangle based
interpolation

asterix.inescn.pt 192.35.246.17 pub rtrace rtrace nffutils.tar.z (nff
utilities for rtrace) , medical data (cat , etc.) converters to nff ,
autocad to nff autolisp code , autocad 11 to scn (rtrace 's language)
converter and other goodies. antonio costa (acc@asterix.inescn.pt)

vega.hut.fi 128.214.3.82 graphics rtn archive , ray tracers (mtv , qrt ,
others) , nff , some models.
it was shut down months ago , check under nic.funet.fi nfotis

sun4nl.nluug.nl 192.16.202.2 pub graphics raytrace dbw.microray , mtv , etc

unix.hensa.ac.uk misc unix ralcgm ralcgm.tar.z cgm viewer and
converter.
there 's an e mail server also mail to archive@unix.hensa.ac.uk
with the message body send misc unix ralcgm ralcgm.tar.z

maeglin.mt.luth.se 130.240.0.25 graphics raytracing prt , others , doc
wilson 's rt abstracts , vivid.

ftp.fu berlin.de 130.20.225.2 pub unix graphics rayshade4.0 inputs
aq.tar.z is rayshade aquarium americans check princeton.edu first).
heiko schlichting heiko@math.fu berlin.de

maggia.ethz.ch 129.132.17.1 pub inetray inetray and sun rpc 4.0 code
andreas thurnherr ant@ips.id.ethz.ch

osgiliath.id.dth.dk 129.142.65.24 pub amiga graphics radiance amiga
port of radiance 2.0 . per bojsen bojsen@ithil.id.dth.dk

ftp.informatik.uni oldenburg.de 134.106.1.9 pov raytracer
mirrored in wuarchive , has many goods for pov.
pub dkbtrace incoming polyray polyray raytracer
pub dkbtrace incoming pv3d pv3d

ftp.uni kl.de 131.246.9.95 pub amiga raytracing imagine mirror of
the hubcap imagine files.

neptune.inf.ethz.ch 129.132.101.33 xyz xyz geobench
peter schorn schorn@inf.ethz.ch

iamsun.unibe.ch 130.92.64.10 graphics graphtal a l system interpreter.
christoph streit streit@iam.unibe.ch

amiga.physik.unizh.ch 130.60.80.80 amiga gfx graphics stuff
for the amiga computer.

stesis.hq.eso.org 134.171.8.100 on line access to a huge astronomical
database. (login starcat no passwd)
decnet stesis (it 's the space telescope european coordination facility)
benoit pirenne bpirenne@eso.org , phone 49 89 320 06 433


middle east


gauss.technion.ac.il 132.68.112.60 kaleida


australia


gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au 128.250.70.62 pub vort(art) ray tracer , vogle ,
wilson 's ray tracing abstracts , pub contrib artscenes (art scenes from
italy) , pub images haines haines thesis images , graphics gems code ,
spd , nff off databases , nff and off previewers , plus some 8 and
24bit images and lots of other stuff. pub rad.tar.z sgi rad
bernie kirby bernie@ecr.mu.oz.au

munnari.oz.au 128.250.1.21 pub graphics vort.tar.z vort (art) 2.1 csg and
algebraic surface ray tracer , vogle , pub dbw , pbmplus. graphics
room.tar.z (art scenes from italy).
david hook dgh@munnari.oz.au

marsh.cs.curtin.edu.au 134.7.1.1 pub graphics bibliography facial animation ,
pub graphics bibliography morph , pub graphics bibliography ui
stuff about facial animation , morphing and user interfaces.
pub fascia fred parke 's fascia program.
valerie hall val@lillee.cs.curtin.edu.au


oceania asia


ccu1.aukland.ac.nz 130.216.1.5 ftp mac architec vision 3d facet
based modeller , can output rayshade files . many other neat things
for macs. paul bourke pdbourke@ccu1.aukland.ac.nz

scslwide.sony.co.jp 133.138.199.1 ftp2 sgi facial animation steve franks
site for facial animation.
steve franks stevef@csl.sony.co.jp or stevef@cs.umr.edu


4. mail servers and graphics oriented bbses


please check first with the ftp places above , with archie 's help.
do n't overuse mail servers.

there are some troubles with wrong return addresses. many of these
mail servers have a command like
path a valid return e mail address
to get a hint for sending back to you stuff.

dec 's ftpmail

send a one line message to ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com without a subject field ,
and having a line containing the word 'help'.
you should get back a message detailing the relevant procedures you
must follow in order to get the files you want.

note that the reply or answer command in your mailer will not work
for this message or any other mail you receive from ftpmail. to send
requests to ftpmail , send an original mail message , not a reply.
complaints should be sent to the ftpmail request@uucp gw 2.pa.dec.com
address rather than to postmaster , since decwrl 's postmaster is not
responsible for fixing ftpmail problems.

bitftp

for bitnet sites only , there 's bitftp@pucc.
send a one line 'help' message to this address for more info.

lightwave 3d mail based file server

a mail based file server for 3d objects , 24bit jpeg images , gif images
and image maps is now online for all those with internet mail access.
the server is the official archive site for the lightwave 3d mail list
and contains many pd and shareware graphics utilities for
several computer platforms including amiga , atari , ibm and macintosh.

the server resides on a bbs called the graphics bbs . the bbs is
operational 24 hours a day 7 days a week at the phone number of 1
908 469 0049. it has upgraded its modem to a hayes ultra 144
v.32bis v.42bis , which has speeds from 300bps up to 38 , 400bps.

if you would like to submit objects , scenes or images to the server ,
please pack , uuencode and then mail the files to the address
server@bobsbox.rent.com.

for information on obtaining files from the server send a mail message
to the address file server@graphics.rent.com with the following in
the body of the message
help
dir
and a help file describing how to use the server and a complete
directory listing will be sent to you via mail.

now it includes the cyberware head and shouders in ttddd format ! check it
out , only if you ca n't use ftp ! nfotis

inria graphlib

pierre jancene and sabine coquillart launched the inria graphlib mail
server a few months ago.

echo help mail inria graphlib@inria.fr

will give you a quick summary of what inria graphlib contains and
how to browse among its files.

echo send contents mail inria graphlib@inria.fr

will return the extended summary.

as an other example

echo send cgrl from misc mail inria graphlib@inria.fr

will return the computer graphics resource listing mirrored from
comp.graphics.

bbses

there are many bbses that store datafiles , etc.etc. , but a guide to these
is beyond the scope of this listing (and the resources of the author ! )
if you can point to me internet or mail accessible bbses that carry
interesting stuff , send me info !


studio amiga is a 3d modelling and ray tracing specific bbs , (817) 467 3658.
24 hours , 105 meg online.

from jeff walkup pwappy@well.sf.ca.us
the castle 415 355 2396 (14.4k v.32bis v.42 v.42bis mnp)
(in pacifica , dang close to san francisco , california , usa)
the new user password is tao .

j oin base 2 the castle g fx , anim , video , 3d s.i.g. , of which
i am the sig op , lazerus .

bob lindabury operates a bbs (see above the entry for the graphics bbs )

'you can call me ray' ray tracing related bbs in chicago suburbs (708 358 5611)
or (708 358 8721)

digital pixel (sysop mark ng mcng@descartes.waterloo.edu ) is based at
toronto , ontario , canada.

phone (416) 298 1487
storage space 330 megs
modem type 14.4k baud , 16.8k (zyxel) , v32bis , v32 , mnp 5

access fee none.. (free)
system supported dos , os 2 , amiga , mac.
netmail currently no echo mail.
topics raytracing , fractals , graphics programming , cad , any comp.
graphics related


from david tiberio dtiberio@ic.sunysb.edu

amiga graphics bbs (516) 473 6351 in long island , new york ,
running 24 hours at 14.4k v.32bis , with 157 megs on line.
we also subscribe to 9 mailing lists , of which 5 originate
from our bbs , with 3 more to be added soon. these include

lightwave , imagine , real 3d (ray tracing)

database files include
imagine 3d objects , 3d renderings , scalable fonts , music
modules , sound samples , demos , animations , utilities ,
text databases , and pending lightwave 3d objects.

the graphics alternative

the graphics alternative is in el cerrito , ca. , running 24 hours a
day at 14.4k hst v.32bis , with 642mb online and a 1300 user base.
tga runs two nodes , node 1 (510) 524 2780 is for public access and
includes a free 90 day trial subscription. tga is the west coast
host for pcgnet , the profesional cad and graphics network , supporting
nodes across the continental u.s. , alaska , new zealand , australia ,
france and the uk.

tga 's file database includes ms dos executables for pov , vivid ,
rtrace , rayshade , polyray , and others. tga also has numerous
graphics utilities , viewers , and conversion utilities. registered
vivid users can also download the latest vivid aeta code from a
special vivid conference.


from scott bethke sbathkey@access.digex.com

the intersection bbs , 410 250 7149.

this bbs is dedicated to supporting 3d animators.the system is provided
free of charge , and is not commercialized in anyway.
users are given full access on the first call.

features usenet news internet mail , fidonet echo 's netmail ,
200 megs online , v.32bis v.42bis modem.

platforms of interest amiga the videotoaster , macintosh , ms dos ,
unix workstations (sun , sgi , etc) , atari st.

from alfonso hermida afanh@robots.gsfc.nasa.gov

pi square bbs (301)725 9080 in maryland. it supports raytracers such as pov
and vivid. the bbs runs off a 486 33mhz , 100megs hard drive and cd rom.
now it runs on 1200 2400bps (this will change soon)

topics graphics programming , animation , raytracing , programming (general)

from lynn falkow roxxie@delphi.com

vertech design 's graphic connection. (503) 591 8412 in portland , oregon.
v.32 v.42bis.

the bbs , aside from carrying typical bbs services like message bases
( all topic specific ) and files ( cad and graphics related hundreds
of megabytes ) , also offers material texture files that are full color ,
seamlessly tiling , photo realistic images. there are samples available
to first time callers. the bbs is a subscription system although callers
have 2 hours before they must subscribe , and there are several subscription
rates available. people interested in materials can subscribe to the
library in addition to a basic subscription rate , and can use their
purchased time to download whichever materials they wish.



5. ray tracing graphics related mailing lists


imagine

modeling and animation system for the amiga
send subscription requests to imagine request@email.sp.paramax.com
send material to imagine@email.sp.paramax.com
(dave wickard has substituted steve worley in the maintenance of
the mailing list) please note that the unisys.com address is
no longer valid ! ! !

lightwave

(for the amiga. it 's part of newtek 's video toaster)
send subscription requests to lightwave request@bobsbox.rent.com
send material to lightwave@bobsbox.rent.com
(bob lindabury)

toaster

send subscription requests to listserv@karazm.math.uh.edu with a body of
subscribe toaster list

real 3d

another modeling and animation system for the amiga
to subscribe , send a mail containing the body

subscribe real3d l your full name

to listserv@gu.uwa.edu.au

rayshade

send subscription requests to rayshade request@cs.princeton.edu
send material to rayshade users@cs.princeton.edu
(craig kolb)

alladin 4d for the amiga

send subscription requests to subscribe@xamiga.linet.org

and in the body of the message write

alladin 4d username@domain

radiance

greg ward , the author , sends to registered (via e mail) users digests of
his correspodence with them , notes about fixes , updates , etc.
his address is gjward@lbl.gov

rend386

send subscription requests to rend386 request@sunee.waterloo.edu
send material to rend386@sunee.waterloo.edu

pov ray dkb raytracers

to subscribe , send a mail containing the body

subscribe dkb l your full name

to listserv@trearn.bitnet

send material to dkb l@trearn.bitnet

mailing list for massively parallel rendering

send subscription requests to mp render request@icase.edu
send material to mp render@icase.edu



6. 3d graphics editors


a. public domain , free and shareware systems


vision 3d

mac based program written by paul d. bourke (pdbourke@ccu1.aukland.ac.nz).
the program can be used to generate models directly in the rayshade
and radiance file formats (polygons only).
it 's shareware and listed on the ftp list.

brl

a solid modeling system for most environments including sgi and x11.
it has csg and nurbs , plus support for non manifold geometry
whatever it is .

you can get it free via ftp by signing and returning the relevant license ,
found on ftp.brl.mil. uses ray tracing for engineering analyses.

contact

ms. carla moyer
(410) 273 7794 tel.
(410) 272 6763 fax
cad dist@brl.mil e mail

snail mail

brl cad distribution
surviac aberdeen satellite office 1003
old philadelphia road ,
suite 103 aberdeen
md 21001 usa

irit

a constructive solid geometry (csg) modeling program for pc and x11.
includes freeform surface support. free see ftp list for where to
find it.

surfmodel

a solid modeling program for pc written in turbo pascal 6.0 by
ken van camp. available from simtel , pd1 msdos.srfmodl directory.

noodles

from cmu , namely fritz printz and levent gursoz (elg@styx.edrc.cmu.edu).
it 's based on non manifold topology.
ask them for more info , i do n't know if they give it away.

xyz2

xyz2 is an interactive 3 d editor builder written by dale p. stocker to
create objects for the surfacemodel , automove , and dkb raytracer packages.
xyz2 is free and can be found , for example , in simtel20 as
msdos.surfmodl xyz21.zip (dos only \? \? )

3dmod

it 's an msdos program. check at barnacle.erc.clarkson.edu 128.153.28.12 ,
pub msdos graphics 3dmod. . undocumented file format (
3dmod is (c) 1991 by micah silverman , 25 pierrepoint ave. , postdam ,
new york 13676 , tel. 315 265 7140

northcad

shareware , msdos.cad ncad3d42.zip in simtel20. undocumented file format (

vertex

(amiga)
shareware , send 40 us (check or money order) to

the art machine , 4189 nickolas
sterling heights , mi 48310
usa

in addition to the now standard file formats , including lightwave ,
imagine , sculpt , turbo silver , geo and wavefront , this release offers
3d professional and rayshade support. (rayshade is supported only by
the primitive triangle , but you can easily include this output in
your rayshade scripts)

the latest demo , version 1.62 , is available on fred fish 727.

for more information , contact the author , alex deburie , at

ad99s461@sycom.mi.org , phone (313) 939 2513


icoons

(amiga)
it 's a spline based object modeller ( icoons interactive
coons path editor) in amiga.physik.unizh.ch (gfx 3d icoons1.0.lzh).
it 's free (under the gnu licence) and requires fpu.

the program has a look feel which is a cross between journeyman and
imagine , and it generates objects in ttddd format.

it is possible to load journeyman objects into icoons , so the program
can be used to convert jman objects to imagine format.

author helge e. rasmussen her@compel.dk
phone 45 36 72 33 00 , fax 45 36 72 43 00

it 's also on fred fish disk series n.775 nfotis


protocad 3d

ver 1.1 from trius (shareware \? )

it 's at wsmr simtel20.army.mil and oak.oakland.edu as pcad3d.zip (for pcs)

it has this menu layout

file file handling (load , save , import , xport...)
draw draw 2d objects (line , circle , box...)
3d draw 3d objects (mesh , sphere , block...)
edit editing features (copy , move ...)
surface modify objects (revolve , xtrude , sweep...)
image image zooming features (update , window , half...)
option global defaults (grid , toggles , axis...)
plot print drawing picture (go , image...)
render shade objects (frame , lighting , tune...)
layer layer options (select active layer , set colors...)

sculptura

runs under windows 3.1 , and outputs pov files. a demo can be found
on wuarchive.wustl.edu in mirrors win3 demo demo3d.zip

author michael gibson gibsonm@stein.u.washington.edu


b. commercial systems


alpha 1

a spline based modeling program written in university of utah.
features splines up to trimmed nurbs support for boolean operations
sweeps , bending , warping , flattening etc. groups of objects , and
transformations extensible object types.
applications include nc machining , animation utilities ,
dimensioning , fem analysis , etc.
rendering subsystem , with support for animations.
support the following platforms hp 300 and 800 's (x11r4 , hp ux 6.5) ,
sgi 4d or pi machines (x11r4 and gl , irix 3.3.1) , sun sparcstation
(x11r4 , sunos 4.1.1).

licensing and distribution is handled by egs
glenn mcminn , president
engineering geometry systems
275 east south temple , suite 305
salt lake city , ut 84111
(801) 575 6021
mcminn@cs.utah.edu

educational pricing
the charge is 675 per platform. you may run the system on as many
different workstations of that type as you wish. for each platform
there is also a 250 licensing fee for portable standard lisp (psl)
which is bundled with the system. you need to obtain an additional
license from the university of utah for psl from the following address
professor robert kessler
computer science department
university of utah
salt lake city , utah 84112

egs can handle the licensing of psl for u.s. institutions for a
300 usd nominal fee nfotis

vertigo


they have an educational institution program. the package is used in
the industrial design , architectural , scientific visualization ,
educational , broadcast , imaging and post production fields.

they 'll quoting from a letter sent to me nfotis donate fully
configured vertigo 3d graphics software worth over 29 , 000usd per
package to qualified educational institutions for licencing on any
number of silicon graphics personal iris or power series workstations.
if you use an iris indigo station , we will also licence our vertigo
revolution software (worth 12 , 000usd).

if you are interested in participating in this program please send a
letter by mail or fax (604 684 2108) on your institution 's letterhead
briefly outlining your potential uses for vertigo together with the
following information 1. unix version 2. model and number of sgi
systems 3. peripheral devices 4. third party software.

participants will be asked to contribute 750usd per institution to cover
costs of the manual , administration , and shipping.

we recommend that vertigo users subscribe to our technical support
services. for an annual fee you will receive technical assistance
on our support hotline , bug fixes , software upgrades and manual updates.
for educational institution we will waive the 750 administration fee
if support is purchased.

the annual support fee is 2 , 500 plus the following cost for additional
machines

number of machines 2 20 20
additional cost per machine 700 600

there 's also a 5 day training program nfotis

contact
vertigo technology inc
suite 1010
1030 west georgia st.
vancouver , bc
canada , v6e 2y3

phone 604 684 2113
fax 604 684 2108

does anyone know of such offers from tdi , alias , softimage , wavefront ,
etc. \? \? \? this would be a very interesting part ! ! nfotis

padl 2

basically , it 's a solid modeling kernel in top of which you build your
application(s)

available by license from
cornell programmable automation
cornell university
106 engineering and theory center
ithaca , ny 14853

license fees are very low for educational institutions and gov't agencies.
internal commercial licenses and re dissemination licenses are available.
for an information packet , write to the above address , or send your
address to marisa@cpa.tn.cornell.edu (richard marisa)

acis

from spatial technology. it 's a solid modelling kernel callable from c.
heard that many universities got free copies from the company.
the person to contact regarding acis in academic institutions is

scott owens , e mail sdo@spatial.com

and their address is

spatial technology , inc.
2425 55th st. , bldg. a
boulder , co 80301 5704
phone (303) 449 0649 , fax (303) 449 0926

movie byu cquel.byu

basically in my understanding , this is a fem pre and post proccessor
system. it 's fairly old today , but it still serves some people in
mech. eng. depts.
now it 's superseded from cquel.byu (pronounced sequel ). that 's a
complete modelling , animation and visualization package. runs in the usual
workstation environments (sun , dec , hp , sgi , ibm rs6000 , and others)
you can get a demo version (30 days trial period) either by sending 20
usd in their address or a blank tape. it costs 1 , 500 for a full run time
licence.

contact

engineering computer graphics lab
368 clyde building , brigham young univ.
provo , ut 84602
phone 801 378 2812
e mail cquel@byu.edu


twixt

soon to add stuff about it... if i get a reply to my fax

voxblast

it 's a volume renderer marketed by
vaytek inc. (fairfield , iowa phone 515 472 2227) , running on pcs
with 386 fpu at least. call vaytek for more info.

voxelbox

a 3d volume renderer for windows. features include direct
ray traced volume rendering , color and alpha mapping ,
gradient lighting , animation , reflections and shadows.

runs on a pc(386 or higher) with at least an 8 bit video card(svga is fine)
under windows 3.x. it costs 495.

contact

jaguar software inc.
573 main st. , suite 9b
winchester , ma 01890
(617) 729 3659
jwp@world.std.com (john w poduska)



7. scene description languages


nff

neutral file format , by eric haines. very simple , there are some
procedural database generators in the spd package , and many objects
floating in various ftp sites. there 's also a previewer written in
hp starbase from e.haines. also there 's one written in vogle , so you can
use any of the devices vogle can output on.
(check in sites carrying vogle , like gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au)

off

object file format , from dec 's randy rost (rost@kpc.com).
the object archive server seems to be mothballed. in a future version ,
i 'll remove the ref. to it nfotis

available also through their mail server. to obtain help about using this
service , send a message with a subject line containing only the word
help and a null message body to object archive server@decwrl.dec.com.
for ftp places to get it , see in the relevant place . there 's an off
previewer for sgi 4d machines , called off preview in
godzilla.cgl.rmit.oz.au . there are previewers for xview and sunview ,
also on gondwana.

tddd

it 's a library of 3d objects with translators to from off , nff ,
rayshade , imagine or vort objects.
edited copy of the announcement follows (from raytracing news , v4 , 3)

new library of 3d objects available via ftp , by steve worley
(worley@cup.portal.com)

i have assembled a set of over 150 3d objects in a binary format
called tddd. these objects range from human figures to airplanes ,
from semi trucks to lampposts. these objects are all freely
distributable , and most have readmes that describe them.

in order to convert these objects to a human readable format , a file
with the specification of tddd is included in the directory with the
objects. there is also a shareware system called ttdddlib (officially
on hubcap.clemson.edu) that will convert (ala pbm ) to from various
object formats imagine ttddd (extension of tddd \? ) , off , nff ,
rayshade 4.0 , or vort. source included for amiga unix as executables
for the amiga. also outputs framemaker mif files and isometric views
in postscript.

p3d

from pittsburgh supercomputing center. the p3d uses lisp with slight
extensions to store three dimensional models. a simple lisp
interpreter is included with the p3d release , so there is no need to
have access to any vendor 's lisp to run this software.

the mouse driven user interfaces for motif , open look , and silicon
graphics gl , and the drawp3d subroutine library for generating p3d
without ever looking at the underlying lisp.

the p3d software currently supports nine renderers. they are
painter painter 's algorithm , dore , silicon graphics inc. gl language ,
generic phigs , sun phigs , dec phigs , rayshade , art ray tracer (from
vort package) and pixar renderman.

the code is available via anonymous ftp from the machines
ftp.psc.edu , directory pub p3d , and nic.funet.fi , directory
pub graphics programs p3d.

renderman

pixar 's renderman is not free call pixar for details.



8. solids description formats


a. eec 's esprit project 322 cad i (cad interfaces) has developed a
neutral file format for transfer of cad data (curves , surfaces , and
solid models between cad systems and from cad to caa (computer aided
analysis) an cam (computer aided manufacturing)

b. iges v. 5.1 now tries to define a standard to tranfer solid
models brep and csg. the current standard number is ansi y14.26m 1987
for documentation , you might want to contact nancy flower at
ncga technical services and standards , 1 800 225 6242 ext. 325
and the cost is 100.
this standard is not available in electronic format.

c. pdes step this slowly emerging standard tries to encompass not only
the geometrical information , but also for things like fem , etc.
the main bodies besides this standard are nist and darpa. you can get
more information about pdes by sending mail to nptserver@cme.nist.gov
and putting the line
send index
in the body (not the subject ) area of the message.

the people at rutherford appleton lab. are also working
on step tools they have an express compiler and an exchange file parser ,
both available in source form (and for free) for research purposes.
soon they will also have an express based database system.

for the tools contact mike mead , phone 44 (0235) 44 6710 (fax x 5893) ,
e mail mm@inf.rl.ac.uk or ... ! mcsun ! uknet ! rlinf ! mm or
mm inf.rl.ac.uk@nsfnet relay.ac.uk



end of part 1 of the resource listing

nick (nikolaos) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece
home 16 esperidon st. , internet nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr
halandri , gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! theseas ! nfotis
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578

from scott@fcs280s.ncifcrf.gov (michael scott)
subject canon copier printer postscript questions.
nntp posting host fcs280s.ncifcrf.gov
organization frederick cancer research and development center
lines 53


printer model and specification

canon clc 500 (color laser copier)
ps ipu unit (postscript intelligent processing unit)


hello ,

we have recently purchased a very expensive and nice color copier printer.
we want to be able to print to it from our sgi iris network. the
copier printer has both a parallel and scsi interface. i have configured the
printer with the lp system using the parallel interface and can print
postscript files to the printer. i can also print rgb files , but these are in
turn converted to postscript by an internal filter. the canon clc 500 is a
publication quality printer but the quality of our postscript printouts
are less than acceptable. we create the postscript files with a variaty of
programs , such as showcase , xv , and tops. when we convert to postscript
with tops and use the l option to specify the halftone screen density of 98
rather than the default 40 the output is better , but still much less that
acceptable. note , that we are starting with a screen image in rgb image format
and translating the image into postscript.

we suspect that if we could use the scsi interface we would get higher quality
pictures. we have not purchased the software that drives the printer from the
scsi port. to my knowledge this software is 5000 and does not come with a
warranty. the management here does not want to spend this much money without
some assurance that the product will work.


here my questions

if anybody on the net uses this printer are you using the scsi or
parallel port \? what is the quality of the printouts \?

is there a way to create high quality postscript printouts \? what is the
limiting component , the postscript language or the postscript interpretor on
the printer \?

the big question

where can i get some software to drive the scsi port for this printer \?



please email directly to me , i do n't not read news on a regular basis.
i will post a summary.

thanks in advance.


e mail scott@ncifcrf.gov , phone (301) 846 5798
title sr. systems manager analyst

from tlc@cx5.com
subject .scf files , help needed
reply to tlc@cx5.com
organization cx5 (san francisco)
lines 24



i 've got an old demo disk that i need to view. it was made using rix softworks.
the files on the two diskette set end with .scf

the demo was vga resolution (256 colors) , but i do n't know the spatial
resolution.

first problem when i try to run the demo , the screen has two black bars that
cut across (horizontally) the screen , in the top third and bottom third of the
screen. the bars are about 1 inch wide. other than this , the demo (the
animation part) seems to be running fine.

second problem i ca n't find any graphics program that will open and display
these files. i have a couple of image conversion programs , none mention .scf
files.

the system i am using 486clone , diamond speedstar 24 , sony monitor.

any suggestions \?

thank you ,
t. castro
tlc@cx5.com

from wdm@world.std.com (wayne michael)
subject re xv under ms dos \? ! \?
organization n a
lines 12

no e mail address@eicn.etna.ch writes

hi ... recently i found xv for ms dos in a subdirectory of gnu cc (gnuish). i

please tell me where you where you ftp 'd this from \? i would like to have
a copy of it. (i would have mailed you , but your post indicates you have no mail
address...)



wayne michael
wdm@world.std.com

from mini@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (padmini srivathsa)
subject wanted info on image databases
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator mini@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

guess the subject says it all.
i would like references to any introductory material on image
databases.
please send any pointers to mini@point.cs.uwm.edu

thanx in advance !






mini mini@point.cs.uwm.edu mini@csd4.csd.uwm.edu



from sean@whiting.mcs.com (sean gum)
subject re cview answers
organization whiting corporation , harvey , illinois
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 11

renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
a very kind soul has mailed me this reply for the bugs in cview.
since he is n't in the position to post this himself , he asked me to post
it for him , but to leave his name out. so here it comes

cview has quite a number of bugs. the one you mention is perhaps the most

a stupid question , but what will cview run on and where can i get it \? i
am still in need of a gif viewer for linux. (without x windows.)
thanks !


from brr1@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (brant richard ritter)
subject computer graphics to vcr \?
organization lehigh university
lines 15


help my friend and i have a class project in which we are trying to make
a computer animated movie of sorts with the disney animation and would
like to put what we have on a vcr is this possible \? is it easy and
relatively cheap \? if so how \? we both have 386 ibm compatibles but are
relatively clueless with computers if you could help please do.

thanx.

brant ritter

moshing a cosmic cesspool of physical delight.
a. kiedas
rhcp


from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject re newsgroup split
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu


in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu , tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes
concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon


i agree with you. of cause i 'll try to be a daemon )

yeh
usc

from luis.nobrega@filebank.cts.com (luis nobrega)
subject pc paintbrush iv
distribution world
organization the file bank bbs fallbrook , ca 619 728 4318
reply to luis.nobrega@filebank.cts.com (luis nobrega)
lines 11

i am trying to configure zsoft 's pc paintbrush iv for use with my
logitech scanman 32 (hand scanner) , but i ca n't get paintbrush to
acknowledge the scanner. is there anybody out there using paintbrush
with a scanner , if so , can you help me out \?
thanks luis nobrega



the file bank bbs 619 728 4318 pcboard v.14.5a e10 usr hst ds
8 nodes rime internet largest clipper file collection in the world


from rowlands@pocomoco.nosubdomain.nodomain (jon rowlands)
subject re more gray levels out of the screen
nntp posting host pocomoco.hc.ti.com
reply to rowlands@hc.ti.com (jon rowlands)
organization texas instruments , spdc , dsp technology branch , dallas
lines 51

in article 1pp991 t63@cc.tut.fi , jk87377@lehtori.cc.tut.fi (kouhia juhana)
writes
in article 1993apr5.040819.14943@kpc.com hollasch@kpc.com (steve
hollasch) writes

i think you 're proposal would work to get an extra one , maybe two extra
bits of color resolution. however , if you had a display that chould do only
zero or full intensity for each primary , i do n't think you 'd get great
equivalent 24 bit photographs.

i have not suggested to do so i wrote about problems , and the problem
were clearly visible with 7 bit b w images not to mention 24 bit images.

description of experiment deleted

if the 1 bit images are viewed quickly and in sync with screen ,
then 100 intensities could be better than we have i dunno.

more deleted

in any case , getting black color with slow machines is problem.
i could try it on our 8 bit screens but i do n't know how to
render pixels with x in constant time. i recall our double buffer
has other image color and one b w that does n't help either.
maybe i should dump photos to screen with low level code how \?

a few years ago a friend and i took some 256 grey level photos from
a 1 bit mac plus screen using this method. displaying all 256 levels
synchronized to the 60hz display took about 10 seconds. after
experimenting with different aperture settings and screen
brightnesses we found a range that worked well , giving respectable
contrast. the quality of the images was pretty good. there were no
visible contrast bands.

to minimize the exposure time the display program built 255
different 1 bit frames. the first contained a dot only for pixels
that had value 255 , the second only for pixels that had value 254 ,
etc. these frames were stored using a sparse data structure that was
very fast to 'or' onto the screen in sequence. creating these
frames sometimes took 5 10 minutes on that old mac , but the camera
shutter was closed during that time anyway. and yes , we wrote
directly to the screen memory. mea culpa.

our biggest problem was that small images were displayed in the
top left corner of the screen instead of the center. it took
an extra week to have the film developed and printed , because the
processors took the trouble to manually move the all images into
the center of the print. who 'd have guessed \?

regards ,
jon rowlands

from cptully@med.unc.edu (christopher p. tully , pathology , 62699)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
nntp posting host helix.med.unc.edu
reply to cptully@med.unc.edu
organization unc ch school of medicine
lines 40

in article 8hc@mentor.cc.purdue.edu , ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b) writes
in article 1993apr10.160929.696@galki.toppoint.de ulrich@galki.toppoint.de
writes
according to the tiff 5.0 specification , the tiff version number
(bytes 2 3) 42 has been chosen for its deep philosophical
significance .
last week , i read the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy ,
is this actually how they picked the number 42 \?

i'm sure it is , and i am not amused. every time i read that part of the
tiff spec , it infuriates me and i'm none too happy about the
complexity of the spec anyway because i think their arbitrary but
carefully chosen number is neither. additionally , i find their
choice of 4 bytes to begin a file with meaningless of themselves why
not just use the letters tiff \?

(and no , i do n't think they should have bothered to support both word
orders either and i 've found that many tiff readers actually
do n't.)

ab

why so up tight \? for that matter , tiff6 is out now , so why not gripe
about its problems \? also , if its so important to you , volunteer to
help define or critique the spec.

finally , a little numerology 42 is 24 backwards , and tiff is a 24 bit
image format...

chris


christopher p. tully cptully@med.unc.edu
univ. of north carolina chapel hill
cb 7525 (919) 966 2699
chapel hill , nc 27599

i get paid for my opinions , but that does n't mean that unc or anybody
else agrees with them.


from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re thining algorithm
organization purdue university
lines 15

in article 1q7615innmi@shelley.u.washington.edu kshin@stein.u.washington.edu
(kevin shin) writes
i am trying obtain program to preprocess handwriting characters.
like thining algorithm , graph alogrithm.
do anyone know where i can obtain those \?

i usually use algorithms for graphics and image processing by
theodosios pavlidis , but other people here got them same idea and now
3 of 4 copies in the libraries have been stolen !

another reference is digital image processing by gonzalez and
wintz wood , which is widely available but a little expensive ( 55
here i just checked today).

ab

from trb3@ra.msstate.edu (tony r. boutwell)
subject hot new 3d software
keywords imagine , 3d
nntp posting host ra.msstate.edu
organization mississippi state university
lines 20

there is a new product for the (ibm'ers) out there... it is called
imagine and it just started shipping yesterday... i can personally attest that it will blow the doors off of 3d studio. it is made by impulse , and is in its
3rd version....(1st) for the ibm.... it can do morphing , your standard key framming animation , it is a raytracer (reflections shadows) , and can do apply special fx to objects... (like ripple , explode , bounce) things of that nature. also it has algorithmic texture maps....and your standard brushmapping also...

you can have animated brushmaps...(ie. live video mapped on the objs)...
also animated backdrops (ie. live video backgrounds)
also animted reflections maps....

you get the idea.... it will run for about 500 retail (i think)...

dont let the low price fool you.... this product can do it all when it
comes to 3d animation and renderering... !

also....does anyone here know how to get in the imagine mailing list \? \?
please e mail me if you do or post up here....

oh...the number for impulse is 1 800 328 0184

trb3@ra.msstate.edu


from tiang@midway.ecn.uoknor.edu (tiang)
subject vesa standard vga svga programming \? \? \?
nntp posting host midway.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
keywords vga
lines 34

hi ,

i have a few question about graphics programming in vga svga

1. how vesa standard works \? any documentation for vesa standard \?

2. at a higher resolution than 320x200x256 or 640x480x16 vga mode ,
where the video memory a0000 affff is no longer sufficient to hold
all info , what is the trick to do fast image manipulation \? i
heard about memory mapping or video memory bank switching but know
nothing on how it is implemented. any advice , anyone \?

3. my interest is in 640x480x256 mode. should this mode be called
svga mode \? what is the technique for fast image scrolling for the
above mode \? how to deal with different svga cards \?


your guidance to books or any other sources to the above questions
would be greatly appreciated. please send me mail.


thanks in advance !




tiang t. foo
tiang@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu



tiang t. foo
tiang@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu


organization city university of new york
from nt3qc@cunyvm.bitnet
subject re hot new 3d software
lines 16

i do n't think speed has been determined , since it has never run on intel chips.
but on the amiga 's motorola chips , it was one of the fastest true 'ray tracers'

i do n't think impulse would port it over and not take speed into consideration.

in terms of features , and learning curve... all that you stated for 3ds is also
true for imagine , and lots more... but i 'll have to admit that after 3 years of
use on the amiga , the learning curve is very steep. this is due only to the
manual. it is realy bad. however , there is a lot of after market support for
this product , including regular 'tips' articles in many magazines such as avid
and a great book by steve worley called understanding imagine 2.0 this book i
is not just recommened , it is a must !

i think an important consideration should be price......
3000 for 3ds (not including tool packages)
under 500 for imagine complete.

from mz@moscom.com (matthew zenkar)
subject re cview answers
organization moscom corp. , e. rochester , ny
lines 15
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

cyberspace buddha (cb@wixer.bga.com) wrote
renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
over where it places its temp files it just places them in its
current directory .

i have to beg to differ on this point , as the batch file i use
to launch cview cd 's to the dir where cview resides and then
invokes it. every time i crash cview , the 0 byte temp file
is found in the root dir of the drive cview is on.

i posted this as well before the cview expert . apparently , he thought he
knew better.

matthew zenkar
mz@moscom.com

from beaver@rot.qc.ca (andre boivert)
subject photoshop for windows
organization groupe de recherche operationnelle en telecommunication (rot) inc.
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 13



i am looking for comments from people who have used heard about photoshop
for windows. is it good \? how does it compare to the mac version \? is there
a lot of bugs (i heard the windows version needs fine tuning) \?

any comments would be greatly appreciated..

thank you.

andre boisvert
beaver@rot.qc.ca


from sigma@rahul.net (kevin martin)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 14

in 1r0ms5 k65@ratatosk.uninett.no joachim@kih.no (joachim lous) writes
does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?
i do n't know where douglas adams took it from , but i'm pretty sure he 's
the one who launched it (in the guide). since then it 's been showing up
all over the place.

douglas adams once said (paraphrased from memory) i just picked it. it
seemed like the sort of number you would n't be afraid to take home to meet
your parents. nice and even , perfectly normal.


kevin martin
sigma@rahul.net
i gotta get me another hat.

from danj@welchgate.welch.jhu.edu (dan jacobson)
subject re is there an ftp achive for usgs terrain data
organization johns hopkins univ. welch medical library
lines 123


diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel) writes

is there an ftp archive for united states geological services (usgs)
terrain data \? if so , where \?

point your gopher client at merlot.welch.jhu.edu

and select the following directories

13. search and retrieve software

8. search and retrieve graphics software and data


and you 'll see




1. graphics online bibliography (acm siggraph)
2. graphics software and data archives (ftp sites)
3. search all graphics information \?
4. search comp.graphics faq \?
5. search graphics resources (software and data) \?
6. search pictures utilities faq \?


1. graphics online bibliography (acm siggraph)

searches and archives of bibliographic database that covers
graphics literature for over a hundred years (served
by a gopher hole in austria).


2. graphics software and data archives (ftp sites)

has links to over 70 sites around the world which
have software and or data for computer graphics.
this can be used on its own or as a companion to the
searches found in this directory which will point you
toward software and data at various places.


3. search all graphics information \?
4. search comp.graphics faq \?
5. search graphics resources (software and data) \?
6. search pictures utilities faq \?


these searches contain a wealth of information about
computer graphics , data , software , techniques etc...

3. search all graphics information \?

will simply search all of the information contained
in searches 4 , 5 , and 6.

4. search comp.graphics faq \?

lets you search the faq (frequently asked questions)
from the comp.graphics newsgroup compiled by john
grieggs at the jpl.

5. search graphics resources (software and data) \?

lets you search the grpahics resource listing of
software and data provided by nick fotis at the
national technical univ. of athens.

6. search pictures utilities faq \?

lets you search the faq (frequently asked questions)
from the alt.binaries.pixutils newsgroup compiled by
jim howard at cadence.


select

3. search all graphics information \?

and search for

usgs


and you 'll find out some information about usgs data availability.

now select

2. graphics software and data archives (ftp sites)

and you might find the following interesting

12. cartographic data usgs data (xerox)

42. mapgen plotgen and more (usgs)

68. usgs weekly seismicity reports (including maps gif)

68. usgs earth science data directory
(this actually is a database of available data search
it for terrain could prove quite useful.)

one other place to look is only available by anonymous ftp at
the moment

us geological survey maps isdres.er.usgs.gov (130.11.48.2).


if you 've never heard of gopher do n't worry it 's free and on the net ,
write me a note if you 'd like information on how to get started.


best of luck ,

dan jacobson

danj@welchgate.welch.jhu.edu

johns hopkins university



from tessmann@cs.ubc.ca (markus tessmann)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
organization computer science , university of b.c. , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 16
nntp posting host larry.cs.ubc.ca

stgprao@st.unocal.com (richard ottolini) writes

they need a hit software product to encourage software sales of the product ,
i.e. the pong , pacman , visicalc , dbase , or pagemaker of multi media.
there are some multi media and digital television products out there already ,
albeit , not as capable as 3do 's. but are there compelling reasons to buy
such yet \? perhaps someone in this news group will write that hit software )

i 've just had the good fortune to be hired by electronic arts as senior
computer graphics artist at the vancouver , canada office. )

the timing has a lot to do with the 3do which ea is putting a lot of resources
into. i do not know of any titles to be developed as yet but will be happy to
post as things develop. i start there may 3.

markus tessmann

from kmembry@viamar.uucp (kirk membry)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
reply to rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry
organization private system
lines 11

read issue 2 of wired magazine. it has a long article on the hype of
3do. i 've noticed that every article talks with the designers and how
great it is , but never show any pictures of the output (or at least
pictures that one can understand)




kirk membry our age is the age of industry
rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry alexander rodchenko


from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization boeing
lines 30

in article 1993apr17.092051.19814@kth.se d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte) writes
in z2442b4w164w@cellar.org tsa@cellar.org (the silent assassin) writes

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

i think apda has something called macwireframe which is a full
wire frame (and supposedly hidden line removal) library.
i think it weighs in at 99 (but i 've been wrong on an order
of magnitude before)


i spoke with the author of macwireframe earlier today. the cost is 299 , but there
are no license royalties. his name is eric johnson in sacramento , ca phone
916 737 1550. he does n't have email. very nice guy... very knowledgeable about
graphics. seems like he may have a decent package. it 's an object pascal framework
that supposedly has a fairly complete set of geometry creation classes.
i'm going to check it out and see if it 's got what i need for my cad package.

i also found another package 3d graphic tools by micro system options in seattle.
the number is 206 868 5418 , also no email. the package is strong at ray tracing ,
i'm not too sure about its geometry creation tools. i also need to look into this
package some more. i also spoke with the author , mark owens , another nice
guy that seems to know his business. the price is 249 , no royalties.

bobc



from cs60805@basin04.cacs.usl.edu (rao koganti srinivasa)
subject polygon fill routine needed ....
organization the center for advanced computer studies
lines 18



hi ,


i am looking for a polygon fill routine to fill
simple 4 sided polygons .

can some one who has this routine in c help me in
saving my reinventing time.

thanx in advance .....




rao.


from neideck@nestvx.enet.dec.com (burkhard neidecker lutz)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
organization cec karlsruhe
lines 17
nntp posting host nestvx

in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu writes
wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these ,
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup. 8 d

the 68070 is a variation of the 68010 that was done a few years ago by
the european partners of motorola. it has some integrated i o controllers
and half a mmu , but otherwise it 's a 68010. think of it the same as
the 8086 and 80186 were.

burkhard neidecker lutz

distributed multimedia group , cec karlsruhe eerp portfolio manager
software motion pictures berkom ii project multimedia base technology
digital equipment corporation
neidecker@nestvx.enet.dec.com


from raynor@cs.scarolina.edu (harold brian raynor)
subject help needed on hidden line removal
summary need help with roberts algorithm hidden line removal
keywords hidden line graphics 3d
organization usc department of computer science
distribution comp
lines 20


i am looking for some information of hidden line removal using roberts
algorithm. something with code , or pseudo code would be especially
helpful.

i am required to do this for a class , due monday (we have very little
time to implement these changes , it is a very fast paced class). the
notes given in class leave a lot to be desired , so i would vastly
appreciate any help.

actually any algorithm would be nice (roberts or no). the main problem
is two objects intersecting in x and y dimensions , need to know which
lines to clip off so that one object will appear in front of another.

if you can give me an ftp address and filename , or even the name of a
good book , i 'd really appreciate it.

thanks ,
brian raynor


from srp@travis.csd.harris.com (stephen pietrowicz)
subject surface normal orientations
article i.d. travis.1pscti aqe
organization harris csd , ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 20
nntp posting host travis.csd.harris.com

some rendering programs require that all surface normals point in the same
direction. (ie on a closed cube , all normals point outwards). you can use
the points on the faces to determine the direction of the normal , by making
sure that all points are either in clockwise or counter clockwise order.

how do you go about orienting all normals in the same direction , given a
set of points , edges and faces \? say that you had a cube with all faces that
have their normals facing outwards , except for one face. what 's the
best way to realize that face is flipped , and should have it 's points
re ordered \? i thought i had a good way of telling this , but then realized
that the algorithm i had would only tell you if you had points in clockwise
order for a 2d polygon. i 'd like something for 3d data.

any hints , tips , references would be appreciated.

steve

where humor is concerned there are no standards no one can say what is good
or bad , although you can be sure that everyone will. john kenneth galbraith
these opinions are my own.

from crussell@netcom.com (chris russell)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42 (silly)
organization adaptive solutions , custom software support 909 861 4048
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 40

mark wilson (mark@ocsmd.ocs.com) wrote
mark a. cartwright (markc@emx.utexas.edu) wrote
42 is 101010 binary , and who would forget that its the
answer to the question of life , the universe , and everything else.
of course the question has not yet been discovered...

but it was discovered (sort of). the question was what is 7 times 8 \?

read on and there 's a special prize at the bottom. amaze your friends
and gain respect from your peers that you can carry on so long about the
number 42.

the original question was what is the meaning of life , the universe , and
and everything. the answer generated by deep thought (the 2nd largest
computer ever created) was 42. deep thought realized that to understand
the answer , one must really know what the question is. unfortunately , he
did n't. but he was able to help build the largest computer (named earth)
which could figure out the real question. (i know this is background
knowledge for everyone here... just bear with me a sec... )

when arthur pulled the scrabble tiles out of the bag , he spelled out
what is nine times six \? (or the like). however , it is not clear that
the monkey man had the right question in his brain , especially since it
was that lady in the diner (which was vaporized moments later) that came
up with the answer to how everyone could get along. on the other hand ,
marvin said he saw the answer in dent 's brain , so lets presume it 's
correct.

well , nine times six is forty two ! ! ! ...in base 13.

chew on that for awhile... )


chris russell custom software , networks , case tools , and consulting
adaptive solutions sun sparc , sgi iris , hp apollo , macintosh , pc

internet crussell@netcom.com
gte 909 861 4048
u.s. mail p.o. box 5424
diamond bar , ca 91675 7424

from johnh@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu (john j humpal)
subject re images of earth
organization homewood academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa
lines 14
nntp posting host jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu

in article 1993apr20.143434.5069@cs.ruu.nl clldomps@cs.ruu.nl (louis van dompselaar) writes

so they should sue the newspaper i got it from for printing it.
the article did n't say anything about copyrights.

the newspaper itself is almost certainly copyrighted in its
entirety. newspapers generally employ legal staffs which make sure
they get permission to use a copyrighted image or text. did you
do the same \?

john

john j. humpal johnh@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu short .sig , std. disclaimer


subject autocad tiff can it be done \? \? \? \?
from cvadrmaz@vmsb.is.csupomona.edu
organization california state polytechnic university , pomona
nntp posting host acvax2
nntp posting user cvadrmaz
lines 9

hello , i realize that this might be a faq but i have to ask since i do n't get a
change to read this newsgroup very often. anyways for my senior project i need
to convert an autocad file to a tiff file. please i do n't need anyone telling
me that the autocad file is a vector file and the tiff is a bit map since i
have heard that about 100 times already i would just like to know if anyone
knows how to do this or at least point me to the right direction.

any help greatly appreciated ,
matt georgy

from jbalgley@bbn.com (jon balgley)
subject hidden line removal program
organization bolt beranek and newman (bbn)
lines 11
nntp posting host labs n.bbn.com

i'm posting this for a friend

i have an immediate need for a polygon based hidden line removal
program. i can deal with any input output format , but i need to be able
to do perspective views in any orientation and range.

is there a public domain hidden line program around \? it seems like
there should be , but i have not been able to locate one.

email replies and i will summarize.
thanks

from steveq@dialix.oz.au (steve quartly)
subject wanted sird alogorythmn
summary wanted a sird alogorythmn
keywords sird
article i.d. dialix.1praaa pqv
organization dialix services , perth , western australia
lines 12
nntp posting host localhost.dialix.oz.au
x newsreader nn version 6.4.19 1

hi ,

i'm interested in writing a program to generate a sird picture , you know
the stereogram where you cross your eyes and the picture becomes 3d.

does anyone have one or know where i can get one \?

please e mail to steveq@sndcrft.dialix.oz.au with any replies.

many thanks for your help.

steve q.

from jk87377@lehtori.cc.tut.fi (kouhia juhana)
subject re more gray levels out of the screen
organization tampere university of technology
lines 21
distribution inet
nntp posting host cc.tut.fi

in article 1993apr6.011605.909@cis.uab.edu sloan@cis.uab.edu
(kenneth sloan) writes

why did n't you create 8 grey level images , and display them for
1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 , 64 , 128... time slices \?

by '8 grey level images' you mean 8 items of 1bit images \?
it does work( ! ) , but it does n't work if you have more than 1bit
in your screen and if the screen intensity is non linear.

with 2 bit per pixel there could be 1 c 1 4 c 2 timing ,
this gives 16 levels , but they are linear if screen intensity is
linear.
with 1 c 1 2 c 2 it works , but we have to find the best
compinations there 's 10 levels , but 16 choises best 10 must be
chosen. different compinations for the same level , varies a bit , but
the levels keeps their order.

readers should verify what i wrote... )

juhana kouhia

from fox@graphics.cs.nyu.edu (david fox)
subject re newsgroup split
in reply to tdawson@engin.umich.edu 's message of 19 apr 1993 19 43 52 gmt
nntp posting host graphics.cs.nyu.edu
organization courant institute of mathematical sciences
1993apr19.193758.12091@unocal.com
1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu
lines 16

concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.

i disagree. you could learn the same amount by reading all the
split groups , and it would make things easier for those of us
who are less omnivorous. there is no waste in creating news
groups its just a bit of shuffling about. i have no problem
with only a few posts per week per group i spend too much time
on this as it is.

david

from ricky@watson.ibm.com (rick turner)
subject re m motion video card yuv to rgb \?
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host danebury.hursley.ibm.com
organization ibm uk labs
lines 3

i 'll contact you offline about this.

rick

from nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (michael nerone)
subject re newsgroup split
organization the university of texas at austin
lines 25
distribution world
1993apr19.193758.12091@unocal.com
1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu
nntp posting host sylvester.cc.utexas.edu
in reply to tdawson@engin.umich.edu 's message of 19 apr 1993 19 43 52 gmt

in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu , tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes

ch concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in
ch favor of doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of
ch graphics by reading this group , from code to hardware to
ch algorithms. i just think making 5 different groups out of this
ch is a wate , and will only result in a few posts a week per group.
ch i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum for
ch discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
ch just curious.

i must agree. there is a dizzying number of c.s.amiga. newsgroups
already. in addition , there are very few issues which fall cleanly
into one of these categories.

also , it is readily observable that the current spectrum of amiga
groups is already plagued with mega crossposting thus the group split
would not , in all likelihood , bring about a more structured
environment.



michael nerone i shall do so with my customary lack of tact and
internet address since you have asked for this , you will be obliged
nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu to pardon it. sagredo , fictional char of galileo.

from aron@tikal.ced.berkeley.edu (aron bonar)
subject re photoshop for windows
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 26
distribution world
nntp posting host tikal.ced.berkeley.edu

in article 1993apr22.011720.28958@midway.uchicago.edu , dgf1@quads.uchicago.edu (david farley) writes
in article c5uhim.jfq@rot.qc.ca beaver@rot.qc.ca (andre boivert) writes


i am looking for comments from people who have used heard about photoshop
for windows. is it good \? how does it compare to the mac version \? is there
a lot of bugs (i heard the windows version needs fine tuning) \?

any comments would be greatly appreciated..

thank you.

andre boisvert
beaver@rot.qc.ca

an review of both the mac and windows versions in either pc week or info
world this week , said that the windows version was considerably slower
than the mac. a more useful comparison would have been between photostyler
and photoshop for windows. david


i do n't know about that...i 've used photoshop 2.5 on both a 486dx 50 and a quadra
950...i 'd say they are roughly equal. if anything the 486 was faster.

both systems were running in 24 bit color and had the same amount of ram (16 megs)
i also believe the quadra had one of those photoshop accelerators.

from deweeset@ptolemy2.rdrc.rpi.edu (thomas e. deweese)
subject finding equally spaced points on a sphere.
article i.d. rpi.4615trd
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny
lines 8
nntp posting host ptolemy2.rdrc.rpi.edu


hello , i know that this has been discussed before. but at the time
i did n't need to teselate a sphere. so if any kind soul has the code
or the alg , that was finally decided upon as the best (as i recall it
was a nice , iterative subdivision meathod) , i would be very
appreciative.
thomas deweese
deweeset@rdrc.rpi.edu

from dfegan@lescsse.jsc.nasa.gov (doug egan)
subject re any graphics packages available for aix \?
organization lesc
lines 20

in 1993apr8.122037.19260@sun1x.res.utc.com mark@sun1x.res.utc.com (mark stucky) writes

in 1pr9qninniag@tahko.lpr.carel.fi ,
ari suutari (ari@tahko.lpr.carel.fi) wrote

does anybody know if there are any good 2d graphics packages
available for ibm rs 6000 aix \? i'm looking for something
like dec 's gks or hewlett packards starbase , both of which
have reasonably good support for different output devices
like plotters , terminals , x etc.

try graphigs from ibm... it is an excellent package ! )

doug


doug egan it 's not what you got
lockheed engineering and sciences co. it 's what you give.
houston , tx tesla
email egan@blkbox.com

subject re trying to view pov files.....
from dane@nermal.santarosa.edu (dane jasper)
organization santa rosa junior college , santa rosa , ca
nntp posting host nermal.santarosa.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 15

edward d nobles (ednobles@sacam.oren.ortn.edu) wrote

i 've been trying to view .tga files created in povray. i have the diamond
speedstar 24 video board (not the 24x ). so far i can convert them to
jpeg using cjpeg and view them with cview but that only displays 8 bit color.
..
just want to see the darn things in real color...

i have an ati ultra pro card , and have found that the easiest way to view
true color images is using their windows drivers and something like winjpeg
or photofinish.

if anyone has a non windows solution , i 'd love to hear it !

dane

from hwstock@snll arpagw.llnl.gov (stockman harlan w)
subject hp2xx for dos
organization sandia national laboratories
lines 3


is there a precompiled version of hp2xx for dos out there prefereably
for 386 486 \?

from msc wdqn@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu (daniel q naiman)
subject geometry package
organization homewood academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa
lines 11
distribution world
nntp posting host jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu

i am looking for a package which takes as inputs a set
of geometric objects defined by unions of convex polytopes
specified in some manner , say by inequalities and equalities ,
and determines in some reasonable form things like
intersections , unions , etc. etc..

does anyone know where i can find such a thing \?

dan naiman
department of mathematical sciences
johns hopkins university

from joshuaf@yang.earlham.edu
subject tiff anything \? !
organization earlham college , richmond , indiana
lines 10

are there any tiff to anything programs out there for the ibm \?
our scanner works into tiff , and i can view it on cshow 8.1 , but
all of my other programs read errors. are there any basic tiff to
jpeg , gif , pcx , bmp , etc... \?

thanks for the time...email or post acceptable.
joshuaf

that geiger scan looks like dookie !
i know it 's a tiff ! ! ! !

from club@spektr.msk.su (koltovoy nikolay alexeevich)
subject news re list or image processing systems \?
distribution eunet
reply to club@spektr.msk.su
organization moscow scientific industrial ass. spectrum
lines 137


moscow scientific inductrial association spectrum offer
videoscan vision system for pc at , wich include software and set of
controllers.

software

for support videoscan family program kit was developed. kit
includes more then 200 different functions for image processing.
kit works in the interactive regime , and has include help for
non professional users.
there are next possibility
input frame by any board of videoscan family
read white image to from disk
print image on the printer
makes arithmetic with 2 frames
filter image
work with gistogramme
edit image.
include users exe modules.

controller vs9

the function of vs 9 controller is to load tv images into pc at.
vs 9 controller allows one to load a fragment of the tv frame from
a field of 724x600 pixels.
the clock rate is 14 , 7 mhz when loading an image with 512 pixel in
the line and 7 , 4 mhz when loading a 256 pixels image. this
provides the equal pixel size of input image in both horizontal
and vertical directions.
the number of gray levels in any input modes is 256.
video signal capture time 2.5s.

controller vs52

the purpose of the controller is to enter the tv images into a ibm
pc at or any other machine of that type. the controller was
created on the base of modern elements , including user
programmable gate arrays.
the controller allows to digitize a input signal with different
resolutions. its flexible architecture makes possible to change
technical parameters. instead of tv signal one can process any
other analog signal (including signals from slow speed scanning
devices).
the controller has the following technical characteristics
memory volume from 256 k to 2 mb
resolution when working with standard video signal from 64x64
to 1024x512 pixels
resolution when working in slow input regime up to 2048x1024
pixels
video signal capture time 40 ms.
maximum size of a screen when memory volume is 2mb 2048x1024
pixels
number of gray level 256
clock rate for input up to 30 mhz
4 input video multiplexer
input output lookup table (lut)
possibility to realize scroll and zoom













8 lines for external synchronization (an input using external
controlling signal)
electronic adjustment of black and white reference for analog
digital converter
possibility output image to the color rgb monitor.
one can change all listed above functions and parameters of the
controller by reprogramming it.


image processor vs100


image processor vs100 allows to digitize and process tv
signal in real time. it is possible digitize tv signal with
512 512 8 resolution and realize arithmetic and logic operation
with two images.
processor was created on the base of modern elements
including user programmable gate arrays and designed as a board
for pc.
memory volume allows write to the 256 frames with 512 512 8
format. it is possible to accumulate until 16 images.
the processor has the following technical characteristics
memory volume to 64 mb
number of the gray level 256
4 input video multiplexer
input output lookup table
electronic adjustment for black and white adc reference
image size from 256 256 to 8192 8192
possibility color and black white output
possibility input from slow scan video sources.





































from lmp8913@rigel.tamu.edu (preston , lisa m)
subject another cview question (was cview answers)
organization texas a m university , academic computing services
lines 12
distribution world
nntp posting host rigel.tamu.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41


has anybody gotten cview to work in 32k or 64k color mode on a trident
8900c hi color card \? at best the colors come out screwed up , and at worst the
program hangs. i loaded the vesa driver , and the same thing happens on 2
different machines.

if it does n't work on the trident , does anybody know of a viewer that
does \?

thanx !
lisa


from baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov (ron baalke)
subject gaspra animation (quicktime)
keywords gaspra , jpl
organization jet propulsion laboratory
lines 22
nntp posting host kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov
news software vax vms vnews 1.41



gaspra animation
march 12 , 1993


the gaspra animation is now available at the ames space archives in
quicktime format. the animation was formed from 11 images taken by the
galileo spaecraft shortly before its closest approach to the asteroid in
october 1991. the animation is available using anonymous ftp to

ftp ames.arc.nasa.gov (128.102.18.3)
user anonymous
cd pub space animation
files
gaspra.qt

ron baalke baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov
jet propulsion lab
) m s 525 3684 telos it 's kind of fun to do
pasadena , ca 91109 the impossible.
walt disney

from jxl9011@ultb.isc.rit.edu (j.x. lee)
subject job
nntp posting host ultb gw.isc.rit.edu
organization rochester institute of technology
distribution seri
lines 45


job opportunity



seri(systems engineering research institute) , of kist(korea
institute of science and technology) is looking for the resumes
for the following position and need them by the end of june (6 30).
if you are interested , send resumes to

cad cae lab (6th floor)
systems engineering research institute
korea institute of science and technology
yousung gu , eoeun dong ,
daejon. korea
305 600


company systems engineering research institute

title senior research scientist

job description in depth knowledge of c.
working knowledge of computer aided design.
working knowledge of computer graphics.
working knowledge of virtual reality.
skills not required but desirable knowledge of
data modeling , virtual reality experience ,
understanding of client server architecture.

requirement ph.d

job location daejon , korea

contact info chul ho , lim
cad cae lab (6th floor)
systems engineering research institute
korea institute of science and technology
yousung gu , eoeun dong ,
daejon. korea
305 600

phone) 82 42 869 1681
fax) 82 42 861 1999
e mail) jxl9011@129.21.200.201

from rob@rjck.uucp (robert j.c. kyanko)
subject re weitek p9000 \?
distribution world
organization neptune software inc
lines 23

abraxis@iastate.edu writes in article abraxis.734340159@class1.iastate.edu

anyone know about the weitek p9000 graphics chip \?
micron is selling it with their systems they rank them at 50 winmarks...
any info would help...
thanks.

it 's supposedly a high performance chip based upon workstation graphics
accelerators. it 's quite fast (i have 7) , but as usual with new boards chips
the drivers are buggy for windows. as far as winmarks go , it depends upon
the version. i think i got 42m winmarks with version 3.11. 2.5 yielded the
50 number. i 've also benchmarked this with wintach at over 65 (from memory
as well).

as far as the low level stuff goes , it looks pretty nice. it 's got this
quadrilateral fill command that requires just the four points.

it 's very fast , but beware of buggy drivers , and otherwise no non windows
support.


i am not responsible for anything i do or say i'm just an opinion.
robert j.c. kyanko (rob@rjck.uucp)

from fineman@stein2.u.washington.edu (twixt your toes)
subject anyone know use rayshade out there \?
organization university of washington
lines 12
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu
keywords rayshade , uw.

i'm using rayshade on the u.w. computers here , and i 'd like input
from other users , and perhaps swap some ideas. i could post
uuencoded .gifs here , or .ray code , if anyone 's interested. i'm having
trouble coming up with colors that are metallic (i.e. brass , steel)
from the rgb values.

if you 're on the u.w. machines , check out fineman rle.files .rle on
stein.u.washington.edu for some of what i 've got.

dan



from dkusswur@falcon.depaul.edu (daniel c. kusswurm)
subject siggraph 1987 course notes
nntp posting host falcon.depaul.edu
organization depaul university , chicago
distribution usa
lines 7

i am looking for a copy of the following siggraph publication gomez , j.e.
comments on event driven annimation , siggraph course notes , 10 , 1987.

if anyone knows of a location where i can obtain a copy of these notes , i
would appreciate if they could let me know. thanks.

dkusswur@falcon.depaul.edu

from ch381@cleveland.freenet.edu (james k. black)
subject needed algorithms for 2 d 3 d object recognition
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 23
reply to ch381@cleveland.freenet.edu (james k. black)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


hi ,
i have a friend who is working on 2 d and 3 d object recognition. he is looking
for references describing algorithms on the following subject areas

thresholding
edge segmentation
marr hildreth
sobel operator
chain codes
thinning skeletonising

if anybody is willing to post an algorithm that they have implemented which demonstrates
any of the above topics , it would be much appreciated.

please post all replies to my e mail address. if requested i will post a summary to the
newsgroup in a couple of weeks.


thanks in advance for all replies

james
eb192@city.ac.uk

from sean@whiting.mcs.com (sean gum)
subject re cview answers
organization whiting corporation , harvey , illinois
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 23

bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth) writes
in 1993apr16.114158.2246@whiting.mcs.com sean@whiting.mcs.com (sean gum) writes

a stupid question , but what will cview run on and where can i get it \? i
am still in need of a gif viewer for linux. (without x windows.)
thanks !


ho boy. there is no way in hell you are going to be able to view gifs or do
any other graphics in linux without x windows ! i love linux because it is
so easy to learn.. you want text \? okay. use linux. you want text and
graphics \? use linux with x windows. simple. painless. required to have
x windows if you want graphics ! this includes fancy word processors like
doc , image viewers like xv , etc.

ummm , i beg to differ. a kind soul sent me a program called dpg view that
will do exactly what i want , view gif images under linux without x windows.
and , it does support all the way up to 1024x768. the biggest complaint i
have is it is painfully slow. it takes about 1 minute to display an image.
i am use to cshow under dos which takes a split second. any idea why it
is so slow under linux \? anybody have anything better \? plus , anybody have
the docs to dpg view \? thanks !


from ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (ricardo hernandez muchado)
subject re newsgroup split
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm
nntp posting host rs43873.rchland.ibm.com
organization ibm rochester
lines 21

in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu , tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes
concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon


i agree with you.


raist new a1200 owner 320 1280 in x , 200 600 in y
in 256 , 000 colors from a 24 bit palette. i love it ! new low fat .sig
do n't e mail me i do n't have a valid address nor can i send e mail



from alex@talus.msk.su (alex kolesov)
subject help on renderman language wanted !
reply to alex@talus.msk.su
organization unknown
lines 17

hello everybody !

if you are using pixar's renderman 3d scene description language for creating 3d worlds , please , help me.

i'm using renderman library on my next but there is no documentation about nextstep version of renderman available. i can create very complicated scenes and render them using surface shaders ,
but i can not bring them to life by applying shadows and reflections.

as far as i understand i have to define environmental and shadows maps to produce reflections and shadows , but i do not know how to use them.

any advises or simple rib or c examples will be appreciated.
thanks in advance...


alex kolesov moscow , russia.
talus imaging communications corporation
e mail alex@talus.msk.su (next mail accepted)
.

from raymaker@bcm.tmc.edu (mark raymaker)
subject graphics driver standards
organization baylor college of medicine , houston , tx
lines 21
nntp posting host bcm.tmc.edu
keywords graphics , standards

i have a researcher who collecting electical impulses from
the human heart through a complex analog to digital system
he has designed and inputting this information into his eisa
bus hp vectra computer running dos and the phar lap dos extender.

he want to purchase a very high performance video card for
3 d modeling. he is aware of a company called matrox but
he is concerned about getting married to a company and their
video routine library. he would hope some more flexibility
to choose between several card manufacturers with a standard
video driver. he would like to write more generic code
code that could be easily moved to other cards or computer operating
systems in the future. is there any hope \?
any information would be greatly appreciated
please , if possible , respond directly to internet mail
to raymaker@bcm.tmc.edu

thanks




from mlee@eng.sdsu.edu (mike lee)
subject mpeg for x windows mono needed.
organization san diego state university computing services
lines 4
nntp posting host eng.sdsu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

hello , and thank you for reading this request. i have a mpeg viewer for x windows and it did not run because i was running it on a monochrome monitor. i need the mono driver for mpeg play.

please post the location of the file or better yet , e mail me at mlee@eng.sdsu.edu.


from sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
x xxmessage id a7f2fc4e8b01023c@seanmac.acs.unt.edu
x xxdate thu , 15 apr 93 17 49 34 gmt
organization university of north texas
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 23

in article 1993apr15.144843.19549@rchland.ibm.com ricardo hernandez
muchado , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes
and cd i 's cpu does n't help much either. i understand it is
a 68070 (supposedly a variation of a 68000 68010) running at something
like 7mhz. with this speed , you truly need sprites.

wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these ,
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup. 8 d

ricardo , the animation playback to which lawrence was referring in an
earlier post is plain old quicktime 1.5 with the compact video codec.
i 've seen digitized video (some of apple 's early commercials , to be
precise) running on a centris 650 at about 30fps very nicely (16 bit
color depth). i would expect that using the same algorithm , a risc
processor should be able to approach full screen full motion animation ,
though as you 've implied , the processor will be taxed more with highly
dynamic material.

sean mcmains check out the gopher phone 817.565.2039
university of north texas new bands info server fax 817.565.4060
p.o. box 13495 at seanmac.acs.unt.edu e mail
denton tx 76203 mcmains@unt.edu

from renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter)
subject cview answers
organization mcgv stack , eindhoven university of technology , the netherlands.
lines 66
nntp posting host blade.stack.urc.tue.nl
summary some cview problems explained
keywords stupid programming
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

a very kind soul has mailed me this reply for the bugs in cview.
since he is n't in the position to post this himself , he asked me to post
it for him , but to leave his name out. so here it comes

cview has quite a number of bugs. the one you mention is perhaps the most
annoying , but not the most dangerous. as far as i can determine , it has to
do with the temp files that cview creates. cview gives the user no control
over where it places its temp files it just places them in its
current directory . the problem you mention occurs (as far as i can tell)
when it runs out of disk space for its temp files. it seems as if cview
does n't check properly for this situation. as cview decodes a jpeg , it seems
to write out a temp file with all the pixel data with 24 bit colour
information. then , for 8 bit displays , it does the dithering , again writing
another file with the 8 bit colour information. while it is writing this
second file , it also writes the data to your colour card. then when it does
the last chunk of 8 bit data , it recopies all the data from the 8 bit file to
your screen again. (it does this last recopy operation for its
fit to screen feature , even when this feature is not enabled.)

the result of this process is the following

1) if it runs out of disk space when writing the first 24 bit file , all
you ever see is as much data as it has room for , and the last bit of
data is simply repeated over and over again because cview never
realizes the disk has filled up and disk writes reads are n't performed.

2) if it has enough room for the 24 bit data , but runs out of room for
the 8 bit data , you see almost all of the picture as it does the
dithering and writes to the screen card.
however , then when it finishes the dithering and recopies the data
from the 8 bit file to screen (for whatever reason it does this)
one again just gets a repetition of the last chunk of data for which
there was room on the disk.

this is just a guess , but probably fairly accurate. at least the general
idea is on track i think , although i have probably made errors in details
about file i o etc. the way around this is of course to clear up sufficient
disk space. the temp files for large jpeg 's (1200x900 and bigger) can be
very large (3 meg 1 meg ). on some of the largest i have needed in excess
of 6 meg free disk space.


cview has a much more serious bug if you are trying to display a file from
a floppy , and you change floppies while cview has some temp file open on the
floppy , then cview in certain circumstances will write the directory (and fat
table \? i ca n't remember) for the removed floppy onto the newly inserted
floppy , thus corruptimg the new floppy in a very serious , possibly
unrevcoverable way. so be careful ! it is incredibly poor programming for a
program to do this. on the other hand , when choosing files in the open files
menu , cview insists on doing a few disk reads every time one moves the
hi lighter square. incredibly annoying when it could do them all at once
when it gets the directory info. and really , how much effort does it take to
sort a directory listing \?


with much thanks to the originator of this article.

rene walter renew@stack.urc.tue.nl

will i drown in tears of sorrow , is there hope for tomorrow ,
will this world ever get better , ca n't we all just live together
i do n't wanna live in strife , i just wanna live my life
i deserve to have a future...
the good girls future



from u122743@twncu865.ncu.edu.tw
subject question video projector
organization computer center , ncu , taiwan , r.o.c.
lines 15

i am setting up a video aid for a computer room for the teacher to share his
display with the class.

i have seen people using video projector , tv sets and large monitor to do
presentations before. i am told that there are three ways to connect video
projector composite , y c rgb.

can anyone explain to me the difference and their likely costs \?

please reply to my inetnet e mail account as well as posting in bulletin
u129008@sparc20.nuc.edu.tw

i also like to know if there are telnet or kermit for windows.

tim chen

from dave.mikelson@almac.co.uk (dave mikelson)
subject re pcx
distribution world
organization almac bbs ltd. 44 (0)324 665371
reply to dave.mikelson@almac.co.uk (dave mikelson)
lines 22

to ad994@freenet.carleton.ca

jw 1) where is there a book or code that will teach me how
jw to read and write pcx , dbf , and gif files \?

jw 2) how do i access the extra ram on my paradise video board
jw so i can do paging in the higher vga modes ie 320x200x256
jw 800x600x256

jw 3) anybody got a line on a good book to help answer these question \?

here are some that i have that are very good

graphics file formats , kay and levine , isbn 0 8306 3059 7
supercharged bitmapped graphics , rimmer , isbn 0 8306 3788 5
programmer 's guide to the ega and vga cards , ferraro ,
isbn 0 201 57025 4 (has a whole chapter on paradise svga)

dave

. deluxe. 386 1.12 8993 .


from petro@server.uwindsor.ca (petro david )
subject shareware
distribution comp.graphics
organization university of windsor , ontario , canada
lines 20


recently i saw the latest computer shopper and in it there was an article
on nice shareware graphics programs. they looked pretty good and of the 6
listed in the article , one i had (graphics workshop) , one i found via
archie (draft choice old version though) and the rest i could n't find.
so if there is anyone that knows where i can get the following programs
via anonymous ftp , please let me know.

adkins graphics ag1.zip , ag2.zip
draft choice (latest vga version) draftc.zip
envision publisher envis1.zip , envis2.zip
neopaint neopnt.zip

thanx in advance.
d.petro


david petro kwyjibo a big , dumb , balding
dept. of physics north american ape.
university of windsor petro@server.uwindsor.ca

from dgf1@quads.uchicago.edu (david farley)
subject re photoshop for windows
reply to dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 25

in article c5uhim.jfq@rot.qc.ca beaver@rot.qc.ca (andre boivert) writes


i am looking for comments from people who have used heard about photoshop
for windows. is it good \? how does it compare to the mac version \? is there
a lot of bugs (i heard the windows version needs fine tuning) \?

any comments would be greatly appreciated..

thank you.

andre boisvert
beaver@rot.qc.ca

an review of both the mac and windows versions in either pc week or info
world this week , said that the windows version was considerably slower
than the mac. a more useful comparison would have been between photostyler
and photoshop for windows. david



david farley the university of chicago library
312 702 3426 1100 east 57th street , jrl 210
dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu chicago , illinois 60637


from ehgasm2@uts.mcc.ac.uk (simon marshall)
subject how do i compensate for photographic viewpoint and distortion \?
reply to s.marshall@dcs.hull.ac.uk
organization manchester computing centre , manchester , england
lines 42

hi to all out there. we have this problem , and i'm not certain i'm solving it
in the correct way. i was wondering if anyone can shed light on this , or point
me in the right place to look...

we have an x ray imaging camera and a metallic tube with a cylindrical hole
passing through it at a right angle to the tube 's axis


image

x ray source screen
metallic tube



we know source screen centre distance , radius of the tube , radius of the hole.

we do some calculations based on the image of the hole on the screen. however ,
the calculations are mathematically highly complex , and must assume that the
object 's hole projects an image (resembling an ellipse if the tube is not
parallel to the screen) in the centre of the screen. however , it is unlikely
that the object is placed so conveniently.

firstly , we must transform the major and minor axis of the ellipse. i cannot
know what the angle between the tube and screen is. do i have to assume that
they are parallel to do the transformation \? how do i do this transformation \?

secondly , there is a distortion of the image due to the screen being planar
(the source screen distance increases as we move away from the centre of the
screen). how can i compensate the ellipse 's axis for this image distortion \?

so , please can anyone give us a few pointers here \? how do we transform the
image so it appears as it would if it were in the centre of the screen , and how
do i deal with distortion due to the shape of the screen \?

we 'd appreciate any help , either posted or emailed.

thanks in advance , simon.

simon marshall , dept. of computer science , university of hull , hull hu6 7rx , uk
football is n't about life and death. it 's more important than that. bill
email s.marshall@cs.hull.ac.uk phone 44 482 465951 fax 466666 shankley

from andreasa@dhhalden.no (andreas arff)
subject comp.graphics.programmer
organization ostfold college
lines 20
nntp posting host pc105

hello netters

sorry , i do n't know if this is the right way of doing this kind of thing ,
probably should be a cfv , but since i do n't have tha ability to create a
news group myself , i just want to start the discussion.

i enjoy reading c.g very much , but i often find it difficult to sort out what
i'm interested in. everything from screen drivers , graphics cards , graphics
programming and graphics programs are discused here. what i 'd like is a
comp.graphics.programmer news group.
what do you other think.


arff
also for the not religous confessor , there is a mystery of higher values ,
who 's birth mankind to the last builds upon. they are indisputible. and
often disregarded. seldom you hear them beeing prized , as seldom as you hear
a seeing man prizeing what he sees. per lagerkvist , the fist
(free translation from swedish)
andreas arff andreasa@dhhalden.no

from schmidt@prakinf.th ilmenau.de (schmidt)
subject re pov file constructor for unix x11
nntp posting host merkur.prakinf.tu ilmenau.de
reply to schmidt@prakinf.th ilmenau.de (schmidt)
organization technische hochschule ilmenau
lines 17

in article 1r7hl1 csc@st james.comp.vuw.ac.nz , craig.humphrey@comp.vuw.ac.nz (chumphre) writes

hi , i'm just getting into povray and i was wondering if there is a graphic
package that outputs .pov files. any help would be appreciated.
thanks.


a very good modeling package i found is `irit' (look for irit.tar.z).
however there is no converter from it 's format to pov format. i postet
a request for such a converter in this group but got no response ,
so i'm considering to write such a program myself.



sebastian schmidt
tu ilmenau institut f. praktische informatik


from greg@cs.uct.ac.za (gregory torrance)
subject automatic layout of state diagrams
organization computer science department , university of cape town
lines 18

hi ,

i'm hoping someone out there will be able to help our computer science
project group. we are doing computer science honours , and our project
is to do a 'graphical simulator for a finite state automata'.

basically , the program must draw a diagram of a fsa from a textual grammar ,
showing circles for states , and labeled arc 's in between.

the problem is working out the best way to layout the states , and draw the
arc 's in between so that as few arc 's as possible cross each other.

if anyone has any suggestions algorithms bug free ready to compile c code )
that might help us , it would be much appreciated.

thanks in advance ,

gregory

from s127@ii.uib.no (torgeir veimo)
subject re sources for shading wanted
organization institutt for informatikk uib norway
lines 24

in article 1r3ih5innldi@irau40.ira.uka.de , s braun@irav19.ira.uka.de
(thomas braun) writes
i'm looking for shading methods and algorithms.
please let me know if you know where to get source codes for that.

'illumination and color in computer generated imagery' by roy hall contains c
source for several famous illumination models , including bouknight , phong ,
blinn , whitted , and hall illumination models. if you want an introduction to
shading you might look through the book 'writing a raytracer' edited by
glassner. also , the book 'procedural elements for computer graphics' by rogers
is a good reference. source for code in these book are available on the net i
believe , you might check out nic.funet.fi or some site closer to you carrying
graphics related stuff.

hope this is what you were asking for.

torgeir veimo

studying at the university of bergen

...i'm gona wave my freak flag high ! (jimi hendrix)

...and it would be okay on any other day ! (the police)


from richter@fossi.hab weimar.de (axel richter)
subject true color display in pov
keywords pov , raytracing
nntp posting host fossi.hab weimar.de
organization hochschule fuer architektur und bauwesen weimar , germany
lines 6


hallo pov renderers !
i 've got a bocax3 card. now i try to get pov displaying true colors
while rendering. i 've tried most of the options and univesa driver
but what happens is n't correct.
can anybody help me \?

from ds@aris.nswc.navy.mil (demetrios sapounas)
subject 3d display software
organization nswc
lines 19



i have the need for displaying 2 1 2 d surfaces under x , using only
xlib , xt and xm. does anyone know of a package , available on internet ,
which will be able to do the work \?

i am looking for a stand alone package providing similar functions
to xprism3 available with khoros , but without the numerous libraries
required for it. i want to be able to recompile it and run it on
various platforms , from sgis to i486s (unix).

any help will be appreciated.



demetrios sapounas tel 1 (703) 663.8332
l 115 , nswc fax 1 (703) 663.1939
dahlgren , va 22448 5000 , usa email ds@aris.nswc.navy.mil


from echen@burn.ee.washington.edu (ed chen)
subject windows bmp to sun raster or others \?
article i.d. shelley.1r49iainnc3k
distribution world
organization university of washington
lines 11
nntp posting host burn.ee.washington.edu

hi ,


anyone has a converter from bmp to any format that xview or xv can

handle \? this converter must run unix.. i looked at the faq and downloaded
several packages but had no luck... thanks in advance.

ed

echen@burn.ee.washington.edu

from geigel@seas.gwu.edu (joseph geigel)
subject looking for autocad .dxf file parser
organization george washington university
lines 16


hello...

does anyone know of any c or c function libraries in the public domain
that assist in parsing an autocad .dxf file \?

please e mail.


thanks ,



jogle
geigel@seas.gwu.edu


from millernw@craft.camp.clarkson.edu (neal miller)
subject re trying to view pov files.....
nntp posting host craft.clarkson.edu
organization clarkson university
lines 31

merkelbd@sage.cc.purdue.edu (brian merkel) writes

in article 1993apr11.132604.13400@ornl.gov ednobles@sacam.oren.ortn.edu (edward d nobles) writes

i 've been trying to view .tga files created in povray. i have the diamond
speedstar 24 video board (not the 24x ). so far i can convert them to
jpeg using cjpeg and view them with cview but that only displays 8 bit color.

i'm looking for some way to convert and or view them in 24 bit.

i have univesa (uvesa31.zip) and the dvpeg viewer but i do n't get anything.
perhaps i am not setting up univesa properly \? if anyone has ideas about this
please feel free to enlighten me...

just want to see the darn things in real color...

image alchemy (aka alchemy) will view the tga files that pov outputs
and just about any other format you can think of. it will also convert
between all these. it 's shareware , so it 's probably available by ftp
somwhere out there in netland...

yep... alchemy works fine on my tseng400 dac , but i think i remember
reading that it only displays in 15 bit or so. of course , that 's still 32k
colors which is nothing to sneeze at. use the v flag.




neal miller why not go mad \? millernw@craft.camp.clarkson.edu
clarkson university ford prefect dark@craft.camp.clarkson.edu


from andreasa@dhhalden.no (andreas arff)
subject re newsgroup split
lines 41
nntp posting host pc137
organization ostfold college

in article nerone.93apr20085951@sylvester.cc.utexas.edu nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (michael nerone) writes
from nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (michael nerone)
subject re newsgroup split
date 20 apr 93 08 59 51
in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu , tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes

ch concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in
ch favor of doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of
ch graphics by reading this group , from code to hardware to
ch algorithms. i just think making 5 different groups out of this
ch is a wate , and will only result in a few posts a week per group.
ch i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum for
ch discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
ch just curious.

i must agree. there is a dizzying number of c.s.amiga. newsgroups
already. in addition , there are very few issues which fall cleanly
into one of these categories.

also , it is readily observable that the current spectrum of amiga
groups is already plagued with mega crossposting thus the group split
would not , in all likelihood , bring about a more structured
environment.



michael nerone i shall do so with my customary lack of tact and
internet address since you have asked for this , you will be obliged
nerone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu to pardon it. sagredo , fictional char of galileo.


maybe i should point out that we are not talking about c.s.amiga. .
only comp.graphics.

arff
also for the not religous confessor , there is a mystery of higher values ,
who 's birth mankind to the last builds upon. they are indisputible. and
often disregarded. seldom you hear them beeing prized , as seldom as you hear
a seeing man prizeing what he sees. per lagerkvist , the fist
(free translation from swedish)
andreas arff andreasa@dhhalden.no

from bio1@navi.up.ac.za (fourie joubert)
subject image analysis for pc
organization university of pretoria
lines 18
nntp posting host zeno.up.ac.za

hi

i am looking for image analysis software running in dos or windows. i 'd like
to be able to analyze tiff or similar files to generate histograms of
patterns , etc.

any help would be appreciated !



fourie joubert
department of biochemistry
university of pretoria
bio1@navi.up.ac.za





from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject re fast wireframe graphics
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 14
distribution usa
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu


in article c5tk4u.c6t@cs.columbia.edu , ykim@cs.columbia.edu (yong su kim) writes

i am working on a program to display 3d wireframe models with the user
being able to arbitrarily change any of the viewing parameters. also ,
the wireframe objects are also going to have dynamic attributes so
that they can move around while the user is exploring the wireframe
world.

why do n't you consider phigs in x or pex lib \?

yeh
usc


from jroberts@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (robertson)
subject ati gup and graphics wkshop win
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 11

i have an ati graph. ultra pro vlb w 2 megs , and have a small question
about graphics workshop for windows. when i exit from it it says my
current driver can handle on 32768 colors when i am actually in
1024x768x65000 color mode. is this a driver problem , a gws error , or
what \? i am using the 1.5(59) driver under win 3.1. it correctly
states that i can display 16m colors when i switch to 800x600x24bit ,
though.
another question anybody know of any viewers that support this card
other than windows viewers \?
any help would be appreciated.


from mtoivakk@abo.fi (martti toivakka pap)
subject compiled version of vogl library for pc \?
keywords vogl
organization abo akademi university
lines 11


has anybody compiled vogl graphics library
for ibm pc \? i need to call it from ms fortran
but do n't have ms c to compile the sources.

thanks for any help...


martti toivakka
mtoivakk@abo.fi


from ukrphil@prlhp1.prl.philips.co.uk (m.j.phillips)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
reply to ukrphil@prlhp1.uucp (m.j.phillips)
organization philips research laboratories , redhill , uk
lines 7

the 68070 does exist. it 's number was licensed to philips to make their
own variant. this chip includes extra featurfes such as more i o ports ,
i2c bus... making it more microcontroller like.

because of the confusion with numbering ( ! ) , philips other products in the
range with the 68 \? \? \? core have been given differend numbers like pcf...
or pcd7.. or something.

from sloan@cis.uab.edu (kenneth sloan)
subject re surface normal orientations
organization cis , university of alabama at birmingham
lines 42

in article 1pscti aqe@travis.csd.harris.com srp@travis.csd.harris.com (stephen pietrowicz) writes
...
how do you go about orienting all normals in the same direction , given a
set of points , edges and faces \?

look for edge inconsistencies. consider two vertices , p and q , which
are connected by at least one edge.

if (p , q) is an edge , then (q , p) should not appear.

if both (p , q) and (q , p) appear as edges , then the surface flips when
you travel across that edge. this is bad.

assuming (warning...warning...warning) that you have an otherwise
acceptable surface you can pick an edge , any edge , and traverse the
surface enforcing consistency with that edge.

0) pick an edge (p , q) , and mark it as ok
1) for each face , f , containing this edge (if more than 2 , oops)
make sure that all edges in f are consistent (i.e. , the face
should be (p , q) , (q , r) , (r , s) , (s , t) , (t , p) ). flip those which
are wrong. mark all of the edges in f as ok ,
and add them to a queue (check for duplicates , and especially
inconsistencies do n't let the queue have both (p , q) and (q , p)).
2) remove an edge from the queue , and go to 1).

if a marked edge is discovered to be inconsistent , then you lose.

if step 1) finds more than one face sharing a particular edge , then you
lose.

otherwise , when done , all of the edges will be consistent. which means
that all of the surface normals will either point in or out. deciding
which way is out is left as an exercise...




kenneth sloan computer and information sciences
sloan@cis.uab.edu university of alabama at birmingham
(205) 934 2213 115a campbell hall , uab station
(205) 934 5473 fax birmingham , al 35294 1170

from crash@ckctpa.uucp (frank crash edwards)
subject re forms for curses
reply to crash ckctpa@myrddin.sybus.com (frank crash edwards)
organization edwards edwards consulting
lines 40

note the followup to header ...

steelem@rintintin.colorado.edu (steele mark a) writes
is there a collection of forms routines that can be used with curses \?
if so where is it located \?

on my svr4 amiga unix box , i 've got lform , lmenu , and lpanel for
use with the curses library. guess what they provide \? )

unix press , ie. prentice hall , has a programmer 's guide for these
tools , referred to as the fmli (forms mgmt language interface) and
eti (extended terminal interface) , now in it 's 2nd edition. it is
isbn 0 13 020637 7.

paraphrased from the outside back cover

fmli is a high level programming tool for creating menus , forms ,
and text frames. eti is a set of screen management library
subroutines that promote fast development of application programs
for window , panel , menu , and form manipulation.

the fmli is a shell package which reads ascii text files and produces
screen displays for data entry and presentation. it consists of a
shell like environment of the fmli program and it 's database
files. it is section 1f in the unix press manual.

the eti are subroutines , part of the 3x manual section , provide
support for a multi window capability on an ordinary ascii terminal
with controls built on top of the curses library.

thanks
mark steele
steelem@rintintin.colorado.edu


frank crash edwards edwards edwards consulting
voice 813 786 3675 crash ckctpa@myrddin.sybus.com , but please
data 813 787 3675 do n't ask uunet to route it it 's sloooow.
there will be times in life when everyone you meet smiles and pats you on
the back and tells you how great you are ... so hold on to your wallet.

from alan@saturn.cs.swin.oz.au (alan christiansen)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization swinburne university of technology
lines 71
nntp posting host saturn.cs.swin.oz.au

spworley@netcom.com (steve worley) writes

bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson) writes

boy , this will be embarassing if it is trivial or an faq

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \? i know how to do it
for a circle (from 3 points) , but do not immediately see a
straightforward way to do it in 3 d. i have checked some
geometry books , graphics gems , and farin , but am still at a loss \?
please have mercy on me and provide the solution \?

it 's not a bad question i do n't have any refs that list this algorithm
either. but thinking about it a bit , it should n't be too hard.

1) take three of the points and find the plane they define as well as
the circle that they lie on (you say you have this algorithm already)

2) find the center of this circle. the line passing through this center
perpendicular to the plane of the three points passes through the center of
the sphere.

3) repeat with the unused point and two of the original points. this
gives you two different lines that both pass through the sphere 's
origin. their interection is the center of the sphere.

4) the radius is easy to compute , it 's just the distance from the center to
any of the original points.

i 'll leave the math to you , but this is a workable algorithm. )

good i had a bad feeling about this problem because of a special case
with no solution that worried me.

four coplanar points in the shape of a square have no unique sphere
that they are on the surface of.
similarly 4 colinear point have no finite sized sphere that they are on the
surface of.

these algorithms being geometrical designed rather than algebraically design
meet these problems neatly.

when determining which plane the 3 points are on if they are colinear
the algorithm should afil or return infinite r.
when intersecting the two lines there are 2 possibilities
they are the same line (the 4 points were on a planar circle)
they are different lines but parallel. there is a sphere of in radius.

this last case can be achieved with 3 colinier points and any 4th point
by taking the 4th point and pairs of the first 3 parallel lines will be produced

it can also be achieved by

if all 4 points are coplanar but are not on one circle.

it seems to me that the algorithm only fails when the 4 points are coplanar.
the algorithm always fails when the points are coplanar.
(4 points being colinear coplanar)

testing if the 4th point is coplanar when the plane of the first 3 points
has been found is trivial.


an alternate method would be to take pairs of points the plane formed
by the perpendicular bisector of each line segment pair also contains the
center of the sphere. three pairs will form three planes , intersecting
at a point. this might be easier to implement.

steve
spworley@netcom.com

from dstampe@psych.toronto.edu (dave stampe)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
organization department of psychology , university of toronto
lines 27

sol.surv.utas.edu.au (stephen quan) writes

... , but i'm looking for a fast polygon routine to be used in a 3d game.
a fast polygon routine to do what \?
to draw polygons of course. its a vga mode 13h (320x200) game , ...

hi , i 've come across a fast triangle fill draw routine for mode 13h. by
calling this routine enough times , you have a fast polygon drawing routine.

i think i ftp'ed from wuarchive.wustl.edu pub msdos uploads programming.
i have a copy of it so i reupload it there. the triangle.txt file has this
to say

c and inline assembly source for a vga mode 13h triangle drawer.

another source there 's a poly blitter for mode y (mode x in 320x200)
at sunee.uwaterloo.ca. also there is rend386 , an even faster 3d
renderer with vr extensions.



my life is hardware , dave stampe
my destiny is software , dstampe@psych.toronto.edu
my cpu is wetware... dstampe@sunee.uwaterloo.ca
am i a techno psychologist , or just a psycho engineer \? \?



from daniel@lclark.edu (daniel snodgrass)
subject re stand alone editing suite.
article i.d. lclark.1993apr20.191542.9392
organization lewis clark college , portland or
lines 63

in article 1qvkaeinngat@shelley.u.washington.edu eylerken@stein.u.washington.edu (ken eyler) writes
i need some help. we are upgrading our animation video editing stand. we
are looking into the different type of setups for a b roll and a cuts only
station. we would like this to be controlled by a computer ( brand doesnt matter but maybe mac , or amiga). low end to high end system setups would be very
helpful. if you have a system or use a system that might be of use , could you
mail me your system requirements , what it is used for , and all the hardware and
software that will be necessary to set the system up. if you need more
info , you can mail me at eylerken@u.washington.edu

thanks in advance.

ken
eylerken@u.washington.edu


here at lewis and clark college we have recently installed a digital film
system (based on the mac quadra) that does non linear , full digital editing.

if you 're considering such a system , here are the pros and cons

for the educational environment , this system is excellent. we use it to
produce a variety of educational materials for disemination on our local
network. because this programming is going to be viewed on other macs , the
image quality is not as important as the ability to directly export the
video to the net.

we also use it to produce orientiation and promotional video programs for
use by the lewis clark community. since these programs are not meant for
commercial or broadcast use , image quality is not critical.

the digital film system , for those of you who are uninitiated , is an a b roll
digitizing system on one 5000 jpeg compression card. it was promoted as
an inexpensive online editing system with svhs quality. supermac , the maker
of the card , is trying to achieve this quality level , but as yet , has been
unable to deliver. our system produces near vhs quality at 30 fields per
second (640x480 overscan). the card repeats every other field to get 60
fields per second. this results in a kind of super 8 film look that some
find distracting.

if you can get past this problem , you 'll find the adobe premier editing
software quite enjoyable with which to work. it produces thousands of
different effects from crystalize filters to dve transitions to color matting.

because of its non linear nature , editing is fast and easy. if you 've ever
used (or seen used) an avid or montage system , you 'll recognize the methodology
and the user interface.

the total system with quadra 950 (40megs of ram) , 1 gig drive , 21 apple mon
itor , panasonic svhs 1960 edit deck , audio gear (cassette , cd , eq , mixer , etc) ,
composite monitor , digital film card will set you back about 20 , 000.

for you video cowboys and girls , this system will not output at a quality
that will satisfy most of your clients. even though you can perform more
effects than a toasterhead can imagine , an amiga based off line based system
will look better.

we use both macs and amigas for our video work. each for what each does best !


dan snodgrass
media services
lewis clark college
portland

from lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil (robert lipman)
subject call for presentations navy sciviz vr seminar
article i.d. oasys.32850
expires 30 apr 93 04 00 00 gmt
reply to lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil (robert lipman)
distribution usa
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 65


call for presentations

navy scientific visualization and virtual reality seminar

tuesday , june 22 , 1993

carderock division , naval surface warfare center
(formerly the david taylor research center)
bethesda , maryland

sponsor ness (navy engineering software system) is sponsoring a
one day navy scientific visualization and virtual reality seminar.
the purpose of the seminar is to present and exchange information for
navy related scientific visualization and virtual reality programs ,
research , developments , and applications.

presentations presentations are solicited on all aspects of
navy related scientific visualization and virtual reality. all
current work , works in progress , and proposed work by navy
organizations will be considered. four types of presentations are
available.

1. regular presentation 20 30 minutes in length
2. short presentation 10 minutes in length
3. video presentation a stand alone videotape (author need not
attend the seminar)
4. scientific visualization or virtual reality demonstration (byoh)

accepted presentations will not be published in any proceedings ,
however , viewgraphs and other materials will be reproduced for
seminar attendees.

abstracts authors should submit a one page abstract and or videotape to

robert lipman
naval surface warfare center , carderock division
code 2042
bethesda , maryland 20084 5000

voice (301) 227 3618 fax (301) 227 5753
e mail lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil

authors should include the type of presentation , their affiliations ,
addresses , telephone and fax numbers , and addresses. multi author
papers should designate one point of contact.

deadlines the abstact submission deadline is april 30 , 1993.
notification of acceptance will be sent by may 14 , 1993.
materials for reproduction must be received by june 1 , 1993.

for further information , contact robert lipman at the above address.

please distribute as widely as possible , thanks.




robert lipman internet lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil
david taylor model basin cdnswc or lip@ocean.dt.navy.mil
computational signatures and voicenet (301) 227 3618
structures group , code 2042 factsnet (301) 227 5753
bethesda , maryland 20084 5000 phishnet stockings@long.legs

the sixth sick shiek 's sixth sheep 's sick.

organization penn state university
from jer114@psuvm.psu.edu
subject scanned grey to color equations \?
lines 7

a while back someone had several equations which could be used for changing 3 f
iltered grey scale images into one true color image. this is possible because
it 's the same theory used by most color scanners. i am not looking for the obv
ious solution which is to buy a color scanner but what i do need is those equat
ions becasue i am starting to write software which will automate the conversion
process. i would really appreciate it if someone would repost the 3 equations
3 unknowns. thanks for the help ! ! !

subject xlib and 24 bit displays info needed
from sl0pr@riverdale.enet.dec.com (869883 thakkar rahul chandrakant)
reply to sl0pr@riverdale.enet.dec.com (869883 thakkar rahul chandrakant)
distribution world
organization digital equipment corporation
keywords xlib
nntp posting host riverdale.declab.usu.edu
lines 23

hi ,

my name is rahul and i am doing ms at usu , logan
my query is
i have a hp workstation hp series 400 with x running on it.
i have a true color 24bit color monitor connected to this machine.
normally i have the capability to display 256 colors from a max of
16.7 million. since the monitor is true color i can see 16.7
million at a time.
que do we have a facility in x(c function call) that will enable me
to specify any rgb combination and see it on screen \? i am using
xstorecolor to set the pallette of a max of 256 colors.
que if not. is there any way i can display a true color image
on a true color monitor using xlib function calls \?

we are generating ray traced images and 256 colors are indeed a
painful limit. besides i need the facility to display the true color images
i will be generating on a true color system without color
quantification.
please , if anyone can help i 'd be obliged

rahul
sl0pr@cc.usu.edu

from james kewageshig james.kewageshig@canrem.com
subject articles on flocking \?
reply to james kewageshig james.kewageshig@canrem.com
organization canada remote systems
distribution comp
lines 17

hi all ,
can someone point me towards some articles on 'boids' or
flocking algorithms... \?

also , articles on particle animation formulas would be nice...

0 0
james kewageshig
uucp james.kewageshig@canrem.com
n e t w o r k v i i i fidonet james kewageshig 1 229 15
0 0


deluxe 1.25 8086 head of co xv hi this is a signature virus. co

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

from un034214@wvnvms.wvnet.edu
subject m motion video card yuv to rgb \?
organization west virginia network for educational telecomputing
lines 21

i am trying to convert an m motion (ibm) video file format yuv to rgb
data...

the y portion is a byte from 0 255
the v is a byte 127 127
the color is u and v
and the intensity is y

does anyone have any ideas for algorhtyms or programs \?

can someone tell me where to get info on the u and v of a television signal \?

if you need more info reply at the e mail address...
basically what i am doing is converting a digital ntsc format to rgb (vga)
for displaying captured video pictures.

thanks.


the u is a byte 127 127


from tom@inferno.uucp (tom sherwin)
subject re xv under ms dos \? ! \?
organization periphonics corporation
lines 30
nntp posting host ablaze

hi ... recently i found xv for ms dos in a subdirectory of gnu cc (gnuish). i
use frequently xv on a sun spark station 1 and i never had problems , but when i
start it on my computer with h option , it display the help menu and when i
start it with a gif file my hard disk turns 2 or 3 seconds and the prompt come
back.

my computer is a little 386 25 with copro , 4 mega rams , tseng 4000 (1m) running
ms dos 5.0 with himem.sys and no emm386.sys. i had the go32.exe too... but no
driver who run with it.

do somenone know the solution to run xv \? \? \? any help would be apprecied..


you probably need an x server running on top of ms dos. i use desqview x
but any ms dos x server should do.



xx x technical documentation is writing 90 of the words
xx x for 10 of the features that only 1 of the customers
xx x actually use.
xx x
a pc to xx x i do n't have opinions , i have factual interpretations...
the power xx x me
of x xx
x xx ...uunet ! rutgers ! mcdhup ! inferno ! tom can be found at
x xx periphonics corporation
x xx 4000 veterans memorial highway bohemia , ny 11716
x xx
x xx they pay me to write , not express their opinions...

from andrey@cco.caltech.edu (andre t. yew)
subject re 16 million vs 65 thousand colors
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 28
nntp posting host punisher.caltech.edu

d9hh@dtek.chalmers.se (henrik harmsen) writes

1 4 bits per r g b gives horrible machbanding visible in almost any picture.

5 bits per r g b (32768 , 65000 colors) gives visible machbanding

color gradient picture has almost no machbanding. this color resolution is

see some small machbanding on the smooth color gradient picture , but all in all ,
there are situiations where you get visible mach banding even in
a 24 bit card. if
you create a very smooth color gradient of dark green white yellow
or something and turn
up the contrast on the monitor , you will probably see some mach banding.

while i do n't mean to damn henrik 's attempt to be helpful here ,
he 's using a common misconception that should be corrected.

mach banding will occur for any image. it is not the color
quantization you see when you do n't have enough bits. it is the
human eye 's response to transitions or edges between intensities.
the result is that colors near the transistion look brighter on
the brighter side and darker on the darker side.

andre


andre yew andrey@cco.caltech.edu (131.215.139.2)

from khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan)
subject looking for a good book for beginners
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi
lines 10

i wanted to know if any of you out there can recommend a good
book about graphics , still and animated , and in vga svga.

thanks in advance


mohammad r. khan khan0095@nova.gmi.edu
after july '93 , please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu



from lioness@maple.circa.ufl.edu
subject re comp.graphics.programmer
organization center for instructional and research computing activities
lines 68
reply to lioness@ufcc.ufl.edu
nntp posting host maple.circa.ufl.edu

in article andreasa.157.735211806@dhhalden.no , andreasa@dhhalden.no (andreas arff) writes
hello netters

sorry , i do n't know if this is the right way of doing this kind of thing ,
probably should be a cfv , but since i do n't have tha ability to create a
news group myself , i just want to start the discussion.

i enjoy reading c.g very much , but i often find it difficult to sort out what
i'm interested in. everything from screen drivers , graphics cards , graphics
programming and graphics programs are discused here. what i 'd like is a
comp.graphics.programmer news group.
what do you other think.

this sounds wonderful , but it seems no one either wants to spend time doing
this , or they do n't have the power to do so. for example , i would like
to see a comp.graphics architecture like this

comp.graphics.algorithms.2d
comp.graphics.algorithms.3d
comp.graphics.algorithms.misc
comp.graphics.hardware
comp.graphics.misc
comp.graphics.software apps

however , that is almost overkill. something more like this would probably
make everyone a lot happier

comp.graphics.programmer
comp.graphics.hardware
comp.graphics.apps
comp.graphics.misc

it would be nice to see specialized groups devote to 2d , 3d , morphing ,
raytracing , image processing , interactive graphics , toolkits , languages ,
object systems , etc. but these could be posted to a relevant group or
have a mailing list organized.

that way when someone reads news they do n't have to see these subject
headings , which are rather disparate

system specific stuff ( should be under comp.sys or comp.os. \? \? \? .programmer )

need help programming gl
modex programming information \?
fast sprites on pc

hardware technical stuff

speed of weitek p9000
drivers for speedstar 24x

applications oriented stuff

vistapro 3.0 help
how good is 3dstudio \?
best image processing program for amiga

programming oriented stuff

fast polygon routine needed
good morphing alogirhtm wanted
best depth sort for triangles \?
which c library to get \?

i wish someone with the power would get a cfd and then a cfv going on
this stuff....this newsgroup needs it.

brian

from ednobles@sacam.oren.ortn.edu (edward d nobles)
subject windows imagine \? \? ! !
organization oak ridge national laboratory
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 10


has anyone who has ordered the new pc version of imagine actually recieved
it yet \? i'm just about ready to order but reading posts about people still
awaiting delivery are making me a little paranoid. has anyone actually
held this piece of software in their own hands \?

later ,

jim nobles


from bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson)
subject sphere from 4 points \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

boy , this will be embarassing if it is trivial or an faq

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \? i know how to do it
for a circle (from 3 points) , but do not immediately see a
straightforward way to do it in 3 d. i have checked some
geometry books , graphics gems , and farin , but am still at a loss \?
please have mercy on me and provide the solution \?

thanks ,
ed



ed bolson
university of washington cardiovascular research (206)543 4535
bolson@u.washington.edu (preferred)
bolson@max.bitnet bolson@milton.u.washington.edu (if you must)

from patrick@erc.msstate.edu (patrick bridges)
subject re diamond stelth 24 any good \?
in reply to hintmatt@cwis.isu.edu 's message of 23 apr 1993 07 24 32 0600
nntp posting host andy.erc.msstate.edu
organization merlin home2 patrick .organization
lines 7

the real problem w the stealth from what i 've heard is that diamond wo n't
tell anyone how to program their proprietary clock stuff , so x under linux
and 386bsd wo n't run....


patrick bridges
patrick@erc.msstate.edu

from mogal@deadhead.asd.sgi.com (joshua mogal)
subject re hollywood hits , virtual reality
organization silicon graphics , inc.
lines 137
nntp posting host deadhead.asd.sgi.com

sorry i missed you raymond , i was just out in dahlgren last month...

i'm the virtual reality market manager for silicon graphics , so perhaps i
can help a little.

in article 1993mar17.185725.13487@relay.nswc.navy.mil ,
rchui@nswc wo.nswc.navy.mil (raymond chui) writes
hello , the real reality. our agency started to express interest in
virtual reality(vr). so far , we do not know much about vr. all we
know about are the hollywood movies the terminater 2 and lawnmover
man . we also know something about vr from abc news magazine and
computer graphics world magazine.


unfortunately , while sgi systems were used to create the special effects
for both terminator 2 and lawnmower man , those are film quality computer
graphics , rendered in software and written to film a frame at a time. each
frame of computer animation for those films took hours to render on
high end parallel processing computer systems. thus , that level of graphics
would be difficult , if not impossible , to acheive in real time (30 frames
per second).



we certainly want to know more about vr. who are the leading
companies ,
agencies , universities \? what machines support vr (i.e. sgi , sun4 ,
hp 9000 , bim 6000 , etc.) \?


it depends upon how serious you are and how advanced your application is.
true immersive visualization (vr) , requires the rendering of complex visual
databases at anywhere from 20 to 60 newly rendered frames per second. this
is a similar requirement to that of traditional flight simulators for pilot
training. if the frame rate is too low , the user notices the stepping of
the frames as they move their head rapidly around the scene , so the motion
of the graphics is not smooth and contiguous. thus the graphics system
must be powerful enough to sustain high frame rates while rendering complex
data representations.

additionally , the frame rate must be constant. if the system renders 15
frames per second at one point , then 60 frames per second the next (perhaps
due to the scene in the new viewing direction being simpler than what was
visible before) , the user can get heavily distracted by the medium (the
graphics computer) rather than focusing on the data. to maintain a constant
frame rate , the system must be able to run in real time. unix in general
does not support real time operation , but silicon graphics has modified the
unix kernel for its multi processor systems to be able to support real time
operation , bypassing the usual unix process priority management schemes.
uniprocessor systems running unix cannot fundamentally support real time
operation (not sun sparc10 , not hp 700 series systems , not ibm rs 6000 , not
even sgi 's uniprocessor systems like indigo or crimson). only our
multiprocessor onyx and challenge systems support real time operation due
to their symmetric multi processing (smp) shared memory architecture.

from a graphics perspective , rendering complex virtual environments
requires advanced rendering techniques like texture mapping and real time
multi sample anti aliasing. of all of the general purpose graphics systems
on the market today , only crimson realityengine and onyx realityengine2
systems fully support these capabilities. the anti aliasing is particularly
important , as the crawling jagged edges of aliased polygons is an
unfortunate distraction when immersed in a virtual environment.


what kind of graphics languages are used with vr
(gl , opengl , phigs , pex , gks , etc.) \?

you can use the general purpose graphics libraries listed above to develop
vr applications , but that is starting at a pretty low level. there are
off the shelf software packages available to get you going much faster ,
being targeted directly at the vr application developer. some of the most
popular are (in no particular order)

division inc. (redwood city , ca) dvs
sens8 inc. (sausalito , ca) worldtoolkit
naval postgraduate school (monterey , ca) npsnet (free ! )
gemini technology corp (irvine , ca) gvs simation series
paradigm simulation inc. (dallas , tx) visionworks , audioworks
silicon graphics inc. (mountain view , ca) iris performer

there are some others , but not off the top of my head...


what companies are making
interface devices for vr (goggles or boom (binocular omni orientational
monitor) , hamlets , gloves , arms , etc.) \?

there are too many to list here , but here is a smattering

fake space labs (menlo park , ca) boom
virtual technologies inc. (stanford , ca) cyberglove
digital image design (new york , ny) the cricket (3d input)
kaiser electro optics (carlsbad , ca) sim eye helmet displays
virtual research (sunnyvale , ca) flight helmet display
virtual reality inc. (pleasantville , ny) head mtd displays , s w
software systems (san jose , ca) 3d modeling software
etc. , etc. , etc.


what are those company 's
addresses and phone numbers \? where we can get a list name of vr
experts
and their phone numbers and email addresses \?


read some of the vr books on the market

virtual reality ken pimental and ken texiera (sp \? )
virtual mirage
artificial reality myron kreuger
etc.

or check out the newsgroup sci.virtual worlds

feel free to contact me for more info.

regards ,

josh






joshua mogal product manager
advanced graphics division advanced graphics systems
silicon graphics inc. market manager
2011 north shoreline blvd. virtual reality
mountain view , ca 94039 7311 interactive entertainment
m s 9l 580

tel (415) 390 1460
fax (415) 964 8671
e mail mogal@sgi.com



from khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan)
subject manipulating a hexagonal grid
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi
lines 28

ok , lets say youve got a grid of hexagons

that go in a 10
9
10
9
etc..

for a total of 15 rows down

that means there are 10 hexagons in the 1st line ,
9 lined up underneath in the second line
10 lined up underneath in the third line
9 lined up under neath in the fourht...



the problem is given the center of any arbritrary hexagon , and a line with
and arbritrary slope , which hexagons does that line cross through
(the line does n't necessarily have to cross through the center of other hexagon , it can even be a tangent and count). any helpers , my friend was baffeled
when trying to figure this.
w


mohammad r. khan khan0095@nova.gmi.edu
after july '93 , please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu



from ajackson@cch.coventry.ac.uk (alan jackson)
subject mpeg location
nntp posting host cc sysh
organization coventry university
lines 11


can anyone tell me where to find a mpeg viewer (either dos or
windows).

thanks in advance.


alan m. jackson mail ajackson@cch.cov.ac.uk

liverpool football club simply the best
you 'll never walk alone

from spencer@med.umich.edu (spencer w. thomas)
subject re cylinder and ray
organization university of michigan hsitn
lines 17
nntp posting host guraldi.itn.med.umich.edu
in reply to katkere@krusty.eecs.umich.edu 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 04 04 23 gmt


sketch rotate so cylinder axis is z axis.

intersect x y projection of line with projected cylinder (similar to ,
but easier than , sphere intersection). result no intersection , one
intersection , or two intersections , parameterized along line by t0 and
t1. now look at z , and compute intersections of line with top and
bottom planes of cylinder. this gives t0' and t1'. the interval of
intersection is then the bit of the line from t0 , t1 intersect t0' , t1' .

details left as an exercise for the reader.

s

spencer w. thomas info tech and networking , b1911 cfob , 0704
genome informatician univ of michigan , ann arbor , mi 48109
spencer.w.thomas@med.umich.edu 313 764 8065 , fax 313 764 4133

from jian@coos.dartmouth.edu (jian lu)
subject grayscale printer
summary image printer under 5000
distribution na
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
lines 6

we are interested in purchasing a grayscale printer that offers a good
resoltuion for grayscale medical images. can anybody give me some
recommendations on these products in the market , in particular , those
under 5000 \?

thank for the advice.

from craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (craig s. williamson)
subject video in out
reply to craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (craig s. williamson)
distribution na
organization ncr e m columbia , sc
lines 14


i'm getting ready to buy a multimedia workstation and would like a little
advice. i need a graphics card that will do video in and out under windows.
i was originally thinking of a targa but that does n't work under windows.
what cards should i be looking into \?

thanks ,
craig


to forgive is divine , to be
craig williamson an airhead is human.
craig.williamson@columbiasc.ncr.com balki bartokomas
craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (home) perfect strangers

from gavin@krypton.asd.sgi.com (gavin bell)
subject re surface normal orientations
organization silicon graphics , inc. mountain view , ca
lines 38
nntp posting host krypton.asd.sgi.com

in 1pscti aqe@travis.csd.harris.com srp@travis.csd.harris.com (stephen pietrowicz) writes
how do you go about orienting all normals in the same direction , given a
set of points , edges and faces \?

this algorithm works well for me

algorithm to attempt to find outward facing normals

first , mark all faces as unknown.

then create an edge dictionary that allows you to find all of the
faces sharing a given edge (where an edge is two integers representing
the two shared vertices).

pick an arbitrary face and mark it counter clockwise. using the edge
dictionary , orient all surrounding faces based on the orientation of
this face. and recurse for all surrounding faces , consistently
orienting the entire surface.

find the average of the vertices in this surface. using that point ,
calculate a volume measurement , taking into account the face 's
orientation. if the volume turns out to be positive , assume the faces
are oriented correctly. if it is negative , reverse their orientations
(mark them clockwise).

if any faces are still unknown after this , choose another face
and go through the algorithm again.

at the end , faces marked clockwise must have their indices reversed
before facet normals are found.

(note if you are running on silicon graphics machines and buy the
iris inventor 3d toolkit developers package you have the source to
this algorithm see usr src inventor tools ivnorm . if you 're
not... sorry , i ca n't give out the source , and even if i could it
relies heavily on inventor).

gavin (gavin@sgi.com , (415)390 1024)

subject pov file constructor for unix x11
from craig.humphrey@comp.vuw.ac.nz (chumphre)
reply to chumphre@comp.vuw.ac.nz
distribution world
organization victoria university of wellington. new zealand
nntp posting host regent.comp.vuw.ac.nz
lines 13


hi , i'm just getting into povray and i was wondering if there is a graphic
package that outputs .pov files. any help would be appreciated.
thanks.

later'ish
craig



i did n't do it , nobody saw me do it ,
you ca n't prove anything.
ccc c ccc c chumphre@comp.vuw.ac.nz

from eric.vitiello@tfd.coplex.com (eric vitiello)
subject .gif to .bmp
reply to eric.vitiello@tfd.coplex.com (eric vitiello)
organization ky in pc user 's group louisville , ky 502 423 8654
lines 15

to saz@hook.corp.mot.com


sz does anybody know of a program that converts .gif files to .bmp files
sz and if so , where can i ftp it from \? any help would be greatly
sz appreciated.

sure... a great shareware program is graphic workshop (the newest
version is 6.1). although i do n't know where you can ftp it from. it
also converts to about 15 other formats , and does many other things.

....r.c v.t.ell. .r...

. deluxe. 386 1.25 959sa . my address eric.vitiello@tfd.coplex.com


from steve@hcrlgw (steven collins)
subject sphere from 4 points
organization central research lab. hitachi , ltd.
lines 24
nntp posting host hcrlgw


another method is to first find the center of the circle defined by 2 sets
of 3 points , and intersecting the normals from there. this would also define
the circle center. however , small numerical imprecisions would make the
lines not intersect. supposedly 3 planes have to intersect in a unique
point if they are not parallel.


having thought about this , why do n't you project the 2 lines onto the 2d
plane formed by the lines. do an intersection calculation in the plane in
2d , where you 're guaranteed a unique solution (unless they 're parallel which
wo n't happen in this case) , and then use parametric distance along the lines
from the circle centres to determine the exact point of interest. this
bypasses the messy error propogation required to do the calculation in 3d.

hope i have n't put my foot in it again !

steve



steven collins email steve@crl.hitachi.co.jp
visiting computer graphics researcher phone (0423) 23 1111
hitachi central research lab. tokyo. fax (0423) 27 7742

from ferdinan@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl (ferdinand oeinck)
subject detecting double points in bezier curves
organization my own node in groningen , nl.
lines 6

i'm looking for any information on detecting and or calculating a double
point and or cusp in a bezier curve.

an algorithm , literature reference or mail about this is very appreciated ,

ferdinand.

from ridout@bink.plk.af.mil (brian s. ridout)
subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap !
organization air force phillips lab.
lines 23
distribution world
nntp posting host bink.plk.af.mil

in article 1993apr15.134802.21995@mfltd.co.uk , sts@mfltd.co.uk (steve sherwood (x5543)) writes
has anyone got multiverse to work \?

i have built it on 486 svr4 , mips svr4s and sun sparcstation.

there seems to be many bugs in it. the 'dogfight' and 'dactyl' simply do nothing
(after fixing a bug where a variable is defined twice in two different modules one needed
setting to static else the client core dumped)

steve


extn 5543 , sts@mfltd.co.uk , ! uunet ! mfocus ! sts
micro focus
just like pariah , i have no name , rm rf 26 west street
living in a blaze of obscurity , rum ruff splat newbury
need courage to survive the day. berkshire
england
(a)bort (r)etry (i)nfluence with large hammer
i built it on a rs6000 (my only motif machine) works fine. i added some objects
into dogfight so i could get used to flying. this was very easy.
all in all cool ! .
brian

from cst@garfield.catt.ncsu.edu (caroline tsang)
subject graphics library package
article i.d. ncsu.1993apr6.051201.9535
organization computer and technologies theme program , ncsu , raleigh
lines 15

hi all ,

i am looking for a recommandation on a good royalty free graphics
library package for c and c program. this is mainly use to write
children games and education software. i heard someone mentioned genus
and also gfx \? are they any good \?

please pardon me if my question sounds a little strange , i am asking
this question for a friend.

thanks in advance !

caroline tsang
cst@garfield.catt.ncsu.edu


from johnm@spudge.lonestar.org (john munsch)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
organization etc organization
lines 16

in article lot1rapnbh107h@viamar.uucp rutgers ! viamar ! kmembry writes
read issue 2 of wired magazine. it has a long article on the hype of
3do. i 've noticed that every article talks with the designers and how
great it is , but never show any pictures of the output (or at least
pictures that one can understand)

gamepro magazine published pictures a few months ago and computer chronicles
(a program that is syndicated to public tv stations around the nation) spent
several minutes on it when it was shown at ces. it was very impressive what
it can do in real time.

john munsch

p.s. do n't take that to mean that i believe that the system is going to take
over the world or something. just that it clearly has a lot more horsepower
than any of the vis , cd i , sega cd , or turbo duo crowd.

from stefan@lis.e technik.tu muenchen.de (stefan eckart)
subject dmpeg10.zip info another dos mpeg decoder player posted
keywords mpeg , dos
reply to stefan@lis.e technik.tu muenchen.de
organization technische universitaet muenchen , germany
lines 74


i have posted a dos mpeg decoder player to alt.binaries.pictures.utilities.

here is a short description and some technical information , taken from the
accompanying documentation


dmpeg v1.0

public domain mpeg decoder

by stefan eckart


0. features


dmpeg dmplay is another mpeg decoder player for the pc


decodes (nearly) the full mpeg video standard
(i , p , b frames , frame size up to at least 352x240 supported)

saves decoded sequence in 8 or 24bit raw file for later display

optional on screen display during decoding (requires vga)

several dithering options ordered dither , floyd steinberg , grayscale

color space selection

runs under dos , 640kb ram , no ms windows required

very compact (small code small data models , 16 bit arithmetic)

real time display of the raw file by a separate player for
vga and many super vgas

...

4. technical information


the player is a rather straightforward implementation of the mpeg spec 1 .
the idct is based on the chen wang 13 multiplication algorithm 2
(not quite the optimum , i know). blocks with not more than eight non zero
coefficients use a non separated direct multiply accumulate 2d idct
(sounds great , does n't it \? ) , which turned out to be faster than a 'fast'
algorithm in this (quite common) case. dithering is pretty standard. main
difference to the berkeley decoder (except for the fewer number of supported
algorithms) is the use of 256 instead of 128 colors , the (default) option to
use a restricted color space and the implementation of a color saturation
dominant ordered dither. this leads to a significantly superior quality of
the dithered image (i claim , judge yourself).

restricted color space means that the u and v components are clipped to
0.25 (instead of 0.5) and the display color space points are distributed
over this restricted space. since the distance between color space points
is thus reduced by a factor of two , the color resolution is doubled at the
expense of not being able to represent fully saturated colors.

saturation dominant ordered dither is a method by which a color , lying
somewhere between the points of the display color space , is approximated
by primarily alternating between two points of constant hue instead of
constant saturation. this yields subjectivly better quality due to the
lower sensitivity of the human viewing system to saturation changes than
to hue changes (the same reasoning as used by the pal tv standard to improve
on ntsc). the improvement is particularly visible in dark brown or redish
areas.

...


stefan eckart , stefan@lis.e technik.tu muenchen.de

subject re video in out
from djlewis@ualr.edu
organization university of arkansas at little rock
nntp posting host athena.ualr.edu
lines 40

in article 1993apr18.080719.4773@nwnexus.wa.com , mscrap@halcyon.com (marta lyall) writes
organization a world of information at your fingertips
keywords

in article 628@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (craig s. williamson) writes

i'm getting ready to buy a multimedia workstation and would like a little
advice. i need a graphics card that will do video in and out under windows.
i was originally thinking of a targa but that does n't work under windows.
what cards should i be looking into \?

thanks ,
craig


to forgive is divine , to be
craig williamson an airhead is human.
craig.williamson@columbiasc.ncr.com balki bartokomas
craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (home) perfect strangers


craig ,

you should still consider the targa . i run windows 3.1 on it all the
time at work and it works fine. i think all you need is the right
driver.

josh west
email mscrap@halcyon.com

at t also puts out two new products for windows , model numbers elude me now ,
a 15 bit video board with framegrabber and a 16bit with same. yesterday i
was looking at a product at a local software etc store. media vision makes
a 15bit (32 , 768 color) frame capture board that is stand alone and doesnot
use the feature connector on your existing video card. it claims upto 30 fps
live capture as well as single frame from either composite ntsc or s video
in and out.

don lewis
djlewis@ualr.edu

organization penn state university
from jer114@psuvm.psu.edu
subject targa format text file
lines 7

does anyone know how to convert a targa or similar 24 bit picture into a list
of r g b values and then convert back to targa after doing operations on the p
ixels r g b codes.
ex. targa 000100255pixel 1
001200201pixel 2etc....
if no one can help me with this could someone explain how the 24 bit data is st
ored in the targa file and also how its stored in the 8 bit targas. thanks

from robert@cpuserver.acsc.com (robert grant)
subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap !
organization uscacsc , los angeles
lines 11
distribution world
reply to robert@cpuserver.acsc.com (robert grant)
nntp posting host cpuserver.acsc.com

update on location ! !

directory should be
public virtual worlds ! !


sorry ! )

robert.
robert@acsc.com


from olson@anchor.esd.sgi.com (dave olson)
subject re sgi sales practices (was crimson (was kubota announcement \? ))
organization silicon graphics , inc. mountain view , ca
lines 90

in 1qjrec qem@network.ucsd.edu spl@ivem.ucsd.edu (steve lamont) writes
what i am annoyed about is the fact that we were led to believe that
we would be able to upgrade to a multiprocessor version of the
crimson without the assistance of a fork lift truck.

it should have been made fairly clear that the most crimson would
ever get was a 150 (75 old style) mhz cpu upgrade. certainly this
was mentioned on comp.sys.sgi on more than one occasion as being
likely. if our sales folks were saying otherwise , they were either
confused , or less than honest ethical , or somebody further up the
chain inside sgi was misleading them.

i'm also annoyed about being sold several personal irises at a
previous site on the understanding that architecture would be around
for a while , rather than being flushed.

there were 4 versions (20 , 25 , 30 , 35) , although admittedly the 30 came
out at the same time as the 35 , over a period of 2 1 2 years. the
chassis simply could n't be pushed any further. i 'd say 4 years was
a pretty good lifespan , myself , for a system design in this day and
age. getting the 35 to work caused a lot of gray hairs in both the
hardware and product design groups we would have been out of our
minds to push it further , and i know that was made clear , almost
from the day the 35 started shipping. we had one last kicker in
the form of the elan graphics , which made 3 graphics versions over
its lifespan , which i also think is pretty good.

now i understand that sgi is responsible to its investors and has to
keep showing a positive quarterly bottom line (odd that i found myself
pressured on at least two occasions to get the business on the books
just before the end of the quarter) , but i'm just a little tired of
getting boned in the process.

please , by all means send a complaint letter through sgi support
or sales on your concerns. there should be no reason for sales folks
to misrepresent future upgrades to customers (sure , sometimes there
will be confusion for a while , over whether an upgrade will be available ,
but that should n't last too long , and does n't seem to be what you
are referring to).

yes , the sales folks do get bonus 's at the end of some (all \? ) quarters ,
but that is pretty common industry wide , and sometimes that can result
in good deals for customers (sometimes it probably pushes folks into
systems that are n't what they need , i'm sure , but nobody is forcing
you to buy at end of quarter , after all...)

maybe it 's because my lab buys sgis in onesies and twosies , so we
are n't entitled to a peek under the covers as the big kids (nasa ,
for instance) are. this lab , and i suspect that a lot of other labs

they do n't get all that long a lead time either although certainly
they get presentations on possible new products , and their opinions
may well influence the end product , but that also is life in the
industry. we ca n't design systems that meet just their needs , or we
wo n't sell too many systems , after all (which is not to say that we
do n't have some niche products , like reality engine).

and organizations , does n't have a load of money to spend on computers
every year , so we ca n't be out buying new systems on a regular basis.
the boxes that we buy now will have to last us pretty much through the
entire grant period of five years and , in some case , beyond. that
means that i need to buy the best piece of equipment that i can when i
have the money , not some product that was built , to paraphrase one
previous poster 's words , 'to fill a niche' to compete with some other
vendor. i'm going to be looking at this box for the next five years.
and every time i look at it , i'm going to think about sgi and how i
could have better spent my money (actually your money , since we 're
supported almost entirely by federal tax dollars).

but surely you do n't expect a system you buy now for a five year
period to be constantly upgradable over that entire five year
period \? that 's a rather unreasonable expectation , in my experience
(with workstations microcomputers). supported , and parts available ,
yes , but certainly not upgradable to the latest and greatest !

now you 'll have to pardon me while i go off and hiss and fume in a
corner somewhere and think dark , libelous thoughts.

i missed your first posting , but as i say , by all means share your
frustation with somebody at a level inside sgi where it might
have an effect (not immediate , i'm sure , but complaints are n't
going to be ignored , and may affect future plans , if we
hear similar things from more than one person site).

all of the above is , as usual , my personal opinion , not sgi 's.

let no one tell me that silence gives consent , dave olson
because whoever is silent dissents. silicon graphics , inc.
maria isabel barreno olson@sgi.com
ps i start my sabbatical 29 may , ask those questions now )

from xrcjd@mudpuppy.gsfc.nasa.gov (charles j. divine)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42 (silly)
organization nasa gsfc greenbelt maryland
lines 15

in article 1r3lf9 fu0@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu mark a. cartwright markc@emx.utexas.edu writes
well ,

42 is 101010 binary , and who would forget that its the
answer to the question of life , the universe , and everything else.
that is to quote douglas adams in a round about way.

of course the question has not yet been discovered...

but the question was later revealed to be what is 9 x 6 \? (in the
base 13 system , of course.)



chuck divine

from tsa@cellar.org (the silent assassin)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization the cellar bbs and public access system
lines 22

rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter) writes

hi netters ,

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

it 's really not that hard to do. there are books out there which explain
everything , and the basic 3d functions , translation , rotation , shading , and
hidden line removal are pretty easy. i wrote a program in a few weeks witht
he help of a book , and would be happy to give you my source.
also , quickdraw has a lot of 3d functions built in , and think pascal
can access them , and i would expect that think c could as well. if you can
find out how to use the quickdraw graphics library , it would be an excellent
choice , since it has a lot of stuff , and is built into the mac , so should be
fast.

libertarian , atheist , semi anarchal techno rat.

i define myself tsa@cellar.org

from diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
subject is there an ftp achive for usgs terrain data
organization diablo creative
reply to diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.6v2
lines 6

is there an ftp archive for united states geological services (usgs)
terrain data \? if so , where \?


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against
cboesel@diablo.uu.holonet.net then what 's the opposite of progress \?
1.510.980.1958(pager) what else , congress.

from max@slinky.nyu.edu (david max)
subject 24bit mode on speedstar 24x
summary routines for 24 bit color on speedstar 24x \?
keywords diamond speedstar 24x 24bit 16.7
organization new york university
lines 12


i have a diamond speedstar 24x board that i want to program
for 24 bit 640x480 graphics , or possibly 800x600 16 bit color.
does anybody have any libraries supporting these modes on this
board \? even somes simple routines to set the graphics mode and
plot individual pixels would be a great help. i plan to use the
routines with djgp.

thanks in advance. please respond also via e mail.

david max
max@slinky.cs.nyu.edu

from lcd@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (leon dent)
subject re mpeg for x windows mono needed.
organization umcc , ann arbor , mi
lines 20
nntp posting host umcc.umcc.umich.edu

on sunsite.unc.edu in pub multimedia utilities unix find
mpeg play 2.0.tar.z.

i find for mono it works best as mpeg play dither threshold
though you can use mpeg play dither mono

face it , this is not be the best viewing situation.

also someone has made a patch for mpeg play that gives two more mono
modes (mono2 and halftone).

they are by jan@pandonia.canberra.edu.au (jan newmarch).
and the patch can be found on csc.canberra.edu.au (137.92.1.1) under
pub motif mpeg2.0.mono.patch.


leon dent
lcd@umcc.umich.edu



from lineber@lonestar.utsa.edu (jerry m. lineberry)
subject pov ray problem please help...
nntp posting host lonestar.utsa.edu
organization university of texas at san antonio
lines 12

hello ,
i 've recently had povray draw about 10 sample files. the problem is that
i accidently erased the command in my povray.def that made the image a targas
file. so now the files are the dump format. how do i fix these files with out
having to re trace them \? by fix i mean , turn them into targas. thanks in
advance.
jerry


jerry m. lineberry
internet lineber@lonestar.utsa.edu or compuserve 71221 , 3015


from ddeciacco@cix.compulink.co.uk (david deciacco)
subject re another cview question (wa
reply to ddeciacco@cix.compulink.co.uk
lines 5


in reply to 20apr199312262902@rigel.tamu.edu lmp8913@rigel.tamu.edu (preston , lisa m)

i have a trident card and fullview works real gif jpg try it
dave

from rych@festival.ed.ac.uk (r hawkes)
subject 3ds where did all the texture rules go \?
lines 21

hi ,

i 've noticed that if you only save a model (with all your mapping planes
positioned carefully) to a .3ds file that when you reload it after restarting
3ds , they are given a default position and orientation. but if you save
to a .prj file their positions orientation are preserved. does anyone
know why this information is not stored in the .3ds file \? nothing is
explicitly said in the manual about saving texture rules in the .prj file.
i 'd like to be able to read the texture rule information , does anyone have
the format for the .prj file \?

is the .cel file format available from somewhere \?

rych


rycharde hawkes email rych@festival.ed.ac.uk
virtual environment laboratory
dept. of psychology tel 44 31 650 3426
univ. of edinburgh fax 44 31 667 0150


from mscrap@halcyon.com (marta lyall)
subject re video in out
organization northwest nexus inc. (206) 455 3505
lines 29

organization a world of information at your fingertips
keywords

in article 628@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (craig s. williamson) writes

i'm getting ready to buy a multimedia workstation and would like a little
advice. i need a graphics card that will do video in and out under windows.
i was originally thinking of a targa but that does n't work under windows.
what cards should i be looking into \?

thanks ,
craig


to forgive is divine , to be
craig williamson an airhead is human.
craig.williamson@columbiasc.ncr.com balki bartokomas
craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (home) perfect strangers


craig ,

you should still consider the targa . i run windows 3.1 on it all the
time at work and it works fine. i think all you need is the right
driver.

josh west
email mscrap@halcyon.com


from lex@optimla.aimla.com (lex van sonderen)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
nntp posting host emerald
organization philips interactive media of america
lines 20

in article h1p4s4g@zola.esd.sgi.com erik@westworld.esd.sgi.com (erik fortune) writes
better than cdi
much better than cdi.
of course , i do not agree. it does have more horsepower. horsepower is not
the only measurement for 'better'. it does not have full motion , full screen
video yet. does it have cd rom xa \?

starting in the 4 quarter of 1993
the first 3do multiplayer will be manufactured by panasonic and will be
available late this year. a number of other manufacturers are reported to
have 3do compatible boxes in the works.
which other manufacturers \?
we shall see about the date.

all this information is third hand or so and worth what you paid for it ).
this is second hand , but it still hard to look to the future ).

lex van sonderen
lex@aimla.com
philips interactive media

from dave watson watson@maths.uwa.edu.au
subject re delaunay triangulation
organization the university of western australia
lines 29
distribution world
reply to watson@maths.uwa.edu.au
nntp posting host madvax.maths.uwa.oz.au

zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh) writes

does anybody know what delaunay triangulation is \?
is there any reference to it \?

the delaunay triangulation is the geometrical dual of the
voronoi tessellation and both constructions are derived from
natural neighbor order.

aurenhammer , f. , 1991 , voronoi diagrams a survey of a
fundamental geometric data structure
acm computing surveys , 23(3) , p. 345 405.

okabe , a. , boots , b. , and sugihara , k. , 1992 , spatial
tessellations concepts and applications of voronoi diagrams
wiley sons , new york , isbn 0 471 93430 5 , 532p.

watson , d.f. , 1981 , computing the n dimensional delaunay
tessellation with application to voronoi polytopes
the computer j. , 24(2) , p. 167 172.

watson , d.f. , 1985 , natural neighbour sorting the australian
computer j. , 17(4) , p. 189 193.


dave watson internet watson@maths.uwa.edu.au
department of mathematics
the university of western australia tel (61 9) 380 3359
nedlands , wa 6009 australia. fax (61 9) 380 1028

from tonyo@pendragon.cna.tek.com (tony ozrelic)
subject need info on cc mail file format
organization tektronix , inc. , redmond , oregon
lines 13

i need the file format for cc mail file formats it seems to be pcx based ,
but with a twist only the first page of a multi page fax will come out
readable. the other pages disappear. the format seems to be 'proprietary'.

anybody got any clues \? i have to give my email faxes to my secretary in
order to get 'em unscrambled. i want a filter from cc mail to .p nb m.

come to think of it , p nb m to cc mail would be nice too.

tonyo@master.cna.tek.com




from dgf1@ellis.uchicago.edu (david farley)
subject re photoshop for windows
reply to dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 37

in article 1r85m2 k66@agate.berkeley.edu aron@tikal.ced.berkeley.edu (aron bonar) writes
in article 1993apr22.011720.28958@midway.uchicago.edu , dgf1@quads.uchicago.edu (david farley) writes
in article c5uhim.jfq@rot.qc.ca beaver@rot.qc.ca (andre boivert) writes


i am looking for comments from people who have used heard about photoshop
for windows. is it good \? how does it compare to the mac version \? is there
a lot of bugs (i heard the windows version needs fine tuning) \?

any comments would be greatly appreciated..

thank you.

andre boisvert
beaver@rot.qc.ca

an review of both the mac and windows versions in either pc week or info
world this week , said that the windows version was considerably slower
than the mac. a more useful comparison would have been between photostyler
and photoshop for windows. david


i do n't know about that...i 've used photoshop 2.5 on both a 486dx 50 and a quadra
950...i 'd say they are roughly equal. if anything the 486 was faster.

both systems were running in 24 bit color and had the same amount of ram (16 megs)
i also believe the quadra had one of those photoshop accelerators.

i went back and looked at the review again. they claim there were
significant differences in manipulating a 27 meg test file , but with
smaller files , the two platforms were the about the same. david


david farley the university of chicago library
312 702 3426 1100 east 57th street , jrl 210
dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu chicago , illinois 60637


from watson@madvax.uwa.oz.au (david watson)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization maths dept uwa
lines 23
distribution world
nntp posting host xanthorrhoea.maths.uwa.edu.au

in article 1qkgbuinns9n@shelley.u.washington.edu ,
bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson) writes

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \?

finding the circumcenter of a tetrahedron is discussed on page 33 in

contouring a guide to the analysis and display of spatial data ,
by dave watson , pergamon press , 1992 , isbn 0 08 040286 0 , 321p.

each pair of tetrahedral vertices define a plane which is a
perpendicular bisector of the line between that pair. express each
plane in the form ax by cz d
and solve the set of simultaneous equations from any three of those
planes that have a vertex in common (all vertices are used).
the solution is the circumcenter.


dave watson internet watson@maths.uwa.edu.au
department of mathematics
the university of western australia tel (61 9) 380 3359
nedlands , wa 6009 australia. fax (61 9) 380 1028

from oberto@genes.icgeb.trieste.it (jacques oberto)
subject re help ! ! ! grasp
organization icgeb
lines 33

cbw790s@vma.smsu.edu.ext (corey webb) writes

in article 1993apr19.160944.20236w@baron.edb.tih.no
havardn@edb.tih.no (haavard nesse , o92a) writes

could anyone tell me if it 's possible to save each frame
of a .gl (grasp) animation to .gif , .jpg , .iff or any other
picture formats.


if you have the grasp animation system , then yes , it 's quite easy.
you simply use glib to extract the image (each frame in a .gl is
actually a complete .pcx or .clp file) , then use one of many available
utilities to convert it. if you do n't have the grasp package , i'm afraid
i ca n't help you. sorry.
by the way , before you ask , grasp (graphics animation system for
professionals) is a commercial product that sells for just over us 300
from most mail order companies i 've seen. and no , i do n't have it. )


corey webb


there are several public domain utilities available at your usual
archive site that allow 'extraction' of single frames from a .gl
file , check in the 'graphics' directories under grasp. the problem
is that the .clp files you generate cannot be decoded by any of
the many pd format converters i have used. any hint welcome !
let me know if you have problems locating the utilities.
hope it helps.


jacques oberto oberto@genes.icgeb.trieste.it

from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library f
organization boeing
lines 13

sorry about not mentioning platform... my original post was to mac.programmer ,
and then decided to post here to comp.graphics.

i 'd like the 3d software to run on primarily mac in either c , object pascal
(think or mpw). but , i 'll port to windows later , so a package that runs on
mac and has a windows version would be ideal.

i'm looking for a package that has low upfront costs , and reasonable licensing
costs... of course )

bobc



from chris@sarah.lerc.nasa.gov (chris johnston)
subject re 3d studio v2.01 any differences with previous version
organization nasa lewis research center , cleveland , oh
lines 13
distribution world
reply to chris@sarah.lerc.nasa.gov (chris johnston)
nntp posting host looney.lerc.nasa.gov
keywords 3d studio 2.01

as i understand it , the difference between 3d studio 2.00 and 2.01 is mainly
in the ipas interface , along with a few small bug fixes. the ipas code runs
a lot faster in the newest version.



chris johnston (216) 433 5029
materials engineer (216) 433 5033
nasa lewis research center internet chris@sarah.lerc.nasa.gov
21000 brookpark rd ms 105 1
cleveland , oh 4413 usa resistance is futile !



from amann@iam.unibe.ch (stephan amann)
subject re radiosity
reply to amann@iam.unibe.ch
organization university of berne , institute of computer science and applied mathematics , special interest group computer graphics
lines 54

in article 16598@rz.uni jena.de , hahm@fossi.hab weimar.de (peter hahm) writes


radiosity sources wanted ! ! !


when i read the comp.graphics group , i never found something about
radiosity. is there anybody interested in out there \? i would be glad
to hear from somebody.
i am looking for source code for the radiosity method. i have already
read common literature , e. g.foley ... . i think little examples could
help me to understand how radiosity works. common languages ( c , c ,
pascal) prefered.
i hope you will help me !

yours
peter



peter , there 's a radiosity package ahead. the only problem is there
are a few miles to sail ...

let 's be serious... i'm working on a radiosity package , written in c .
i would like to make it public domain. i 'll announce it in c.g. the minute
i finished it.

that were the good news. the bad news it 'll take another 2 months (at least)
to finish it.

in the meantime you may have a look at the file
radiosity code.tar.z
located at
compute1.cc.ncsu.edu

(there are some other locations have a look at archie to get the nearest)

hope that 'll help.

yours

stephan





stephan amann sig computer graphics , university of berne , switzerland
amann@iam.unibe.ch
tel 41 31 65 46 79 fax 41 31 65 39 65

projects radiosity , raytracing , computer graphics



from saz@hook.corp.mot.com (scott zabolotzky)
subject .gif to .bmp
organization motorola , inc.
distribution usa
nntp posting host 129.188.122.160
lines 11

i'm not sure if this is the correct place to ask this question. if not ,
please forgive me and point me in the right direction.

does anybody know of a program that converts .gif files to .bmp files
and if so , where can i ftp it from \? any help would be greatly
appreciated.

please respond via e mail as i do not read this group very often.

thanks...scott


from 235wardell@gw.wmich.edu
subject vga passthrough cables !
organization western michigan university
lines 14


does anyone know the phone number to a place where i can get
a vga passthrough \?

i want to hook up my vga card to my xga card (whcih you can can).
all i need is the cable that connects them. it is the same type of
cable that you would connect from your vga card to say a video blaster
or something.

thanks.
brad




from glp@phillson.cray.com (gordon phillips)
subject lyon lamb minivas 2 control of abekas a66
originator glp@phillson
lines 12
nntp posting host phillson.cray.com
organization cray research , inc.


we have a minivas 2 and we want to record to an abekas a66.
we have most of the functions working but when we go to
set up a record the minivas hangs. we are sending the
abekas smpte time code. does anyone have code we can
compare to what we have done and is there and ftp site
for minivas and abekas code.

gordon phillips
glp@cray.com

gordon phillips glp@cray.com

from aron@tikal.ced.berkeley.edu (aron bonar)
subject re 3d studio v2.01 any differences with previous version
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host tikal.ced.berkeley.edu

in article 1993apr22.021708.13381@hparc0.aus.hp.com , doug@hparc0.aus.hp.com (doug parsons) writes
fombaron marc (fombaron@ufrima.imag.fr) wrote
are there significant differences between v2.01 and v2.00 \?
thank you for helping


no. as i recall , the only differences are in the 3ds.set parameters some
of the defaults have changed slightly. i 'll look when i get home and let
you know , but there is n't enough to actually warrant upgrading.

douginoz

wrong...the major improvements for 2.01 and 2.01a are in the use of ipas routines
for 3d studio. they have increased in speed anywhere from 30 200 depending
on which ones you use.

all the yost group ipas routines that you can buy separate from the 3d studio
package require the use of 2.01 or 2.01a. they are too slow with 2.00.

from wijkstra@fwi.uva.nl (marcel wijkstra (aio))
subject re bw hardcopy of colored window \?
keywords color hardcopy print
nntp posting host ic.fwi.uva.nl
organization fwi , university of amsterdam
lines 38

mars@ixos.de (martin stein) writes

i use xwd xpr (from the x11r5 dist.) and various programs of the
ppm tools to print hardcopies of colored x windows. my problem is ,

i do n't like xpr. it gives (at least , the x11r4 version does) louzy
output the hardcopy looks very grainy to me.
instead , i use pnmtops. this takes full advantage postscript , and
lets the printer do the dirty job of dithering a (graylevel)
image to black and white dots.

so if you have a postscript printer , try
xwdtopnm xwdfile convert to ppm
ppmtopgm .. to graylevel for smaller file to print
pnmtops noturn .. to postscript
lpr print

pnmtops has several neat options , but use them with care
if you want your image to be 4 wide , use
pnmtops noturn scale 100 width 4
noturn prevents the image from being rotated (if it is wider than it
is high)
width 4 specifies the paper width (not the image width see below)
scale 100 is used because if the image is small , it may fit within a
width less than 4 , and will thus be printed smaller than 4 wide.
if you first scale it up a lot , it will certainly not fit in 4 , and
will be scaled down by pnmtops automatically to fit the specified
paper width.
in short pnmtops will scale an image down to fit the paper size ,
but it will not blow it up automatically.

hope this helps.
marcel.

x marcel wijkstra aio (wijkstra@fwi.uva.nl)
x faculty of mathematics and computer science
x university of amsterdam the netherlands
life stinks. fortunately , i 've got a cold.

from besmith@uncc.edu (brian e smith)
subject re rayshade query
nntp posting host ws27.uncc.edu
reply to besmith@uncc.edu
organization university of nc at charlotte
lines 22

in article 5742@sunvax.sun.ac.za , 8910782@sunvax.sun.ac.za () writes
i am also looking for a surface for the chesspieces. the board is marble.
unfortunately black wo n't work very well for the one side. anybody with ideas
for nice surfaces \?

how about brass or silver \? i 've seen real chessboards that use that material.


where should i post the finished chessboard \?


right here is as good a place as any. ca n't wait to see it. i use the pov
raytracer is it compatible enough for your chessboard \?


i do n't know if you 've got the whole picture or not , but it does n't
seem like he 's running on all thrusters ! leonard mccoy

a guess \? you , spock \? that 's extraordinary ! james t. kirk

brian smith (besmith@mosaic.uncc.edu)


from ari@tahko.lpr.carel.fi (ari suutari)
subject any graphics packages available for aix \?
organization carelcomp oy
lines 24
nntp posting host tahko.lpr.carel.fi
keywords gks graphics


does anybody know if there are any good 2d graphics packages
available for ibm rs 6000 aix \? i'm looking for something
like dec 's gks or hewlett packards starbase , both of which
have reasonably good support for different output devices
like plotters , terminals , x etc.

i have tried also xgks from x11 distribution and ibm 's implementation
of phigs. both of them work but we require more output devices
than just x windows.

our salesman at ibm was not very familiar with graphics and
i am not expecting for any good solutions from there.


ari



ari suutari ari@carel.fi
carelcomp oy
lappeenranta
finland


from lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil (robert lipman)
subject call for presentations navy sciviz vr seminar
reply to lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil (robert lipman)
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 74



2nd call for presentations

navy scientific visualization and virtual reality seminar

tuesday , june 22 , 1993

carderock division , naval surface warfare center
(formerly the david taylor research center)

bethesda , maryland



sponsor ness (navy engineering software system) is sponsoring a
one day navy scientific visualization and virtual reality seminar.
the purpose of the seminar is to present and exchange information for
navy related scientific visualization and virtual reality programs ,
research , developments , and applications.

presentations presentations are solicited on all aspects of
navy related scientific visualization and virtual reality. all
current work , works in progress , and proposed work by navy
organizations will be considered. four types of presentations are
available.

1. regular presentation 20 30 minutes in length
2. short presentation 10 minutes in length
3. video presentation a stand alone videotape (author need not
attend the seminar)
4. scientific visualization or virtual reality demonstration (byoh)

accepted presentations will not be published in any proceedings ,
however , viewgraphs and other materials will be reproduced for
seminar attendees.

abstracts authors should submit a one page abstract and or videotape to

robert lipman
naval surface warfare center , carderock division
code 2042
bethesda , maryland 20084 5000

voice (301) 227 3618 fax (301) 227 5753
e mail lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil

authors should include the type of presentation , their affiliations ,
addresses , telephone and fax numbers , and addresses. multi author
papers should designate one point of contact.


deadlines the abstact submission deadline is april 30 , 1993.
notification of acceptance will be sent by may 14 , 1993.
materials for reproduction must be received by june 1 , 1993.


for further information , contact robert lipman at the above address.



please distribute as widely as possible , thanks.




robert lipman internet lipman@oasys.dt.navy.mil
david taylor model basin cdnswc or lip@ocean.dt.navy.mil
computational signatures and voicenet (301) 227 3618
structures group , code 2042 factsnet (301) 227 5753
bethesda , maryland 20084 5000 phishnet stockings@long.legs

the sixth sick shiek 's sixth sheep 's sick.


from tychay@cco.caltech.edu (terrence y. chay)
subject tiff (next appsoft draw) gif conversion \?
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 27
nntp posting host punisher.caltech.edu
summary help !
keywords tiff gif graphics conversion next appsoft

okay all my friends are bitching at me that the map i made in appsoft draw
ca n't be displayed in xv ... i checked... it 's true , at least with version
1.0. my readers on the next have very little trouble on it (preview messes
up the .eps , but does fine with the tiff and imageviewer0.9a behaves with
flying colors except it does n't convert worth ) )

please is there any way i can convert this .drw from appsoft 1.0 on the next
to something more reasonable like .gif \? i have access to a sun4 and nextstep
3.0 systems. any good reliable conversion programs would be helpful... please
email , i 'll post responses if anyone wants me to... please email that to.

yes i used alphachannel... (god i could choke steve jobs right now ) )

yes i know how to archie , but tell me what to archie for )

also is there a way to convert to .ps plain format \? imageviiewer0.9 turns
out nothing recognizable....

terrychay


small editorial

rw r r 1 tychay 2908404 apr 18 08 03 undernet.tiff
rw r r 1 tychay 73525 apr 18 08 03 undernet.tiff.z

and not using gzip ! is it me or is there something wrong with this format \?

from scott@osi.com (scott fleming)
subject sun ipx root window display background picture
keywords sun ipx background picture
organization objective systems integrators , folsom ca.
lines 22


hello netters !

i have a fairly weak question to ask everybody in netland. i 've looked though
the last faq for comp.graphics but i did n't find my answer. thus the post.

i 'll keep it short.

question how do i display any raster files , gif files , iff or tiff images
that i have on my root window or background \? i have a sun ipc , openwindows
3.0 , sun os 4.1.3 if that helps any.

i 've compiled pov for the sun and would like to display some of the work i have
done as a background tile. thanks for any help or information that you
provide. have a good day.

scott fleming
osi

p.s.
kudo 's to the people who provided pov , its great !


from eylerken@stein.u.washington.edu (ken eyler)
subject stand alone editing suite.
article i.d. shelley.1qvkaeinngat
distribution world
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 12
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu

i need some help. we are upgrading our animation video editing stand. we
are looking into the different type of setups for a b roll and a cuts only
station. we would like this to be controlled by a computer ( brand doesnt matter but maybe mac , or amiga). low end to high end system setups would be very
helpful. if you have a system or use a system that might be of use , could you
mail me your system requirements , what it is used for , and all the hardware and
software that will be necessary to set the system up. if you need more
info , you can mail me at eylerken@u.washington.edu

thanks in advance.

ken
eylerken@u.washington.edu

from cgschot@cs.ruu.nl (gerco schot)
subject ray tracing pictures
organization utrecht university , dept. of computer science
lines 23


for those who are interested in ray traced pictures , there is a nice example
on alt.binaries.pictures.misc. the file is called poolball.gif. it shows a
pooltable with... yes ! ... poolballs !
resolution 1024x768 , colours 256 (only).
the tga (24 bit) version is also available , but a bit big (2.4mb) to post.
the picture is created with pov ray.




enjoy !


gerco
cgschot@cs.ruu.nl






gerco schot (cgschot@cs.ruu.nl)

from cbw790s@vma.smsu.edu.ext (corey webb)
subject re help ! ! ! grasp
organization southwest mo state univ
lines 29
nntp posting host vma.smsu.edu
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2

in article 1993apr19.160944.20236w@baron.edb.tih.no
havardn@edb.tih.no (haavard nesse , o92a) writes

could anyone tell me if it 's possible to save each frame
of a .gl (grasp) animation to .gif , .jpg , .iff or any other
picture formats.


if you have the grasp animation system , then yes , it 's quite easy.
you simply use glib to extract the image (each frame in a .gl is
actually a complete .pcx or .clp file) , then use one of many available
utilities to convert it. if you do n't have the grasp package , i'm afraid
i ca n't help you. sorry.
by the way , before you ask , grasp (graphics animation system for
professionals) is a commercial product that sells for just over us 300
from most mail order companies i 've seen. and no , i do n't have it. )


corey webb



corey webb for in much wisdom is much grief , and
cbw790s@vma.smsu.edu he that increaseth knowledge increaseth
bitnet cbw790s@smsvma sorrow. ecclesiastes 1 18

the s means i am only but first , are you experienced \?
speaking for myself. jimi hendrix


from cavalier@blkbox.com (bill egan)
subject re weitek p9000 \?
nntp posting host port3.houston.pub ip.psi.net
organization performance systems int'l
lines 13

jgreen@amber (joe green) writes
anyone know about the weitek p9000 graphics chip \?

do you have weitek 's address phone number \? i 'd like to get some information
about this chip.

yes , i am very interested in this chip. please follow up or email.


bill egan
cavalier graphics
houston , texas
email cavalier@blkbox.com

from markl@hunan.rastek.com (mark larsen)
subject re ray tracer for ms dos \?
organization rastek corporation , huntsville , al
lines 32

in article 1r1cqiinnje8@srvr1.engin.umich.edu tdawson@llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes

sorry for the repeat of this request , but does anyone know of a good
free shareware program with which i can create ray traces and save
them as bit mapped files \? (of course if there is such a thing )

thanks in advance

daemon

there are 2 books published by m t books that come with c source code on
floppies. they are

programming in 3 dimensions , 3 d graphics , ray traycing , and animation
by christopher d. watkins and larry sharp.

photorealism and ray tracing in c
by christopher d. watkins , stephen b. coy , and mark finlay.

i have the first book and it is a great intro to 3 d , ray tracing and
animation. most of the programs are on the disk compiled and ready to run.

i have only glanced at the second book but it also appears to be good.

hope this helps !
mark larsen


markl@hunan.rastek.com

this r2 unit has a bad motivator !
luke , star wars

from ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (ricardo hernandez muchado)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm
nntp posting host rs43873.rchland.ibm.com
organization ibm rochester
lines 35

in article 1993apr19.121925.14451@microware.com , jejones@microware.com (james jones) writes
in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.144843.19549@rchland.ibm.com ricardo hernandez
muchado , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes
and cd i 's cpu does n't help much either. i understand it is
a 68070 (supposedly a variation of a 68000 68010) running at something
like 7mhz. with this speed , you truly need sprites.

wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these ,
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup. 8 d

do n't get too excited signetics , not motorola , gave the 68070 its number.
the 68070 , if i understand rightly , uses the 68000 instruction set , and has
an on chip serial port and dma. (it will run at up to 15 mhz i'm typing
at a computer using a 68070 running at that rate , so i know that it can
do so so i seriously doubt the clock rate that ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
claims.)

james jones

just because the 68070 can run upto 15mhz does n't mean the cd i
is running at that speed. i said i understand it is a 68070 running
at something like 7mhz. i am not sure , but i think i read this a long
time ago.

anyway , still with 15mhz , you need sprites for a lot of tricks for
making cool awesome games (read psygnosis).


raist new a1200 owner 320 1280 in x , 200 600 in y
in 256 , 000 colors from a 24 bit palette. i love it ! new low fat .sig
do n't e mail me i do n't have a valid address nor can i send e mail



from diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
subject alias phone number wanted
organization diablo creative
reply to diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.6v2
lines 9

what is the phone number for alias \?
a toll free number is preferred , if available.

thanks


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against
cboesel@diablo.uu.holonet.net then what 's the opposite of progress \?
1.510.980.1958(pager) what else , congress.

from erich@fi.gs.com (erich schlaikjer)
subject character recognition
nntp posting host raider
reply to schlae@aron01.gs.com
organization goldman , sachs co
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 7

is there any program available (free or otherwise) for taking a tiff or gif
or some other bitmapped file and turning it (or parts of it) into ascii
characters \?

dos , os 2 or platform independent programs if possible.

thanks.

from kai h@postoffice.utas.edu.au (kai howells)
subject re ray tracer for ms dos \?
organization university of tasmania
lines 33

in article 1r1cqiinnje8@srvr1.engin.umich.edu ,
tdawson@llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) wrote


sorry for the repeat of this request , but does anyone know of a good
free shareware program with which i can create ray traces and save
them as bit mapped files \? (of course if there is such a thing )

thanks in advance

daemon

ppppp ooooo v v persistance of vision raytracer.
p p o o v v
p p o o v v
ppppp o o v v
p o o v v
p o o v v
p ooooo v

available on archie and wuarchive in graphics type directories.

ps it 's freeware.




kai howells.
kai h@postoffice.utas.edu.au
35 mortimer ave
new town tas 7008
ph. within australia 002 286 110
elsewhere 61 02 286 110

from kewe@bskewe.atr.bso.nl (cornelis wessels)
subject point within a polygon
organization mathemagic
lines 71


in article 1993apr14.102007.20664@uk03.bull.co.uk scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk writes


i am looking for an algorithm to determine if a given point is bound by a
polygon. does anyone have any such code or a reference to book containing
information on the subject \?

regards

simon



function puntbinnenpolygoon



auteur cornelis wessels

datum 11 01 1993

omschrijving bepaalt of de aangeboden vector2d p binnen of op de
rand van het polygoon p valt.



wijzigingen



clibstatus puntbinnenpolygoon ( polygoon p , vector2d p )

vector2d o , v , w
index aantal snijpunten , n , n

aantal snijpunten 0
n geefpolygoonlengte(p)
geefpolygoonrandpunt ( p , n , o )

for ( n 1 n n n )

geefpolygoonrandpunt ( p , n , v )

if ( o.x p x v.x p x
o.x p x v.x p x )

w.x p x
interpoleerlineair ( o , v , w )

if ( w.x p x w.y p y )
return(clibsucces)
else if ( w.y p y )
aantal snijpunten


kopieervector2d ( v , o )


if ( aantal snijpunten 2 0 )
return(cliberbuiten)
else
return(clibsucces)


cornelis wessels
krommenoord 14
3079 zt rotterdam
the netherlands
31 10 4826394
kewe@bskewe.atr.bso.nl

from td@alice.att.com (tom duff)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
article i.d. alice.25335
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill nj
lines 3

ulrich@galki.toppoint.de wrote
does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?
forty two is six times nine.

from tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran)
subject re tiff anything \? !
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 10

there is a program called graphic workshop you can ftp from
wuarchive. the file is in the msdos graphics directory and
is called grfwk61t.zip. this program should od everthing
you need.



tmc
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)


from tgl @cs.cmu.edu (tom lane)
subject jpeg image compression frequently asked questions
summary useful info about jpeg (jpg) image files and programs
keywords jpeg , image compression , faq
supersedes jpeg faq 733898461@g.gp.cs.cmu.edu
nntp posting host g.gp.cs.cmu.edu
reply to jpeg info@uunet.uu.net
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
expires sun , 16 may 1993 21 39 30 gmt
lines 1027

archive name jpeg faq
last modified 18 april 1993

this faq article discusses jpeg image compression. suggestions for
additions and clarifications are welcome.

new since version of 3 april 1993
new versions of image archiver and pmjpeg for os 2.


this article includes the following sections

1 what is jpeg \?
2 why use jpeg \?
3 when should i use jpeg , and when should i stick with gif \?
4 how well does jpeg compress images \?
5 what are good quality settings for jpeg \?
6 where can i get jpeg software \?
6a canned software , viewers , etc.
6b source code
7 what 's all this hoopla about color quantization \?
8 how does jpeg work \?
9 what about lossless jpeg \?
10 why all the argument about file formats \?
11 how do i recognize which file format i have , and what do i do about it \?
12 what about arithmetic coding \?
13 does loss accumulate with repeated compression decompression \?
14 what are some rules of thumb for converting gif images to jpeg \?

sections 1 6 are basic info that every jpeg user needs to know
sections 7 14 are advanced info for the curious.

this article is posted every 2 weeks. you can always find the latest version
in the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu (18.172.1.27). by ftp , fetch
pub usenet news.answers jpeg faq or if you do n't have ftp , send e mail to
mail server@rtfm.mit.edu with body send usenet news.answers jpeg faq .
many other faq articles are also stored in this archive. for more
instructions on use of the archive , send e mail to the same address with the
words help and index (no quotes) on separate lines. if you do n't get a
reply , the server may be misreading your return address add a line such as
path myname@mysite to specify your correct e mail address to reply to.





1 what is jpeg \?

jpeg (pronounced jay peg ) is a standardized image compression mechanism.
jpeg stands for joint photographic experts group , the original name of the
committee that wrote the standard. jpeg is designed for compressing either
full color or gray scale digital images of natural , real world scenes.
it does not work so well on non realistic images , such as cartoons or line
drawings.

jpeg does not handle black and white (1 bit per pixel) images , nor does it
handle motion picture compression. standards for compressing those types
of images are being worked on by other committees , named jbig and mpeg
respectively.

jpeg is lossy , meaning that the image you get out of decompression is n't
quite identical to what you originally put in. the algorithm achieves much
of its compression by exploiting known limitations of the human eye , notably
the fact that small color details are n't perceived as well as small details
of light and dark. thus , jpeg is intended for compressing images that will
be looked at by humans. if you plan to machine analyze your images , the
small errors introduced by jpeg may be a problem for you , even if they are
invisible to the eye.

a useful property of jpeg is that the degree of lossiness can be varied by
adjusting compression parameters. this means that the image maker can trade
off file size against output image quality. you can make extremely small
files if you do n't mind poor quality this is useful for indexing image
archives , making thumbnail views or icons , etc. etc. conversely , if you
are n't happy with the output quality at the default compression setting , you
can jack up the quality until you are satisfied , and accept lesser compression.


2 why use jpeg \?

there are two good reasons to make your image files smaller , and to store
24 bit per pixel color data instead of 8 bit per pixel data.

making image files smaller is a big win for transmitting files across
networks and for archiving libraries of images. being able to compress a
2 mbyte full color file down to 100 kbytes or so makes a big difference in
disk space and transmission time ! (if you are comparing gif and jpeg , the
size ratio is more like four to one. more details below.)

if your viewing software does n't support jpeg directly , you 'll have to
convert jpeg to some other format for viewing or manipulating images. even
with a jpeg capable viewer , it takes longer to decode and view a jpeg image
than to view an image of a simpler format (gif , for instance). thus , using
jpeg is essentially a time space tradeoff you give up some time in order to
store or transmit an image more cheaply.

it 's worth noting that when network or phone transmission is involved , the
time savings from transferring a shorter file can be much greater than the
extra time to decompress the file. i 'll let you do the arithmetic yourself.

the other reason why jpeg will gradually replace gif as a standard usenet
posting format is that jpeg can store full color information 24 bits pixel
(16 million colors) instead of 8 or less (256 or fewer colors). if you have
only 8 bit display hardware then this may not seem like much of an advantage
to you. within a couple of years , though , 8 bit gif will look as obsolete as
black and white macpaint format does today. furthermore , for reasons detailed
in section 7 , jpeg is far more useful than gif for exchanging images among
people with widely varying color display hardware. hence jpeg is considerably
more appropriate than gif for use as a usenet posting standard.


3 when should i use jpeg , and when should i stick with gif \?

jpeg is not going to displace gif entirely for some types of images ,
gif is superior in image quality , file size , or both. one of the first
things to learn about jpeg is which kinds of images to apply it to.

as a rule of thumb , jpeg is superior to gif for storing full color or
gray scale images of realistic scenes that means scanned photographs and
similar material. jpeg is superior even if you do n't have 24 bit display
hardware , and it is a lot superior if you do. (see section 7 for details.)

gif does significantly better on images with only a few distinct colors ,
such as cartoons and line drawings. in particular , large areas of pixels
that are all exactly the same color are compressed very efficiently indeed
by gif. jpeg ca n't squeeze these files as much as gif does without
introducing visible defects. this sort of image is best kept in gif form.
(in particular , single color borders are quite cheap in gif files , but they
should be avoided in jpeg files.)

jpeg also has a hard time with very sharp edges a row of pure black pixels
adjacent to a row of pure white pixels , for example. sharp edges tend to
come out blurred unless you use a very high quality setting. again , this
sort of thing is not found in scanned photographs , but it shows up fairly
often in gif files borders , overlaid text , etc. the blurriness is
particularly objectionable with text that 's only a few pixels high.
if you have a gif with a lot of small size overlaid text , do n't jpeg it.

computer drawn images (ray traced scenes , for instance) usually fall between
scanned images and cartoons in terms of complexity. the more complex and
subtly rendered the image , the more likely that jpeg will do well on it.
the same goes for semi realistic artwork (fantasy drawings and such).

plain black and white (two level) images should never be converted to jpeg.
you need at least about 16 gray levels before jpeg is useful for gray scale
images. it should also be noted that gif is lossless for gray scale images
of up to 256 levels , while jpeg is not.

if you have an existing library of gif images , you may wonder whether you
should convert them to jpeg. you will lose a little image quality if you do.
(section 7 , which argues that jpeg image quality is superior to gif , only
applies if both formats start from a full color original. if you start from
a gif , you 've already irretrievably lost a great deal of information jpeg
can only make things worse.) however , the disk space savings may justify
converting anyway. this is a decision you 'll have to make for yourself.
if you do convert a gif library to jpeg , see section 14 for hints. be
prepared to leave some images in gif format , since some gifs will not
convert well.


4 how well does jpeg compress images \?

pretty darn well. here are some sample file sizes for an image i have
handy , a 727x525 full color image of a ship in a harbor. the first three
files are for comparison purposes the rest were created with the free jpeg
software described in section 6b.

file size in bytes comments

ship.ppm 1145040 original file in ppm format (no compression 24 bits
or 3 bytes per pixel , plus a few bytes overhead)
ship.ppm.z 963829 ppm file passed through unix compress
compress does n't accomplish a lot , you 'll note.
other text oriented compressors give similar results.
ship.gif 240438 converted to gif with ppmquant fs 256 ppmtogif
most of the savings is the result of losing color
info gif saves 8 bits pixel , not 24. (see sec. 7.)

ship.jpg95 155622 cjpeg q 95 (highest useful quality setting)
this is indistinguishable from the 24 bit original ,
at least to my nonprofessional eyeballs.
ship.jpg75 58009 cjpeg q 75 (default setting)
you have to look mighty darn close to distinguish this
from the original , even with both on screen at once.
ship.jpg50 38406 cjpeg q 50
this has slight defects if you know what to look
for , you could tell it 's been jpeged without seeing
the original. still as good image quality as many
recent postings in usenet pictures groups.
ship.jpg25 25192 cjpeg q 25
jpeg 's characteristic blockiness becomes apparent
at this setting (djpeg blocksmooth helps some).
still , i 've seen plenty of usenet postings that were
of poorer image quality than this.
ship.jpg5o 6587 cjpeg q 5 optimize ( optimize cuts table overhead)
blocky , but perfectly satisfactory for preview or
indexing purposes. note that this file is tiny
the compression ratio from the original is 173 1 !

in this case jpeg can make a file that 's a factor of four or five smaller
than a gif of comparable quality (the q 75 file is every bit as good as the
gif , better if you have a full color display). this seems to be a typical
ratio for real world scenes.


5 what are good quality settings for jpeg \?

most jpeg compressors let you pick a file size vs. image quality tradeoff by
selecting a quality setting. there seems to be widespread confusion about
the meaning of these settings. quality 95 does not mean keep 95 of the
information , as some have claimed. the quality scale is purely arbitrary
it 's not a percentage of anything.

the name of the game in using jpeg is to pick the lowest quality setting
(smallest file size) that decompresses into an image indistinguishable from
the original. this setting will vary from one image to another and from one
observer to another , but here are some rules of thumb.

the default quality setting ( q 75) is very often the best choice. this
setting is about the lowest you can go without expecting to see defects in a
typical image. try q 75 first if you see defects , then go up. except for
experimental purposes , never go above q 95 saying q 100 will produce a
file two or three times as large as q 95 , but of hardly any better quality.

if the image was less than perfect quality to begin with , you might be able to
go down to q 50 without objectionable degradation. on the other hand , you
might need to go to a higher quality setting to avoid further degradation.
the second case seems to apply much of the time when converting gifs to jpeg.
the default q 75 is about right for compressing 24 bit images , but q 85 to
95 is usually better for converting gifs (see section 14 for more info).

if you want a very small file (say for preview or indexing purposes) and are
prepared to tolerate large defects , a q setting in the range of 5 to 10 is
about right. q 2 or so may be amusing as op art .

(note the quality settings discussed in this article apply to the free jpeg
software described in section 6b , and to many programs based on it. other
jpeg implementations , such as image alchemy , may use a completely different
quality scale. some programs do n't even provide a numeric scale , just
high medium low style choices.)


6 where can i get jpeg software \?

most of the programs described in this section are available by ftp.
if you do n't know how to use ftp , see the faq article how to find sources .
(if you do n't have direct access to ftp , read about ftpmail servers in the
same article.) that article appears regularly in news.answers , or you can
get it by sending e mail to mail server@rtfm.mit.edu with
send usenet news.answers finding sources in the body. the anonymous ftp
list faq may also be helpful it 's usenet news.answers ftp list faq in
the news.answers archive.

note this list changes constantly. if you have a copy more than a couple
months old , get the latest jpeg faq from the news.answers archive.


6a if you are looking for canned software , viewers , etc

the first part of this list is system specific programs that only run on one
kind of system. if you do n't see what you want for your machine , check out
the portable jpeg software described at the end of the list. note that this
list concentrates on free and shareware programs that you can obtain over
internet but some commercial programs are listed too.

x windows

john bradley 's free xv (version 2.00 and up) is an excellent viewer for jpeg ,
gif , and other image formats. it 's available for ftp from export.lcs.mit.edu
or ftp.cis.upenn.edu. the file is called 'xv \? \? \? .tar.z' (where \? \? \? is the
version number , currently 2.21) it is located in the 'contrib' directory on
export or the 'pub xv' directory at upenn. xv reduces all images to 8 bits
internally , which means it 's not a real good choice if you have a 24 bit
display (you 'll still get only 8 bit color). also , you should n't use xv to
convert full color images to jpeg , because they 'll get color quantized first.
but xv is a fine tool for converting gif and other 8 bit images to jpeg.
caution there is a glitch in versions 2.21 and earlier be sure to check
the save at normal size checkbox when saving a jpeg file , or the file will
be blurry.

another good choice for x windows is john cristy 's free imagemagick package ,
also available from export.lcs.mit.edu , file contrib imagemagick.tar.z.
this package handles many image processing and conversion tasks. the
imagemagick viewer handles 24 bit displays correctly for colormapped
displays , it does better (though slower) color quantization than xv or the
basic free jpeg software.

both of the above are large , complex packages. if you just want a simple
image viewer , try xloadimage or xli. xloadimage supports jpeg in its latest
release , 3.03. xloadimage is free and available from export.lcs.mit.edu ,
file contrib xloadimage.3.03.tar.z. xli is a variant version of xloadimage ,
said by its fans to be somewhat faster and more robust than the original.
(the current xli is indeed faster and more robust than the current
xloadimage , at least with respect to jpeg files , because it has the ijg v4
decoder while xloadimage 3.03 is using a hacked over v1. the next
xloadimage release will fix this.) xli is also free and available from
export.lcs.mit.edu , file contrib xli.1.14.tar.z. both programs are said
to do the right thing with 24 bit displays.


ms dos

this covers plain dos for windows or os 2 programs , see the next headings.

one good choice is eric praetzel 's free dvpeg , which views jpeg and gif files.
the current version , 2.4a , is available by ftp from sunee.uwaterloo.ca
(129.97.50.50) , file pub jpeg viewers dvpeg24a.zip. this is a good basic
viewer that works on either 286 or 386 486 machines. the user interface is
not flashy , but it 's functional.

another freeware jpeg gif tga viewer is mohammad rezaei 's hiview. the
current version , 1.2 , is available from simtel20 and mirror sites (see note
below) , file msdos graphics hv12.zip. hiview requires a 386 or better cpu
and a vcpi compatible memory manager (qemm386 and 386max work windows and
os 2 do not). hiview is currently the fastest viewer for images that are no
bigger than your screen. for larger images , it scales the image down to fit
on the screen (rather than using panning scrolling as most viewers do).
you may or may not prefer this approach , but there 's no denying that it
slows down loading of large images considerably. note installation is a
bit tricky read the directions carefully !

a shareware alternative is colorview for dos ( 30). this is easier to
install than either of the two freeware alternatives. its user interface is
also much spiffier looking , although personally i find it harder to use
more keystrokes , inconsistent behavior. it is faster than dvpeg but a
little slower than hiview , at least on my hardware. (for images larger than
screen size , dvpeg and colorview seem to be about the same speed , and both
are faster than hiview.) the current version is 2.1 , available from
simtel20 and mirror sites (see note below) , file msdos graphics dcview21.zip.
requires a vesa graphics driver if you do n't have one , look in vesadrv2.zip
or vesa tsr.zip from the same directory. (many recent pcs have a built in
vesa driver , so do n't try to load a vesa driver unless colorview complains
that the driver is missing.)

a second shareware alternative is fullview , which has been kicking around
the net for a while , but i do n't know any stable archive location for it.
the current (rather old) version is inferior to the above viewers anyway.
the author tells me that a new version of fullview will be out shortly
and it will be submitted to the simtel20 archives at that time.

the well known gif viewer compushow (cshow) supports jpeg in its latest
revision , 8.60a. however , cshow 's jpeg implementation is n't very good
it 's slow (about half the speed of the above viewers) and image quality is
poor except on hi color displays. too bad ... it 'd have been nice to see a
good jpeg capability in cshow. shareware , 25. available from simtel20 and
mirror sites (see note below) , file msdos gif cshw860a.zip.

due to the remarkable variety of pc graphics hardware , any one of these
viewers might not work on your particular machine. if you ca n't get any
of them to work , you 'll need to use one of the following conversion programs
to convert jpeg to gif , then view with your favorite gif viewer. (if you
have hi color hardware , do n't use gif as the intermediate format try to
find a targa capable viewer instead. vpic5.0 is reputed to do the right
thing with hi color displays.)

the independent jpeg group 's free jpeg converters are ftpable from simtel20
and mirror sites (see note below) , file msdos graphics jpeg4.zip (or
jpeg4386.zip if you have a 386 and extended memory). these files are dos
compilations of the free source code described in section 6b they will
convert jpeg to and from gif , targa , and ppm formats.

handmade software offers free jpeg gif conversion tools , gif2jpg jpg2gif.
these are slow and are limited to conversion to and from gif format in
particular , you ca n't get 24 bit color output from a jpeg. the major
advantage of these tools is that they will read and write hsi 's proprietary
jpeg format as well as the usenet standard jfif format. since hsi format
files are rather widespread on bbses , this is a useful capability. version
2.0 of these tools is free (prior versions were shareware). get it from
simtel20 and mirror sites (see note below) , file msdos graphics gif2jpg2.zip.
note do not use hsi format for files to be posted on internet , since it is
not readable on non pc platforms.

handmade software also has a shareware image conversion and manipulation
package , image alchemy. this will translate jpeg files (both jfif and hsi
formats) to and from many other image formats. it can also display images.
a demo version of image alchemy version 1.6.1 is available from simtel20 and
mirror sites (see note below) , file msdos graphics alch161.zip.

note about simtel20 the internet 's key archive site for pc related programs
is simtel20 , full name wsmr simtel20.army.mil (192.88.110.20). simtel20
runs a non unix system with weird directory names where this document
refers to directory (eg) msdos graphics at simtel20 , that really means
pd1 msdos.graphics . if you are not physically on milnet , you should
expect rather slow ftp transfer rates from simtel20. there are several
internet sites that maintain copies (mirrors) of the simtel20 archives
most ftp users should go to one of the mirror sites instead. a popular usa
mirror site is oak.oakland.edu (141.210.10.117) , which keeps simtel20 files
in (eg) pub msdos graphics . if you have no ftp capability , you can
retrieve files from simtel20 by e mail see informational postings in
comp.archives.msdos.announce to find out how. if you are outside the usa ,
consult the same newsgroup to learn where your nearest simtel20 mirror is.

microsoft windows

there are several windows programs capable of displaying jpeg images.
(windows viewers are generally slower than dos viewers on the same hardware ,
due to windows' system overhead. note that you can run the dos conversion
programs described above inside a windows dos window.)

the newest entry is winecj , which is free and extremely fast. version 1.0
is available from ftp.rahul.net , file pub bryanw pc jpeg wecj.zip.
requires windows 3.1 and 256 or more colors mode. this is a no frills
viewer with the bad habit of hogging the machine completely while it
decodes and the image quality is noticeably worse than other viewers.
but it 's so fast you 'll use it anyway , at least for previewing...

jview is freeware , fairly fast , has good on line help , and can write out the
decompressed image in windows bmp format but it ca n't create new jpeg
files , and it does n't view gifs. jview also lacks some other useful
features of the shareware viewers (such as brightness adjustment) , but it 's
an excellent basic viewer. the current version , 0.9 , is available from
ftp.cica.indiana.edu (129.79.20.84) , file pub pc win3 desktop jview090.zip.
(mirrors of this archive can be found at some other internet sites ,
including wuarchive.wustl.edu.)

winjpeg (shareware , 20) displays jpeg , gif , targa , tiff , and bmp image files
it can write all of these formats too , so it can be used as a converter.
it has some other nifty features including color balance adjustment and
slideshow. the current version is 2.1 , available from simtel20 and mirror
sites (see note above) , file msdos windows3 winjp210.zip. (this is a slow
286 compatible version if you register , you 'll get the 386 only version ,
which is roughly 25 faster.)

colorview is another shareware entry ( 30). this was an early and promising
contender , but it has not been updated in some time , and at this point it
has no real advantages over winjpeg. if you want to try it anyway , the
current version is 0.97 , available from ftp.cica.indiana.edu , file
pub pc win3 desktop cview097.zip. (i understand that a new version will
be appearing once the authors are finished with colorview for dos.)

dvpeg (see dos heading) also works under windows , but only in full screen
mode , not in a window.

os 2

the following files are available from hobbes.nmsu.edu (128.123.35.151).
note check pub uploads for more recent versions the hobbes moderator
is not very fast about moving uploads into their permanent directories.
pub os2 2.x graphics jpegv4.zip
32 bit version of free ijg conversion programs , version 4.
pub os2 all graphics jpeg4 16.zip
16 bit version of same , for os 2 1.x.
pub os2 2.x graphics imgarc11.zip
image archiver 1.01 image conversion viewing with pm graphical interface.
strong on conversion functions , viewing is a bit weaker. shareware , 15.
pub os2 2.x graphics pmjpeg11.zip
pmjpeg 1.1 os 2 2.x port of winjpeg , a popular viewer for windows
(see description in windows section). shareware , 20.
pub os2 2.x graphics pmview84.zip
pmview 0.84 jpeg gif bmp viewer. gif viewing very fast , jpeg viewing
fast if you have huge amounts of ram , otherwise about the same speed
as the above programs. strong 24 bit display support. shareware , 20.

macintosh

most mac jpeg programs rely on apple 's jpeg implementation , which is part of
the quicktime system extension so you need to have quicktime installed.
to use quicktime , you need a 68020 or better cpu and you need to be running
system 6.0.7 or later. (if you 're running system 6 , you must also install
the 32 bit quickdraw extension this is built in on system 7.) you can get
quicktime by ftp from ftp.apple.com , file dts mac quicktime quicktime.hqx.
(as of 11 92 , this file contains quicktime 1.5 , which is better than qt 1.0
in several ways. with respect to jpeg , it is marginally faster and
considerably less prone to crash when fed a corrupt jpeg file. however ,
some applications seem to have compatibility problems with qt 1.5.)

mac users should keep in mind that quicktime 's jpeg format , pict jpeg , is
not the same as the usenet standard jfif jpeg format. (see section 10 for
details.) if you post images on usenet , make sure they are in jfif format.
most of the programs mentioned below can generate either format.

the first choice is probably jpegview , a free program for viewing images
that are in jfif format , pict jpeg format , or gif format. it also can
convert between the two jpeg formats. the current version , 2.0 , is a big
improvement over prior versions. get it from sumex aim.stanford.edu
(36.44.0.6) , file info mac app jpeg view 20.hqx. requires system 7 and
quicktime. on 8 bit displays , jpegview usually produces the best color
image quality of all the currently available mac jpeg viewers. jpegview can
view large images in much less memory than other mac viewers in fact , it 's
the only one that can deal with jpeg images much over 640x480 pixels on a
typical 4mb mac. given a large image , jpegview automatically scales it down
to fit on the screen , rather than presenting scroll bars like most other
viewers. (you can zoom in on any desired portion , though.) some people
like this behavior , some do n't. overall , jpegview 's user interface is very
well thought out.

gifconverter , a shareware ( 40) image viewer converter , supports jfif and
pict jpeg , as well as gif and several other image formats. the latest
version is 2.3.2. get it from sumex aim.stanford.edu , file
info mac art gif gif converter 232.hqx. requires system 6.0.5 or later.
gifconverter is not better than jpegview as a plain jpeg gif viewer , but
it has much more extensive image manipulation and format conversion
capabilities , so you may find it worth its shareware fee if you do a lot of
playing around with images. also , the newest version of gifconverter can
load and save jfif images without quicktime , so it is your best bet if
your machine is too old to run quicktime. (but it 's faster with quicktime.)
note if gifconverter runs out of memory trying to load a large jpeg , try
converting the file to gif with jpeg convert , then viewing the gif version.

jpeg convert , a mac version of the free ijg jpeg conversion utilities , is
available from sumex aim.stanford.edu , file info mac app jpeg convert 10.hqx.
this will run on any mac , but it only does file conversion , not viewing.
you can use it in conjunction with any gif viewer.

previous versions of this faq recommended imagery jpeg v0.6 , a jpeg gif
converter based on an old version of the ijg code. if you are using this
program , you definitely should replace it with jpeg convert.

apple 's free program pictpixie can view images in jfif , quicktime jpeg , and
gif format , and can convert between these formats. you can get pictpixie
from ftp.apple.com , file dts mac quicktime qt.1.0.stuff pictpixie.hqx.
requires quicktime. pictpixie was intended as a developer 's tool , and it 's
really not the best choice unless you like to fool around with quicktime.
some of its drawbacks are that it requires lots of memory , it produces
relatively poor color image quality on anything less than a 24 bit display ,
and it has a relatively unfriendly user interface. worse , pictpixie is an
unsupported program , meaning it has some minor bugs that apple does not
intend to fix. (there is an old version of pictpixie , called
pictcompressor , floating around the net. if you have this you should trash
it , as it 's even buggier. also , the quicktime starter kit includes a much
cleaned up descendant of pictpixie called picture compressor. note that
picture compressor is not free and may not be distributed on the net.)

storm technology 's picture decompress is a free jpeg viewer converter.
this rather old program is inferior to the above programs in many ways , but
it will run without system 7 or quicktime , so you may be forced to use it on
older systems. (it does need 32 bit quickdraw , so really old machines ca n't
use it.) you can get it from sumex aim.stanford.edu , file
info mac app picture decompress 201.hqx. you must set the file type of a
downloaded image file to 'jpeg' to allow picture decompress to open it.

if your machine is too old to run 32 bit quickdraw (a mac plus for instance) ,
gifconverter is your only choice for single program jpeg viewing. if you
do n't want to pay for gifconverter , use jpeg convert and a free gif viewer.

more and more commercial mac applications are supporting jpeg , although not
all can deal with the usenet standard jfif format. adobe photoshop , version
2.0.1 or later , can read and write jfif format jpeg files (use the jpeg
plug in from the acquire menu). you must set the file type of a downloaded
jpeg file to 'jpeg' to allow photoshop to recognize it.

amiga

(most programs listed in this section are stored in the aminet archive at
amiga.physik.unizh.ch (130.60.80.80). there are many mirror sites of this
archive and you should try to use the closest one. in the usa , a good
choice is wuarchive.wustl.edu look under mirrors amiga.physik.unizh.ch ...)

hamlab plus is an excellent jpeg viewer converter , as well as being a
general image manipulation tool. it 's cheap (shareware , 20) and can read
several formats besides jpeg. the current version is 2.0.8. a demo version
is available from amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror sites) , file
amiga gfx edit hamlab208d.lha. the demo version will crop images larger
than 512x512 , but it is otherwise fully functional.

rend24 (shareware , 30) is an image renderer that can display jpeg , ilbm ,
and gif images. the program can be used to create animations , even
capturing frames on the fly from rendering packages like lightwave. the
current version is 1.05 , available from amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror
sites) , file amiga os30 gfx rend105.lha. (note although this directory is
supposedly for amigados 3.0 programs , the program will also run under
amigados 1.3 , 2.04 or 2.1.)

viewtek is a free jpeg ilbm gif anim viewer. the current version is 1.04 ,
available from amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror sites) , file
amiga gfx show viewtek104.lha.

if you 're willing to spend real money , there are several commercial packages
that support jpeg. two are written by thomas krehbiel , the author of rend24
and viewtek. these are cinemorph , a standalone image morphing package , and
imagefx , an impressive 24 bit image capture , conversion , editing , painting ,
effects and prepress package that also includes cinemorph. both are
distributed by great valley products. art department professional (adpro) ,
from asdg inc , is the most widely used commercial image manipulation
software for amigas. imagemaster , from black belt systems , is another
well regarded commercial graphics package with jpeg support.

the free ijg jpeg software is available compiled for amigas from
amiga.physik.unizh.ch (and mirror sites) in directory amiga gfx conv , file
amigajpegv4.lha. these programs convert jpeg to from ppm , gif , targa formats.

the amiga world is heavily infested with quick and dirty jpeg programs , many
based on an ancient beta test version of the free ijg jpeg software (thanks
to a certain magazine that published same on its disk of the month , without
so much as notifying the authors). among these are augjpeg , newamyjpeg ,
vjpeg , and probably others i have not even heard of. in my opinion ,
anything older than ijg version 3 (march 1992) is not worth the disk space
it 's stored on if you have such a program , trash it and get something newer.

atari st

the free ijg jpeg software is available compiled for atari st , tt , etc ,
from atari.archive.umich.edu , file atari graphics jpeg4bin.zoo.
these programs convert jpeg to from ppm , gif , targa formats.

i have not heard of any free or shareware jpeg capable viewer for ataris ,
but surely there must be one by now \? pointers appreciated.

acorn archimedes

! changefsi , supplied with risc os 3 version 3.10 , can convert from and view
jpeg jfif format. provision is also made to convert images to jpeg ,
although this must be done from the cli rather than by double clicking.

recent versions (since 7.11) of the shareware program translator can handle
jpeg , along with about 30 other image formats. while older versions can be
found on some archimedes bboards , the current version is only available by
registering with the author , john kortink , nutterbrink 31 , 7544 wj , enschede ,
the netherlands. price 35 dutch guilders (about 22 or 10 pounds).

there 's also a commercial product called ! jpeg which provides jpeg read write
functionality and direct jpeg viewing , as well as a host of other image
format conversion and processing options. this is more expensive but not
necessarily better than the above programs. contact dt software , freepost ,
cambridge , uk. tel 0223 841099.


portable software for almost any system

if none of the above fits your situation , you can obtain and compile the free
jpeg conversion software described in 6b. you 'll also need a viewer program.
if your display is 8 bits or less , any gif viewer will do fine if you have a
display with more color capability , try to find a viewer that can read targa
or ppm 24 bit image files.

there are numerous commercial jpeg offerings , with more popping up every
day. i recommend that you not spend money on one of these unless you find
the available free or shareware software vastly too slow. in that case ,
purchase a hardware assisted product. ask pointed questions about whether
the product complies with the final jpeg standard and about whether it can
handle the jfif file format many of the earliest commercial releases are
not and never will be compatible with anyone else 's files.


6b if you are looking for source code to work with

free , portable c code for jpeg compression is available from the independent
jpeg group , which i lead. a package containing our source code ,
documentation , and some small test files is available from several places.
the official archive site for this source code is ftp.uu.net (137.39.1.9
or 192.48.96.9). look under directory graphics jpeg the current release
is jpegsrc.v4.tar.z. (this is a compressed tar file do n't forget to
retrieve in binary mode.) you can retrieve this file by ftp or uucp.
if you are on a pc and do n't know how to cope with .tar.z format , you may
prefer zip format , which you can find at simtel20 and mirror sites (see note
above) , file msdos graphics jpegsrc4.zip. this file will also be available on
compuserve , in the graphsupport forum (go pics) , library 15 , as jpsrc4.zip.
if you have no ftp access , you can retrieve the source from your nearest
comp.sources.misc archive version 4 appeared as issues 55 72 of volume 34.
(if you do n't know how to retrieve comp.sources.misc postings , see the faq
article how to find sources , referred to at the top of section 6.)

the free jpeg code provides conversion between jpeg jfif format and image
files in gif , pbmplus ppm pgm , utah rle , and truevision targa file formats.
the core compression and decompression modules can easily be reused in other
programs , such as image viewers. the package is highly portable we have
tested it on many machines ranging from pcs to crays.

we have released this software for both noncommercial and commercial use.
companies are welcome to use it as the basis for jpeg related products.
we do not ask a royalty , although we do ask for an acknowledgement in
product literature (see the readme file in the distribution for details).
we hope to make this software industrial quality although , as with
anything that 's free , we offer no warranty and accept no liability.

the independent jpeg group is a volunteer organization if you 'd like to
contribute to improving our software , you are welcome to join.


7 what 's all this hoopla about color quantization \?

most people do n't have full color (24 bit per pixel) display hardware.
typical display hardware stores 8 or fewer bits per pixel , so it can display
256 or fewer distinct colors at a time. to display a full color image , the
computer must map the image into an appropriate set of representative
colors. this process is called color quantization . (this is something
of a misnomer , color selection would be a better term. we 're stuck with
the standard usage though.)

clearly , color quantization is a lossy process. it turns out that for most
images , the details of the color quantization algorithm have much more impact
on the final image quality than do any errors introduced by jpeg (except at
the very lowest jpeg quality settings).

since jpeg is a full color format , converting a color jpeg image for display
on 8 bit or less hardware requires color quantization. this is true for
all color jpegs even if you feed a 256 or less color gif into jpeg , what
comes out of the decompressor is not 256 colors , but thousands of colors.
this happens because jpeg 's lossiness affects each pixel a little
differently , so two pixels that started with identical colors will probably
come out with slightly different colors. each original color gets smeared
into a group of nearby colors. therefore quantization is always required to
display a color jpeg on a colormapped display , regardless of the image
source. the only way to avoid quantization is to ask for gray scale output.

(incidentally , because of this effect it 's nearly meaningless to talk about
the number of colors used by a jpeg image. even if you attempted to count
the number of distinct pixel values , different jpeg decoders would give you
different results because of roundoff error differences. i occasionally see
posted images described as 256 color jpeg . this tells me that the poster
(a) has n't read this faq and (b) probably converted the jpeg from a gif.
jpegs can be classified as color or gray scale (just like photographs) , but
number of colors just is n't a useful concept for jpeg.)

on the other hand , a gif image by definition has already been quantized to
256 or fewer colors. (a gif does have a definite number of colors in its
palette , and the format does n't allow more than 256 palette entries.)
for purposes of usenet picture distribution , gif has the advantage that the
sender precomputes the color quantization , so recipients do n't have to.
this is also the disadvantage of gif you 're stuck with the sender 's
quantization. if the sender quantized to a different number of colors than
what you can display , you have to re quantize , resulting in much poorer
image quality than if you had quantized once from a full color image.
furthermore , if the sender did n't use a high quality color quantization
algorithm , you 're out of luck.

for this reason , jpeg offers the promise of significantly better image quality
for all users whose machines do n't match the sender 's display hardware.
jpeg 's full color image can be quantized to precisely match the user 's display
hardware. furthermore , you will be able to take advantage of future
improvements in quantization algorithms (there is a lot of active research in
this area) , or purchase better display hardware , to get a better view of jpeg
images you already have. with a gif , you 're stuck forevermore with what was
sent.

it 's also worth mentioning that many gif viewing programs include rather
shoddy quantization routines. if you view a 256 color gif on a 16 color ega
display , for example , you are probably getting a much worse image than you
need to. this is partly an inevitable consequence of doing two color
quantizations (one to create the gif , one to display it) , but often it 's
also due to sloppiness. jpeg conversion programs will be forced to use
high quality quantizers in order to get acceptable results at all , and in
normal use they will quantize directly to the number of colors to be
displayed. thus , jpeg is likely to provide better results than the average
gif program for low color resolution displays as well as high resolution ones !

finally , an ever growing number of people have better than 8 bit display
hardware already 15 bit hi color pc displays , true 24 bit displays on
workstations and macintoshes , etc. for these people , gif is already
obsolete , as it cannot represent an image to the full capabilities of their
display. jpeg images can drive these displays much more effectively.
thus , jpeg is an all around better choice than gif for representing images
in a machine independent fashion.


8 how does jpeg work \?

the buzz words to know are chrominance subsampling , discrete cosine
transforms , coefficient quantization , and huffman or arithmetic entropy
coding. this article 's long enough already , so i'm not going to say more
than that here. for technical information , see the comp.compression faq.
this is available from the news.answers archive at rtfm.mit.edu , in files
pub usenet news.answers compression faq part 1 3 . if you need help in
using the news.answers archive , see the top of this article.


9 what about lossless jpeg \?

there 's a great deal of confusion on this subject. the jpeg committee did
define a truly lossless compression algorithm , i.e. , one that guarantees the
final output is bit for bit identical to the original input. however , this
lossless mode has almost nothing in common with the regular , lossy jpeg
algorithm , and it offers much less compression. at present , very few
implementations of lossless jpeg exist , and all of them are commercial.

saying q 100 to the free jpeg software does not get you a lossless image.
what it does get rid of is deliberate information loss in the coefficient
quantization step. there is still a good deal of information loss in the
color subsampling step. (with the v4 free jpeg code , you can also say
sample 1x1 to turn off subsampling. keep in mind that many commercial
jpeg implementations cannot cope with the resulting file.)

even with both quantization and subsampling turned off , the regular jpeg
algorithm is not lossless , because it is subject to roundoff errors in
various calculations. the maximum error is a few counts in any one pixel
value it 's highly unlikely that this could be perceived by the human eye ,
but it might be a concern if you are doing machine processing of an image.

at this minimum loss setting , regular jpeg produces files that are perhaps
half the size of an uncompressed 24 bit per pixel image. true lossless jpeg
provides roughly the same amount of compression , but it guarantees
bit for bit accuracy.

if you have an application requiring lossless storage of images with less
than 6 bits per pixel (per color component) , you may want to look into the
jbig bilevel image compression standard. this performs better than jpeg
lossless on such images. jpeg lossless is superior to jbig on images with
6 or more bits per pixel furthermore , jpeg is public domain (at least with a
huffman back end) , while the jbig techniques are heavily covered by patents.


10 why all the argument about file formats \?

strictly speaking , jpeg refers only to a family of compression algorithms
it does not refer to a specific image file format. the jpeg committee was
prevented from defining a file format by turf wars within the international
standards organizations.

since we ca n't actually exchange images with anyone else unless we agree on
a common file format , this leaves us with a problem. in the absence of
official standards , a number of jpeg program writers have just gone off to
do their own thing , and as a result their programs are n't compatible with
anybody else 's.

the closest thing we have to a de facto standard jpeg format is some work
that 's been coordinated by people at c cube microsystems. they have defined
two jpeg based file formats
jfif (jpeg file interchange format) , a low end format that transports
pixels and not much else.
tiff jpeg , aka tiff 6.0 , an extension of the aldus tiff format. tiff is
a high end format that will let you record just about everything you
ever wanted to know about an image , and a lot more besides ). tiff is
a lot more complex than jfif , and may well prove less transportable ,
because different vendors have historically implemented slightly different
and incompatible subsets of tiff. it 's not likely that adding jpeg to the
mix will do anything to improve this situation.
both of these formats were developed with input from all the major vendors
of jpeg related products it 's reasonably likely that future commercial
products will adhere to one or both standards.

i believe that usenet should adopt jfif as the replacement for gif in
picture postings. jfif is simpler than tiff and is available now the
tiff 6.0 spec has only recently been officially adopted , and it is still
unusably vague on some crucial details. even when tiff jpeg is well
defined , the jfif format is likely to be a widely supported lowest common
denominator tiff jpeg files may never be as transportable.

a particular case that people may be interested in is apple 's quicktime
software for the macintosh. quicktime uses a jfif compatible format wrapped
inside the mac specific pict structure. conversion between jfif and
quicktime jpeg is pretty straightforward , and several mac programs are
available to do it (see mac portion of section 6a). if you have an editor
that handles binary files , you can strip a quicktime jpeg pict down to jfif
by hand see section 11 for details.

another particular case is handmade software 's programs (gif2jpg jpg2gif and
image alchemy). these programs are capable of reading and writing jfif
format. by default , though , they write a proprietary format developed by
hsi. this format is not readable by any non hsi programs and should not be
used for usenet postings. use the j switch to get jfif output. (this
applies to old versions of these programs the current releases emit jfif
format by default. you still should be careful not to post hsi format
files , unless you want to get flamed by people on non pc platforms.)


11 how do i recognize which file format i have , and what do i do about it \?

if you have an alleged jpeg file that your software wo n't read , it 's likely
to be hsi format or some other proprietary jpeg based format. you can tell
what you have by inspecting the first few bytes of the file

1. a jfif standard file will start with the characters (hex) ff d8 ff e0 ,
followed by two variable bytes (often hex 00 10) , followed by 'jfif'.

2. if you see ff d8 at the start , but not the rest of it , you may have a
raw jpeg file. this is probably decodable as is by jfif software
it 's worth a try , anyway.

3. hsi files start with 'hsi1'. you 're out of luck unless you have hsi
software. portions of the file may look like plain jpeg data , but they
wo n't decompress properly with non hsi programs.

4. a macintosh pict file , if jpeg compressed , will have a couple hundred
bytes of header followed by a jfif header (scan for 'jfif'). strip off
everything before the ff d8 and you should be able to read it.

5. anything else it 's a proprietary format , or not jpeg at all. if you are
lucky , the file may consist of a header and a raw jpeg data stream.
if you can identify the start of the jpeg data stream (look for ff d8) ,
try stripping off everything before that.

in uuencoded usenet postings , the characteristic jfif pattern is

begin line
m c x ...

whereas uuencoded hsi files will start with

begin line
m ' i ...

if you learn to check for the former , you can save yourself the trouble of
downloading non jfif files.


12 what about arithmetic coding \?

the jpeg spec defines two different back end modules for the final output
of compressed data either huffman coding or arithmetic coding is allowed.
the choice has no impact on image quality , but arithmetic coding usually
produces a smaller compressed file. on typical images , arithmetic coding
produces a file 5 or 10 percent smaller than huffman coding. (all the
file size numbers previously cited are for huffman coding.)

unfortunately , the particular variant of arithmetic coding specified by the
jpeg standard is subject to patents owned by ibm , at t , and mitsubishi.
thus you cannot legally use arithmetic coding unless you obtain licenses
from these companies. (the fair use doctrine allows people to implement
and test the algorithm , but actually storing any images with it is dubious
at best.)

at least in the short run , i recommend that people not worry about
arithmetic coding the space savings is n't great enough to justify the
potential legal hassles. in particular , arithmetic coding should not
be used for any images to be exchanged on usenet.

there is some small chance that the legal situation may change in the
future. stay tuned for further details.


13 does loss accumulate with repeated compression decompression \?

it would be nice if , having compressed an image with jpeg , you could
decompress it , manipulate it (crop off a border , say) , and recompress it
without any further image degradation beyond what you lost initially.
unfortunately this is not the case. in general , recompressing an altered
image loses more information , though usually not as much as was lost the
first time around.

the next best thing would be that if you decompress an image and recompress
it without changing it then there is no further loss , i.e. , you get an
identical jpeg file. even this is not true at least , not with the current
free jpeg software. it 's essentially a problem of accumulation of roundoff
error. if you repeatedly compress and decompress , the image will eventually
degrade to where you can see visible changes from the first generation
output. (it usually takes many such cycles to get visible change.)
one of the things on our to do list is to see if accumulation of error can
be avoided or limited , but i am not optimistic about it.

in any case , the most that could possibly be guaranteed would be that
compressing the unmodified full color output of djpeg , at the original
quality setting , would introduce no further loss. even such simple changes
as cropping off a border could cause further roundoff error degradation.
(if you 're wondering why , it 's because the pixel block boundaries move.
if you cropped off only multiples of 16 pixels , you might be safe , but
that 's a mighty limited capability ! )

the bottom line is that jpeg is a useful format for archival storage and
transmission of images , but you do n't want to use it as an intermediate
format for sequences of image manipulation steps. use a lossless format
(ppm , rle , tiff , etc) while working on the image , then jpeg it when you are
ready to file it away. aside from avoiding degradation , you will save a lot
of compression decompression time this way ).


14 what are some rules of thumb for converting gif images to jpeg \?

as stated earlier , you will lose some amount of image information if you
convert an existing gif image to jpeg. if you can obtain the original
full color data the gif was made from , it 's far better to make a jpeg from
that. but if you need to save space and have only the gif to work from ,
here are some suggestions for getting maximum space savings with minimum
loss of quality.

the first rule when converting a gif library is to look at each jpeg , to
make sure you are happy with it , before throwing away the corresponding gif
that will give you a chance to re do the conversion with a higher quality
setting if necessary. some gifs may be better left as gifs , as explained in
section 3 in particular , cartoon type gifs with sixteen or fewer colors
do n't convert well. you may find that a jpeg file of reasonable quality
will be larger than the gif. (so check the sizes too.)

experience to date suggests that large , high visual quality gifs are the best
candidates for conversion to jpeg. they chew up the most storage so offer
the most potential savings , and they convert to jpeg with least degradation.
do n't waste your time converting any gif much under 100 kbytes. also , do n't
expect jpeg files converted from gifs to be as small as those created
directly from full color originals. to maintain image quality you may have
to let the converted files be as much as twice as big as straight through
jpeg files would be (i.e. , shoot for 1 2 or 1 3rd the size of the gif file ,
not 1 4th as suggested in earlier comparisons).

many people have developed an odd habit of putting a large constant color
border around a gif image. while useless , this was nearly free in terms of
storage cost in gif files. it is not free in jpeg files , and the sharp
border boundary can create visible artifacts ( ghost edges). do yourself
a favor and crop off any border before jpeging. (if you are on an x windows
system , xv 's manual and automatic cropping functions are a very painless
way to do this.)

cjpeg 's default q setting of 75 is appropriate for full color input , but
for gif inputs , q settings of 85 to 95 often seem to be necessary to avoid
image degradation. (if you apply smoothing as suggested below , the higher
q setting may not be necessary.)

color gifs of photographs or complex artwork are usually dithered to fool
your eye into seeing more than the 256 colors that gif can actually store.
if you enlarge the image , you will see that adjacent pixels are often of
significantly different colors at normal size the eye averages these pixels
together to produce the illusion of an intermediate color value. the
trouble with dithering is that , to jpeg , it looks like high spatial frequency
color noise and jpeg ca n't compress noise very well. the resulting jpeg
file is both larger and of lower image quality than what you would have
gotten from jpeging the original full color image (if you had it).
to get around this , you want to smooth the gif image before compression.
smoothing averages together nearby pixels , thus approximating the color that
you thought you saw anyway , and in the process getting rid of the rapid
color changes that give jpeg trouble. appropriate use of smoothing will
often let you avoid using a high q factor , thus further reducing the size of
the compressed file , while still obtaining a better looking output image
than you 'd get without smoothing.

with the v4 free jpeg software (or products based on it) , a simple smoothing
capability is built in. try smooth 10 or so when converting gifs.
values of 10 to 25 seem to work well for high quality gifs. heavy handed
dithering may require larger smoothing factors. (if you can see regular
fine scale patterns on the gif image even without enlargement , then strong
smoothing is definitely called for.) too large a smoothing factor will blur
the output image , which you do n't want. if you are an image processing
wizard , you can also do smoothing with a separate filtering program , such as
pnmconvol from the pbmplus package. however , cjpeg 's built in smoother is
a lot faster than pnmconvol...

the upshot of all this is that cjpeg quality 85 smooth 10 is probably a
good starting point for converting gifs. but if you really care about the
image , you 'll want to check the results and maybe try a few other settings.




for more information about jpeg in general or the free jpeg software in
particular , contact the independent jpeg group at jpeg info@uunet.uu.net.


tom lane
organizer , independent jpeg group
internet tgl@cs.cmu.edu bitnet tgl cs.cmu.edu@carnegie

from madler@cco.caltech.edu (mark adler)
subject re images of earth
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 8
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu


so they should sue the newspaper i got it from for printing it.
the article did n't say anything about copyrights.

i'm sure the whole newspaper is copyrighted. they could have gotten
permission to use the image under their own copyright.

mark

from graeme@labtam.labtam.oz.au (graeme gill)
subject re looking for circle algorithm faster than bresenhams
organization labtam australia pty. ltd. , melbourne , australia
lines 28

in article 1993apr13.025240.8884@nwnexus.wa.com , mpdillon@halcyon.com (michael dillon) writes
i have an algorithm similar to bresenhams line drawing algorithm , that
draws a line by stepping along the minor axis and drawing slices like
aaaa , bbbb , cccc in the following diagram.

aaaa
bbbb
cccc


yes , that 's known as bresenhams run length slice algorithm for
incremental lines . see fundamental algorithms for computer graphics ,
springer verlag , berlin heidelberg 1985.

i have tried to extrapolate this to circles but i ca n't figure out
how to determine the length of the slices. any ideas \?

hmm. i do n't think i can help you with this , but you might
take a look at the following

double step incremental generation of lines and circles ,
x. wu and j. g. rokne , computer graphics and image processing ,
vol 37 , no. 4 , mar. 1987 , pp. 331 334

double step generation of ellipses , x. wu and j. g. rokne ,
ieee computer graphics applications , may 1989 , pp. 56 69

graeme gill.

from ccgwt@trentu.ca (grant totten)
subject re ms windows screen grabber (summary)
lines 28
reply to ccgwt@trentu.ca (grant totten)
organization trent university


hi again ,

many thanks to all the people who responded to my request for a ms
windows screen grabber. it proves to me again that the net is a
wonderful thing. )

so , in summary

there are two choices

1) various screen grabber packages (corel draw has one , there are
a couple on simtel and cica).

2) use the built in printscreen and alt printscreen functionality
to paste the screen (or window) to the clipboard. then paste the
clipboard to your application. cool !

again , thanks for the info...

grant (the ms windows newbie unix and x are my bag )


grant totten , programmer analyst , trent university , peterborough ontario
gtotten@trentu.ca phone (705) 748 1653 fax (705) 748 1246

a woman 's place is in the wrong.
james thurber

from dsnyder@falcon.aamrl.wpafb.af.mil
subject re real time graphics \? \?
distribution na
organization usaf al cfh , wpafb , dayton , oh
lines 30

in article c4va9r.kk7@taurus.cs.nps.navy.mil , stockel@oahu.oc.nps.navy.mil (jim stockel) writes
hi ,

i will be writing a data acquisition program to collect data from a
variety of sources including rs232 , and external a d 's , and i would
like to be able to display the data in near realtime. i 've done this
type of thing on pc 's and other machines , but i am unaware of any graphics
package that could help me with this on a unix machine.

.......

does anyone have any ideas on commercial or free packages that might
suit my needs \? i would really appreciate any input. i'm sure this has
been done many times before.


for a commerical package try wave from precision visuals
505 530 6563

for a free package try khoros from university of new mexico
508 277 6563
ftp from
ptrg.eece.unm.edu

login in anonyomus or ftp with a valid email address as the password
cd pub khoros release

that will get you to the right place.

david

from jgreen@amber (joe green)
subject re weitek p9000 \?
organization harris computer systems division
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host amber.ssd.csd.harris.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

robert j.c. kyanko (rob@rjck.uucp) wrote
abraxis@iastate.edu writes in article abraxis.734340159@class1.iastate.edu
anyone know about the weitek p9000 graphics chip \?
as far as the low level stuff goes , it looks pretty nice. it 's got this
quadrilateral fill command that requires just the four points.

do you have weitek 's address phone number \? i 'd like to get some information
about this chip.


joe green harris corporation
jgreen@csd.harris.com computer systems division
the only thing that really scares me is a person with no sense of humor.
jonathan winters

from rob@rjck.uucp (robert j.c. kyanko)
subject re vga 640x400 graphics mode
distribution world
organization neptune software inc
lines 26

dutc0006@student.tc.umn.edu writes in article c5g7qb.bmp@news2.cis.umn.edu

some vesa bios 's support this mode (0x100). and any vga should be able to
support this (640x480 by 256 colors) since it only requires 256 , 000 bytes.
my 8514 a vesa tsr supports this it 's the only vesa mode by card can support
due to 8514 a restrictions. (a wd paradise)


i am not responsible for anything i do or say i'm just an opinion.
robert j.c. kyanko (rob@rjck.uucp)

ahh no. possibly you punched in the wrong numbers on your
calculator. 256 color modes take a byte per pixel so 640 time 480 is
307 , 200 which is 300k to be exact. 640x400x256 only takes 250k but i
do n't think it is a bios mode. i would n't bet that all vga cards can do
that either. if a vga card has 512k i bet it can do both 640x400 and
640x480. that by definition is svga , though not very high svga.


yes , i did punch in the wrong numbers (working too many late nites). i
intended on stating 640x400 is 256 , 000 bytes. it 's not in the bios , just my
vesa tsr.


i am not responsible for anything i do or say i'm just an opinion.
robert j.c. kyanko (rob@rjck.uucp)

from pbenson@ecst.csuchico.edu (paul a. benson)
subject cd rom indexes available
organization california state university , chico
lines 6
nntp posting host cscihp.ecst.csuchico.edu

the file and contents listings for

knowledge media resource library graphics 1
knowledge media resource library audio 1

are now available for anonymous ftp from cdrom.com

from dgf1@quads.uchicago.edu (dr. eldon tyrell)
subject re so what is the fastest windows video c
reply to dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 21

in article 1993apr17.054600.24917@exu.ericsson.se ebuhcb@ebu.ericsson.se writes
in article 16apr199309101156@trentu.ca , ayounes@trentu.ca (amro younes , trent university , c.c. 314 , peterborough , on , canada k9j 7b8. (705) 749 0391) writes
i have the ati graphics ultra pro eisa version. i must admit it has
received bad press but that was due to the faulty drivers it had.

pc magazine seems to be impressed with the ati card in their most recent
reviews. in the april 13th issue they rate the ati graphics ultra pro
(eisa version) as their editor 's choice . they noted that the drivers
had improved since they tested the isa version in january...
...cuyler
yeah they also gave it their editor 's choice in the run down of
graphics accelerators they tested in the previous issue , which is why
i bought (and then returned) mine. the only conclusion i can come up with
is that pc magazine has wildly different ways on determining the worthiness
of a video card than i do.


david farley the university of chicago library
312 702 3426 1100 east 57th street , jrl 210
dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu chicago , illinois 60637


from jr0930@eve.albany.edu (regan james p)
subject re pascal fractals
organization state university of new york at albany
lines 10

apparently , my editor did n't do what i wanted it to do , so i 'll try again.

i'm looking for any programs or code to do simple animation and or
drawing using fractals in turbopascal for an ibm
thanks in advance


jr0930@eve.albany.edu
jr0930@albnyvms.bitnet
go heavy or go home

from ajs8@kimbark.uchicago.edu (adam jeremy schorr)
subject graphics needed
reply to ajs8@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 2

i'm looking for graphics (clipart , bmp , gif...) of anything relating to ophthalmology (i know it 's a weird request). anything such as eyeglasses ,
contact lenses , eyes...would be greatly appreciated. thanks.

from r0506048@cml3 (chun hung lin)
subject re jpeg file format \?
nntp posting host cml3.csie.ntu.edu.tw
reply to r0506048@csie.ntu.edu.tw
organization communication multimedia lab , ntu , taiwan
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
lines 20

peterbak@microsoft.com (peter bako) writes

where could i find a description of the jpg file format \? specifically
i need to know where in a jpg file i can find the height and width of
the image , and perhaps even the number of colors being used.

any suggestions \?

peter

try ftp.uu.net , in graphics jpeg.



chun hung lin ( l t )
r0506048@csie.ntu.edu.tw
communication multimedia lab.
dept. of comp. sci. info. eng.
national taiwan university , taipei , taiwan , r.o.c.


from cb@wixer.bga.com (cyberspace buddha)
subject re cview answers
keywords stupid programming
organization real time communications
lines 15

renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
over where it places its temp files it just places them in its
current directory .

i have to beg to differ on this point , as the batch file i use
to launch cview cd 's to the dir where cview resides and then
invokes it. every time i crash cview , the 0 byte temp file
is found in the root dir of the drive cview is on.

just my 0.13 ,
cb

cyberspace buddha why are you looking for more knowledge when you (o
cb@wixer.bga.com do not pay attention to what you already know \? o)
cb@wixer.cactus.org get out of my chair ! hillary to god peace...

from situnaya@ibm3090.bham.ac.uk
subject help wanted for dmorf....... !
organization the university of birmingham , united kingdom
lines 6
nntp posting host ibm3090.bham.ac.uk


please bear with me as i am new at this game , i apologize unreservedly if i hav
e posted another message earlier by mistake. but i digress , could anyone out th
ere please explain exactly what dmorf does (dtax.exe). does it simply fade one
bitmap into another or does it reshape one bitmap into another. excuse my ignor
ance.....

from orourke@sophia.smith.edu (joseph o'rourke)
subject re need a good concave convex polygon algorithm
organization smith college , northampton , ma , us
lines 16

in article c5juyz.aly@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu rws2v@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu (richard stoakley) writes
we need a good concave convex polygon conversion routine.
i 've tried a couple without much luck. please e mail responses and i
will post a summary of any replies. thank you.

richard stoakley
rws2v@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu

the problem is not precisely defined above , but if you need to find
the smallest convex polygon that encloses a given polygon , then
you are seeking the convex hull of your original polygon. there
are two ways to do this use a somewhat tricky but by now well
examined linear time algorithm that exploits the polygon boundary ,
or just feed the vertices of the original polygon to a convex hull
routine and accept o(n log n). both methods are discussed in
preparata and shamos , for example.

from pes@hutcs.cs.hut.fi (pekka siltanen)
subject re detecting double points in bezier curves
nntp posting host hutcs.cs.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 26

in article 1993apr19.234409.18303@kpc.com jbulf@balsa.berkeley.edu (jeff bulf) writes
in article ia522b1w165w@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl , ferdinan@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl (ferdinand oeinck) writes
i'm looking for any information on detecting and or calculating a double
point and or cusp in a bezier curve.

an algorithm , literature reference or mail about this is very appreciated ,

there was a very useful article in one of the 1989 issues of
transactions on graphics. i believe maureen stone was one of
the authors. sorry not to be more specific. i do n't have the
reference here with me.


stone , derose geometric characterization of parametric cubic curves.
acm trans. graphics 8 (3) (1989) 147 163.


manocha , canny detecting cusps and inflection points in curves.
computer aided geometric design 9 (1992) 1 24.

pekka siltanen






from haston@utkvx.utk.edu (haston , donald wayne)
subject church related graphics
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
keywords christian graphics
organization university of tennessee computing center
lines 13

i am looking for some good quality graphics files which are
suitable for use in church related presentations. i prefer vector ,
but anything would be helpful.

if you know of bulletin boards which have collections of this nature , or
commercial products , please inform me by email

haston@utkvx.utk.edu

wayne haston




from dls@aeg.dsto.gov.au (david silver)
subject re fractal generation of clouds
organization defence science and technology organisation
lines 14
nntp posting host kestrel.dsto.gov.au

haabn@nye.nscee.edu (frederick j. haab) writes


i need to implement an algorithm to fractally generate clouds
as sort of a benchmark for some algorithms i'm working on.

just as a matter of interest , a self promo computer graphics sequence
that one of the local tv stations used to play quite a lot a couple of
years ago showed a 3d flyover of australia from the west coast to the
east. the clouds were quite recognisable as fuzzy , flat , white
mandlebrot sets ! !

david silver


from hl7204@eehp22 (h l)
subject re graphics library package
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 2




from alex@falcon.demon.co.uk (alex kiernan)
subject re .scf files , help needed
distribution world
organization dis(organised)
reply to alex@falcon.demon.co.uk
x newsreader simple news 1.90 (ka9q dis 1.21)
lines 14

in article 1993apr22.123832.23894@daimi.aau.dk rued@daimi.aau.dk writes

rix 's files with the extension .sci and .scf are just a raw file with
a 256 color palette.
...stuff deleted...
regards
thomas


do you happen to know what a .sco rix file is \?


alex kiernan
akiernan@falcon.demon.co.uk

from brian@porky.contex.com (brian love)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization xyvision design systems
lines 9

in article 25335@alice.att.com td@alice.att.com (tom duff) writes
ulrich@galki.toppoint.de wrote
does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?
forty two is six times nine.

...for very small values of six and nine.

(sorry , tom , i could n't resist...)


from boebert@sctc.com (earl boebert)
subject removing distortion from bitmapped drawings \?
organization sctc
lines 47

let 's say you have a scanned image of a line drawing in this case a
boat , but it could be anything. on the drawing you have a set of
reference points whose true x , y positions are known.

now you digitize the drawing manually (in this case , using yaron
danon 's excellent digitize program). that is , you use a program which
converts cursor positions to x , y and saves those values when you click
the mouse.

upon digitizing you notice that the reference point values that come
out of the digitizing process differ in small but significant ways
from the known true values. this is understandable because the
scanned drawing is a reproduction of the original and there are
successive sources of distortion such as differential expansion and
contraction of paper , errors introduced in the printing process ,
scanner errors and what have you.

the errors are not uniform over the entire drawing , so global
adjustments such as stretching contracting uniformly over x or y , or
rotating the whole drawing , are not satisfactory.

so the question is does any kind soul know of an algorithm for
removing such distortion \? in particular , if i have three sets of
points

reference(x , y) (the known true values)

distortedreference(x , y) (the same points , with known errors)

distorteddata(x , y) (other points , with unknown errors)

what function of reference and distorted could i apply to
distorteddata to remove the errors.

i suspect the problem could be solved by treating the distorted
reference points as resulting from the projection of a bumpy 3d
surface , solving for the surface and then flattening it to remove
the errors in the other data points.

any kind and informed soul out there have any ideas , or better yet ,
pointers to treatments of the same or similar problems \?

thanks ,

earl



from situnaya@ibm3090.bham.ac.uk
subject test....(sorry)
organization the university of birmingham , united kingdom
lines 1
nntp posting host ibm3090.bham.ac.uk



from rap@coconut.cis.ufl.edu (ryan porter)
subject re dmorph
article i.d. snoopy.1pqlhninn8k1
organization univ. of florida cis dept.
lines 34
nntp posting host coconut.cis.ufl.edu

in article 1993apr3.183303.6442@usl.edu jna8182@ucs.usl.edu (armstrong jay n) writes
can someone please tell me where i can ftp dta or dmorph \?

dmorf (dave 's morph , i think is what it means) and dtax (dave 's
tga assembler) are available in the msdos uploads directory
on the wuarchive.

they are arjed and bundled with their respective xmemory versions ,
dmorfx.exe and dtax.exe , you can also find a version of aaplay.exe
there , with which you can view files you create with dta.exe or
dtax.exe.

i downloaded the whole bunch last week and have been morphing
away the afternoons since. the programmes are all a bit buggy and
definitely not ready to spread to the masses , but they are very
well written.

the interface is frustrating at first , but it gets easy once you
figure out the tricks.

i have noticed that dmorfx will crash horribly if you try to morph
without using the splines option. not sure why , since i do n't have
the source. i think it was written for tp 6.0.

if anyone else comes up with any other hints on getting the thing
to work right , tell me it took me several hours the first time
just to figure out that if i just used the durned splines then
it would work...

jna
jna8182@usl.edu

ryan
rap@cis.ufl.edu

from rbarris@orion.oac.uci.edu (robert c. barris)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
summary 3do demonstration
organization university of california , irvine
keywords 3do arm qt compact video
lines 73

in article 1993apr16.212441.34125@rchland.ibm.com ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (ricardo hernandez muchado) writes
in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu , sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.144843.19549@rchland.ibm.com ricardo hernandez
muchado , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes
and cd i 's cpu does n't help much either. i understand it is
a 68070 (supposedly a variation of a 68000 68010) running at something
like 7mhz. with this speed , you truly need sprites.
snip
(the 3do is not a 68000 ! ! ! )

ricardo , the animation playback to which lawrence was referring in an
earlier post is plain old quicktime 1.5 with the compact video codec.
i 've seen digitized video (some of apple 's early commercials , to be
precise) running on a centris 650 at about 30fps very nicely (16 bit
color depth). i would expect that using the same algorithm , a risc
processor should be able to approach full screen full motion animation ,
though as you 've implied , the processor will be taxed more with highly
dynamic material.
snip
booth there. i walked by , and they were showing real time video capture
using a (radious or supermac \? ) card to digitize and make right on the spot
quicktime movies. i think the quicktime they were using was the old one
(1.5).

they digitized a guy talking there in 160x2xx something. it played back quite
nicely and in real time. the guy then expanded the window (resized) to 25x by
3xx (320 in y i think) and the frame rate decreased enough to notice that it
was n't 30fps (or about 30fps) anymore. it dropped to like 15 fps. then he
increased it just a bit more , and it dropped to 10 12 fps.

then i asked him what mac he was using... he was using a quadra (do n't know
what model , 900 \? ) to do it , and he was telling the guys there that the quicktime
could play back at the same speed even on an lcii.

well , i spoiled his claim so to say , since a 68040 quadra mac was having
a little bit of trouble. and this was n't even from the hardisk ! this was
from memory !

could it be that you saw either a newer version of quicktime , or some
hardware assisted centris , or another software product running the
animation (like supposedly macromind 's accelerator \? ) \?

do n't misunderstand me , i just want to clarify this.



the 3do box is based on an arm risc processor , one or two custom graphics
chips , a dsp , a double speed cdrom , and 2mb of ram vram. (i'm a little
fuzzy on the breakdown of the graphics chips and ram vram capacity).

it was demonstrated at a recent gathering at the electronic cafe in
santa monica , ca. from 3do , rj mical (of amiga lynx fame) and hal
josephson (sp \? ) were there to talk about the machine and their plan. we
got to see the unit displaying full screen movies using the compactvideo codec
(which was nice , very little blockiness showing clips from jaws and backdraft)
... and a very high frame rate to boot (like 30fps).

note however that the 3do 's screen resolution is 320x240.

compactvideo is pretty amazing... i also wanted to point out that quicktime
does indeed slow down when one dynamically resizes material as was stated
above... i'm sure if the material had been compressed at the large size
then it would play back fine (i have a q950 and do this quite a bit). the
price of generality... personally i do n't use the dynamic sizing of movies
often , if ever. but playing back stuff at its original size is plenty quick
on the latest 040 machines.

i'm not sure how a centris 20mhz 040 stacks up against the 25 mhz arm in
the 3do box. obviously the arm is faster , but how much \?

rob barris
quicksilver software inc.
rbarris@orion.oac.uci.edu

from berger@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (david berger)
subject need some graphics help !
organization brandeis university
lines 32

help ! i'm trying to program my vga ! i 've got it working
with in pascal with the following routines for mode 13h
(320 200 256). i 've got a vesa compatable trident 8900c w 1meg
and need to program in 1024 768 mode. i do n't care how many colors.

could someone take this code and help me write 2 new procedures to
replace them so that it 'll work in 1024 768 16 or 1024 768 256 \?

that 'd be great ! thanks...

here is the code i currently have for 320 200 256 mode

procedure graphmode

begin videomode
asm
mov ah , 00
mov al , 13h
int 10h
end
end videomode

procedure plotpoint (x , y , c integer)

begin
mem a000 x y 320 c
end




david

from seth@north13.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman)
subject univesa driver
reply to seth@north13.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman)
lines 7
nntp posting host north13.acpub.duke.edu


i got the univesa driver available over the net. i thought that finally
my 1 meg oak board would be able to show 680x1024 256 colors. unfortunately a
program still says that i ca n't do this. is it the fault of the program (fractint)
or is there something wrong with my card.
univesa a free driver available over the net that makes many boards
vesa compatible.

from valentin e. vulihman vulih@ipmce.su
subject attractive drawing on the sphere
lines 2
reply to vulih@ipmce.su
organization inst. of prec. mech. comp. equip. , moscow , russia

subscribe comp.graphics
quit

from sts@mfltd.co.uk (steve sherwood (x5543))
subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap !
reply to sts@mfltd.co.uk
organization micro focus ltd , newbury , england
lines 39

in article 1r6v3a rj2@fg1.plk.af.mil , ridout@bink.plk.af.mil (brian s. ridout) writes
in article 1993apr15.134802.21995@mfltd.co.uk , sts@mfltd.co.uk (steve sherwood (x5543)) writes
has anyone got multiverse to work \?

i have built it on 486 svr4 , mips svr4s and sun sparcstation.

there seems to be many bugs in it. the 'dogfight' and 'dactyl' simply do nothing
(after fixing a bug where a variable is defined twice in two different modules one needed
setting to static else the client core dumped)

steve


extn 5543 , sts@mfltd.co.uk , ! uunet ! mfocus ! sts
micro focus
just like pariah , i have no name , rm rf 26 west street
living in a blaze of obscurity , rum ruff splat newbury
need courage to survive the day. berkshire
england
(a)bort (r)etry (i)nfluence with large hammer
i built it on a rs6000 (my only motif machine) works fine. i added some objects
into dogfight so i could get used to flying. this was very easy.
all in all cool ! .
brian

the rs6000 compiler is so forgiving , i think that if you mixed cobol pascal
the c compiler still would n't complain. )

steve


extn 5543 , sts@mfltd.co.uk , ! uunet ! mfocus ! sts
micro focus
just like pariah , i have no name , rm rf 26 west street
living in a blaze of obscurity , rum ruff splat newbury
need courage to survive the day. berkshire
england
(a)bort (r)etry (i)nfluence with large hammer


from dgf1@ellis.uchicago.edu (david farley)
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly \?
reply to dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 25

in article 0010580b.vmcbrt@diablo.uucp diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel) writes
i 've been trying to figure out a way to get adobe illustrator
to auto trace exactly what i see on my screen. but it misses
the edges of templates by as many as 6 pixels or more resulting in images
that are useless i need exact tracing , not approximate.

i 've tried adjusting the freehand tolerances as well as autotrace
tolerances but it does n't help. any suggestions \?


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against
cboesel@diablo.uu.holonet.net then what 's the opposite of progress \?
1.510.980.1958(pager) what else , congress.

i 've had exactly the same problems in aldus freehand. i think autotracing
is one of those features that barely works , but everybody feels compelled
to throw it in because the other guys are doing it. )




david farley the university of chicago library
312 702 3426 1100 east 57th street , jrl 210
dgf1@midway.uchicago.edu chicago , illinois 60637


from froument@lifl.lifl.fr (froumentin max)
subject wanted atomic energy res. establishment (uk) techreport
organization laboratoire d'informatique fondamentale de lille
lines 16
distribution comp
nntp posting host lifl.lifl.fr

i'm looking for the following paper

marlow , s. and powell , m.j.d.
a fortran subroutine for plotting the part of a conic that is inside a given
triangle. rep. r 8336 , atomic energy res. establishment , harwell , england
1976

or anything related (including 3d cases)
max


max froumentin
laboratoire d'informatique always better , never first.
fondamentale de lille tigran petrossian
france


from kennu@mits.mdata.fi (kenneth falck)
subject re cview answers
organization microdata international telecomm service
nntp posting host mits.mdata.fi
lines 32

in article c5mv2n.49t@rahul.net bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth) writes
in 1993apr17.113223.12092@imag.fr schaefer@imag.imag.fr (arno schaefer) writes

sorry , bryan , this is not quite correct. remember the vgalib package that comes
with linux sls \? it will switch to vga 320x200x256 mode without xwindows.
so at least it is possible to write a gif viewer under linux. however i do n't
think that there exists a similar svga package , and viewing gifs in 320x200 is
not very nice.

no , vgalib \? amazing.. i guess it was lost in all those subdirs )
thanks for correcting me. it does n't sound very appealing though , only
320x200 \? i'm glad it was n't something major i missed.

tommy frandsen 's vgalib (which is probably what you 're talking about)
will do the standard vga modes , some tweaked modes and then the tseng
et4000 super vga modes. i have an et4000 and i'm viewing gif 's at
640x480 256 (i have a lousy small monitor) with dpg view on linux. i
think i had to change some constants in the dpg view sources to make it
use the et4k modes.

vgalib 's sources seem to be designed for easy addition of new super vga
support each mode is an array of register values and there 's a program
that dumps an array declaration of this kind describing the current
mode. have n't tried it though...

(btw , my version of vgalib is 1.2.)


kennu@mits.mdata.fi
try linux , a free unix by linus torvalds for 386 's. read comp.os.linux
(or ask me by email if you like) for more information. you can run x11 ,
tex , gnu emacs and much more on top of a nice posix environment.

from renggli@masg1.epfl.ch (loris renggli)
subject need graph display edit
organization math. dept. , swiss institute of technology
lines 17

i am looking for a program that is capable of displaying a graph
with nodes and links and with the possibility to edit interactively
the graph add one node , change one link etc...

actually , a very simple x11 program would be ok all i need is to
put some boxes (i.e. the nodes ) on a pane and be able to
manipulate them with the mouse (move , add or delete boxes).

does anyone know if such program is available \?
thanks for any help ! !


loris renggli phone 41 21 6934230
swiss federal institute of technology fax 41 21 6934303
math. dept
ch 1015 lausanne (switzerland) e mail renggli@masg1.epfl.ch


from srlnjal@grace.cri.nz
subject coreldraw bitmap to scodal
organization industrial research ltd. , new zealand.
lines 10
nntp posting host grv.grace.cri.nz


does anyone know of software that will allow
you to convert coreldraw (.cdr) files
containing bitmaps to scodal , as this is the
only format our bureau 's filmrecorder recognises.

jeff lyall
inst.geo.nuc.sci.ltd
lower hutt new zealand


from freemant@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (toby freeman , tjf , g151 , 3344813 , oct95 , )
subject re coreldraw bitmap to scodal (2)
nntp posting host borneo
reply to freemant@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk
organization dept. of computing science , glasgow university , glasgow.
lines 52

in article 1r4gmginn8fm@zephyr.grace.cri.nz , srlnjal@grace.cri.nz () writes

yes i am aware coreldraw exports in scodal...
... but if you try to export in scodal with a bitmap
it will say something like cannot export...
...if anyone out there knows a way around this
i am all ears.

i think one (not ideal) solution is to use the
tracing utility (ca n't remember the name , sorry ! )
included in the corel draw s w pack. it can convert
bitmaps to corel art format. these can then be
imported into a drawing rather than the bitmap.
result the file is completely in corel format and
can be scodal'ed no problem !

but the slight problem with this , which makes the
solution less than idea , is that the trace utility
spits out many more points than are necessary to
define the shapes being traced. straight lines and
curves are both traced as many short segments.

so... the scodal taking much longer to
image.

the obvious solution is time consuming stripping
out the extra points by hand using corel.

ouch !
i 've done it a few times

...i was just wondering if there was anything out there
that just did the bitmap to scodal part a tad cheaper.

jeff lyall

as i say , if you do n't mind the problems , go via the route...
bitmap corel (via trace)
hand trimming (using corel) ! ! !
combine with main corel pic (via import) scodal

cheers ,
toby
. . . . . . . .
! ! ! ! ! !
! ! ! . . ! . . . . . . . ! ! .
! toby freeman ! ! ! ! ! ! ! . ! ! . . !
! glasgow university ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! . ! !
! freemant@uk.ac.glasgow.dcs ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! . ! ! ! .
! ! ! ! ! ! ! !


from dutc0006@student.tc.umn.edu (david j dutcher 1)
subject re vga 640x400 graphics mode
nntp posting host student.tc.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 23

in article 734553308snx@rjck.uucp rob@rjck.uucp (robert j.c. kyanko) writes
gchen@essex.ecn.uoknor.edu writes in article c55doh.2ai@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu

greetings !

does anybody know if it is possible to set vga graphics mode to 640x400
instead of 640x480 \? any info is appreciated !

some vesa bios 's support this mode (0x100). and any vga should be able to
support this (640x480 by 256 colors) since it only requires 256 , 000 bytes.
my 8514 a vesa tsr supports this it 's the only vesa mode by card can support
due to 8514 a restrictions. (a wd paradise)


i am not responsible for anything i do or say i'm just an opinion.
robert j.c. kyanko (rob@rjck.uucp)

ahh no. possibly you punched in the wrong numbers on your
calculator. 256 color modes take a byte per pixel so 640 time 480 is
307 , 200 which is 300k to be exact. 640x400x256 only takes 250k but i
do n't think it is a bios mode. i would n't bet that all vga cards can do
that either. if a vga card has 512k i bet it can do both 640x400 and
640x480. that by definition is svga , though not very high svga.

from thomas@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca (f. thomas)
subject print graph on printer
organization dept. of computer science , laurentian university , sudbury , on
lines 6

this seems to be a simple problem but i just cannot solve it.
i wrote a c program to draw some polygons on the screen , and i want to
print it on my printer. so , i press print screen on the keyboard.
the problem is the printer just print out some ascii characters.
is there any other way to print the screen without using print screen \? \? \? \?
please help !

from katkere@krusty.eecs.umich.edu (arun katkere)
subject re cylinder and ray
reply to katkere@engin.umich.edu
organization university of michigan eecs dept. , ann arbor , mi
lines 19

in article 1qc1fginnbv4@darkstar.ucsc.edu , koehler@secs.ucsc.edu writes
i would be most thrilled if some kind person could help me with the following
given a cylinder in 3d defined as a line segment between two points and
a radius (e.g. sx , sy , sz to ex , ey , ez and r) , what is the easiest (and not
too expensive) way to find if a ray defined as another line through two
points cuts through this cylinder and if so where \?

i think the test for touching is rather simple if the closest approach
of the two lines is less than r , then the ray does penetrate the cylinder.

nope , this wo n't work for a cylinder. you can have a line arbitrarily close
to the the cylinder backbone , and yet not intersect it. the test works for a
pillbox , though. (a cylinder with two hemispheres attached at the ends.)

thanks ,
ryan (koehler@secs.ucsc.edu)

arun


from jr0930@eve.albany.edu (regan james p)
subject pascal fractals
organization state university of new york at albany
thanks in advance
lines 5



jr0930@eve.albany.edu
jr0930@albnyvms.bitnet
go heavy or go home

from renouar@amertume.ufr info p7.ibp.fr (renouard olivier)
subject re pov previewer
nntp posting host amertume.ufr info p7.ibp.fr
organization universite paris 7 ufr d'informatique
lines 10

actually i am trying to write something like this but i encounter some
problems , amongst them

drawing a 3d wireframe view of a quadric quartic requires that you have
the explicit equation of the quadric quartic (x , y , z functions of some
parameters). how to convert the implicit equation used by pov to an
explicit one \? is it mathematically always possible \?

i do n't have enough math to find out by myself , has anybody heard about
useful books on the subject \?

from buck@hq.ileaf.com (david buchholz x3252)
subject looking for wmf converter
keywords wmf , windowsmetafile
nntp posting host couloir
reply to buck@hq.ileaf.com (david buchholz x3252)
organization interleaf , inc.
lines 13


i'm looking for any leads to the source of a good windows
meta file converter or interpreter. i need this for use
outside the windows environment. pd sources preferred , but
not a requirement. please reply to the address below.


david buchholz internet buck@ileaf.com
product manager uucp uunet ! leafusa ! buck
interleaf , inc. voice 617.290.4990 x 3252




from lasse@mits.mdata.fi (lasse reinikainen)
subject re wanted multi page gif ! !
organization microdata oy , helsinki , finland
nntp posting host mits.mdata.fi
lines 16

in article 1993apr20.053250.24854@worak.kaist.ac.kr stjohn@math1.kaist.ac.kr (ryou seong joon) writes
hi ! ...

i am searching for packages that could handle multi page gif
files...

if you are looking for viewer try vpic60


) . ' ` .
. .
` ' lasse@mits.mdata.fi


` '


from osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign
lines 11

in article 1993apr17.192947.11230@sophia.smith.edu orourke@sophia.smith.edu (joseph o'rourke) writes
in article c5n3x0.b5l@news.cso.uiuc.edu osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski) writes
this may be a fairly routine request on here , but i'm looking for a fast
polygon routine to be used in a 3d game.

a fast polygon routine to do what \?

to draw polygons of course. its a vga mode 13h (320x200) game , done in c and
asm. i need a faster way to draw concave polygons that the method i have right
now , which is very slow.
lucas.

from shmuel@mapsut.einstein.com (shmuel einstein)
subject screen capture cymk converter
nntp posting host mapsut.einstein.com
organization shmuel einstein associates , inc.
lines 20

i have a small program to extract a 640x480 image from a vga 16 color screen ,
and store that image in a tiff file. i need to insert the image into a
sales brochure , which i then need printed in 4 color. on a mac , i would
use photoshop to separate the image into 5 eps files , and then pull it into
quark express , then get it printed to film on a lintronix at a service bureau.

however , i do n't have a mac , but i do have windows. what would i need to
do this type of operation in the windows 3.1 environment \? are there any
separation programs available on the net \? is there a good page layout program
that i should look into \?

thanks in advance.



shmuel einstein , shmuel@einstein.com
shmuel einstein associates , inc.
9100 wilshire blvd , suite 235 e
beverly hills , ca 90212
310 273 8971 fax 310 273 8872

from haston@utkvx.utk.edu (haston , donald wayne)
subject hijaak
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
keywords hijaak
organization university of tennessee computing center
lines 14

i have heard some impressive things about hijakk (for windows).
currently , i use a shareware program called graphics workshop.
what kinds of things will hijaak do that these shareware programs
will not do \?

what has been your experience with hijaak \? are there other programs
that are better \? please email me , if you can help

wayne haston
haston@utkvx.utk.edu

thanks !



from csc3phx@vaxa.hofstra.edu
subject loosing color.
lines 9

hi guys.

i am scanning in a color image and it looks fine on the screen. when i
converted it into pcx , bmp , gif files so as to get it into ms windows the colors
got much lighter. for example the yellows became white. any ideas \?

thanks
dan
csc3phx@vaxc.hofstra.edu

from ed@cwis.unomaha.edu (ed stastny)
subject chaos editions idea (internation directory of electronic arts)
keywords electronic art
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 30

i 've borrowed the 1992 93 version of this book from a friend...holy
moley ! what a wealth of contacts. five hundred pages of information
about electronic artists and organizations around the globe (many have
email addresses). an up to the minute database of this information is
also available on minitel (the book 's based in france...are there any
internet minitel gates \? ). the book is printed in french and english.

to have you or your organization listed in idea , just send your
information to

annick bureaud
idea
57 , rue falguiere
75015 paris
france

it 's free to be listed in it , i'm not sure how widely distributed the
book is or how much it costs. i'm not affiliated with them in any way ,
i was just impressed by their collection of organizations and artists.
i highly encourage all involved in electronic media (video , music ,
graphics , animation , etc.) to send in your entry and encourage them to
make their database available on internet.

...e


ed stastny otis project , end process , sound news and arts
po bx 241113 ftp sunsite.unc.edu ( pub multimedia pictures otis)
omaha , ne 68124 1113 141.214.4.135 (projects otis)
email ed@cwis.unomaha.edu , ed@sunsite.unc.edu

from n020ba@tamvm1.tamu.edu
subject re help ! need 3 d graphics code package for dos ! ! !
organization texas a m university
lines 32
nntp posting host tamvm1.tamu.edu

in article 1993apr19.101747.22169@ugle.unit.no
razor@swix.nvg.unit.no (runar jordahl) writes

n020ba@tamvm1.tamu.edu wrote
help ! ! i need code package whatever to take 3 d data and turn it into
a wireframe surface with hidden lines removed. i'm using a dos machine , and
the code can be in ansi c or c , ansi fortran or basic. the data i'm using
forms a rectangular grid.
is a general interest question.
thank you ! ! ! ! ! !

i'm afraid your reply did n't get thru. i do appreciate you trying to
reply , however. please try again.




















from peterbak@microsoft.com (peter bako)
subject jpeg file format \?
organization microsoft corp.
lines 11


where could i find a description of the jpg file format \? specifically
i need to know where in a jpg file i can find the height and width of
the image , and perhaps even the number of colors being used.

any suggestions \?

peter


( ) ( )
( uucp peterbak@microsoft is this all that i am \? is there )
( compuserve 71170 , 1426 nothing more \? v'ger )
( ) ( )

from lm001@rrz.uni koeln.de (erwin h. keeve)
subject marchin cubes
organization regional computing center , university of cologne
lines 27
distribution world
nntp posting host rs1.rrz.uni koeln.de
keywords polygon reduction



hi there ,

is there anybody who know a polygon reduction algorithm for
marching cube surfaces. e.g. the algirithm of schroeder ,
siggraph'92.

for any hints , hugs and kisses.

erwin

, , ,
(o o)
ooo ( ) ooo



erwin keeve adress peter welter platz 2
w 5000 cologne 1 , germany

dept. of computergraphics phone 49 221 20189 132 ( 192)
computeranimation fax 49 221 20189 17

academy of media arts cologne email keeve@khm.uni koeln.de



from e sink@uiuc.edu (eric w. sink)
subject re looking for wmf converter
keywords wmf , windowsmetafile
reply to e sink@uiuc.edu
originator sink@ux2.cso.uiuc.edu
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 19

buck@hq.ileaf.com (david buchholz x3252) writes

i'm looking for any leads to the source of a good windows
meta file converter or interpreter. i need this for use
outside the windows environment. pd sources preferred , but
not a requirement. please reply to the address below.

on a related topic , i have been searching (with no success)
for a specification of the enhanced metafile format. i have
the original wmf format (graphics file formats , levine et al) ,
but no info on the 32 bit version.

any pointers \?


eric w. sink , spyglass in all the earth , only humans have the ability
1800 woodfield drive to be content in bad situations...
savoy , il 61826 and vice versa.
e sink@uiuc.edu 217 355 6000

from stjohn@math1.kaist.ac.kr (ryou seong joon)
subject wanted multi page gif ! !
organization korea advanced institute of science and technology
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
lines 12

hi ! ...

i am searching for packages that could handle multi page gif
files...

are there any on some ftp servers \?

i 'll appreciate one which works on pc (either on dos or windows 3.0 3.1).
but any package works on unix will be ok..

thanks in advance...

from emm@tamarack202.cray.com (mike mcconnell)
subject interleaf to cgm
originator emm@tamarack202
keywords interleaf , cgm , ileaf
lines 13
nntp posting host tamarack202.cray.com
organization cray research , inc.


has anyone successfully converted interleaf graphics to cgm , or even heard
of it being done \? \? \? \?


we 'd love to hear about it.

mike mcconnell

emm@cray.com




from lewism@aix.rpi.edu (michael c. lewis)
subject re delaunay triangulation
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny
lines 16

in article lsk1v9inn93c@caspian.usc.edu zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh) writes

does anybody know what delaunay triangulation is \?
is there any reference to it \?
is it useful for creating 3 d objects \? if yes , what 's the advantage \?

it is used to create a tin (triangulated irregular network) , which is
basically a bunch of triangles which form a surface over a group of
points. what is special about it is that the triangles formed are the
most equalateral possible. check out proceedings of autocarto n where
n is 8..10. sorry , i do n't have a specific reference describing the
process.
michael




from spworley@netcom.com (steve worley)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 38

bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson) writes

boy , this will be embarassing if it is trivial or an faq

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \? i know how to do it
for a circle (from 3 points) , but do not immediately see a
straightforward way to do it in 3 d. i have checked some
geometry books , graphics gems , and farin , but am still at a loss \?
please have mercy on me and provide the solution \?

it 's not a bad question i do n't have any refs that list this algorithm
either. but thinking about it a bit , it should n't be too hard.

1) take three of the points and find the plane they define as well as
the circle that they lie on (you say you have this algorithm already)

2) find the center of this circle. the line passing through this center
perpendicular to the plane of the three points passes through the center of
the sphere.

3) repeat with the unused point and two of the original points. this
gives you two different lines that both pass through the sphere 's
origin. their interection is the center of the sphere.

4) the radius is easy to compute , it 's just the distance from the center to
any of the original points.

i 'll leave the math to you , but this is a workable algorithm. )


an alternate method would be to take pairs of points the plane formed
by the perpendicular bisector of each line segment pair also contains the
center of the sphere. three pairs will form three planes , intersecting
at a point. this might be easier to implement.

steve
spworley@netcom.com

from chris@zeus.alta oh.com (chris murphy)
subject re needed plotting package that does...
nntp posting host zeus.alta oh.com
organization alta analytics
lines 38

in article full gl.93apr18005752@dolphin.pts.mot.com , full gl@pts.mot.com (glen fullmer) writes
looking for a graphics cad or whatever package on a x unix box that will
take a file with records like

n a b p

where n a count integer
a entity a string
b entity b string
p type string

and produce a networked graph with nodes represented with boxes or circles
and the vertices represented by lines and the width of the line determined by
n. there would be a different line type for each type of vertice. the boxes
need to be identified with the entity 's name. the number of entities 1000
and vertices 100000. it would be nice if the tool minimized line
cross overs and did a good job of layout. )

i have looked in the faq for comp.graphics and gnuplot without success. any
ideas would be appreciated \?

thanks ,

glen fullmer , glen fullmer@pts.mot.com , (407)364 3296


hi ,
see roger grywalski 's response to

re help on network visualization

in comp.graphics.visualization.

amongst other things , it does exactly this !


chris murphy chris@alta oh.com
(614) 792 2222 columbus. oh.

subject re univesa driver
from djlewis@ualr.edu
organization university of arkansas at little rock
nntp posting host athena.ualr.edu
lines 13

in article 13622@news.duke.edu , seth@north13.acpub.duke.edu (seth wandersman) writes

i got the univesa driver available over the net. i thought that finally
my 1 meg oak board would be able to show 680x1024 256 colors. unfortunately a
program still says that i ca n't do this. is it the fault of the program (fractint)
or is there something wrong with my card.
univesa a free driver available over the net that makes many boards
vesa compatible.
whats this 680x1024 256 color mode \? asking a lot of your hardware \?

don lewis
djlewis@ualr.edu


from borst@cs.utwente.nl (pim borst)
subject pbm plus sources , where \?
nntp posting host utis116.cs.utwente.nl
organization university of twente , dept. of computer science
lines 7

hi everybody ,

can anyone name an anonymous ftp site where i can find the sources
of the pbm plus package (portable bit gray pixel map).
i would like to compile and run it on a sun sparcstation.

thanks !

from cgcad@bart.inescn.pt (comp. graphics cad)
subject re fonts in pov \? \?
nntp posting host bart
organization inesc porto , portugal
lines 27

hi.

the rtrace ray tracer supports 3d text as a primitive , not collections of
spheres , cylinders and so on...
the 3d chars are made of lines and splines that are extruded...

please have a look at asterix.inescn.pt 192.35.246.17 in directory
pub rtrace.
in pub rtrace tmp there are some demo images with high quality text.
all of them are called text \? .jpg (jpeg encoded). see them first and then
tell me what you think.

regards ,
antonio.
.........................................................................
o o
i n e s c
o antonio costa e mail acc@asterix.inescn.pt
o acosta@porto.inescn.pt
o comp. graphics cad decnet porto a costa

largo mompilher 22 uucp mcvax , ... ! ...
o o 4100 porto portugal bell 351 02 321006

o o o let the good times roll...



from lars.jorgensen@p7.syntax.bbs.bad.se (lars jorgensen)
subject externel processes for 3d studio
reply to lars.jorgensen@p7.syntax.bbs.bad.se (lars jorgensen)
distribution world
organization nr. 5 p natr b
od comment to internet gateway
lines 13

to all

hi ,

does anybody have the source code to the externel processes that comes with 3d
studio , and mabe som kind of doc for writing the processes your self.


lars

author lars jorgensen@p7.syntax.bbs.bad.se , syntax bbs , denmark

golded 2.41

from gwang@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ge wang)
subject packages for fashion designers \?
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 3

hello , i am looking for commercial software packages for professional
fashion designers. any recommendation and pointers are greatly appreciated.
please e mail me , if you may. thanks a million. ge

from hendrix@oasys.dt.navy.mil (dane hendrix)
subject processing of stereo images
reply to hendrix@oasys.dt.navy.mil (dane hendrix)
organization code 1542 , dtmb , bethesda , md
lines 16

i'm interested in find out what is involved in processing pairs of
stereo photographs. i have black and white photos and would like
to obtain surface contours.

i 'd prefer to do the processing on an sgi , but would be interested
in hearing what software hardware is used for this type of
image processing.

please email and or post to comp.sys.sgi.graphics your responses.

thanks ,

dane hendrix email dane@wizard.dt.navy.mil
dtmb (a.k.a. headquarters , carderock div. , or hendrix@oasys.dt.navy.mil
naval surface warfare center) or hendrix@nas.nasa.gov
code 1542 , bethesda , md 20084 5000 phone (301)227 1340

from tw2@irz.inf.tu dresden.de (thomas wolf)
subject q tiff description
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host irz205.inf.tu dresden.de
keywords tiff

sorry for wasting your time with a probably simple question , but i'm not
an computer graphic expert. i want to read tiff files with a pascal program.
the problem is , that the files i want to read are in compressed form
( code 1 , e.g. huffman ). all books articles i found describe only the
plain (uncompressed) format. i do n't know where to get the original
tiff specification , furthermore i have n't any access to a realy complete
library. can anybody direct me to a good book or (even better) to an
specification available via ftp \?

thanks in advance thomas wolf

ps direct mail would be prefered


subject rendering software for multi processor computer s
from wcarter@trident.datasys.swri.edu (william carter)
organization southwest research institute
lines 13


hello ,

i am searching for rendering software which has been developed
to specifically take advantage of multi processor computer systems.
any pointers to such software would be greatly appreciated.

thanks.


billy carter , software engineering section
southwest research institute
wcarter@swri.edu

from harti@mikro.ee.tu berlin.de (stefan hartmann (behse))
subject genoa graphics board drivers ftp site !
article i.d. mailgzrz.1qpf1r 9ti
organization tuberlin zrz
lines 29
nntp posting host mikro.ee.tu berlin.de

hi ,

well i have opened up a ftp site for getting the latest software drivers
for genoa graphics cards.

here is how to access it

ftp 192.109.42.11
login ftp
password ftp
cd pub genoa
ls l
binary
prompt
hash

(now if you wanna have the latest drivers for the 7900 board)

cd 7000series
mget

quit

this is the sequence to get the drivers.

if you have any further question , please email me.

best regards , stefan hartmann
email to harti@mikro.ee.tu berlin.de

from hrs1@cbnewsi.cb.att.com (herman.r.silbiger)
subject ansi aiim ms 53 standard image file format
organization at t
keywords image , file format
lines 6


wing the suggestion of stu lynne , i have posted the image file format executable and source code to alt.sources.

herman silbiger
.


nntp posting host bones.et.byu.edu
lines 6
subject pd 3d viewer wanted
summary 3d
expires may 20 , 1993
organization brigham young university , provo ut usa
from qiaok@bones.et.byu.edu (kun qiao)

i am looking for a public domain 3d viewer. it does not have to be very
fancy. the features i want is simple wireframe display , flat shading ,
simple transformation. it would be nice to have hidden line.

any information is appreciated.


from mbc@po.cwru.edu (michael b. comet)
subject re hot new 3d software
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 34
reply to mbc@po.cwru.edu (michael b. comet)
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , trb3@ra.msstate.edu (tony r. boutwell) says

there is a new product for the (ibm'ers) out there... it is called
imagine and it just started shipping yesterday... i can personally attest that it will blow the doors off of 3d studio. it is made by impulse , and is in its

well....i do n't know about its competing with 3d studio , but
it 's pretty powerful allright.


also....does anyone here know how to get in the imagine mailing list \? \?
please e mail me if you do or post up here....


yes , send e mail to

imagine request@email.sp.paramax.com

with a header of something like subscribe.


i actually work on the faq (frequently asked questions). we
should have the new version out of it by next week , but if you want , i
could e mail you the previous one. it details what the list is etc...
as well as answering basic questions about imagine.

hope this helps !




michael b. comet software engineer graphics artist cwru
mbc@po.cwru.edu silence those who oppose the freedom of speech


from diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
subject why does illustrator autotrace so poorly \?
organization diablo creative
reply to diablo.uucp ! cboesel (charles boesel)
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.6v2
lines 12

i 've been trying to figure out a way to get adobe illustrator
to auto trace exactly what i see on my screen. but it misses
the edges of templates by as many as 6 pixels or more resulting in images
that are useless i need exact tracing , not approximate.

i 've tried adjusting the freehand tolerances as well as autotrace
tolerances but it does n't help. any suggestions \?


charles boesel @ diablo creative if pro for and con against
cboesel@diablo.uu.holonet.net then what 's the opposite of progress \?
1.510.980.1958(pager) what else , congress.

from scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk (simon crowe)
subject point within a polygon
summary algorithm to find if a point is bound by a polygon
keywords point , polygon
nntp posting host bogart
organization bull hn uk
lines 7

i am looking for an algorithm to determine if a given point is bound by a
polygon. does anyone have any such code or a reference to book containing
information on the subject \?

regards

simon

from roell@informatik.tu muenchen.de (thomas roell)
subject re 24 bit graphics cards
in reply to rjs002c@parsec.paradyne.com 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 21 59 34 gmt
organization inst. fuer informatik , technische univ. muenchen , germany
lines 20

i am looking for eisa or vesa local bus graphic cards that support at least
1024x786x24 resolution. i know matrox has one , but it is very
expensive. all the other cards i know of , that support that
resoultion , are striaght isa.

what about the elsa winner4000 (s3 928 , bt485 , 4mb , eisa) , or the
metheus premier 4vl (s3 928 , bt485 , 4mb , isa vl) \?

also are there any x servers for a unix pc that support 24 bits \?

as it just happens , sgcs has a xserver (x386 1.4) that does
1024x768x24 on those cards. please email to info@sgcs.com for more
details.

thomas


das reh springt hoch , e mail roell@sgcs.com
das reh springt weit , include sys pizza.h
was soll es tun , es hat ja zeit ...

from kimd@rs6401.ecs.rpi.edu (daniel chungwan kim)
subject wanted super 8mm projector with sounds
keywords projector
nntp posting host rs6401.ecs.rpi.edu
lines 9

i am looking for super 8mm projector with sounds.
if anybody out there has one for sale , send email with
the name of brand , condition of the projector , and price
for sale to kimd@rpi.edu
(it must have sound capability)

danny
kimd@rpi.edu


from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization boeing
lines 35

in article 1qnm6finn8tr@tamsun.tamu.edu brentb@tamsun.tamu.edu (brent) writes
tsa@cellar.org (the silent assassin) writes
rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter) writes

can you please offer some recommendations \?

it 's really not that hard to do. there are books out there which explain
everything , and the basic 3d functions , translation , rotation , shading , and
hidden line removal are pretty easy. i wrote a program in a few weeks witht
he help of a book , and would be happy to give you my source.

i think he wanted to avoid reinventing the wheel.

yes , i want to concentrate on other development issues i 've created graphics
libraries before , it 's too time consuming... life 's too short !

also , quickdraw has a lot of 3d functions built in , and think pascal
can access them , and i would expect that think c could as well. if you can
find out how to use the quickdraw graphics library , it would be an excellent
choice , since it has a lot of stuff , and is built into the mac , so should be
fast.

just to clarify , the 3d routines that are mentioned in various places
on the mac are in a libray , not the rom of the mac. a few years ago before
i knew anything about implementing graphics , i came across a demo of the
apple grafsys3d library and it actually did a lot. however , it is quite
limited in the sense that it 's a low level 3d library your code still has
to plot individual points , draw each line , etc ad nauseum. it has nothing
on gl , for example , where you can handle objects.

thanks for the clarification... before posting my original request i had looked
into the mac 's 3d capabilities and dismissed them as low grade.

bobc


from orourke@sophia.smith.edu (joseph o'rourke)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
organization smith college , northampton , ma , us
lines 5

in article c5n3x0.b5l@news.cso.uiuc.edu osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski) writes
this may be a fairly routine request on here , but i'm looking for a fast
polygon routine to be used in a 3d game.

a fast polygon routine to do what \?

from renes@ecpdsharmony.cern.ch (rene s. dutch student)
subject interviews graphics package
organization cern european lab for particle physics
lines 7


hello ,

i'm trying out the c graphics package interviews. besides the man pages
on the classes , i have n't got any documentation. is there anything else
around \? furthermore , can anyone send me a (small ! ) example program
which shows how to use these classes together \? i would be very gratefull...

from morley@suncad.camosun.bc.ca (mark morley)
subject vga mode 13h routines available
nntp posting host suncad.camosun.bc.ca
organization camosun college , victoria b.c , canada
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 31

hi there ,

i 've made a vga mode 13h graphics library available via ftp. i originally
wrote the routines as a kind of exercise for myself , but perhaps someone
here will find them useful. they are certainly useable as they are , but
are missing some higher level functionality. they 're intended more as an
intro to mode 13h programming , a starting point.

the library assumes a 386 processor , but it is trivial to modify it
for a 286. if enough people ask , i 'll make the mods and re post it as a
different version.

the routines are written in assembly (tasm) and are callable from c. they
are fairly simple , but i 've found them to be very fast (for my purposes ,
anyway). routines are included to enter and exit mode 13h , define a
virtual screen , put and get pixels , put a pixmap (rectangular image with
no transparent spots) , put a sprite (image with see thru areas) , copy
areas of the virtual screen into video memory , etc. i 've also included a
simple c routine to draw a line , as well as a c routine to load a 256
color gif image into a buffer. i also wrote a quick'n 'dirty(tm) demo program
that bounces a bunch of sprites around behind three windows .

the whole package is available on spang.camosun.bc.ca in pub dos vgl.zip
it is zipped with pkzip 2.04g

it is completely in the public domain , as far as i'm concerned. do with
it whatever you like. however , it 'd be nice to get credit where it 's due ,
and maybe an e mail telling me you like it (if you do n't like it do n't bother)

mark
morley@camosun.bc.ca

from jamie@genesis.mcs.com (james r groves)
subject ftp for targa
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 5
distribution world
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

i am looking for software to run on my brand new targa 16 32. if anyone knows
of any sites which have useful stuff , or if you have any yourself you want to
give , let me know via mail. thanks a lot ! yayayay !
jamie@ddsw1.mcs.com


from beck@irzr17.inf.tu dresden.de (andre beck)
subject re fonts in pov \? \?
organization dept. of computer science , tu dresden , germany.
lines 57
distribution world
reply to andre beck@irs.inf.tu dresden.de
nntp posting host irzr17.inf.tu dresden.de
keywords fonts , raytrace


in article 1qg9fc et9@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au , g9134255@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au (coronado emmanuel abad) writes


i have seen several ray traced scenes (from mtv or was it
rayshade \? \? ) with stroked fonts appearing as objects in the image.
the fonts chars had color , depth and even textures associated with
them. now i was wondering , is it possible to do the same in pov \? \?


hi noel ,

i 've made some attempts to write a converter that reads adobe type 1 fonts ,
triangulates them , bevelizes them and extrudes them to result in a generic
3d object which could be used with pov f.i.

the problem i'm currently stuck on is that theres no algorithm which
triangulates any arbitrary polygonal shape. delaunay seems to be limited
to convex hulls. constrained delaunay may be okay , but i have no code
example of how to do it.

another way to do the bartman may be

tga2pov
a selfmade variation of this , using heightfields.

create a b w picture (big) of the text you need , f.i. using a postscript
previewer. then , use this as a heightfield. if it is white on black ,
the heightfield is exactly the images white parts (it 's still open
on the backside). to close it , mirror it and compound it with the original.

example

object
union
height field gif abp2.gif
height field gif abp2.gif scale 1 1 1

texture
glass

translate 0.5 0 0.5 center
rotate 90 0 0 rotate upwards
scale 10 5 100 scale bigger and thicker
translate 0 2 0 final placement



abp2.gif is a gif of arbitrary size containing abp black on white in
times roman 256 points.


o o
o brain inside o
o o
o andre' beck (abpsoft) mehl andre beck@irs.inf.tu dresden.de o
o o

from zeno@phylo.genetics.washington.edu (sean lamont)
subject closed curve intersection
article i.d. shelley.1ra2painn68s
organization abstract software
lines 10
nntp posting host phylo.genetics.washington.edu

i would like a reference to an algorithm that can detect whether
one closed curve bounded by some number of bezier curves lies completely
within another closed curve bounded by bezier curves.

thanks.

sean t. lamont ask me about the wsi fonts
zeno@genetics.washington.edu professional collection for next
lamont@abstractsoft.com
abstract software

from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject re need polygon splitting algo...
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 25
distribution world
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu
keywords polygons , splitting , clipping


in article 1qvq4b r4t@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au , g9134255@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au (coronado emmanuel abad) writes

the idea is to clip one polygon using another polygon (not
necessarily rectangular) as a window. my problem then is in
finding out all the new vertices of the resulting subpolygons
from the first one. is this simply a matter of extending the
usual algorithm whereby each of the edges of one polygon is checked
against another polygon \? \? \? is there a simpler way \? \?

comments welcome.

noel.

it depends on what kind of the polygons.
convex simple , concave trouble , concave with loop(s)
inside big trouble.

of cause , you can use the box test to avoid checking
each edges. according to my experience , there is not
a simple way to go. the headache stuff is to deal with
the special cases , for example , the overlapped lines.

yeh
usc

from oved3b@kih.no (ove petter tro)
subject re need a viewer for gl files
organization kongsberg college of engineering
lines 16
distribution world
nntp posting host knoll.kih.no

in article 1qu36i kh7@dux.dundee.ac.uk , dwestner@cardhu.mcs.dundee.ac.uk (dominik westner) writes
the subject says it all. is there a pd viewer for gl files (for x) \?

try xviewgl.
(filename xviewgl v1.1.tar.z on lots of bases)

ove


what do you think
x (yep , me too...) this is \? real life \?
ove petter tro , ford fairlane.
kongsberg college
of engineering , norway email ovep@kih.no



subject .gl and .fli specs
from arthur@qedbbs.com (arthur choung)
organization the qed bbs , lakewood ca
lines 6

can somebody point out to me where i can find the specs for .gl and .fli files
found on pc 's \?


arthur@qedbbs.com (arthur choung) or qed ! arthur
the qed bbs (310)420 9327

from ad994@freenet.carleton.ca (jason wiggle)
subject pcx
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada
lines 27


hello
help ! ! ! please
i am a student of turbo c and graphics programming
and i am having some problems finding algorithms and code
to teach me how to do some stuff..

1) where is there a book or code that will teach me how
to read and write pcx , dbf , and gif files \?

2) how do i access the extra ram on my paradise video board
so i can do paging in the higher vga modes ie 320x200x256
800x600x256
3) anybody got a line on a good book to help answer these question \?

thanks very much !

send reply 's to palm@snycanva.bitnet

peace be
blessed be
stephen palm

from erikb@idt.unit.no (erik brenn)
subject graphics formats
reply to erikb@idt.unit.no (erik brenn)
organization norwegian institue of technology
lines 14

i'm currently looking for information about different graphics
formats , especially ppm , pcx bmp and perhaps gif.
does anyone know if there exist any files at some site
that describes these formats \? \? \?

thanks !




(o o) erik brenn , email erikb@idt.unit.no
( o ) oooo faculty of computer science telematics
the norwegian institute of technology , trondheim
oooo not to make sense , just cents !

from eapu207@orion.oac.uci.edu (john peter kondis)
subject physics lab loses a number ! ! ! !
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
summary i need a pointer address for one of those weird graphics modes.
keywords vga
lines 10

please , i need the starting address (pointer) for the beginning
of the color information (rgb) on vga mode 68h (that 's 68 hex , gee ,
duh ! )...

thanks soooo much (hugs and kisses) in advance.....

.....john (at uci)
e mail eapu207@orion.oac.uci.edu



from tp892275@vine.canberra.edu.au (c. mierzanowski)
subject which video card \? (please help)
organization info sci eng , university of canberra , australia
lines 13


i 've got a 386 20hz computer which is under warranty and my trident
8900c video card is starting to play up (surprise , surprise). therefore
i'm going to try to exchange it for a better card.

the big question is

which video card is high quality and with an
acceptable price tag (on student budget) \? \? \?

thank you in advance.



from boylan@pi.eai.iastate.edu (terran boylan)
subject reaction diffusion techniques
organization engineering animation , inc.
lines 24

this past week i 've been playing with some of the r d (reaction
diffusion , not to be confused with rds or r d) techniques
from siggraph '91.

i was wondering what material is available to explain the control
mechanism a little more. it seems to me very much like a matter of
picking random magic numbers and sitting back and waiting. although
both of the papers (turk and witkin kass) were very well organized
and extremely helpful , i guess what i need is a more basic description
of the technique , especially wrt the control mechanisms. the tests
that i did had a tendency to either turn into blurry mud or become
unstable.

is there any info available online \? source code would be great but
not necessary.

thanks !




terran j. boylan , sr. artist programmer it 's better to have loved
engineering animation , inc. , ames , ia and lost than just to have
(515) 296 9908 (515) 296 7892 ( 5pm) lost. dorky dog

from rdd@uts.ipp garching.mpg.de (reinhard drube)
subject re postscript drawing prog
organization rechenzentrum der max planck gesellschaft in garching
lines 17

in article c5ecnn.7qo@mentor.cc.purdue.edu , nish@cv4.chem.purdue.edu (nishantha i.) writes
could somebody let me know of a drawing utility that can be
used to manipulate postscript files.i am specifically interested in
drawing lines , boxes and the sort on postscript contour plots.
i have tried xfig and i am impressed by it 's features. however
it is of no use since i cannot use postscript files as input for the
programme.is there a utility that converts postscript to xfig format \?
any help would be greatly appreciated.
nishantha
i think you are too optimistic ! postscript is a very big language and
so the fig format can not be able to be an interpreter of any arbitrary
ps code. the only program i know to manipulate postscript files is
islanddraw.
i for myself use xfig and include the postscript files (converted to
epsi format). small changes then are possible (erasing some letters ,
adding text and so on).
reinhard

from sas58295@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (lord soth )
subject mpeg for ms dos
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 13

does anyone know where i can ftp mpeg for dos from \? thanks for any
help in advance. email is preferred but posting is fine.

scott



lord soth , knight email to lordsoth@uiuc
of the black rose next to sas58295@sumter.cso.uiuc.edu
@ ' ,

i have no clue what i want to say in here so i wo n't say anything.


from fischer@iesd.auc.dk (lars peter fischer)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
in reply to archer@elysium.esd.sgi.com 's message of 6 apr 93 18 18 30 gmt
organization mathematics and computer science , aalborg university
c51eyz.4ix@optimla.aimla.com 1993apr6.144520.2190@unocal.com
h48vtis@zola.esd.sgi.com
lines 11


archer archer (bad cop) surly (archer@elysium.esd.sgi.com)

archer how about interactive sex with madonna \?

or sexium for short.

lars

lars fischer , fischer@iesd.auc.dk it takes an uncommon mind to think of
cs dept. , aalborg univ. , denmark. these things. calvin

from razor@swix.nvg.unit.no (runar jordahl)
subject re help ! need 3 d graphics code package for dos ! ! !
organization university of trondheim , norway
lines 8
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

n020ba@tamvm1.tamu.edu wrote
help ! ! i need code package whatever to take 3 d data and turn it into
a wireframe surface with hidden lines removed. i'm using a dos machine , and
the code can be in ansi c or c , ansi fortran or basic. the data i'm using
forms a rectangular grid.
please post your replies to the net so that others may benefit. imho , this
is a general interest question.
thank you ! ! ! ! ! !

from mogal@deadhead.asd.sgi.com (joshua mogal)
subject re sgi sales practices (was crimson (was kubota announcement \? ))
organization silicon graphics , inc.
lines 123
nntp posting host deadhead.asd.sgi.com

my
comment regarding dec was to indicate that i might be open to other
vendors
that supported opengl , rather than deal further with sgi.

opengl is a graphics programming library and as such is a great , portable
interface for the development of interactive 3d graphics applications. it
is not , however , an indicator of performance , as that will vary strongly
from machine to machine and vendor to vendor. sgi is committed to high
performance interactive graphics systems and software tools , so opengl
means that you can port easily from sgi to other platforms , there is no
guarantee that your performance would be comparable.


what i am annoyed about is the fact that we were led to believe that
we would be able to upgrade to a multiprocessor version of the
crimson without the assistance of a fork lift truck.

if your sales representative truly mislead you , then you should have a
valid grievance against us which you should carry up to your local sgi
sales management team. feel free to contact the local branch manager...we
understand that repeat sales come from satisfied customers , so give it a
shot.


i'm also annoyed about being sold several personal irises at a
previous site on the understanding that architecture would be around
for a while , rather than being flushed.

as one of the previous posts stated , the personal iris was introduced in
1988 and grew to include the 4d 20 , 4d 25 , 4d 30 and 4d 35 as clock rates
sped up over time. as a rule of thumb , sgi platforms live for about 4 5
years. this was true of the motorola based 3000 series ('85 '89) , the pi
('88 '93) , the professional series (the early 4d 's '86 '90) , the power
series parallel systems ('88 '93). individual cpu subsystems running at a
particular clock rate usually live for about 2 years. new graphics
architectures at the high end (gt , vgx , realityengine) are released every
18 months to 2 years.

these are the facts of life. if we look at these machines , they become
almost archaic after four years , and we have to come out with a new
platform (like indigo , onyx , challenge) which has higher bus bandwidths ,
faster cpus , faster graphics and i o , and larger disk capacities. if we
do n't , we become uncompetitive.

from the user perspective , you have to buy a machine that meets your
current needs and makes economic sense today. you ca n't wait to buy , but
if you need a guaranteed upgrade path for the machine , ask the sales rep
for one in writing. if it 's feasible , they should be able to do that. some
of our upgrade paths have specific programs associated with them , such as
the performance protection program for older r3000 based power series
multiprocessing systems which allowed purchasers of those systems to obtain
a guaranteed upgrade price for moving to the new onyx or challenge
r4400 based 64 bit multiprocessor systems.


now i understand that sgi is responsible to its investors and has to
keep showing a positive quarterly bottom line (odd that i found myself
pressured on at least two occasions to get the business on the books
just before the end of the quarter) , but i'm just a little tired of
getting boned in the process.


if that 's happening , it 's becausing of misunderstandings or
mis communication , not because sgi is directly attempting to annoy our
customer base.

maybe it 's because my lab buys sgis in onesies and twosies , so we
are n't entitled to a peek under the covers as the big kids (nasa ,
for instance) are. this lab , and i suspect that a lot of other labs
and organizations , does n't have a load of money to spend on computers
every year , so we ca n't be out buying new systems on a regular basis.

most sgi customers are onesy twosey types , but regardless , we rarely give a
great deal of notice when we are about to introduce a new system because
again , like a previous post stated , if we pre announced and the schedule
slipped , we would mess up our potential customers schedules (when they were
counting on the availability of the new systems on a particular date) and
would also look awfully bad to both our investors and the financial
analysts who watch us most carefully to see if we are meeting our
commitments.

the boxes that we buy now will have to last us pretty much through the
entire grant period of five years and , in some case , beyond. that
means that i need to buy the best piece of equipment that i can when i
have the money , not some product that was built , to paraphrase one
previous poster 's words , 'to fill a niche' to compete with some other
vendor. i'm going to be looking at this box for the next five years.
and every time i look at it , i'm going to think about sgi and how i
could have better spent my money (actually your money , since we 're
supported almost entirely by federal tax dollars).


five years is an awfully long time in computer years. new processor
technologies are arriving every 1 2 years , making a 5 year old computer at
least 2 and probably 3 generations behind the times. the competitive nature
of the market is demanding that rate of development , so if your timing is
really 5 years between purchases , you have to accept the limited viability
of whatever architecture you buy into from any vendor.

there are some realities about the computer biz that we all have to live
with , but keeping customers happy is the most important , so do n't give up ,
we know it.

josh )






joshua mogal product manager
advanced graphics division advanced graphics systems
silicon graphics inc. market manager
2011 north shoreline blvd. virtual reality
mountain view , ca 94039 7311 interactive entertainment
m s 9l 580

tel (415) 390 1460
fax (415) 964 8671
e mail mogal@sgi.com



from noble@possum.den.mmc.com (joe a noble)
subject re newsgroup split
organization martin marietta astronautics , denver
lines 26
nntp posting host pogo.den.mmc.com

tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran) writes

chris herringshaw (tdawson@engin.umich.edu) wrote
concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon

what he said...


ditto here too...

tmc
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)


joe noble@pogo.den.mmc.com
... all the beauty of a dying vulture...
...the smile of the truly stupid...

from edimg@willard.atl.ga.us (ed pimentel)
subject help ! need jpeg mpeg encod decode
organization willard 's house bbs , atlanta , ga 1 (404) 664 8814
lines 41

i am involve in a distant learning project and am in need
of jpeg and mpeg encode decode source and object code.
this is a not for profit project that once completed i
hope to release to other educational and institutional
learning centers.
this project requires that true photographic images be sent
over plain telephone lines. in addition if there is a real good
gui lib with 3d objects and all types of menu classes that can
be use at both end of the transaction (server and terminal end)
i would like to hear about it.

we recently posted an rfd announcing the otg (open telematic group)
that will concern itself with the developement of such application
and that it would incorporate naplps , jpeg , mpeg , voice , ivr , fax
sprites , animation(fli , flc , etc...).
at present only dos and unix environment is being worked on and it
our hope that we can generate enough interest where all the major
platform can be accomodated via a plaform independent api toolkit sdk
we are of the mind that it is about time that such project and group
be form to deal with these issues.
we want to setup a repository where these files may be access such as
simte20 and start putting together a otg faq.
if you have some or any information that in your opinion would be
of interest to the otg community and you like to see included in our
first faq please send it email to the address below.

thanks in advance

ed
p.o. box 95901
atlanta ga. 30347 0901
(404)985 1198 zyxel 14.4
epimntl@world.std.com
ed.pimentel@gisatl.fidonet.org



edimg@willard.atl.ga.us (ed pimentel)
gatech ! kd4nc ! vdbsan ! willard ! edimg
emory ! uumind ! willard ! edimg
willard 's house bbs , atlanta , ga 1 (404) 664 8814

from kohut1@urz.unibas.ch
subject help ! miro crystal or ati gup \?
organization university of basel , switzerland
lines 21



i'm planning to buy a new vlb eisa system with a good graphic performance.
so far i looked at the ati gup vlb as my favorite graphics card. but
recently i heard something about a new card from miro. it was the miro
crystal 24s with 3 mb and true color support up to 1024x768. it costs just a
little more than the ati. so , ca n't decide which one matches better my needs.
any technical references and performance comparisons (especially from the
miro card) would be greatly appreciated.

peter

e mail kohut1@urz.unibas.ch


universitas basiliensis
switzerland





from hintmatt@cwis.isu.edu (hintze matthew)
subject re diamond stelth 24 any good \?
organization idaho state university , pocatello
lines 26
nntp posting host cwis.isu.edu

i bought the diamond stealth 24 a few months ago. it seems to be a
great card especially with my multimedia presentations. it runs graphics
and animation as well as some near full motion video very well. the only
thing i can tell that it lacks is speed above 256 colors. its qualit in
between 256 and 16.7 million collors un unreal but you definitly
compromise speed. it seems to be a great card for graphics and it comes
with some great software , but im not so sure about the excelerator
part. i used to own a paridise and it doesnt seem to be much faster
than that. one thing i do like is that it loads its own vesa driver
from rom at startup , (i think) because i have never had to load it for
links386 or any other programs that require special vesa drivers at
startup.



gromi a16pd


hintmatt@ba.ba.isu.edu








from stusoft@hardy.u.washington.edu (stuart denman)
subject re 3d2 files what are they \?
article i.d. shelley.1rft1ninnc7s
organization university of washington
lines 16
nntp posting host hardy.u.washington.edu

doug@hparc0.aus.hp.com (doug parsons) writes

i was chaining around in the anonymous ftp world looking for 3d studio
meshes and other interesting graphical stuff for the program , and found
a few files with the extension 3d2. my 3ds v2.01 does n't know this type
of file , so what are they \?

they are 3d object files for cad 3d 2.0 , a program written by tom hudson
for the atari st computers. do n't know much more about them except that
they are stored with the points first , then the surfaces are next , and are
made by listing 3 point numbers that make up the triangle surface. then
there 's a header that describes coloring , lighting , etc. do n't know much
more than this , hope this helps.

stuart denman
stusoft@u.washington.edu

from rob@rjck.uucp (robert j.c. kyanko)
subject re vga 640x400 graphics mode
distribution world
organization neptune software inc
lines 15

gchen@essex.ecn.uoknor.edu writes in article c55doh.2ai@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu

greetings !

does anybody know if it is possible to set vga graphics mode to 640x400
instead of 640x480 \? any info is appreciated !

some vesa bios 's support this mode (0x100). and any vga should be able to
support this (640x480 by 256 colors) since it only requires 256 , 000 bytes.
my 8514 a vesa tsr supports this it 's the only vesa mode by card can support
due to 8514 a restrictions. (a wd paradise)


i am not responsible for anything i do or say i'm just an opinion.
robert j.c. kyanko (rob@rjck.uucp)

from tristant@syma.sussex.ac.uk (tristan tarrant)
subject paradise vga
organization university of sussex
lines 13

i have a paradise svga with 1mb , the 90c030 chip (1d). the docs say that
i can display the following modes 640x480x32k colours and 800x600x32k cols
if i have the ramdac hicolor chip. i have checked the board and i do have
such a chip. now , the problem is that i ca n't get this mode to work !
graphics workshop 6.1 claims that it can display 24 bit images dithered
down to 15 bit colour with my board , but it does n't work. i have tried
writing some assembler code to get the modes working and i have found out
that each pixel is addressed by a word ( 16 bit ) , but only the lower 8 bits
are considered ( this happens in 800x600 mode , the 640x480 mode refuses to
work i.e. remains in text mode ).
could someone please help me.

tristan

from ccgwt@trentu.ca (grant totten)
subject ms windows screen grabber \?
keywords windows screen grab document graphics
lines 20
reply to ccgwt@trentu.ca (grant totten)
organization trent university


howdy all ,

where could i find a screen grabber program for ms windows \? i'm
writing up some documentation and it would be very helpful to include
sample screens into the document.

please e mail as i do n't usualy follow this group.

thanks a lot ,

grant


grant totten , programmer analyst , trent university , peterborough ontario
gtotten@trentu.ca phone (705) 748 1653 fax (705) 748 1246

the human brain is like an enormous fish it is flat and slimy and
has gills through which it can see.
monty python

subject marching cubs
from abild@bert.cs.byu.edu
distribution world
organization byu
keywords cube , program , c
nntp posting host bigler quadra.byu.edu
lines 24

hello ,

hello ,

i was wondering if anyone knew of a pc or mac
implementation of the marching cubes algorithm that will output
the individual faces. if there is no such application , might there
be some c source code that i could modify to implement the
algorithm and get to the individual faces.

thanks in advance
sincerly

tracy


tracy j. abildskov phone (801) 378 3407
fax (801) 378 7862
address brigham young university
department of psychology e mail abild@bert.cs.byu.edu
provo , ut 84602
usa



from jhwitten@cs.ruu.nl (jurriaan wittenberg)
subject re images of earth
organization utrecht university , dept. of computer science
lines 27

in 1993apr18.230732.27804@kakwa.ucs.ualberta.ca ken@cs.ualberta.ca (huisman kenneth m) writes

i am looking for some graphic images of earth shot from space.
( preferably 24 bit color , but 256 color .gif 's will do ).

anyways , if anyone knows an ftp site where i can find these , i 'd greatly
appreciate it if you could pass the information on. thanks.


try ftp ing at
pub info.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.6.2) (simple dir structure)

and ames.arc.nasa.gov
at pub space gif and pub space jpeg
sorry only 8 bits gifs and jpegs ( great piccy 's though (try the x.gif
files they 're semi huge gif89a files)
watch out gif89a dead ahead ! ! !
good luck (good software to be found out there too)

jurriaan

jhwitten@cs.ruu.nl


jhwitten@cs.ruu.nl
jurriaan wittenberg department of computerscience
utrecht the netherlands

from joshuaf@yang.earlham.edu
subject re tiff anything \? !
organization earlham college , richmond , indiana
lines 15

in article 1993apr23.033843.26854@spartan.ac.brocku.ca , tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran) writes
there is a program called graphic workshop you can ftp from
wuarchive. the file is in the msdos graphics directory and
is called grfwk61t.zip. this program should od everthing
you need.



tmc
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)


thanks ! it did work , and it is just what i needed thanks...

joshuaf

from rah13@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (robert a holak)
subject re why does illustrator autotrace so poorly \?
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to rah13@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (robert a holak)
organization columbia university
lines 3

a shareware graphics program called pman has a filter that makes a picture
look like a hand drawing. this picture could probably be converted into
vector format much easier because it is all lines. (with corel trace , etc..)

from idr@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (ian d romanick)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
article i.d. pdxgate.7272
organization portland state university , computer science dept.
lines 20

in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu mcmains@unt.edu (sean mcmains) writes

wow ! a 68070 ! i 'd be very interested to get my hands on one of these ,
especially considering the fact that motorola has not yet released the
68060 , which is supposedly the next in the 680x0 lineup. 8 d

a 68070 is just a 68010 with a built in mmu. i do n't even think that moto.
manufactures them.

ian romanick
dancing fool of epsilon


were the contained thoughts 'opinions' , epn.ntsc.quality best
psu would probably not agree with them.

look , i do n't know anything about
douche , but i do know anti freeze
when i see it ! the dead milkmen


from h8902939@hkuxa.hku.hk (abel)
subject developable surface
nntp posting host hkuxa.hku.hk
organization the university of hong kong
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 9

hi netters ,

i am currently doing some investigations on developable surface .
can anyone familiar with this topic give me some information or sources
which can allow me to find some infomation of developable surface \?
thanks for your help !

abel
h8902939@hkuxa.hku.hk

from ranjan@cs.ubc.ca (vishwa ranjan)
subject complex (i.e. with real and imaginary parts) bio medical images..
organization computer science , university of b.c. , vancouver , b.c. , canada
lines 7
distribution world
nntp posting host ironduke.cs.ubc.ca

are complex bio medical images available anywhere on the net for
experimentation \? by complex i mean that every sampled data point has
a magnitude and phase information both.

thanks for any pointers ,
vishwa


from situnaya@ibm3090.bham.ac.uk
subject any good morphing anims...
organization the university of birmingham , united kingdom
lines 8
nntp posting host ibm3090.bham.ac.uk


has anyone created any interesting animations using dmorph
i seem to be unable to create anything that looks remotely
realistic although this is probably due to the crappy gif 's
at i am using (one of captain kirk and one of spock) , i'm a
bit of a 'trekker'. what are the best type of pictures to use.
thanks........
a.situnayake

from ldo@waikato.ac.nz (lawrence d'oliveiro , waikato university)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
organization university of waikato , hamilton , new zealand
lines 52

in article 1993apr16.212441.34125@rchland.ibm.com , ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (ricardo hernandez muchado) writes
in article 1993apr15.164940.11632@mercury.unt.edu , sean mcmains mcmains@unt.edu writes


ricardo , the animation playback to which lawrence was referring in an
earlier post is plain old quicktime 1.5 with the compact video codec.
i 've seen digitized video (some of apple 's early commercials , to be
precise) running on a centris 650 at about 30fps very nicely (16 bit
color depth). i would expect that using the same algorithm , a risc
processor should be able to approach full screen full motion animation ,
though as you 've implied , the processor will be taxed more with highly
dynamic material.


sean , i do n't want to get into a 'mini war' by what i am going to say ,
but i have to be a little bit skeptic about the performance you are
claiming on the centris , you 'll see why (please , no flames , i reserve
those for c.s.m.a ) )

i was in chicago in the last consumer electronics show , and apple had a
booth there. i walked by , and they were showing real time video capture
using a (radious or supermac \? ) card to digitize and make right on the spot
quicktime movies. i think the quicktime they were using was the old one
(1.5).

that is in fact the current version (it only came out in december).

they digitized a guy talking there in 160x2xx something. it played back quite
nicely and in real time. the guy then expanded the window (resized) to 25x by
3xx (320 in y i think) and the frame rate decreased enough to notice that it
was n't 30fps (or about 30fps) anymore. it dropped to like 15 fps. then he
increased it just a bit more , and it dropped to 10 12 fps.

then i asked him what mac he was using... he was using a quadra (do n't know
what model , 900 \? ) to do it , and he was telling the guys there that the quicktime
could play back at the same speed even on an lcii.

well , i spoiled his claim so to say , since a 68040 quadra mac was having
a little bit of trouble. and this was n't even from the hardisk ! this was
from memory !

my test movie was created at 320 240 resolution , it was n't being scaled up.
scaling was a very cpu intensive operation with the original quicktime (1.0)
the current version has optimizations for ratios like 4 1 (160 120 320 240) ,
but even so , i'm prepared to believe that the performance is n't as good as
with playing back an actual 320 240 movie. i have n't done any numerical
measurements for scaled playback.

lawrence d'oliveiro fone 64 7 856 2889
computer services dept fax 64 7 838 4066
university of waikato electric mail ldo@waikato.ac.nz
hamilton , new zealand 37 47' 26 s , 175 19' 7 e , gmt 12 00

subject cornerstone dualpage driver wanted
from tkelder@ebc.ee (tonis kelder)
nntp posting host kask.ebc.ee
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 lines 12
lines 12



i am looking for a window 3.1 driver for
cornerstone dualpage (cornerstone technology , inc)
video card. does anybody know , that has these \? is there one \?

thanks for any info ,

to nis

to nis kelder estonian biocentre (tkelder@kask.ebc.ee)


from phew@gu.uwa.edu.au (patrick hew)
subject re color pict of spinning earth
organization the university of western australia
lines 22
nntp posting host mackerel.gu.uwa.edu.au

estop07@conrad.appstate.edu ( acs) writes

sorry if this is the wrong place to post this

i was crusing the net earlier this year and came upon something called
color pict of spinning earth. i am assuming it is a animation sequence of the
earth 's rotation (or revolution i always get those mixed up). at the time i
found it my sysem would not even support color graphics so i did n't bother to
get the pict. now i have a fairly nice system and cant find the pict again !
if anyone can help please post here or e mail me
thanks in advance
eric (estop07@conrad.appstate.edu)

likewise for me please. first time i 've hear of it , but i 've beem looking
for something like this for the past few months.

patrick hew
2nd year science engineering
university of western australia
phew@tartarus.uwa.edu.au
phew@mackerel.gu.uwa.edu.au


from scornd7@technet.sg (tang chang thai)
subject re interviews graphics package
nntp posting host solomon.technet.sg
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 9

rene s. dutch student (renes@ecpdsharmony.cern.ch) wrote

i'm trying out the c graphics package interviews. besides the man pages
on the classes , i have n't got any documentation. is there anything else
around \? furthermore , can anyone send me a (small ! ) example program
which shows how to use these classes together \? i would be very gratefull...

you might want to try comp.windows.interviews.


from sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child)
subject re fake virtual reality
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 31
nntp posting host aludra.usc.edu

mike peredo@mindlink.bc.ca (mike peredo) writes

the most ridiculous example of vr exploitation i 've seen so far is the
virtual reality clothing company which recently opened up in vancouver. as
far as i can tell it 's just another chic clothes spot. although it would be
interesting if they were selling virtual clothing ....

e mail me if you want me to dig up their phone and you can probably get
some promotional lit.

i understand there have been a couple of raves in la billing themselves as
virtual reality parties. what i hear they do is project .gif images around
on the walls , as well as run animations through a newtek toaster.

seems like we need to adopt the term really virtual reality or something , except
for the non immersive stuff which is virtually really virtual reality.


etc.



mp
(8 )

samuel

pratice safe .signature ! prevent dangerous signature virii !
guildenstern our names shouted in a certain dawn ... a message ... a
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning ,
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it.

from rued@daimi.aau.dk (thomas rued j rgensen)
subject re .scf files , help needed
organization daimi computer science department , aarhus university , denmark
lines 15

tlc@cx5.com writes

second problem i ca n't find any graphics program that will open and display
these files. i have a couple of image conversion programs , none mention .scf
files.

rix 's files with the extension .sci and .scf are just a raw file with
a 256 color palette.
the first 10 bytes is a kind of header , with the name rix among 7bytes unknown stuff. the you have 768 bytes of palette info (3 256 for the colors rgb)
and then you have the picture in raw format.
if you dont know how to make a viewer of of this description you can get vpic
it is able to read the files !

regards
thomas

from steve@hcrlgw (steven collins)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization central research lab. hitachi , ltd.
lines 27
nntp posting host hcrlgw

in article 1qkgbuinns9n@shelley.u.washington.edu bolson@carson.u.washington.edu (edward bolson) writes
boy , this will be embarassing if it is trivial or an faq

given 4 points (non coplanar) , how does one find the sphere , that is ,
center and radius , exactly fitting those points \? i know how to do it
for a circle (from 3 points) , but do not immediately see a
straightforward way to do it in 3 d. i have checked some
geometry books , graphics gems , and farin , but am still at a loss \?
please have mercy on me and provide the solution \?

would n't this require a hyper sphere. in 3 space , 4 points over specifies
a sphere as far as i can see. unless that is you can prove that a point
exists in 3 space that is equi distant from the 4 points , and this may not
necessarily happen.

correct me if i'm wrong (which i quite possibly am ! )

steve






steven collins email steve@crl.hitachi.co.jp
visiting computer graphics researcher phone (0423) 23 1111
hitachi central research lab. tokyo. fax (0423) 27 7742

from disser@engin.umich.edu (david disser)
subject 2d bitmap interpolation
organization university of michigan
lines 11
distribution world
nntp posting host vesuvius.engin.umich.edu


yesterday i wrote a program to do bilinear interpolation ala numerical
recipes , with the pbmplus libraries. i'm pretty happy with the results ,
but i'm looking for any already coded non linear interpolation schemes
before i go ahead an try to write one. any pointers \?



) dave disser um caen user services wealth is wasted
) disser@engin.umich.edu 229 chrysler center on the old.
) (313) 763 3067 ann arbor , mi 48109 2092

from pvconway@cudnvr.denver.colorado.edu
subject tin files coutours
lines 15


hi !
i am working on a project that needs to create contour lines
from random data points. the work that i have done so far tells me that i
need to look into triangulated irregular networks (tin) , the delauney
criiterion , and the krige method. does anyone have any suggestions for
references , programs and hopefully source code for creating contours. any
help with this or any surface modeling would be greatly appreciated.
i can be reached at the addresses below


paul conway

pvconway@copper.denver.colorado.edu
pvconway@cudnvr.denver.colorado.edu

from mcavalcanti vortex.ufrgs.br@uicvm.uic.edu
subject dtp
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 3
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

please ineed information about desk top publishe post graduate courses
and if possible email address or normal mail.
thanks in advance

from tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran)
subject re mpeg location
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 21

alan jackson (ajackson@cch.coventry.ac.uk) wrote

can anyone tell me where to find a mpeg viewer (either dos or
windows).

thanks in advance.


alan m. jackson mail ajackson@cch.cov.ac.uk

liverpool football club simply the best
you 'll never walk alone

you can find a windows mpeg viewer at wuarchive.wustl.edu in the
mirrors msdos windows3 directory.



tmc
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)


from schmidt@prakinf.th ilmenau.de (schmidt)
subject irit to pov \?
keywords raytracer , format conversion
reply to schmidt@prakinf.th ilmenau.de (schmidt)
organization technische hochschule ilmenau
lines 8
nntp posting host merkur.prakinf.tu ilmenau.de

has anybody made a converter from irit 's .irt or .dat format to
.pov format \?

thanks !


sebastian schmidt
tu ilmenau institut f. praktische informatik

from renouar@amertume.ufr info p7.ibp.fr (renouard olivier)
subject looking for ctds !
keywords ctds
nntp posting host amertume.ufr info p7.ibp.fr
organization universite paris 7 ufr d'informatique
lines 5

i ca n't find ctds (connect the dots smoother) in france. if it is a commercial
program i 'll happily pay whatever it may cost (do not take it litterally).
please help !
i have lots of pov sources , texture images and animations though , if you
are looking for something , just tell.

from se92psh@brunel.ac.uk (peter hauke)
subject re grayscale printer
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
distribution na
lines 13

jian lu (jian@coos.dartmouth.edu) wrote
we are interested in purchasing a grayscale printer that offers a good
resoltuion for grayscale medical images. can anybody give me some
recommendations on these products in the market , in particular , those
under 5000 \?

thank for the advice.


peter hauke @ brunel university

se92psh@brunel.ac.uk


from spl@ivem.ucsd.edu (steve lamont)
subject sgi sales practices (was crimson (was kubota announcement \? ))
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource
lines 49
nntp posting host ivem.ucsd.edu

in article 30523@hacgate.scg.hac.com lee@luke.rsg.hac.com (c. lee) writes
the original posting complained (1) about sgi coming out with newer (and
better) architectures and not having an upgrade path from the older ones ,
and (2) that dec did.

no. that 's not what i was complaining about , nor did i intend to
suggest that dec was any better than sgi (let me tell you about the
lynx some day , but be prepared with a large sedative if you do...). my
comment regarding dec was to indicate that i might be open to other vendors
that supported opengl , rather than deal further with sgi.

what i am annoyed about is the fact that we were led to believe that
we would be able to upgrade to a multiprocessor version of the
crimson without the assistance of a fork lift truck.

i'm also annoyed about being sold several personal irises at a
previous site on the understanding that architecture would be around
for a while , rather than being flushed.

now i understand that sgi is responsible to its investors and has to
keep showing a positive quarterly bottom line (odd that i found myself
pressured on at least two occasions to get the business on the books
just before the end of the quarter) , but i'm just a little tired of
getting boned in the process.

maybe it 's because my lab buys sgis in onesies and twosies , so we
are n't entitled to a peek under the covers as the big kids (nasa ,
for instance) are. this lab , and i suspect that a lot of other labs
and organizations , does n't have a load of money to spend on computers
every year , so we ca n't be out buying new systems on a regular basis.
the boxes that we buy now will have to last us pretty much through the
entire grant period of five years and , in some case , beyond. that
means that i need to buy the best piece of equipment that i can when i
have the money , not some product that was built , to paraphrase one
previous poster 's words , 'to fill a niche' to compete with some other
vendor. i'm going to be looking at this box for the next five years.
and every time i look at it , i'm going to think about sgi and how i
could have better spent my money (actually your money , since we 're
supported almost entirely by federal tax dollars).

now you 'll have to pardon me while i go off and hiss and fume in a
corner somewhere and think dark , libelous thoughts.

spl

steve lamont , sciviguy (619) 534 7968 spl@szechuan.ucsd.edu
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608
my other car is a car , too.
bumper strip seen on i 805

from peter.vanderveen@visser.el.wau.nl (peter van der veen)
subject to yhe one who wants fonts in pov polyray vivid
lines 28
organization wageningen agricultural university
x newsreader ftpnuz (dos) v1.0

to everyone who wants fonts in vivid pov polyray.
the borland bgi font converter is vvfont18.zip.
this program can be found on ftp.informatik.uni oldenburg.de directory
pub dkbtrace utils.
also wuarchive has mirrored this site (directory graphics graphics mirrors
ftp.informatik.uni oldenburg.de pub dkbtrace utils.
there are more nice utilities present in this directory.
a new version of polyray 1.6 (for those asked for it) can be found on the
same sites but in the directory incoming instead of utils (ply16386).
also in this directory povshell and pv3dv060 could be found.
have a nive raytrace time.
peter


peter.vanderveen@visser.el.wau.nl
o.o department of genetics
( ) agricultural university
u wageningen , the netherlands


from nahess@mir.gatech.edu (nicholas a. hess)
subject hitatchi raster format (hrf) \?
organization usgs center for spatial analysis technologies
lines 19
nntp posting host mir.gatech.edu
keywords hrf

our shop uses a package called cadcore very good to scan and
subsequently vectorize original maps into digital maps. the problem is that
once the raster file is loaded into the cadcore package , a header is added
to the .hrf file which makes it unreadable by the supplied converter. we
would like to be able to ship some of the already altered raster images for
further use on our workstations. so , here are my questions

(1) what is the hitachi format \? i need this format so i can recognize
precisely what to strip out. i strongly suspect that it 's a compressed
format if so , then t might not be possible for me to strip out the
offending header.

(2) are there any unix packages that read and recognize hrf \? it would be
really nice to find some sort of hrftopbm converter out there. )

i 've already searched some of the more well known ftp sites which contain
graphics formats documentation , with no luck. so , if you know , or knwo
someone who knows please email ! thanks.


from schultz@schultz.kgn.ibm.com (karl schultz)
subject re vesa standard vga svga programming \? \? \?
reply to schultz@vnet.ibm.com
organization ibm aws graphics systems
keywords vga
lines 45

1. how vesa standard works \? any documentation for vesa standard \?

the vesa standard can be requested from vesa
vesa
2150 north first street , suite 440
san jose , ca 95131 2029

ask for the vesa vbe and super vga programming starndards. vesa
also defines local bus and other standards.

the vesa standard only addresses ways in which an application
can find out info and capabilities of a specific super vga
implementation and to control the video mode selection
and video memory access.

you still have to set your own pixels.

2. at a higher resolution than 320x200x256 or 640x480x16 vga mode ,
where the video memory a0000 affff is no longer sufficient to hold
all info , what is the trick to do fast image manipulation \? i
heard about memory mapping or video memory bank switching but know
nothing on how it is implemented. any advice , anyone \?

vesa defines a window that is used to access video memory.
this window is anchored at the spot where you want to write ,
and then you can write as far as the window takes you (usually
64k). windows have granularities , so you ca n't just anchor
them anywhere. also , some implementations allow two windows.

3. my interest is in 640x480x256 mode. should this mode be called
svga mode \? what is the technique for fast image scrolling for the
above mode \? how to deal with different svga cards \?

this is vesa mode 101h. there is a set display start function
that might be useful for scrolling.

your guidance to books or any other sources to the above questions
would be greatly appreciated. please send me mail.

your best bet is to write vesa for the info. there have also
been announcements on this group of vesa software.


karl schultz schultz@vnet.ibm.com
these statements or opinions are not necessarily those of ibm

from doug@hparc0.aus.hp.com (doug parsons)
subject re 3d studio v2.01 any differences with previous version
organization hp australasian response centre (melbourne)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.5
lines 10

fombaron marc (fombaron@ufrima.imag.fr) wrote
are there significant differences between v2.01 and v2.00 \?
thank you for helping


no. as i recall , the only differences are in the 3ds.set parameters some
of the defaults have changed slightly. i 'll look when i get home and let
you know , but there is n't enough to actually warrant upgrading.

douginoz

from geoffrey@cosc.canterbury.ac.nz (geoff thomas)
subject re help ! 256 colors display in c.
keywords graphics
article i.d. cantua.c533em.cv7
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand
lines 21
nntp posting host huia.canterbury.ac.nz


you 'll probably have to set the palette up before you try drawing
in the new colours.

use the bios interrupt calls to set the r g b values (in the range
from 0 63 for most cards) for a particular palette colour (in the
range from 0 255 for 256 colour modes).

then you should be able to draw pixels in those palette values and
the result should be ok.

you might have to do a bit of colourmap compressing if you have
more than 256 unique rgb triplets , for a 256 colour mode.


geoff thomas geoffrey@cosc.canterbury.ac.nz
computer science dept.
university of canterbury
private bag
christchurch oook !
new zealand

from ernie@woody.apana.org.au (ernie elu)
subject mgr naplps gui bbs frontends
organization woody public access linux melbourne
lines 28
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9



hi all ,
i am looking into methods i can use to turn my linux based bbs into a full color
graphical bbs that supports pc , mac , linux , and amiga callers.
originally i was inspired by the naplps graphics standard (a summary of
which hit this group about 2 weeks ago).
following up on software availability of naplps supporting software i find
that most terminal programs are commercial the only resonable shareware one being
pp3 which runs soley on msdos machines leaving mac and amiga users to buy full
commercial software if they want to try out the bbs (i know i would n't)

next most interesting possibility is to port mgr to pc , mac , amiga. i know there
is an old version of a mac port on bellcore.com that does n't work under system 7
but i ca n't seem to find the source anywhere to see if i can patch it.

is there a color version of mgr for linux \?
i know there was an alpha version of the libs out last year but i misplaced it.

does anyone on this group know if mgr as been ported to pc or amiga \?
i ca n't seem to send a message to the mgr channel without it bouncing.

does anyone have any other suggestions for a linux based gui bbs \?

thanks in advan

from ruocco@ghost.dsi.unimi.it (sergio ruocco)
subject re hot new 3d software
keywords imagine , 3d
organization computer science dep. milan university
lines 26


i do n't have nor imagine nor real 3d , but as old
amiga user i think you should take a look also to
real 3d 2.0 for the amiga. i saw imagine 2.0 on the
amiga for a long time at my friend 's home , and
i 've seen r3d 2.0 in action at bit.movie 93 in riccione ,
italy (an italian computer graphics contest).
many professionals using 3d studio on pc , softimage
for silicon graphics and imagine on the amiga were
very impressed by the power of this programs.
sorry , i 've lost the posting with full description
of features of this great program.

for more informations give a look in comp.sys.amiga.graphics.

representative of activa international told me that
it will be out in 2 weeks for the amiga and that
pc ms windows , silicon indigo and unix version are
under development.

ciao ,
sergio





sergio ruocco ruocco@ghost.sm.dsi.unimi.it
via di vittorio , 4
i 20019 settimo milanese milano
phone 0039 2 3283896

from jbickers@templar.actrix.gen.nz (john bickers)
subject re help ! ! ! grasp
organization tap
lines 19

quoted from 1993apr20.125147.10665@genes.icgeb.trieste.it by oberto@genes.icgeb.trieste.it (jacques oberto)

file , check in the 'graphics' directories under grasp. the problem
is that the .clp files you generate cannot be decoded by any of
the many pd format converters i have used. any hint welcome !

the gl2p1.lzh stuff under gfx show on the aminet sites includes a
utility called pic2hl , that is a filter for hamlab that can handle
the most commonly used kinds of .pic and .clp files.

the biggest problem is that the .clp files do n't usually contain a
palette , so you need to convert a .pic with the right palette
first (which creates a ram picpal file) , and then convert the
.clp files.

jacques oberto oberto@genes.icgeb.trieste.it

john bickers , tap. jbickers@templar.actrix.gen.nz
radioactivity it 's in the air , for you and me kraftwerk

from thinman@netcom.com (technically sweet)
subject re surface intersections
organization international foundation for internal freedom
lines 19

sp1marse@lina (marco seirio) writes

i have a problem with intersections between two surfaces.
does anybody have a easy to understand algorithm for that or maybe
even c source \? \?


marco seirio in real life sp1marse@caligula.his.s

you also have a severe problem with news headers.

ftp to cs.purdue.edu pub vanecek and pull proxima.tar.z
and proxima.ps.z. tres spif.



lance norskog
thinman@netcom.com
data is not information is not knowledge is not wisdom.

from spl@ivem.ucsd.edu (steve lamont)
subject re point within a polygon
organization university of calif. , san diego microscopy and imaging resource
lines 15
nntp posting host ivem.ucsd.edu
keywords point , polygon

in article 1993apr14.102007.20664@uk03.bull.co.uk scrowe@hemel.bull.co.uk (simon crowe) writes
i am looking for an algorithm to determine if a given point is bound by a
polygon. does anyone have any such code or a reference to book containing
information on the subject \?

see the article an efficient ray polygon intersection , p. 390 in
graphics gems (isbn 0 12 286165 5). the second step , intersecting the
polygon , does what you want. there is sample code in the book.

spl

steve lamont , sciviguy (619) 534 7968 spl@szechuan.ucsd.edu
san diego microscopy and imaging resource uc san diego la jolla , ca 92093 0608
they are not bolsheviks ,
just bullshitviks. yevgeny yevtechenko , again a meeting...

subject announce ivan sutherland to speak at harvard
from eekim@husc11.harvard.edu (eugene kim)
distribution harvard
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host husc11.harvard.edu
lines 21

the harvard computer society is pleased to announce its third lecture of
the spring. ivan sutherland , the father of computer graphics and an
innovator in microprocessing , will be speaking at harvard university on
tuesday , april 20 , 1993 , at 4 00 pm in aiken computations building , room
101. the title of his talk is logical effort and the conflict over the
control of information.

cookies and tea will be served at 3 30 pm in the aiken lobby. admissions
is free , and all are welcome.

aiken is located north of the science center near the law school.

for more information , send e mail to eekim@husc.harvard.edu.

the lecture will be videotaped , and a tape will be made available.

thanks.


eugene kim '96 give me a place to stand , and i will
internet eekim@husc.harvard.edu move the earth. archimedes

from egg@dstos3.dsto.gov.au
subject chosing optimal colors for colormap \?
organization defence science and technology organisation
lines 12
nntp posting host dstos3.dsto.gov.au

hi ,

i'm looking for an algorithm that would generate a good cross section of
rgb colours given a limited colour map size.

the problem i'm writing an application for the pc that may have at most 256
colors. i want to use one colormap (palette) for the application but i 'd like
it to contain an even spread of colours of the visible spectrum. i could use
a 6x6x6 rgb cube but the problem is that a lot of those colours are almost
identical to the human eye.

does anyone know how i can optimize my choice of colors \?

from joerg@sax.sax.de (joerg wunsch)
subject about the various dxf format questions
organization saxnet , dresden , germany
lines 25
distribution world
nntp posting host sax.sax.de
summary list of sites holding documentation of dxf format
keywords dxf , graphics formats

archie told me the following sites holding documentation about dxf

host nic.funet.fi (128.214.6.100)
last updated 15 11 7 apr 1993

location pub csc graphics format
file rwxrwxr 95442 dec 4 1991 dxf.doc

host rainbow.cse.nau.edu (134.114.64.24)
last updated 17 09 1 jun 1992

location graphics formats
file rw r r 95442 mar 23 23 31 dxf.doc

host ftp.waseda.ac.jp (133.9.1.32)
last updated 00 47 5 apr 1993

location pub data graphic
file rw r r 39753 nov 18 1991 dxf.doc.z


j org wunsch , ham dl8dtl joerg wunsch@uriah.sax.de
if anything can go wrong... ...or
.o .o joerg@sax.de , wutcd@hadrian.hrz.tu chemnitz.de ,
... it will ! joerg wunsch@tcd dresden.de

from egerter@gaul.csd.uwo.ca (barry egerter)
subject where 's dmorf \?
organization computer science dept. , univ. of western ontario , london , canada
distribution usa
keywords dmorf
nntp posting host obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca
lines 26

could anyone direct me to the ftp site where i can find the dos based
morphing package called dmorf12.zip \? i had downloaded this file last week ,
but the new dos 6 crashed my hard drive and i lost it. now i ca n't find the
site where i got it from.......

also , are there any other morphing packages out for dos (freeware or shareware)


thanks in advance ,
barry


egerter@obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca

author of wgt graphics
toolkit for 320 200 256 vga
. . . version 3.5 now available
(turbo borland c 1.0 or better)
joystick mouse graphics primitives non bgi power gif pcx data storage
sprites multiway scrolling games bitmap warping resizing sb support fli




egerter@obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca


from ivanov sergey serge@argus.msk.su
subject re re vga 640x400 graphics mode
distribution world
organization commercial and industrial group argus
reply to serge@argus.msk.su
lines 7

my 8514 a vesa tsr supports this

can you report crt and other register state in this mode \?
thank 's.

serge ivanov (serge@argus.msk.su)


from samson@prlhp1.prl.philips.co.uk (mark samson)
subject psygnosis cd i titles (was re rumours about 3do \? \? \? )
reply to samson@prlhp1.uucp (mark samson)
organization philips research laboratories , redhill , uk
lines 42

in article 1993apr20.130854.27039@rchland.ibm.com ricardo@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (ricardo hernandez muchado) writes

anyway , still with 15mhz , you need sprites for a lot of tricks for
making cool awesome games (read psygnosis).

speaking of psygnosis , they have licensed games to philips interative
media international for cd i.

the following was recently posted in a message in the cd i section of
the multimedia forum.

seventh guest has been licensed by virgin games to philips interactive
media international for worldwide cd i rights. were also licensed to
p.i.m.i. litil divil from gremlin graphics (uk) and microcosm from
psygnosis (uk). those three titles will be adapted on cd i using the full
potential of the fmv cartridge , meaning , using the additional memory as
well as the motion video capabilities. those titles have been negociated
in europe but will be available worldwide.

also , lemmings 1 2 have been licensed from psygnosis , as well as striker
soccer from rage (uk).

i do n't know when these titles will be available or when work on them even
started (so do n't expect your cd i retailer to have them yet).

there was also some mention of future nintendo cd i games in an issue of the
uk magazine ert mario hotel was mentioned as having 75 levels.

mark

although i work for philips , i do n't work on cd i or multimedia. the above
info is just provided in good faith from what i 've read and does not
represent any statement from philips


mark samson information technology group , philips research laboratories ,
cross oak lane , redhill , surrey rh1 5ha
tel(my ext) 0293 815387 tel(labs) 0293 785544 telex 877261 fax 0293 776495
email seri samson@prlhp0 unix samson@prl.philips.co.uk
binary files packages@prlhp0



from joachim@kih.no (joachim lous)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization kongsberg ingeniorhogskole
lines 30
nntp posting host samson.kih.no
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

ulrich@galki.toppoint.de wrote

according to the tiff 5.0 specification , the tiff version number
(bytes 2 3) 42 has been chosen for its deep philosophical
significance .

when i first read this , i rotfl. finally some philosphy in a technical
spec. but still i wondered what makes 42 so significant.

last week , i read the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy , and rotfl the
second time. (after millions of years of calculation , the second best
computer of all time reveals that 42 is the answer to the question
about life , the universe and everything)

is this actually how they picked the number 42 \?

yes.

does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?

i do n't know where douglas adams took it from , but i'm pretty sure he 's
the one who launched it (in the guide). since then it 's been showing up
all over the place.


l . one thing is for sure the sheep
) ()( ( ) )) ()( ) is not a creature of the earth.
) ( joachim@kih.no
the back masking on 'haaden ii'
from 'exposure' by robert fripp.

from g9134255@wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au (coronado emmanuel abad)
subject fonts in pov \? \?
organization university of wollongong , nsw , australia.
lines 11
nntp posting host wampyr.cc.uow.edu.au
keywords fonts , raytrace



i have seen several ray traced scenes (from mtv or was it
rayshade \? \? ) with stroked fonts appearing as objects in the image.
the fonts chars had color , depth and even textures associated with
them. now i was wondering , is it possible to do the same in pov \? \?


thanks ,

noel

from kai h@postoffice.utas.edu.au (kai howells)
subject re hot new 3d software
organization university of tasmania (australia)
lines 20

in article 1qflpk re1@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , mbc@po.cwru.edu (michael b.
comet) wrote


in a previous article , trb3@ra.msstate.edu (tony r. boutwell) says

there is a new product for the (ibm'ers) out there... it is called
imagine and it just started shipping yesterday... i can personally attest that it will blow the doors off of 3d studio. it is made by impulse , and is in its

well....i do n't know about its competing with 3d studio , but
it 's pretty powerful allright.

yes but a key issue is speed how fast is imagine \? and is it as easy to
use
as 3d studio \? can it just do a render as fast as 3ds if you do n't want
things like ior etc.. 3ds can do fine shadows , animated reflection maps ,
animated bump maps , animated anything maps , and with the ipas routines
(not that i 've ever seen them) it can do explosions , top quality
morphing , fire , rain , lens flares etc..
i'm not knocking imagine , i just want to know how it compares with 3ds

from ab@nova.cc.purdue.edu (allen b)
subject re fractals \? what good are they \?
organization purdue university
lines 51

in article 7155@pdxgate.uucp idr@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (ian d romanick) writes
one thing a small change in initial conditions can cause a huge
change in final conditions. there are certain things about the way
the plate tektoniks and volcanic activity effect a land scape that
is , while not entirely random , unpredictable. this is also true with
fractals , so one could also conclude that you could model this
fractally.

yeah , and it 's also true most long complicated sequences of events ,
calculations , or big computer programs in general. i do n't argue
that you can get similar and maybe useful results from fractals , i
just question whether you should .

the fractal fiends seem to be saying that any part of a system that we
ca n't model should be replaced with a random number generator. that
has been useful , for instance , in making data more palatable to human
perception or for torture testing the rest of the system , but i do n't
think it has much to do with fractals , and i certainly would rather
that the model be improved in a more explicable manner.

i guess i just have n't seen all these earth shaking fractal models
that explain and correlate to the universe as it actually exists. i
really hope i do , but i'm not holding my self similar breath.

there is one other thing that fractals are good for fractal
image compression.

uh huh. i 'll believe it when i see it. i 've been chasing fractal
compression for a few years , and i still do n't believe in it. if it 's so
great , how come we do n't see it competing with jpeg \? 'cause it ca n't ,
i 'll wager.

actually , i have wagered , i quit trying to make fractal compression
work and i was trying because i do n't think it 's a reasonable
alternative to other techniques. it is neat , though. )

i 'll reiterate my disbelief that everything is fractal. that 's why i
do n't think fractal compression as it is widely explained is
practical. i know barnsley and sloan have some tricks up their
sleeves that make their demos work , but i do n't see anyone using it in a
real product. it 's been six years since iterated systems was formed ,
right \?

there are always going to be questions until there 's a product
out there , sloan replies. the company plans to ship its first
encoding devices in the summer , he says. in march , iterated
systems will have the other half of the system the decoders.

scientific american , march 1990 , page 77

allen b (do n't even get me started ) )

from koolish@bbn.com (dick koolish)
subject re flat globe
lines 17
nntp posting host bbn.com

sp1marse@kristin (marco seirio) writes


does anybody have an algorithm for flattening out a globe , or any other
parametric surface , that is definied parametrically.
that is , i would like to take a sheet of paper and a knife and to be
able to calculate how i must cut in the paper so i can fold it to a
globe (or any other object).


there is a library of map projections in

charon.er.usgs.gov

in

pub proj.4.1.3.tar.z

from amjad@eng.umd.edu (amjad a soomro)
subject gamma law correction
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park
lines 22
distribution usa
expires 05 15 93
nntp posting host filter.eng.umd.edu

hi

i am digitizing a ntsc signal and displaying on a pc video monitor.
it is known that the display response of tubes is non linear and is
sometimes said to follow gamma law. i am not certain if these
non linearities are gamma corrected before encoding ntsc signals
or if the tv display is supposed to correct this.

also , if 256 grey levels , for example , are coded in a c program do
these intensity levels appear with linear brightness on a pc
monitor \? in other words does pc monitor display circuitry
correct for gamma errrors \?

your response is much appreciated.

amjad.

amjad soomro
ccs , computer science center
u. of maryland at college park
email amjad@wam.umd.edu


from sts@mfltd.co.uk (steve sherwood (x5543))
subject re virtual reality for x on the cheap !
reply to sts@mfltd.co.uk
organization micro focus ltd , newbury , england
lines 19

has anyone got multiverse to work \?

i have built it on 486 svr4 , mips svr4s and sun sparcstation.

there seems to be many bugs in it. the 'dogfight' and 'dactyl' simply do nothing
(after fixing a bug where a variable is defined twice in two different modules one needed
setting to static else the client core dumped)

steve


extn 5543 , sts@mfltd.co.uk , ! uunet ! mfocus ! sts
micro focus
just like pariah , i have no name , rm rf 26 west street
living in a blaze of obscurity , rum ruff splat newbury
need courage to survive the day. berkshire
england
(a)bort (r)etry (i)nfluence with large hammer


from mjw19@cl.cam.ac.uk (m.j. williams)
subject re rumours about 3do \? \? \?
keywords 3do arm qt compact video
reply to mjw19@cl.cam.ac.uk
organization the national society for the inversion of cuddly tigers
lines 32
nntp posting host earith.cl.cam.ac.uk

in article 2bd07605.18974@news.service.uci.edu rbarris@orion.oac.uci.edu (robert c. barris) writes
we
got to see the unit displaying full screen movies using the compactvideo codec
(which was nice , very little blockiness showing clips from jaws and backdraft)
... and a very high frame rate to boot (like 30fps).

acorn replay running on a 25mhz arm 3 processor (the arm 3 is about 20 slower
than the arm 6) does this in software (off a standard cd rom). 16 bit colour at
about the same resolution (so what if the computer only has 8 bit colour
support , real time dithering too...). the 3d0 o is supposed to have a couple of
dsps the arm being used for housekeeping.

i'm not sure how a centris 20mhz 040 stacks up against the 25 mhz arm in
the 3do box. obviously the arm is faster , but how much \?

a 25mhz arm 6xx should clock around 20 arm mips , say 18 flat out. depends
really on the surrounding system and whether you are talking arm6x or arm6xx
(the latter has a cache , and so is essential to run at this kind of speed with
slower memory).

i 'll stop saying things there 'cos i 'll hopefully be working for arm after
graduation...

mike

ps do n't pay heed to what reps from philips say if the 3d0 o does n't beat the
pants off 3di then i 'll eat this postscript.


michael williams part ii computer science tripos
mjw19@phx.cam.ac.uk university of cambridge
( )cymdeithas genedlaethol traddodiad troi teigrod mwythus ben i waered

from cs89ssg@brunel.ac.uk (sunil gupta)
subject re rtrace 8.2.0
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
lines 12
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

comp. graphics cad (cgcad@bart.inescn.pt) wrote
there is a new version of the rtrace ray tracing package (8.2.0) at
asterix.inescn.pt 192.35.246.17 in directory pub rtrace.
check the readme file.

cant seem to reach the site from over here

ping 192.35.246.17
icmp net unreachable from gateway nsn fix pe.sura.net (192.80.214.253)
for icmp from ccws 24.brunel.ac.uk (134.83.176.30) to 192.35.246.17

is it possible for you to upload to a more mainstream ftp place \?

from af774@cleveland.freenet.edu (chad cipiti)
subject good shareware paint and or animation software for sgi \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 15
reply to af774@cleveland.freenet.edu (chad cipiti)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


does anyone know of any good shareware animation or paint software for an sgi
machine \? i 've exhausted everyplace on the net i can find and still do n't hava
a nice piece of software.

thanks alot !

chad



knock , knock. chad cipiti
who 's there \? af774@cleveland.freenet.edu
cipiti@bobcat.ent.ohiou.edu
it might be heisenberg. chad@voxel.zool.ohiou.edu

from chris@sarah.lerc.nasa.gov (chris johnston)
subject one day graphics composites seminar
organization nasa lewis research center , cleveland , oh
lines 47
distribution world
reply to chris@sarah.lerc.nasa.gov (chris johnston)
nntp posting host looney.lerc.nasa.gov

sampe , ncga , the university of akron , and nasa lewis research center
is sponsoring

computers and composites

a one day seminar devoted to practical applications of
computer workstations for efficient processing , design , and
manufacture of composites

may 18 , 1993
at
the university of akron
akron , ohio

speakers on
advancement in graphics visualization dr. jay horowitz , nasa
integrated product development with mr. michael r. cowen
network workstations sikorski aircraft
structural analysis mr. brian fite , nasa
stereolithography mr. jason williams , penn state erie
molecular and physical modeling dr. vassilios galiatsato ,
of polymer curing university of akron
process modeling of polymer
matrix composites dr ram upadhyay , ge corporate r d

registration fees 75.00 advance , 100.00 on site (includes box lunch)

contact gary roberts , nasa lewis research center (216) 433 344
or write
sampe regional seminar
c o gary roberts
nasa lewis research center
21000 brookpark rd ms 49 1
cleveland , ohio 44135

or email to me , and i 'll get it to gary.




chris johnston (216) 433 5029
materials engineer (216) 433 5033
nasa lewis research center internet chris@sarah.lerc.nasa.gov
21000 brookpark rd ms 105 1
cleveland , oh 4413 usa resistance is futile !



from esuoc@csv.warwick.ac.uk (ajay soni)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for m
organization computing services , university of warwick , uk
lines 44
distribution world
reply to esuoc@csv.warwick.ac.uk
nntp posting host thyme.csv.warwick.ac.uk




in article 2g1@bcstec.ca.boeing.com , rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter) writes
hi netters ,

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

i 'll also need contact info (name , address , email...) if you can find it.

thanks

(please post your responses , in case others have same need)

bob carpenter


i 've been given the sites of some excellent 3d objects on all sorts of file formats ...
here 's where they are


host plaza.aarnet.edu.au

location graphics graphics mirrors
directory drwxr xr x 512 apr 4 14 32 avalon.chinalake.navy.mil

host compute1.cc.ncsu.edu

location mirrors wustl graphics graphics mirrors
directory drwxr xr x 512 mar 14 09 15 avalon.chinalake.navy.mil

host wuarchive.wustl.edu

location graphics graphics mirrors
directory drwxr xr x 512 jan 3 06 29 avalon.chinalake.navy.mil


see ya !
ajay 8 )



from d91 fad@tekn.hj.se (daniel falk)
subject re vesa on the speedstar 24
organization h gskolan i j nk ping
lines 39
nntp posting host pc5 b109.et.hj.se

kjb mgl uvesa32.zip

this is a universal vesa driver. it supports most video
boards chipsets (include the speedstar 24 and 24x) up to
24 bit color.

terry

p.s. i 've tried it on a speedstar 24 and 24x and it works. )

not with all software. ( for instance it does n't work at all with
animator pro from autodesk. it ca n't detect any svga modes when
running univesa. this is really a problem as we need a vesa driver
for both aa pro and some hi color stuff. (

just out of curiosity... are you using the latest version (3.2) \? versions
previous to this did not fill in all of the capabilities bits and other
information correctly. i had problems with a lot of software until i got
this version. (i do n't think the author got around to posting an
announcementof it (or at least i missed it) , but 3.2 was available in the
directory indicated as of 3 29.)

i sure did use version 3.2. it works fine with most software but not
with animator pro and that one is quite important to me. pretty
useless program without that thing working imho.
so i hope the author can fix that.

daniel...





! ! daniel falk do n't quote me ! no comments ! ! !
! ! ebenezum the great wizard ! !
! ! d91 fad@tekn.hj.se ! !
! ! d91fad@hjds90.hj.se also known as the mega famous musician ! !
! ! jkpg , sweeeeeden... leinad of the yellow ones ! !


from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 21
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in z2442b4w164w@cellar.org tsa@cellar.org (the silent assassin) writes

i'm building a cad package and need a 3d graphics library that can handle
some rudimentry tasks , such as hidden line removal , shading , animation , etc.

can you please offer some recommendations \?

i think apda has something called macwireframe which is a full
wire frame (and supposedly hidden line removal) library.
i think it weighs in at 99 (but i 've been wrong on an order
of magnitude before)

libertarian , atheist , semi anarchal techno rat.

i can relate to that

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

on a clear disc , you can seek forever.

from ferdinan@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl (ferdinand oeinck)
subject re distance between two bezier curves
organization my own node in groningen , nl.
lines 14

pes@hutcs.cs.hut.fi (pekka siltanen) writes

suppose two cubic bezier curves (control points v1 , .. , v4 and w1 , .. , w4)
which have equal first and last control points (v1 w1 , v4 w4). how do i
get upper bound for distance between these curves.

which distance \? the distance between one point (t ti) on the first curve
and a point on the other curve with same parameter (u ti) \?


any references appreciated. thanks in anvance.

pekka siltanen


from sigma@rahul.net (kevin martin)
subject re cview answers
keywords stupid programming
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 26

in c5levt.1nj@rahul.net bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth) writes
in 1qlobb p5a@tuegate.tue.nl renew@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (rene walter) writes
most info regarding dangers of reading from floppy disks omitted
unrevcoverable way. so be careful ! it is incredibly poor programming for a
program to do this...
nevertheless , it is an important bug that needs to be squashed. i am
merely pointing out that it was probably overlooked. while it is serious ,
one must keep in mind that it will probably affect at most 5 of the
targeted users of cview.

ok , i do n't use cview anymore , but i saw that no one had explaind this
bug in the thread , so here goes

it is not the fault of cview. it is dos ! if you leave a file open on a
floppy drive , then change the disk and do something which updates or closes
that file , you have a good chance of getting part of the directory and fat
from the other disk written to the new disk. this has always been true ,
and has destroyed data under other programs , not just cview.

the only thing cview can do to improve the situation is to try not to leave
files open unless it 's actively using them (ie , reading and decoding).


kevin martin
sigma@rahul.net
i gotta get me another hat.

from ezzie@lucs2.lancs.ac.uk (one of those daze...)
subject borland turbo c libraries for s3 graphics card
organization lancaster university computer society
lines 5

i 've recently got hold of a pc with an s3 card in it , and i 'd like to do some
c programming with it , are there any libraries out there that will let me
access the high resolution modes available via borland turbo c \?

andy

from tdawson@llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw)
subject ray tracer for ms dos \?
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu
originator tdawson@llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu


sorry for the repeat of this request , but does anyone know of a good
free shareware program with which i can create ray traces and save
them as bit mapped files \? (of course if there is such a thing )

thanks in advance

daemon


from add@sciences.sdsu.edu (james d. murray)
subject need specs info on apple quicktime
organization san diego state university , college of sciences
lines 12
nntp posting host sciences.sdsu.edu
keywords quicktime
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

i need to get the specs , or at least a very verbose interpretation of the
specs , for quicktime. technical articles from magazines and references to
books would be nice too.

i also need the specs in a format usable on a unix or ms dos system. i ca n't
do much with the quicktime stuff they have on ftp.apple.com in its present
format.

thanks in advance.

james d. murray
add@sciences.sdsu.edu

from ryanph@mrl.dsto.gov.au
subject dregistere xv for ms dos
organization defence science and technology organisation
lines 43
nntp posting host mrl.dsto.gov.au

pascal perret , in article 1993apr21.125750.263@eicn.etna.ch , wrote

site omnigate.clarkson.edu
aliases grape.ecs.clarkson.edu
number 128.153.4.2

pub msdos djgpp pub

it 's xv221.zip ( \? ) i think...
certainly you read the other answer from kevin martin... he write about dv x
( \? ).

what is it \? \? \? \? \? \? could someone answer \? \? \? \?

funny thing , the internet i have no idea what xv221 might be except that it
might be something to do with x windows on pcs ( \? if you know , and have used
it , and think that it is good , email me. ryanph@mrl.dsto.gov.au ).

dv x is a common abbreviation for quarterdeck corporation 's desqview x
software.

i have not used dv x yet , but reading the blurbs that quarterdeck sent me , it
sounds pretty great
allows multiple dos machines the way that os 2 does , but without
requiring 10 mb of ram to get os 2 going
pre emptive multi tasking
network computing a proper x windows client server application
this means that dos program can be used on other x windows computers on your
network , and that x windows programs can be used on your dv x computer
although it is not a version of unix , it effectively has many of
unix 's features , and mostly you will be able to compile unix type programs
using the djgpp or gnu c compilers

they advertise regularly in all of the major computing and programming
magazines. they also have internet support online (support@qdeck.com).

pascal perret perret@eicn.etna.ch

hope that this helps anyone wanting to know.

phil ryan
melbourne , australia


from egerter@gaul.csd.uwo.ca (barry egerter)
subject re graphics library package
organization computer science dept. , univ. of western ontario , london , canada
nntp posting host obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca
lines 43


wgt is the wordup graphics toolkit , designed by yours truly and my
co programmer (and brother) chris egerter. it is a turbo borland c graphics
library for programming in 320 200 256 vga. we are currently producing it as
shareware , but in a few years it may be a commercial product (excuse typos ,
there 's no backspace on this terminal). features include

loading and saving bit images (called blocks from herein)
flipping , resizing and warping blocks
loading and saving palette , fading , several in memory at once
graphics primitives such as line , circle , bar , rectangle
region fill (not the usually useless floodfill)
sprites (animated bitmaps) , up to 200 onscreen at once
joystick mouse support
sb support (voc and cmf)
tile based game creation using 16 16 pixel tiles to create
a 320 200 tile map (or game world) like in duke nuke 'em
number of sprites increased to 1000
professional sprite creator utility and map maker
routines to simplify scrolling games using maps , etc
fli playing routines , sprites can be animated over the fli while playing
pcx support , soon gif
ems xms coming soon as well

leave e mail to barry egerter at egerter@obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca

files available on (use mget wgt .zip)

simtel20 and mirrors pd1 msdos.turbo c

nic.funet.fi pub msdos games programming

some sites may not have recent files , contact me for info regarding the up to
date information.










from jmcocker@eos.ncsu.edu (mitch)
subject re newsgroup split
originator jmcocker@c00053 100lez.eos.ncsu.edu
reply to jmcocker@eos.ncsu.edu (mitch)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 29


in article fox.93apr22002043@graphics.nyu.edu , fox@graphics.cs.nyu.edu (david fox) writes

concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.

i disagree. you could learn the same amount by reading all the
split groups , and it would make things easier for those of us
who are less omnivorous. there is no waste in creating news
groups its just a bit of shuffling about. i have no problem
with only a few posts per week per group i spend too much time
on this as it is.


yes , but... should n't size of newsgroup be an issue \? sorry if this
has been covered before , but comp.grahpics.animation get how much
traffic per day \? 50 articles \? maybe 70 on an extremely heavy day \?
i 've been following this group for about four months now , and i do n't
recall ever seeing such a flood of posts that a split would be warranted.

just my 2 cents ,

mitch jmcocker@eos.ncsu.edu
who doth render with 386sx 20 knoweth frustration.

subject xga 2 info \?
from rleberle@sparc2.cstp.umkc.edu (rainer leberle)
distribution world
organization university of missouri kansas city
nntp posting host sparc2.cstp.umkc.edu
lines 13

hi ,
has anyone more info about the xga 2 chipset \?
hw funcs , truecolor , resolutions , ...
any boards with xga 2 out yet \?

thanks
rainer


rainer leberle rleberle@sparc2.cstp.umkc.edu
university of kansas city , mo

new mail from clinton@whitehouse.dc.gov (no subject specified)

from dkennett@fraser.sfu.ca (daniel kennett)
subject pov having trouble bump mapping a gif to a sphere
summary having trouble bump mapping a gif to a spher in povray
keywords bump map
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 44


hello ,
i 've been trying to bump map a gif onto a sphere for a while and i
ca n't seem to get it to work. image mapping works , but not bump
mapping. here 's a simple file i was working with , could some kind
soul tell me whats wrong with this.....

include colors.inc
include shapes.inc
include textures.inc

camera
location 0 1 3
direction 0 0 1.5
up 0 1 0
right 1.33 0 0
look at 0 1 2


object light source 2 4 3 color white


object
sphere 0 1 2 1
texture
bump map 1 0 1 2 gif surf.gif



note surf.gif is a plasma fractal from fractint that is using the
landscape palette map.


thanks in advance
daniel


daniel kennett
dkennett@sfu.ca
our minds are finite , and yet even in those circumstances of
finitude , we are surrounded by possibilities that are infinite , and
the purpose of human life is to grasp as much as we can out of that
infinitude. alfred north whitehead


from andreasa@dhhalden.no (andreas arff)
subject re newsgroup split
lines 40
nntp posting host pc110
organization ostfold college

in article 1quvdoinn3e7@srvr1.engin.umich.edu tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw) writes
from tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw)
subject newsgroup split
date 19 apr 1993 19 43 52 gmt
concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon


actuallay i do n't , but on the other hand i do n't support the idea of having
one newsgroup for every aspect of graphics programming as proposed by brian ,
in his reply to my original posting.
i would suggest a looser structure more like a comp.graphics.programmer ,
comp.graphics.hw and sw
the reason for making as few groups as possible is for the same reason you
say we should n't spilt up , not to get to few postings every day.
i takes to much time to browse through all postings just to find two or
three i'm interested in.

i understand and agree when you say you want all aspects of graphics in one
meeting. i agree to some extension. i see news as a forum to exchange ideas ,
help others or to be helped. i think this is difficult to achive if there
are so many different things in one meeting.

good evening netters )

arff
also for the not religous confessor , there is a mystery of higher values ,
who 's birth mankind to the last builds upon. they are indisputible. and
often disregarded. seldom you hear them beeing prized , as seldom as you hear
a seeing man prizeing what he sees. per lagerkvist , the fist
(free translation from swedish)
andreas arff andreasa@dhhalden.no

from lee@luke.rsg.hac.com (c. lee)
subject re crimson (was kubota announcement \? )
organization hughes transportation simulation center , hac culver city , ca
lines 30

in article 115072@bu.edu kiki@problem with inews gateway file (keith baccki) writes
c. lee (lee@obiwan.rsg.hac.com) wrote
did you say dec alpha \? upgrade path from ...
6xx0 replace. upgrade path from vax 66x0 to alpha replace the system.

not totally fair you have n't mentioned the decstation
series. i think if sgi made cisc mainframes they would n't provide
an upgrade path to an onyx.

i agree with you about the upgrade path but i think i was fair.

the original posting complained (1) about sgi coming out with newer (and
better) architectures and not having an upgrade path from the older ones ,
and (2) that dec did.

on statement (1) , i merely attempted to point out that all computer
companies are constantly attempting to improve their product ( market
position share). in so doing , they eventually come to a point where they
have a new architecture , and the only upgrade path is to replace the
system. and the particular system he was complaining about was (in
computer lifetimes) relatively old.

on statement (2) , i felt dec 's history of providing upgrades was not far
superior than the industry average , and that , in my opinion , sgi 's
history is better than dec 's.

(and what is dec doing with it 's mips based decstation line \? are they
going to abandon it for their alpha based line , or provide an upgrade
path to r4400 's and tfp 's and r5 's \? )


from rschmitt@shearson.com (robert schmitt)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library f
reply to rschmitt@shearson.com
organization lehman brothers , inc.
lines 9

what hardware do plan to run on \? workstation or pc \? cost level \?
run time licensing needs \?

bob

robert a. schmitt applied derivatives technology lehman brothers
rschmitt@shearson.com



from joachim@kih.no (joachim lous)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization kongsberg ingeniorhogskole
lines 28
nntp posting host samson.kih.no
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

marc t. kaufman (kaufman@xenon.stanford.edu) wrote

does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?

at this moment the king , who had been for some time busily writing in
his note book , called out silence ! and read out from his book
rule forty two. all persons more than a mile high to leave the court.
everybody looked at alice.
i'm not a mile high , said alice.
you are , said the king.
nearly two miles high , added the queen.
well , i sha' n't go , at any rate , said alice besides , that 's not
a regular rule you invented it just now.
it 's the oldest rule in the book , said the king.
then it ought to be number one , said alice.

does anybody have a collection of occurances of 42 \? (before and after
the guide). if not , i would like to receive any odd bits you might know.
postings to alt.fan.douglas.adams.




l . one thing is for sure the sheep
) ()( ( ) )) ()( ) is not a creature of the earth.
) ( joachim@kih.no
the back masking on 'haaden ii'
from 'exposure' by robert fripp.

from billj@b11.b11.ingr.com (bill jones)
subject re need specs info on apple quicktime
keywords quicktime
organization intergraph corp. huntsville , al
lines 16

add@sciences.sdsu.edu (james d. murray) writes

i need to get the specs , or at least a very verbose interpretation of the
specs , for quicktime. technical articles from magazines and references to
books would be nice too.

i also need the specs in a format usable on a unix or ms dos system. i ca n't
do much with the quicktime stuff they have on ftp.apple.com in its present
format.

apple just released the quicktime volume of the new inside macintosh series.
any bookstore with reasonable technical stock should have it.

bill jones
billj@beowulf.b11.ingr.com


from cgcad@bart.inescn.pt (comp. graphics cad)
subject rtrace 8.2.0
keywords ray tracing
nntp posting host bart
organization inesc porto , portugal
lines 83

there is a new version of the rtrace ray tracing package (8.2.0) at
asterix.inescn.pt 192.35.246.17 in directory pub rtrace.
check the readme file.

rtrace now can use the suit toolkit to have a nice user interface.
compile it with dsuit or modify the makefile.
suit is available at suit@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu
i have binaries of rtrace with suit for sun sparc , sgi indigo
and dos go32.
please contact me if interested.



the mac rtrace 1.0 port is in directory pub rtrace macintosh
thanks to reid judd (reid.judd@east.sun.com) and
greg ferrar (gregt@function.mps.ohio state.edu).



small changes were done since version 8.1.0 , mainly

1. now it is possible to discard backface polygons and triangles
for fast preview...

2. the support program scn2sff has been reworked to use temp files.



here goes a short description of current converters from
cad molecular chemistry packages to the scn format.

the package programs are related as below (those marked with have been
modified)

irit2scn
irit
nff (nffclean , nffp2pp)
sol2scn
acad11 nff2sff

mol2scn v scn2sff v rtrace
alchemy scn sff pic or ppm
cpp
pdb2scn picmix
pdb picblend
ppmmix
chem2scn ppmblend
chemical

3ds2scn
3d studio

iv2scn
iris inventor



the dos port of rtrace is in pub rtrace pc 386 (rtrac820.arj ,
utils820.arj and image820.arj). see the readme file there.
requires djgpp go32 dos extender (version 1.09 included) , which can be
found in directory pub pc djgpp (and in many sites around netland).
there are also demo scenes , manuals and all the source code...



please feel free to get it and use it.
hope you like it.

regards ,
antonio costa.
.........................................................................
o o
i n e s c
o antonio costa e mail acc@asterix.inescn.pt
o
o comp. graphics cad decnet porto acosta

largo mompilher 22 uucp mcvax , ... ! ...
o o 4100 porto portugal bell 351 02 321006

o o o let the good times roll...



from stusoft@hardy.u.washington.edu (stuart denman)
subject easy to translate jpeg code...
article i.d. shelley.1rfsqbinnc2p
organization university of washington
lines 7
nntp posting host hardy.u.washington.edu

does anyone out there have any jpeg decompression code in pretty much any
language that i can read and understand \? i have trouble understanding the
jpeg group 's code that i got from an ftp site. if any one can send me
some good code , i will appreciate it a lot ! thanks !

stuart denman
stusoft@u.washington.edu

from jack@shograf.com (jack ritter)
subject help ! !
article i.d. shograf.c531e6.7uo
distribution usa
organization shographics , sunnyvale
lines 9

i need a complete list of all the polygons
that there are , in order.

i 'll summarize to the net.



if only i had been compiled with the ' g' option.


from sasst11 @pitt.edu (scott a snowiss)
subject imagine
organization university of pittsburgh
lines 16

hello again netters ,
i finally received the information about imagine for the pc. they are presently shipping version 2.0 of the software and will release version 3.0 in the first quarter of 1993 (or so they say). the upgrade from 2.0 to 3.0 is 100.00. to purchase imagine 2.0 , it costs 495.00 or if you are upgrading from another eligible (call them for info) modeler , it is only 200.00 plus shipping handling. it requires a pc with 4 megs a math coprocessor , and dos 5.0 or up and a microsoft mouse and svga card.
thanks for all your replies about the product. i have received many contrasting replies , but once i scrounge the money together , i think i will take the plunge. thanks again.
here is the info for impulse if you want to find out more or get the sheet they sent.
impulse inc.
8416 xerxes avenue north
minneapolis , mn 55444
1 800 328 0184

thanks again for all your replies.
scott

scott snowiss
sasst11 @.pitt.edu

turn on...jack in...jack out...

from cormackj@access.digex.com (john cormack)
subject re vesa on the speedstar 24
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 8
nntp posting host access.digex.net
summary speedstar 24x
keywords vesa driver for speedstar 24x

i need a vesa driver for the diamond speedstar 24x that works. i 've tried
several and none work for the hicolor modes.

john cormack
cormackj@access.digex.com




from aad@scr.siemens.com (anthony a. datri)
subject re nice gif code
nntp posting host lovecraft.siemens.com
organization siemens weyland yutani
lines 7

there is a thing called xgif

xgif is the grandfather of xv.



8

from bryanw@rahul.net (bryan woodworth)
subject re cview answers
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 14

in 1993apr16.114158.2246@whiting.mcs.com sean@whiting.mcs.com (sean gum) writes

a stupid question , but what will cview run on and where can i get it \? i
am still in need of a gif viewer for linux. (without x windows.)
thanks !


ho boy. there is no way in hell you are going to be able to view gifs or do
any other graphics in linux without x windows ! i love linux because it is
so easy to learn.. you want text \? okay. use linux. you want text and
graphics \? use linux with x windows. simple. painless. required to have
x windows if you want graphics ! this includes fancy word processors like
doc , image viewers like xv , etc.


from wbdst @pitt.edu (william b dwinnell)
subject vesa as a graphics standard
organization university of pittsburgh
lines 7


in the u ibm pc world , how much of a standard has vesa become for
svga graphics \? i know there are lots of graphics board companies out
there , as well as several graphics chips manufacturers are they adhering to
the vesa standard , and what effect is will the vesa local bus have on all
of this \?
anyone \?

from apd2c@virginia.edu ( andrew paul dickens )
subject re computer graphics to vcr \?
organization university of virginia
lines 16


getting an image from a computer monitor to a videotape
is harder than it looks. the standard vga and ega outputs are
very different than the ntsc format used by televisions. while
there is equipment that will do the conversion , it is hard to
get your hands on and costs quite a bit.

if you have access to an amiga computer , that has an
ntsc output , you can transfer certain types of graphic files by
modem and tape them from the ntsc output. unfortunately , this
would be frame by frame and would lead to unbelievably scratchy
animation unless you had a good amiga animation program.

otherwise , see if your local public access cable
station has equipment that you can use.


from cliff@watson.ibm.com (cliff)
subject reprints
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host cliff.watson.ibm.com
organization a
lines 17

i have a few reprints left of chapters from my book visions of the
future . these include reprints of 3 chapters probably of interest to
readers of this forum , including

1. current techniques and development of computer art , by franz szabo

2. forging a career as a sculptor from a career as computer programmer ,
by stewart dickson

3. fractals and genetics in the future by h. joel jeffrey

i 'd be happy to send out free reprints to researchers for scholarly
purposes , until the reprints run out.

just send me your name and address.

thanks , cliff cliff@watson.ibm.com

from renner@adobe.com (john renner)
subject re detecting double points in bezier curves
organization adobe systems incorporated , mountain view
lines 27

in article 19930420.090030.915@almaden.ibm.com capelli@vnet.ibm.com (ron capelli) writes
in ia522b1w165w@oeinck.waterland.wlink.nl ferdinand oeinck writes
i'm looking for any information on detecting and or calculating a double
point and or cusp in a bezier curve.

see
maureen stone and tony derose ,
a geometric characterization of parametric cubic curves ,
acm tog , vol 8 , no 3 , july 1989 , pp. 147 163.

i 've used that reference , and found that i needed to go to their
original tech report

maureen stone and tony derose ,
characterizing cubic bezier curves
xerox edl 88 8 , december 1988

this report can be obtained for free from
xerox corporation
palo alto research center
3333 coyote hill road
palo alto , california 94303
1 415 494 4440

the tog paper was good , but this tech report had more interesting details )

john

from rytg7@fel.tno.nl (q. van rijt)
subject re sphere from 4 points \?
organization tno physics and electronics laboratory
lines 26

there is another useful method based on least sqyares estimation of the sphere equation parameters.

the points (x , y , z) on a spherical surface with radius r and center (a , b , c) can be written as

(x a) 2 (y b) 2 (z c) 2 r 2

this equation can be rewritten into the following form

2ax 2by 2cz r 2 a 2 b 2 c 2 x 2 y 2 z 2

approximate the left hand part by f(x , y , z) p1.x p2.x p3.z p4.1

for all datapoints , i.c. 4 , determine the 4 parameters p1..p4 which minimise the average error f(x , y , z) x 2 y 2 z 2 2.

in 'numerical recipes in c' can be found algorithms to solve these parameters.

the best fitting sphere will have
center (a , b , c) (p1 2 , p2 2 , p3 2)
radius r sqrt(p4 a.a b.b c.c).

so , at last , will this solve you sphere estination problem , at least for the most situations i think \? .

quick van rijt , rytg7@fel.tno.nl




from weber@sipi.usc.edu (allan g. weber)
subject need help with mitsubishi p78u image printer
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 26
distribution na
nntp posting host sipi.usc.edu

our group recently bought a mitsubishi p78u video printer and i could use some
help with it. we bought this thing because it (1) has a parallel data input in
addition to the usual video signal inputs and (2) claimed to print 256 gray
level images. however , the manual that came with it only describes how to
format the parallel data to print 1 and 4 bit pixel images. after some initial
problems with the parallel interface i now have this thing running from a
parallel port of an hewlett packard workstation and i can print 1 and 4
bit pixel images just fine. i called the mitsubishi people and asked about the
256 level claim and they said that was only available when used with the video
signal inputs. this was not mentioned in the sales literature. however they
did say the p78u can do 6 bit pixel (64 level) images in parallel mode , but
they did n't have any information about how to program it to do so , and they
would call japan , etc.

frankly , i find it hard to believe that if this thing can do 8 bit pixel images
from the video source , it ca n't store 8 bits pixel in the memory. it 's not
like memory is that expensive any more. if anybody has any information on
getting 6 bit pixel (or even 8 bit pixel) images out of this thing , i would
greatly appreciate your sending it to me.

thanks.

allan weber
signal image processing institute
university of southern california
weber@sipi.usc.edu

from uk02183@nx10.mik.uky.edu (bryan k williams)
subject re cview answers
keywords stupid programming
nntp posting host nx10.mik.uky.edu
organization university of kentucky
lines 6

re majority of users not readding from floppy.
well , how about those of us who have 1400 picture cd roms and would like to use
cview because it is fast and it works well , but ca n't because the moron lacked
the foresight to create the temp file in the program 's path , not the current
didrectory \?


from rknight@stiatl.salestech.com (ray knight)
subject re cview answers
keywords stupid programming
organization sales technologies , inc.
lines 19

uk02183@nx10.mik.uky.edu (bryan k williams) writes

re majority of users not readding from floppy.
well , how about those of us who have 1400 picture cd roms and would like to use
cview because it is fast and it works well , but ca n't because the moron lacked
the foresight to create the temp file in the program 's path , not the current
didrectory \?


actually the most flexible way to create temp files is to check for a temp or
tmp environment variable and create the files on the drive and directory pointedto by the variable. this is pretty much a standard for dos , windows and os 2
applications.



what i have to say is my own opinion and has no bearing on any other person or
organization including my employer.

rknight@salestech.com (404) 841 5316 sales technologies , inc.

from newmme@helios.tn.cornell.edu (mark e. j. newman)
subject help advice on what video system to buy
keywords video , rs6000
organization cornell university
lines 22

if this question is covered elsewhere , i apologize , but i need information
fast.

my department has been given a large sum of money to install a video system
on our network of ibm rs6000 workstations. this is not an area in which i
have any expertise , so i wonder if anyone out there can offer advice. we
would like a system , based either on vhs or 8mm video which will allow one
write video , frame by frame on tape for play back in real time. it 's for
visualization of physics problems. can anyone tell me what hardware is
available which would work for our system \? some support software is
obviously needed too , but nothing particularly sophisticated , since the
software we actually use for the visualization is all already written.

please email with replies , as i do n't read this group. many thanks for your
help.

dr. m. e. j. newman.
department of physics ,
cornell university.
newmme@helios.tn.cornell.edu



from leyfre@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (frederic leymarie)
subject re developable surface
organization mcgill research center for intelligent machines , montreal , canada
lines 38


in article c5x9xs.khe@hkuxb.hku.hk , h8902939@hkuxa.hku.hk (abel) writes
hi netters ,

i am currently doing some investigations on developable surface .
can anyone familiar with this topic give me some information or sources
which can allow me to find some infomation of developable surface \?
thanks for your help !

abel
h8902939@hkuxa.hku.hk

a developable surface is s.t. you can lay it (or roll it) flat on the
plane (it may require you to give it a cut though...)

e.g. , a cylinder , a cone , a plane (of course ! ) or any surface or patch
having vanishing gaussian (intrinsic) curvature (i.e. , with singular
hessian , the matrix of 2nd derivatives for an adequate coordinate patch)
are developable . in more technical words , a developable surface is
locally isometric to a plane at all points.


think also of the sphere (or the earth) which in a non developable
whatever way(s) you cut it , you will not be able to lay flat any pieces
of it... (its intrinsic curvature is nowhere vanishing).

for more details on this look at any book on differential geometry
which treats surfaces (2d manifolds) e.g. , m. do carmo 's book

@book carmo76differential ,
author do carmo , manfredo p. ,
title differential geometry of curves and surfaces ,
year 1976 ,
publisher prentice hall ,
note 503 pages.

enjoy !

frederic leymarie leyfre@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
mcgill university , electrical eng. dept. , mcrcim , tel. (514) 398 8236
3480 university st. , montreal , qc , canada , h3a 2a7. fax (514) 398 7348

from se92psh@brunel.ac.uk (peter hauke)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 20

joachim lous (joachim@kih.no) wrote
ulrich@galki.toppoint.de wrote

does anyone have any other suggestions where the 42 came from \?

yep , here 's a theory that i once heard bandied around. rather than thinking
of the number think of the sound. for tea two. a sort of anagram on tea for two ,
two for tea , for tea two.

)

peter




peter hauke @ brunel university

se92psh@brunel.ac.uk


from arp@cooper ! osd (andrew pinkowitz)
subject siggraph conference on understanding images
keywords graphics animation nyc acm siggraph
organization online systems development ( ny , ny)
lines 140


nyc acm siggraph understanding images


subject

pace university siggraph conference on understanding images


the purpose of this conference is to bring together a breadth of
disciplines , including the physical , biological and computational
sciences , technology , art , psychology , philosophy , and education ,
in order to define and discuss the issues essential to image
understanding within the computer graphics context.

featured topics include

psychology perception
image analysis
design
text
sound
philosophy

date friday saturday , 21 22 may 1993

time 9 00 am 6 00 pm

place the pace downtown theater
one pace plaza
(on spruce street between park row gold street)
ny , ny 10038

fees

pre registration (prior to 1 may 1993)
members 55.00
non members 75.00
students 40.00 (proof of f t status required)

registration (after 1 may 1993 or on site)
all attendees 95.00

(registration fee includes brakfast , breaks lunch)


send registration information fees to

dr. francis t. marchese
computer science department
nyc acm siggraph conference
pace university
1 pace plaza (room t 1704)
new york ny 10036

voice (212) 346 1803 fax (212) 346 1933
email marchesf@pacevm.bitnet


registration information

name

title

company

street address

city state zip

day phone ( ) evening phone ( )

fax phone ( ) email


detailed description


artists , designers , scientists , engineers and educators share the
problem of moving information from one mind to another.
traditionally , they have used pictures , words , demonstrations ,
music and dance to communicate imagery. however , expressing
complex notions such as god and infinity or a seemingly well
defined concept such as a flower can present challenges which far
exceed their technical skills.

the explosive use of computers as visualization and expression
tools has compounded this problem. in hypermedia , multimedia and
virtual reality systems vast amounts of information confront the
observer or participant. wading through a multitude of
simultaneous images and sounds in possibly unfamiliar
representions , a confounded user asks what does it all mean \?

since image construction , transmission , reception , decipherment and
ultimate understanding are complex tasks , strongly influenced by
physiology , education and culture and , since electronic media
radically amplify each processing step , then we , as electronic
communicators , must determine the fundamental paradigms for
composing imagery for understanding.

therefore , the purpose of this conference is to bring together a
breadth of disciplines , including , but not limited to , the
physical , biological and computational sciences , technology , art ,
psychology , philosophy , and education , in order to define and
discuss the issues essential to image understanding within the
computer graphics context.


featured speakers include

psychology perception
marc de may , university of ghent
beverly j. jones , university of oregon
barbara tversky , standfor university
michael j. shiffer , mit
tom hubbard , ohio state university
image analysis
a. ravishankar rao , ibm watson research center
nalini bhusan , smith college
xiaopin hu , university of illinois
narenda ahuja , university of illinois
les m. sztander , university of toledo
design
mark bajuk , university of illinois
alyce kaprow , mit
text
xia lin , pace university
john loustau , hunter college
jong ding wang , hunter college
judson rosebush , judson rosebush co.
sound
matthew witten , university of texas
robert wyatt , center for high performance computing
robert s. williams , pace university
rory stuart , nynex
philosophy
michael heim , education foundation of dpma



from hugo@hydra.unm.edu (patrice cummings)
subject polygon orientation in dxf \?
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque
lines 21
nntp posting host hydra.unm.edu


hi. i'm writing a program to convert .dxf files to a database
format used by a 3d graphics program i 've written. my program stores
the points of a polygon in ccw order. i 've used 3d concepts a
little and it seems that the points are stored in the order
they are drawn.

does the dxf format have a way of indicating which order the
points are stored in , cw or ccw \? its easy enough to convert ,
but if i do n't know which way they are stored , i dont know
which direction the polygon should be visible from.

if dxf does n't handle this , can anyone recommend a workaround \?
the best i can think of is to create two polygons for each one
in the dxf file , one stored cw and the other ccw. but that
doubles the number of polygons and decreases speed...

thanks in advance for any help ,

patrice
hugo@hydra.unm.edu

from tdawson@llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw)
subject re sun ipx root window display background picture
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu
keywords sun ipx background picture
originator tdawson@llullaillaco.engin.umich.edu


i'm not sure if you got the information you were looking for , so i 'll
post it anyway for the general public. to load an image on your root
window add this line to the end of your .xsession file

xloadimage onroot fullscreen gif file name

this is assuming of course you have the xloadimage client , and as
for the switches , i think they pretty much explain what is going on.
if you leave out the , the terminal locks till you kill it.
(you already knew that though...)

hope this helps.

daemon

from osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski)
subject re fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign
lines 19

in article 7306@pdxgate.uucp idr@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (ian d romanick) writes
what kind of polygons \? shaded \? texturemapped \? hm \? more comes into play with
fast routines than just polygons . it would be nice to know exaclty what
system (vga is a start , but what processor \? ) and a few of the specifics of the
implementation. you need to give more info if you want to get any answers ! p

i do n't want texture mapped , cause if i did i 'd asked for them. ) just
a simple and fast routine to do filled polygons. as for the processor , it 'd
be for a minimum of a 286... maybe 386 if i ca n't find a good one for 286s.
ideally , i want a polyn function that can clip to a user defined viewport ,
and write to an arbitrary location in memory. of course the chances of
finding something like that are pretty remote , so i guess i 'd need the source
with it. oh , and i guess it would need to be in asm otherwise it 'd be too
slow. i 've seen some polygon routines in c , and they 've all been waaay too
slow. its for a 3d vector graphics program. i 've been hunting high and low
for a polyn function in asm , and i ca n't find one anywhere that i can use.
i 've found one or two polyn functions , but my asm is pretty bad , so i wo n't
even try to rewrite them. )
lucas.

from situnaya@ibm3090.bham.ac.uk
subject (none set)
organization the university of birmingham , united kingdom
lines 5
nntp posting host ibm3090.bham.ac.uk


bear with me i'm new at this game , but could anyone explain exactly what dmorf
does , does it simply fade one bitmap into another or does it re shape one bitma
p into another. please excuse my ignorance , i' not even sure if i 've posted thi
s message correctly.

from tdawson@engin.umich.edu (chris herringshaw)
subject paintprogram wanted
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 8
distribution world
nntp posting host antithesis.engin.umich.edu

excuse the sheer newbieness of this post , but i am looking for a decent
paintprogram which will save to various file formats (.bmp .pcx etc etc)
via ftp , freeware , or shareware. i would like to check out the available
programs for little before i check out the commercial market.

thanks in advance for any help or direction you can give me.

daemon

from george@ccmail.larc.nasa.gov (george m. brown)
subject qc msc code to view save images
organization client specific systems , inc.
lines 12
nntp posting host thrasher.larc.nasa.gov

dear binary newsers ,

i am looking for quick c or microsoft c code for image decoding from file for
vga viewing and saving images from to gif , tiff , pcx , or jpeg format. i have
scoured the internet , but its like trying to find a dr. seuss spell checker
tsr. it must be out there , and there 's no need to reinvent the wheel.

thanx in advance.



the internet is like a black hole....

from channui@austin.ibm.com (christopher chan nui)
subject re two pointing devices in one com port \?
reply to channui@austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 22

bob davis (sonny@trantor.harris atd.com) wrote
in article c4tkgm.1v6@unix.portal.com , wil@shell.portal.com (ville v walveranta) writes

is there any way to connect two pointing devices to one serial
port \? i have n't tried this but i believe they would interfere
with each other ( \? ) even if only one at a time would be used.

just get an a b switch for rs232. look in computer shopper.
they are available fairly cheap. they allow switching between two
serial devices on a single port.

unfortunately the poster wants to use an internal and an external modem so a
switch is n't going to help them. if you are n't using your com ports for
anything else , just define them on different com ports. define your internal
modem to be say , com1 , and your external modem to be com3. you really
should n't have to worry about interrupt conflicts since you wo n't be using
both modems at the same time ).


christopher chan nui investment in reliability will increase until it
channui@austin.ibm.com exceeds the probable cost of errors , or until someone
include disclaimer.h insists on getting some useful work done.

from hahm@fossi.hab weimar.de (peter hahm)
subject radiosity
keywords radiosity , raytracing , rendering
nntp posting host fossi.hab weimar.de
organization hochschule fuer architektur und bauwesen weimar , germany
lines 17



radiosity sources wanted ! ! !


when i read the comp.graphics group , i never found something about
radiosity. is there anybody interested in out there \? i would be glad
to hear from somebody.
i am looking for source code for the radiosity method. i have already
read common literature , e. g.foley ... . i think little examples could
help me to understand how radiosity works. common languages ( c , c ,
pascal) prefered.
i hope you will help me !

yours
peter


from nfotis@ntua.gr (nick c. fotis)
subject (17 apr 93) computer graphics resource listing weekly part 3 3
lines 1529
reply to nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr (nick (nikolaos) fotis)
organization national technical univ. of athens

archive name graphics resources list part3
last modified 1993 04 17


computer graphics resource listing weekly posting part 3 3

last change 17 april 1993


11. scene generators geographical data maps data files


dems (digital elevation models)

dems (digital elevation models) as well as other cartographic data
huge is available from spectrum.xerox.com 192.70.225.78 , pub map.

contact
lee moore webster research center , xerox corp.
voice 1 (716) 422 2496
arpa , internet moore.wbst128@xerox.com
check also on ncgia.ucsb.edu (128.111.254.105) , pub dems nfotis

many of these files are also available on cd rom selled by usgs
1 2 , 000 , 000 scale digital line graph (dlg) data . contains datas
for all 50 states. price is about 28 , call to or visit in offices
in menlo park , in reston , virginia (800 usa maps).

the data user services division of the bureau of the census also has
data on cd rom (tso standard format) that is derived from usgs
1 100 , 000 map data. call (301) 763 4100 for more info or they have
a bbs at (301) 763 1568.

from dr.dobbs 198 march 1993

the u.s. defense mapping agency , in cooperation with their counterpart
agencies in canada , the u.k. , and australia , have released the digital chart
of the world (dcw). this chart consists of over 1.5 gigabytes of reasonable
quality vector data distributed on four cd roms. .... includes coastlines ,
rivers , roads , railrays , airports , cities , towns , spot elevations , and depths ,
and over 100 , 000 place names.

it is iso9660 compatible and only 200.00 available from

u.s. geological survey
p.o. box 25286
denver federal center
denver , co 80225

digital distribution services
energy , mines , and resources canada
615 booth street
ottawa , on
k1a 0e9 canada

director general of military survey
(survey 3)
elmwood avenue
feltham , middlesex
tw13 7ah united kingdom

director of survey , australian army
department of defense
campbell park offices (cp2 4 24)
campbell act 2601 australia


fractal landscape generators


public domain

many people have written fractal landscape generators. for example
for the mac some of these generators were written by
pdbourke@ccu1.aukuni.ac.nz (paul d. bourke).
many of the programs are available from the ftp sites and mail
archive servers. check with archie.

commercial

vista pro 3.0 for the amiga from virtual reality labs list price
is about 100. their address is
vrl
2341 ganador court
san luis obispo ,
ca 93401
telephone or fax (805) 545 8515

scenery animator (also for the amiga) is of the same caliber with vista pro 2.
check with
natural graphics
p.o. box 1963
raklin , ca 95677
phone (916) 624 1436

do n't forget to ask about companion programs and data disks tapes.

vista pro 3 has been ported to the pcs.


cia world map ii

note this database is quite out of date , and not topologically structured.
if you need a standard for world cartographic data , wait for the
digital chart of the world. this 1 1m database has been produced from
the defense mapping agency 's oncs and will be available , together with
searching and viewing software , on a number of cd roms later this summer.

check into hanauma.stanford.edu and ucsd.edu (see ftp list above)
the cia database consists of coastlines , rivers and political boundaries
in the form of line strokes. also on hanauma.stanford.edu is a 720x360
array of elevation data , containing one ieee floating point number for
every half degree longitude and latitude.

a program for decoding the database , mfil , can be found on the machine
pi1.arc.umn.edu (137.66.130.11).
there 's another program , which reads a compressed cia data bank file and
builds a phigs hierachical structure. it uses a phigs extension known as
polyline sets for performance , but you can use regular polylines. ask
joe stewart joes@lpi.liant.com .
the raw data at stanford require the vplot package to be able to view it.
(was posted in comp.sources.unix). to be more exact , you 'll have to
compile just the libvplot routines , not the whole package.

ncar data

ncar (national center for atmospheric research) has many types of
terrain data , ranging from elevation datasets at
various resolutions , to information about soil types , vegetation , etc.
this data is not free they charge from 40 to 90 or more , depending
on the data volume and media (exabyte tape , 3480 cartridge , 9 track tape ,
ibm pc floppy , and ftp transfer are all available). their data archive
is mostly research oriented , not hobbyist oriented. for more information ,
email to ilana@ncar.ucar.edu.

unc data tapes with voxel data

there are 2 public domain tapes with data for the comparison and
testing of various volume rendering algorithms (mainly mri and ct
scans). these tapes are distributed by the softlab of unc @ chapel hill.
(softlab@cs.unc.edu)

the data sets (volume i and ii) are also available via anonymous ftp from
omicron.cs.unc.edu 128.109.136.159 in pub softlab chvrtd

nasa

many us agencies such as nasa publish cd roms with many altimetry data
from various space missions , eg. viking for mars , magellan for venus ,
etc. especially for nasa , i would suggest to call the following
address for more info

national space science date center
goddard space flight center
greenbelt , maryland 20771
telephone (301) 286 6695
email address request@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov

the data catalog ( not the data itself) is available online.
internet users can telnet to nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov (128.183.10.4) and log
in as 'nodis' (no password).

you can also dial in at (301) 286 9000 (300 , 1200 , or 2400 baud , 8 bits ,
no parity , one stop). at the enter number prompt , enter md and
carriage return. when the system responds call complete , enter a few
more carriage returns to get the username and log in as 'nodis' (no
password).

nssdca is also an anonymous ftp site , but no comprehensive list of
what 's there is available at present.

earth sciences data


there 's a listing of anonymous ftp sites for earth science data , including
imagery. this listing is called earth sciences resources on internet ,
and you can get it via anonymous ftp from csn.org 128.138.213.21
in the directory cogs under the name internet.resources.earth.sci

some sites include
aurelie.soest.hawaii.edu 128.171.151.121 pub avhrr images avhrr images
ames.arc.nasa.gov 128.102.18.3 pub space cdrom images from
magellan and viking missions etc.
pub space index contains a listing of files available in the whole
archive (the index is about 200k by itself). there 's also an
e mail server for the people without internet access send a letter
to archive server@ames.arc.nasa.gov (or ames ! archive server). in the
subject of your letter (or in the body) , use commands like

send space index
send space shuttle ss01.23.91

(capitalization is important ! only text files are handled by the
email server at present)

vab02.larc.nasa.gov 128.155.23.47 pub gifs misc landsat
landsat photos in gif and jpeg format
it was shut down nfotis anyone has a copy of this archive \? \?

others

daily values of river discharge , streamflow , and daily weather data is
available from earthinfo , 5541 central ave. , boulder co 80301. these
disks are expensive , around 500 , but there are quantity discounts.
(303) 938 1788.

check vmd.cso.uiuc.edu 128.174.5.98 , the wx directory carries
data regarding surface analysis , weather radar , and sat view pics in
gif format (updated hourly)

pioneer.unm.edu 129.24.9.217 is the space and planetary image facility
(located on the university of new mexico campus) ftp server. it provides
anonymous ftp access to 150 cd roms with data images.

a disk with earthquake data , topography , gravity , geopolitical info
is available from ngdc (national geophysical data center) , 325 broadway ,
boulder , co 80303. (303) 497 6958.

eosat (at least in the us) now sells landsat mss data older than two years
old for 200 per scene , and they have been talking about a similar deal
for landsat tm data. the mss data are 4 bands , 80 meter resolution.

check out anonymous ftp to ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu in
unix polyview alpha shape for a tool that creates convex hulls
alpha shapes (a generalization of the convex hull) from 3d point sets.

the grips ii (gov. raster image processing software) cd rom
is available from cd rom inc. at 1 800 821 5245 for 49.
code for viewing adrg (arc digitised raster graphics) files is
available on the grips ii cd rom. the u.s. army engineer
topographic labs (juan perez) code is also available via ftp
( adrg.zip archive in spectrum.xerox.com )

nrcc range data

rioux m. , cournoyer l. the nrcc three dimensional image data files ,
tech. report , cnrc 29077 , national research council canada ,
ottawa , canada , 1988
from what i understand , these data are from a laser range finder ,
and you can a copy for research purposes



12. 3d scanners digitized 3d data


a. cyberware labs , monterey , ca , manufactures a 3d color laser digitizer
which can be used to model parts of , or a complete , human body.
they run a service bureau also , so they can digitize models for you.

address
cyberware labs , inc
8 harris ct , suite 3d
monterey , ca 93940
phone (408)373 1441 , fax (408)373 3582

b. polhemus makes a 6d input device (actually a couple of models)
that senses position (3d) and orientation ( 3d) based on electromagnetic
field interference. this equipment is also incorporated in the
vpl dataglove.
this hardware is also called isotrack , from keiser aerospace.

ascension technology makes a similar 3d input device.
there is a company , applied sciences( \? ) , that makes a 3d input
device (position only) based on speed of sound triangulation.

c. a company that specializes in digitizing is viewpoint. you can ask
for viewpoint 's free 100 page catalog full of ready to
ship datasets from categories such as cars , anatomy , aircraft , sports ,
boats , trains , animals and others. though these objects are
quite expensive , the cataloge is nevertheless of interest for it
has pictures of all the available objects in wireframe , polygon mesh.

contact

viewpoint ,
870 west center ,
orem , utah 84057
ph 801 224 2222
fax 801 224 2272
1 800 dataset



some addresses for companies that make digitizers

ascension technology
bird , flock of birds , big bird 6d trackers
p.o. box 527 ,
burlington , vt 05402
phone (802) 655 7879 , fax (802) 655 5904

polhemus incorporated
digitizer 6d trackers
p.o. box 560 , hercules dr.
colchester , vt. 05446
tel (802) 655 3159

logitech inc.
red baron , ultrasonic 6d mouse
6506 kaiser dr.
freemont , ca 94555
tel (415) 795 8500w

shooting star technology
mechanical headtracker
1921 holdom ave.
burnaby , b.c. canada v5b 3w4
tel (604) 298 8574
fax (604) 298 8580

spaceball technologies , inc.
spaceball 6d stationary input device
600 suffolk street
lowell , ma , 01854
tel (508) 970 0330
fax (508) 970 0199
tel in mountain view (415) 966 8123

transfinite systems
gold brick powerglove for macintosh
p.o. box n
mit branch post office
cambridge , ma 02139 0903
tel (617) 969 9570
email d2002@applelink.apple.com

vpl research , inc.
eyephone head mounted display
dataglove glove hand input device
vpl research inc.
950 tower lane
14th floor
foster city , ca 94404
tel (415) 312 0200
fax (415) 312 9356

simgraphics engineering
flying mouse 6d input device
1137 huntington rd. suite a 1
south pasadena , ca 91030 4563
(213) 255 0900



13. background imagery textures datafiles


first , check in the ftp places that are mentioned in the faq or in the ftp
list above.

24 bit scanning

get a good 24 bit scanner , like epson 's. suggested is an scsi port for
speed. eric haines had a suggestion in rt news , volume 4 , 3
scan textures for wallpapers and floor coverings , etc. from doll
house supplies.
so you have a rather cheap way to scan patterns that do n't have
scaling troubles associated with real materials and scanning area.

books with textures

find some houses books magazines that carry photographic material.
educorp , 1 619 536 9999 , sells cd roms with various imagery also
a wide variety of stock art is available.
stock art from big name stock art houses , such as comstock ,
uniphoto , and metro image base , is available.

in italy , there 's a company called belvedere that makes such books
for the purpose of clipping their pages for inclusion in your
graphics work. their address is
edition belvedere co. ltd. ,
00196 rome italy ,
piazzale flaminio , 19
tel. (06) 360 44 88 , fax (06) 360 29 60

texture libraries

a. mannikin sceptre graphics announced textiles , a set of 256x256 24 bit
textures. initial shipments in 24 bit iff (for amigas) , soon in 24 bit
tiff format. algorithmically built for tiled surfaces. srp is 40 volume
(each volume 40 images @ 10 disks). demo disks for 5 are available.

contact
mannikin sceptre graphics
1600 indiana ave.
winter park , fl 32789
phone (407) 384 9484
fax (407) 647 7242

b. essence is a library of 65 (sixty five) new algoritmic textures for imagine
by impulse , inc. these textures are fully compatible with the floating point
versions of imagine 2.0 , imagine 1.1 , and even turbo silver.
written by steve worley.

for more info contact
essence info
apex software publishing
405 el camino real suite 121
menlo park ca 94025 usa

what about texture city \? \?



14. introduction to rendering algorithms


a. ray tracing


i assume you have a general understanding of computer graphics. no \? then read
some of the books that the faq contains. for ray tracing , i would
suggest
an introduction to ray tracing , andrew glassner (ed.) , academic press
1989 , isbn 0 12 286160 4
note that i have not read the book , but i feel that you ca n't be wrong
using his book. an errata list was posted in comp.graphics by eric haines
(erich@eye.com)

there 's a more concise reference also

roman kuchkuda , unc @ chapel hill an introduction to ray tracing , in
theoretical foundations for computer graphics and cad , ed. r.a.e.earnshaw ,
nato as , vol. f 40. , pp. 1039 1060. printed by springer verlag , 1988.

it contains code for a small , but fundamentally complete ray tracer.

b. z buffer (depth buffer)


a good reference is

procedural elements for computer graphics , david f. rogers ,
mcgraw hill , new york , 1985 , pages 265 272 and 280 284.

c. others

\? \? \?
more info is needed nfotis



15. where can i find the geometric data for the


a. teapot \?


displays on display column of ieee cg a jan '87 has the whole
story about origin of the martin newell 's teapot. the article also has
the bezier patch model and a pascal program to display the wireframe
model of the teapot.

ieee cg a sep '87 in jim blinn 's column jim blinn 's corner describes
an another way to model the teapot bezier curves with rotations for
example are used.

the off and spd packages have these objects , so you 're advised to get
them to avoid typing the data yourself. the off data is triangles at
a specific resolution (around 8x8 x4 triangles meshing per patch).
the spd package provides the spline patch descriptions and performs a
tessellation at any specified resolution.

b. space shuttle \?


tolis lerios tolis@nova.stanford.edu has built a list of space shuttle
datafiles. here 's a summary (from his sci.space list)

model1
a modified version of the newsgroup model (model2)

406 vertices (296 useful , i.e. referred to in the polygon descriptions.)
389 polygons (233 3 vertex , 146 4 vertex , 7 5 vertex , 3 6 vertex).
payload doors non existent.
units unknown.

simon marshall (s.marshall@sequent.cc.hull.ac.uk) has a copy. he
said there is no proprietary information associated with it.

model2
the newsgroup model , in off format. you can find it in

gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au , file pub off objects shuttle.geo
hanauma.stanford.edu , pub graphics comp.graphics objects shuttle.data

model3
the triangles' model.

this model is stored in several files , each defining portions of the model.

greg henderson (henders@infonode.ingr.com) has a copy. he did
not mention any restriction on the model 's distribution.

model4
the nasa model.

the file starts off with a header line containing three real numbers ,
defining the offsets used by lockheed in their simulations

x offset y offset z offset

from then on , the file consists of a sequence of polygon descriptions

3473 vertices.
2748 polygons (407 3 vertex , 2268 4 vertex , 33 5 vertex , 14 6 vertex ,
10 7 vertex , 8 8 vertex , 8 12 vertex , 2 13 vertex , 2 15 vertex ,
17 16 vertex , 2 17 vertex , 2 18 vertex , 3 19 vertex , 8 24 vertex).
payload doors closed.
units inches.

jon berndt (jon@l14h11.jsc.nasa.gov) seems to be responsible for the model
proprietary info unknown

model5
the old shuttle model.

the file consists of a sequence of polygon descriptions.

104 vertices.
452 polygons (11 3 vertex , 41 4 vertex).
payload doors open.
units meters.

we have been using this model at star labs , stanford university , for
some years now. contact me (tolis@nova.stanford.edu) or my supervisor
scott williams (scott@star5.stanford.edu) if you want a copy.



16. image annotation software


a. touchup runs in sunview and is pretty good. it reads in
rasterfiles , but even if your image is n't normally stored
in rasterfile format you could use screendump to make it a
rasterfile.

b. idraw (part of stanford 's interviews distribution) can handle some
image formats in addition to being a macdraw like tool. i'm not
sure exactly what they are.
you can ftp the idraw 's binary from interviews.stanford.edu.

c. tgif is another macdraw like tool that can handle x11 bitmap (xbm)
and x11 pixmap (xpm) formats. if the image you have is in formats
other than xbm or xpm , you can get the pbmplus toolkit to convert
things like gif or even some macintosh formats to xpm.
tgif 's sources are available in the pub directory on cs.ucla.edu
(version 2.12 of tgif at patchlevel 7 plus patch8 and patch9)

d. use the editimage facility of khoros (see below).
this is just one utility in the overall system you can essentially do all
your image processing and macdraw type graphics using this package.

e. you might be able to get by with pbmplus. pbmtext gives you text output
bitmaps which can be overlaid on top of your image.

f. 'ice' requires sun hardware running openwindows 3.it 's a postscript based
graphical editor , and it 's available for anonymous ftp from internet host
eo.soest.hawaii.edu (128.171.151.12). requires sun c 2.0 and
two other locally developed packages , the lxt library (an xlib based
toolkit) and a small c class library. all files (pub ice.tar.z ,
pub lxt.tar.z and pub ldgoc .tar.z) are available in compressed
tar format. pub ice.tar.z contains a readme that gives installation
instructions , as well as an extensive man page (ice.1).
a statically linked compressed executable pub ice sun4.z for
sparc systems is also available for ftp.

all software is the property of columbia university and may not
be redistributed without permission.

ice means image composition environment and it 's an imaging tool that
allows raster images to be combined with a wide variety of
postscript annotations in wysiwyg fashion via x11 imaging
routines and news postscript rasterizing.

g. use imagemagick to annotate an image from your x server. pick the
position of your text with the cursor and choose your font and pen
color from a pull down menu. imagemagick can read and write many
of the more popular image formats. imagemagick is available as
export.lcs.mit.edu contrib imagemagick.tar.z or at your nearest
x11 archive.



17. scientific visualization stuff


x data slice (xds)

bundled with the x11 distribution from mit ,
in the contrib directory. available at ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu 141.142.20.50
(either as a source or binaries for various platforms).

national center for supercomputing applications (ncsa) tool suite


platforms unix workstations (dec , ibm , sgi , sun)
apple macintosh
cray supercomputers

availability now available. source code in the public domain.
ftp from ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu.

contact national center for supercomputing applications
computing applications building
605 e. springfield ave.
champaign , il 61820

cost free (zero dollars).

the suite includes tools for 2d image and 3d scene analysis and visualization.
the code is actively maintained and updated.

spyglass

they sell commercial versions of the ncsa tools. examples are

spyglass dicer (3d volumetric data analysis package)
platform mac

spyglass transform (2d data analysis package)
platforms mac , sgi , sun , dec , hp , ibm

contact
spyglass , inc.
p.o. box 6388
champaign , il 61826
(217) 355 6000

khoros 1.0 patch 5

available via anonymous ftp at pprg.eece.unm.edu (129.24.24.10).
cd to pub khoros to see what is available. it is huge ( 100 mb) , but good.
needs unix and x11r4. freely copied (not pd) , complete with sources
and docs. very extensive and at its heart is visual programming.
khoros components include a visual programming language , code
generators for extending the visual language and adding new application
packages to the system , an interactive user interface editor , an
interactive image display package , an extensive library of image and
signal processing routines , and 2d 3d plotting packages.

see comp.soft sys.khoros on usenet and the relative faq for more info....

contact

the khoros group
room 110 eece dept.
university of new mexico
albuquerque , nm 87131

email khoros request@chama.eece.unm.edu


macphase

analysis visualization application for the macintosh.
operates on 1d and 2d data arrays. import export several different file
formats. several different plotting options such as gray scale ,
color raster , 3d wire frame , 3d surface , contour , vector , line , and
combinations. ffts , filtering , and other math functions , color look up
editor , array calculator , etc. shareware , available via anonymous ftp from
sumex aim.stanford.edu in the info mac app directory.
for other information contact doug norton (e mail 74017.461@@compuserve.com)


iris explorer

it 's an application creation system developed by silicon
graphics that provides visualisation and analysis functionality for
computational scientists , engineers and other scientists. the explorer
gui allows users to build custom applications without having to write
any , or a minimal amount of , traditonal code. also , existing code can
be easily integrated into the explorer environment. explorer currently
is available now on sgi and cray machines , but will become available on
other platforms in time. bundled with every new sgi machine , as far as
i know

see comp.graphics.explorer or comp.sys.sgi for discussion of the package.

there are also two ftp servers for related stuff , modules etc.

ftp.epcc.ed.ac.uk 129.215.56.29
swedishchef.lerc.nasa.gov 139.88.54.33 mirror of the uk site

ape

back in the 'old good days' , you could get ape for nearly free.
now has gone commercial and the following vendor supplies it

taravisual corporation
929 harrison avenue
columbus , ohio 43215
tel 1 800 458 8731 and (614) 291 2912
fax (614) 291 2867

cost
895 (plus tax) runtime version with a site license for a single user
(at a time) , no limit on the number of machines in a cluster.
895 includes support maintenance and upgrades.
source code more. additional user licenses 360.

the name of the package has become ape iii (tm).
khoros is very similar to ape on philosophy , as are avs and explorer.

avs

see also
comp.graphics.avs

platforms convex , cray , dec , evans sutherland , hp , ibm , kubota ,
set technologies , sgi , stardent , sun , wavetracer
availability avs4 available on all the above
for all unix workstations.

contact
advanced visual systems inc.
300 fifth ave.
waltham , ma 02154

(617) 890 4300 telephone
(617) 890 8287 fax
avs@avs.com email

advanced visual systems inc. for cray , hp , ibm , sgi , stardent , sun
convex for convex
advanced visual systems inc. or cray for cray
dec for dec
evans sutherland for evans sutherland
advanced visual systems inc. or ibm for ibm
kubota pacific inc. for kubota
set technologies for set technologies
wavetracer for wavetracer

ftp site for modules , data sets , other info
avs.ncsc.org (128.109.178.23)

wit

in a nutshell it 's a package of the same genre as avs , explorer , etc.
it seems more a image processing system than a generic scivi system (imho)
major elements are

a visual programming language , which automatically exploits the inherent
parallelism
a code generator which converts the graph to a standalone program

iconified libraries present a rich set of point , filter , io , transform ,
morphological , segmentation , and measurement operations.
a flow library allows graphs to employ broadcast , merge ,
synchronization , conditional , and sequencing control strategies.

wit delivers an object oriented , distributed , visual programming
environment which allows users to rapidly design solutions to their
imaging problems. users can consolidate both software and hardware
developments within a complete cad like workspace by adding their
own operators (c functions) , objects (data structures) , and servers
(specialized hardware). wit runs on sun , hp9000 7xx , sgi and supports
datacube mv 20 200 hardware allowing you to run your graphs in real time.

for a free wit demo disk , call , fax , or e mail (poon@ee.ubc.ca)
us stating your complete name , address , voice , fax , e mail info.
and desired platform.

pricing wit for sparc , one yr. free upgrades , 30 days
technical support.................... 5000 us

academic institutions discounts available


contact
logical vision ltd.
suite 108 3700 gilmore way
burnaby , b.c. , canada
v5g 4m1
tel 604 435 2587
fax 604 435 8840

terry arden poon@ee.ubc.ca

vis 5d

a system for visually exploring the output of 5 d gridded data sets
such as those made by weather models. platforms

sgi iris with vgx , gtx , tg , or g graphics ,
sgi crimson or indigo (r4000 , elan graphics suggested) , irix 4.0.x
ibm rs 6000 with gl graphics , aix version 3 or later
stardent gs 1000 and gs 2000 (with truecolor display)

in any case , 32 (or more) mb of ram are suggested.

you can get it freely (thanks to nasa support) via anonymous ftp

ftp iris.ssec.wisc.edu (or ftp 144.92.108.63) , then

ftp cd pub vis5d
ftp ascii
ftp get readme
ftp bye

note you can find the package also on wuarchive.wustl.edu in the
graphics graphics packages directory.

read section 2 of the readme file for full instructions
on how to get and install vis 5d.

contact
bill hibbard (whibbard@vms.macc.wisc.edu)
brian paul (bpaul@vms.macc.wisc.edu)

dataexplorer (ibm)

platforms ibm risc system 6000 , ibm power visualization server
(simd mesh 32 i860s , 40 mhz)

working on (announced) sgi , hp , sun

contact
your local ibm rep. for a trial package ask your rep to contact

david kilgore
data explorer product marketing
yktvmh(kilcore) , (708) 981 4510

wavefront

data visualizer , personal visualizer , advanced visualizer.
platforms sgi , sun , ibm rs6000 , hp , dec

availability
available on all the above platforms from wavefront
technologies. educational programs and site licenses are
available.

contacts
mike wilson (mike@wti.com)

wavefront technologies , inc.
530 east montecito street
santa barbara , ca 93103
805 962 8117
fax 805 963 0410

wavefront europe
guldenspoorstraat 21 23
b 9000 gent , belgium
32 91 25 45 55
fax 32 91 23 44 56

wavefront technologies japan
17f shinjuku sumitomo bldg
2 6 1 nishi shinjuku , shunjuku ku
tokyo 168 japan
81 3 3342 7330
fax 81 3 3342 7353


plot3d and fast from nasa ames

these packages are distributed from cosmic at least
(for fast ask pat elson pelson@nas.nasa.gov for
distribution information). in general , these codes are for us
citizens only (

xgraph

on the contrib tape of x11r5. its specialty is display of up
to 64 data sets (2d).

ncar

national center for atmospheric research. one of the original graphics
packages. runs on sun , rs6000 , sgi , vax , cray y mp , decstations , and more.

contact
graphics information
ncar scientific computing division
p.o. box 3000
boulder , co 80307 3000
(303) 497 1201
scdinfo@ncar.ucar.edu

cost
.edu
750 unlimited users

.gov
750 1 user
1500 5 users
3000 25 users

.com users multiply .gov 2.0

idl

an environment for scientific computing and visualization.
based on an array oriented language , idl includes 2d and 3d
graphics , matrix manupulation , signal and image processing ,
basic statistics , gridding , mapping , and a widget based system
for building gui for idl applications (open look , motif , or
ms windows).

environments dec (vms and ultrix) , hp , ibm rs6000 , sgi , sun ,
microsoft windows. (mac version in progress)
cost 1500 to 3750 , educational and quantity discounts
available.
see also comp.lang.idl pvwave (the idl pvwave bundle)
contact research systems inc.
777 29th street , suite 302
boulder , co 80303
phone 303 786 9900
fax 303 786 9909
e mail info@rsinc.com
demo available via ftp. call or e mail for details.

idl sips

a lot of people are using idl with a package called sips. this was
developed at the university of colorado (boulder) by some people working
for alex goetz. you might try contacting them if you already have idl
or would be willing to buy it. it 's a few thousand dollars (american) i
expect for idl and the other should be free. those are the general
purpose packages i 've heard of , besides what terramar has.
sips was written for aviris imagery. i'm not sure how general purpose
it is. you would have to contact goetz or one of his people and ask. i
have another piece of software (pcw) that does pc and walsh
transformations with pseudocoloring and clustering and limited image
modification (you can compute an image using selected components). i 've
used it on 70 megabyte aviris images without problems , but for the best
speed you need an external dsp card. it will work without it , but large
images take quite a while (50 70 times as long) to process. that 's a
freebie if you want it

my favorite is idl (interactive data language) from research systems ,
inc. idl is in my opinion , much better and infinitely easier. its
programming language is very strong and easy very pascal like. it
handles the number crunching very well , also. personally , i like doing
the number crunching with idl on the vax (or mathematica , igor , or even
excel on the mac if it 's not too hairy) , then bringing it over to nih
image for the imaging part. i have yet to encounter any situation which
that combination could n't handle , and the speed and ease of use
(compared to iraf) was incredible. by the way , it 's mostly astronomical
image processing which i 've been doing. this means image enhancement ,
cleaning up bad lines pixels , and some other traditional image
processing routines. then , for example , taking a graph of intensity
versus position along a line i choose with the mouse , then doing a curve
fit to that line (which i might do like in kaleidagraph.)

for idl call research systems , for pv wave call precision visuals and
for sips call university of colorado @ boulder . from what i can
understand , you can get packaged programs from research systems , though
nfotis

visual3

contact robert haimes , mit

fieldview

an interactive program designed to assist an engineer in
investigating fluid dynamics data sets.

platforms sgi , ibm , hp , sun , x terminals

availability currently available on all of the above
platforms. educational programs and volume
discounts are available.

contact

intelligent light
p.o. box 65
fair lawn , nj 07410
(201)794 7550

steve kramer (kramer@ilight.com)


scian

scian is primarily intended to do 3 d visualizations of data in an
interactive environment with the ability to generate animations using
frame accurate video recording devices. a user manual , on line help , and
technical notes will help you use the program.

cost 0 (free) , source code provided via ftp.
platforms sgi 4d machines and ibm rs 6000 with the gl card z buffer

where to find it
ftp.scri.fsu.edu 144.174.128.34 pub scian
a mirror is monu1.cc.monash.edu.au 130.194.1.101 pub scian

scry

from the readme

scry is a distributed image handling system that pro
vides image transport and compression on local and wide area
networks , image viewing on workstations , recording on video
equipment , and storage on disk. the system can be distri
buted among workstations , between supercomputers and works
tations , and between supercomputers , workstations and video
animation controllers. the system is most commonly used to
produce video based movie displays of images resulting from
visualization of time dependent data , complex 3d data sets ,
and image processing operations. both the clients and
servers run on a variety of systems that provide unix like c
run time environments , and 4bsd sockets.

the source is available for anonymous ftp

csam.lbl.gov 128.3.254.6 pub scry.tar.z

contact

bill johnston , (wejohnston@lbl.gov , ...ucbvax ! csam.lbl.gov ! johnston)

or

david robertson (dwrobertson@lbl.gov , ...ucbvax ! csam.lbl.gov ! davidr)

imaging technologies group
ms 50b 2239
lawrence berkeley laboratory
1 cyclotron road
berkeley , ca 94720


svlib fvs

svlib is an x windows widget set based on the osf (open software
foundation) motif widget set. svlib widgets are macro widgets
comprising lower level motif widgets such as buttons , scrollbars ,
menus , and drawing areas. it is designed to address the reusability
of 2d visualization routines and each widget in the library is an
encapsulation of a specific visualization technique such as colormap
manipulation , image display , and contour plotting. it is targetted
to run on unix workstations supporting osf motif. currently , only
color monitors are supported. since svlib is a collection of widgets
developed in the same spirit as the osf motif user interface widget
set , it integrates seamlessly with the motif widgets. programmers
using svlib widgets see the same interface and design as other
motif widgets.

fvs is a visualization software for computational fluid dynamics (cfd)
simulations. fvs is designed to accept data generated from these
simulations and apply various visualization techniques to present these
data graphically.
fvs accepts three dimensional multi block data recorded in ncsa hdf format.

iti.gov.sg 192.122.132.130 pub svlib (scientific visualization)
pu fvs these directories contain demo binaries for sun4 sgi

cost us 200 for academic and us 300 for non academic institutions.
(for each of the above items). you 're getting the source for the licence.

contact

miss quek lee hian
member of technical staff
information technology institute
national computer board
ncb building
71 , sicence park drive
singapore 0511
republic of singapore
tel (65)7720435
fax (65)7795966
email leehian@iti.gov.sg



gvlware distribution
bob an interactive volume renderer for the sgi
raz a disk based movie player for the sgi
icol motif color editor


the army high performance computing research center (ahpcrc) has been
developing a set of tools to work with large time dependent 2d and 3d
data sets. in the graphics and visualization lab (gvl) we are using
these tools along side standard packages , such as sgi explorer and the
utah raster toolkit , to render 3d volumes and create digital movies.
a couple of the more general purpose programs have been bundled into a
package called gvlware .

gvlware , currently consisting of bob , raz and icol , is now available
via ftp. the most interesting program is probably bob , an interactive
volume renderer for the sgi. raz streams raster images from disk to
an sgi screen , enabling movies larger than memory to be played. icol
is a color map editor that works with bob and raz. source and
pre built binaries for irix 4.0.5 are included.

to acquire gvlware , anonymous ftp to
machine ftp.arc.umn.edu
file pub gvl.tar.z

to use gvlware
mkdir gvl cd gvl
zcat gvl.tar.z tar xvf
more readme

some bob features
motif interface , sgi gl rendering
renders 64 cubed data set in 0.1 to 1.0 seconds on a vgx
alpha compositing and maximum value rendering , in perspective
(only maximum value rendering on personal iris)
data must be a brick of bytes , on a regularly spaced grid
animation , subvolumes , subsampling , stereo

some raz features
motif interface , sgi gl rendering
loads files to a raw disk partition , then streams to screen
(requires an empty disk partition to be set aside)
script interface available for movie sequences
can stream from memory , like ncsa ximage

some icol features
motif interface
easy to create interpolated color maps between key points
rgb , hsv and yuv color spaces , multiple file formats
communicates changes automatically to bob and raz
has been tested on sgi , sun , dec and cray systems

btw bob brick of bytes
icol interpolated color
raz \? (just a name)

please send any comments to
gvlware@ahpcrc.umn.edu

this software collection is supported by the army research office
contract number daalo3 89 c 0038 with the university of minnesota army
high performance computing research center.


iap

imaging applications platform is a commercial package for medical and
scientific visualization. it does volume rendering , binary surface
rendering , multiplanar reformating , image manipulation , cine sequencing ,
intermixes geometry and text with images and provides measurement and
coordinate transform abilities.

it can provide hardcopy on most medical film printers , image database
functionality and interconnection to most medical (ct mri etc) scanners.

it is client server based and provides an object oriented interface. it
runs on most high performance workstations and takes full advantage of
parallelism where it is available. it is robust , efficient and
will be submitted for fda approval for use in medical applications.

cost 20k for oem developer , 10k for educational developer
and run times starting at 8900 and going down based on quantity.

the developer packages include two days training for two people in toronto.

available from

isg technologies
6509 airport road
mississauga , ontario ,
canada , l4v 1s7

(416) 672 2100
e mail rod gilchrist rod@isgtec.com



18. molecular visualization stuff


based on a list from cristy@dupont.com cristy , which asked for
systems for displaying molecular dynamics , md for short

flex

it is a public domain package written by michael pique , at the scripps
research institute , la jolla , ca. flex is stored as a compressed ,
tar'ed archive (about 3.4mb) at perutz.scripps.edu 137.131.152.27 , in
pub flex. it displays molecular models and md trajectories.

macmolecule

(for macintosh). i searched with archie , and the most
promising place is sumex aim.stanford.edu (info mac app , and
info mac art qt for a demo)

md display

runs on sgi machines. call terry lybrand (lybrand@milton.u.washington.edu).

xtalview

it is a crystallography package that does visualize molecules and much more.
it uses the xview toolkit.
call duncan mcree dem@scripps.edu

landman@hal.physics.wayne.edu

i am writing my own visualization code right now. i look at md output
(a specific format , easy to alter for the subroutine) on pc 's. my
program has hooks into gks. if your friend has access to phigs for x
(pex) and fortran bindings , i would be happy to share my evolving code
(free of charge). right now it can display supercells of up to 65
atoms (easy to change) , and up to 100 time steps , drawing nearest
neighbor bonds between 2 defining nn radii. it works acceptably fast
on a 10mhz 286.

icsg0001@caesar.cs.montana.edu

i did a project on molecular visualization for my master 's thesis , using
unix x11 motif which generates a simple point and space filling model.

kgngraf


kgngraf is part of motecc 91. look on malena.crs4.it (156.148.7.12) ,
in pub motecc.

motecc.info.txt information about motecc 91 in plain ascii format.

motecc.info.troff information about motecc 91 in troff format.
motecc.form.troff motecc 91 order form in troff format.
motecc.license.troff motecc 91 license agreement in troff format.

motecc.info.ps information about motecc 91 in postscript format.
motecc.form.ps motecc 91 order form in postscript format.
motecc.license.ps motecc 91 license agreement in postscript format.


ditolla@itnsg1.cineca.it

i'm working on molecular dynamic too. a friend of mine and i have

developed a program to display an md run dynamically on silicon
graphics. we are working to improve it , but it does n't work under x ,
we are using the graphi. lib. of the silicon gr. because they are much
faster then x. when we 'll end it we 'll post on the news info about
where to get it with ftp. (will be free software).

xball v2.0

written by david nedde. call daven@maxine.wpi.edu.

xmol

an x window system program that uses osf motif for the
display and analysis of molecular model data. data from several
common file formats can be read and written current formats include
alchemy , chemlab ii , gaussian , molsim , mopac , pdb , and msci 's xyz
format (which has been designed for simplicity in translating to
and from other formats). xmol also allows for conversion between
several of these formats.
xmol is available at ftp.msc.edu. read pub xmol readme for
further details.

insight ii

from biosym technologies inc.

scarecrow

the program has been published in j. molecular graphics 10
(1992) 33. the program can analyze and display charmm , discover , yasp
and mumod trajectories. the program package contains also software for
the generation of probe surfaces , proton affinity
surfaces and molecular orbitals from an extended huckel program.
it works on silicon graphics machines.
contact leif laaksonen leif.laaksonen@csc.fi or laaksone@csc.fi

multi

ns.niehs.nih.gov 157.98.8.8 pub multi 3.0 (multi process
molecular modeling suite)

mindtool

it runs under sunview , and requires a fortran compiler and sun 's cgi
libraries. mindtool is a tool provided for the interactive graphic
manipulation of molecules and atoms. currently , up to 10 , 000
atoms may be input.
available via anonymous ftp , at rani.chem.yale.edu , directory
pub mindtool ( check with archie for other sites if that 's too far )

i would also suggest looking at least in sgi 's applications directory.
it contains many more packages nfotis



19. gis (geographical information systems software)


grass

(geographic resource analysis support system) of the us army
construction engineering research lab (cerl). it is a popular geographic and
remote sensing image processing package. many may think of grass as a
geographic information system rather than an image processing package ,
although it is reported to have significant image processing
capabilities.

feature descriptions

i use grass because it 's public domain and can be obtained through the
internet for free. grass runs in unix and is written in c. the source
code can be obtained through an anonymous ftp from the office of grass
integration. you then compile the source code for your machine , using
scripts provided with grass. i would recommend grass for someone who
already has a workstation and is on a limited budget. grass is not very
user friendly , compared to macintosh software. a first review of
overview documentation indicates that it looks useful and has some pixel
resampling functions not in other packages plus good general purpose
image enhancement routines (fft). kelly maurice at vexcel corp. in
boulder , co is a primary user of grass . this gentleman has used the
grass software and developed multi spectral (238 bands \? \? ) volumetric
rendering , full color , on suns and stardents. it was a really effective
interface. vexcel corp. currently has a contract to map part of venus
and convert the magellan radar data into contour maps. you can call them
at (303) 444 0094 or email care of greg@vexcel.com 192.92.90.68

host configuration requirements

if you are willing to run a ux you could install grass on a macintosh
which has significant image analysis and import capabilities for
satellite data. grass is public domain , and can run on a high end pc
under unix. it is raster based , has some image processing capability ,
and can display vector data (but analysis must be done in the raster
environment). i have used grass v.3 on a sun workstation and found it
easy to use. it is best , of course , for data that are well represented
in raster (grid cell) form.

availability

cerl 's office of grass integration (ogi) maintains an ftp server
moon.cecer.army.mil (129.229.20.254).

mail regarding this site should be addressed to
grass ftp admin@moon.cecer.army.mil.

this location will be the new canonical source for grass software , as
well as bug fixes , contributed sources , documentation , and other files.
this ftp server also supports dynamic compression and uncompression and
tar archiving of files. a feature attraction of the server is john
parks' grass tutorial. because the manual is still in beta test stage ,
john requests that people only acquire it if they are willing to review
it and mail him comments corrections. the ogi is not currently
maintaining this document , so all correspondence about it should be
directed to grassx@tang.uark.edu

support

listserv mailing lists

grassu list@amber.cecer.army.mil (for grass users application level
questions , support concerns , miscellaneous questions , etc) send
subscribe commands to grassu request@amber.cecer.army.mil.

grassp list@amber.cecer.army.mil (for grass programmers system level
questions and tips , tricks , and techniques of design and implementation
of grass applications) send subscribe commands to
grassp request@amber.cecer.army.mil.

both lists are maintained by the office of grass integration (subset of
the army corps of engineers construction engineering research lab in
champaign , il). the ogi is providing the lists as a service to the
community while ogi and cerl employees will participate in the lists ,
we can make no claim as to content or veracity of messages that pass
through the list. if you have questions , problems , or comments , send
e mail to lists owner@amber.cecer.army.mil and a human will respond.

microstation imager

intergraph (based in huntsville alabama) sells a wide range of gis
software hardware. microstation is a base graphics package that imager
sits on top of. imager is basically an image processing package with a
heavy gis remote sensing flavor.

feature description

basic geometry manipulations flip , mirror , rotate , generalized affine.
rectification affine , 2nd , 3rd , 4th and 5th order models as well as a
projective model (warp an image to a vector map or to another image).
rgb to ihs and ihs to rgb conversion. principal component analysis.
classification k means and isodata. fourier xforms forward , filtering
and reverse. filters high pass , low pass , edge enhancing , median ,
generic. complex histogram contrast control. layer controller manages
up to 64 images at a time user can extract single bands from a 3 band
image or create color images by combining various individual bands , etc.

the package is designed for a remote sensing application (it can handle
very large images) and there is all kinds of other software available
for gis applications.
host configuration requirements

it runs on intergraph workstations (a unix machine similar to a sun)
though there were rumors (there are always rumors) that the software
would be ported to pc and possibly a sun environment.

pci

a company called pci , inc. , out of richmond hill , ontario , canada , makes
an array of software utilities for processing , manipulation , and use of
remote sensing data in eight or ten different industry standard
formats lgsowg , bsq , landsat , and a couple of others whose titles i
forget. the software is available in versions for ms dos , unix
workstations (among them hp , sun , and ibm) , and vms , and quite possibly
other platforms by now. i use the vms version.

the pci software consists of several classes groups packages of
utilities , grouped by function but all operating on a common pci
database disk file. the tape i o package is a set of utility
programs which read from the various remote sensing industry tape
formats into , or write those formats out from , the pci database file
this is the only package i use or know much about. other packages can
display data from the pci database to one or another of several
pci supported third party color displays , output numeric or bitmap
representation of image data to an attached printer , e.g. an epson type
dot matrix graphics printer. you might be more spe cifically
interested in the mathematical operations package histo gram and
fourier analysis , equalization , user specified operations (e.g.
multiply channel 1 by 3 , add channel 2 , and store as channel 5 ) , and
god only knows what all else there 's a lot. i do n't have and do n't
use these , so ca n't say much about them you only buy the packages your
particular application interest calls for.

each utility is controlled by from one to eight parameters , read from
a common parameter file which must be (in vms anyway) in your default
directory. some utilities will share parameters and use the same
parameter for a different purpose , so it can get a bit confusing setting
up a series of operations. the standard pci environment contains a
scripting language very similar to ibm pc basic , but which allows you to
automate the process of setting up parameters for a common , complicated ,
lengthy or difficult series of utility executions. (in vms i can also
invoke utilities independently from a dcl command procedure.) there 's
also an optional programming library which allows you to write compiled
language programs which can interface with (read from write to) the pci
data structures (database file , parameter file).

the pci software is designed specifically for remote sensing images , but
requires such a level of operator expertise that , once you reach the
level where you can handle r s images , you can figure out ways to handle
a few other things as well. for instance , the tape i o package offers a
utility for reading headerless multi band (what adobe photoshop on the
macintosh calls raw ) data from tape , in a number of different
interleave orders. this turns out to be ideal for manipulating the
graphic arts industry 's ct2t format , would probably (i have n't tried)
handle targa , and so on. above all , however , you have to know what
you're doing or you can screw up to the nth degree and have to start
over. it 's worth noting that the pci database file is designed to
contain not only raster (image) data , but vectors (for overlaying map
information entered via digitizing table) , land use , and all manner of
other information (i observe that a remote sensing image tape often
contains all manner of information about the spectral bands , latitude ,
longitude , time , date , etc. of the original satellite pass all of this
can go into the pci database ).

i believe that on workstations the built in display is used. on vax
systems other than workstations pci supports only a couple of specific
third party display systems (the name gould deanza seems to come to
mind). one of my personal workarounds was a display program which would
display directly from a pci database file to a peritek vct q (q bus
24 bit directcolor) display subsystem. pci software could be overkill
in your case it seems designed for the very high end
applications users , i.e. those for whom a mac pc largely does n't suffice
(although as you know the gap is getting smaller all the time). it 's
probably no coincidence that pci is located in canada , a country which
does a lot of its land resource management via remote sensing i believe
the canadian government uses pci software for some of its work in these
areas.

spam (spectral analysis manager)

back in 1985 jpl developed something called spam (spectral analysis
manager) which got a fair amount of use at the time. that was designed
for airborne imaging spectrometer imagery (byte data , 256 pixels
across by 512 lines by 256 bands) a modified version has since
been developed for aviris (airborne visual and infrared imaging
spectrometer) which uses much larger images.

spam does none of these things (rectification , classification , pc and
ihs transformations , filtering , contrast enhancement , overlays).
actually , it does limited filtering and contrast enhancement
(stretching). spam is aimed at spectral identification and clustering.

the original spam uses x or sunview to display. the aviris version may
require vicar , an executive based on tae , and may also require a frame
buffer. i can refer you to people if you 're interested. pcw requires x
for display.

map ii

among the mac gis systems , map ii is distributed by john wiley.

clrview

clrview is a 3 dimensional visualization program designed to exploit
the real time capabilities of silicon graphics iris computers.

this program is designed to provide a core set of tools to aid in the
visualization of information from cad and gis sources. it supports
the integration of many common but disperate data sources such as dxf ,
tin , dem , lattices , and arc info coverages among others.

clrview can be obtained from explorer.dgp.utoronto.ca (128.100.1.129)
in the directory pub sgi clrview.

contact
rodney hoinkes
head of design applications
centre for landscape research
university of toronto
tel (416) 978 7197
email rodney@dgp.utoronto.ca



end of resource listing

nick (nikolaos) fotis national technical univ. of athens , greece
home 16 esperidon st. , internet nfotis@theseas.ntua.gr
halandri , gr 152 32 uucp mcsun ! ariadne ! theseas ! nfotis
athens , greece fax ( 30 1) 77 84 578

from inu530n@lindblat.cc.monash.edu.au (i rachmat)
subject fractal compression
summary looking for good reference
keywords fractal
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 6

hi... can anybody give me book or reference title to give me a start at
fractal image compression technique. helps will be appreciated... thanx

inu530n@lindblat.cc.monash.edu.au
inu530n@aurora.cc.monash.edu.au


from osprey@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (lucas adamski)
subject fast polygon routine needed
keywords polygon , needed
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign
lines 6

this may be a fairly routine request on here , but i'm looking for a fast
polygon routine to be used in a 3d game. i have one that works right now , but
its very slow. could anyone point me to one , pref in asm that is fairly well
documented and flexible \?
thanx ,
lucas.

from brentb@tamsun.tamu.edu (brent)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization texas a m univ. , inc.
lines 44
nntp posting host tamsun.tamu.edu

tsa@cellar.org (the silent assassin) writes
rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter) writes

can you please offer some recommendations \?

it 's really not that hard to do. there are books out there which explain
everything , and the basic 3d functions , translation , rotation , shading , and
hidden line removal are pretty easy. i wrote a program in a few weeks witht
he help of a book , and would be happy to give you my source.

i think he wanted to avoid reinventing the wheel.
i would suggest that you take your code , and submit it to
comp.sys.mac.binaries to be distributed (including to the ftp sites).
many folks , myself included , would enjoy the extra code.

also , quickdraw has a lot of 3d functions built in , and think pascal
can access them , and i would expect that think c could as well. if you can
find out how to use the quickdraw graphics library , it would be an excellent
choice , since it has a lot of stuff , and is built into the mac , so should be
fast.

just to clarify , the 3d routines that are mentioned in various places
on the mac are in a libray , not the rom of the mac. a few years ago before
i knew anything about implementing graphics , i came across a demo of the
apple grafsys3d library and it actually did a lot. however , it is quite
limited in the sense that it 's a low level 3d library your code still has
to plot individual points , draw each line , etc ad nauseum. it has nothing
on gl , for example , where you can handle objects.

other things to consider when talking about apple 's old 3d grafsys library

unsupported never was and no plans exist to do so in the future

undocumented unless you call header files documentation...

if one knows something about graphics , you could probably figure it out ,
but i 'd assume there 's better software available that gives better
output and is , at the same time , programmatically nicer (i.e. easier to
program).

just my 2 tax

brent


from zyeh@caspian.usc.edu (zhenghao yeh)
subject delaunay triangulation
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host caspian.usc.edu


does anybody know what delaunay triangulation is \?
is there any reference to it \?
is it useful for creating 3 d objects \? if yes , what 's the advantage \?

thanks in advance.

yeh
usc

from sp1marse@lina (marco seirio)
subject surface intersections
lines 7
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3


i have a problem with intersections between two surfaces.
does anybody have a easy to understand algorithm for that or maybe
even c source \? \?


marco seirio in real life sp1marse@caligula.his.s

from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject re please recommend 3d graphics library for mac.
organization boeing
lines 9

i searched the u mich archives fairly thoroughly for 3d graphics packages ,
i always thought it to be a mirror of sumex aim.stanford.edu... i was wrong.
i 'll look into grafsys... it does sound interesting !

thanks cheinan.

bobc



from xz775327@longs.lance.colostate.edu (xia zhao)
subject more on radiosity
nntp posting host zirkel.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state u. engineering college
keywords radiosity
lines 45



in article 1993apr19.131239.11670@aragorn.unibe.ch , you write


let 's be serious... i'm working on a radiosity package , written in c .
i would like to make it public domain. i 'll announce it in c.g. the minute
i finished it.

that were the good news. the bad news it 'll take another 2 months (at least)
to finish it.


are you using the traditional radiosity method , progressive refinement , or
something else in your package \?

if you need to project patches on the hemi cube surfaces , what technique are
you using \? do you have hardware to facilitate the projection \?



in the meantime you may have a look at the file
radiosity code.tar.z
located at
compute1.cc.ncsu.edu


what are the guest username and password for this ftp site \?



(there are some other locations have a look at archie to get the nearest)

hope that 'll help.

yours

stephan



thanks , stephan.


josephine

from highlndr@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (the highlander)
subject re tiff philosophical significance of 42
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 23

cptully@med.unc.edu (christopher p. tully , pathology , 62699) writes

why so up tight \? for that matter , tiff6 is out now , so why not gripe
about its problems \? also , if its so important to you , volunteer to
help define or critique the spec.

hear hear ! ! !

finally , a little numerology 42 is 24 backwards , and tiff is a 24 bit
image format...

really \? i thought that the reason it was 42 was that it is really 24 , but
written as 42 so that on intel chips you could get the proper value )

pete

help stomp out the endian wars... break some eggs on their sides !


peter mueller (thebishop) when a person commits a violation and sins
highlndr@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu unintentionally in regard to any of the
pmueller@mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu lord 's holy things , he is to bring to the
lord as a penalty , a ram from the flock...

from cywang@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (crying freeman)
subject what 's a good assembly vga programming book \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 9

can someone give me the title of a good vga graphics programming book \?
please respond by email. thanks !

yuan


che yuan wang
cw21219@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
cywang@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu

from tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (tim ciceran)
subject re newsgroup split
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 19

chris herringshaw (tdawson@engin.umich.edu) wrote
concerning the proposed newsgroup split , i personally am not in favor of
doing this. i learn an awful lot about all aspects of graphics by reading
this group , from code to hardware to algorithms. i just think making 5
different groups out of this is a wate , and will only result in a few posts
a week per group. i kind of like the convenience of having one big forum
for discussing all aspects of graphics. anyone else feel this way \?
just curious.


daemon

what he said...



tmc
(tmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca)


from williams4000@iscsvax.uni.edu
subject book of kells correction ! ! !
organization university of northern iowa
lines 11

i aparantly mistyped the address for the ftp site which holds the images. the
correct address should be

jupiter.csd.unb.ca

rather than jupiter.csd.unb.edu. they are in the directory

pub library.info

jon williams
university of northern iowa

from chert@dungeon.cirr.com (chert pellett)
subject epson (hpgl) 4 pen plotter w 340 pens 500 b.o.
summary hp compataible
keywords plotter hp epson
organization dis
distribution usa
lines 30

greetings ,
i have an epson hi 80 4 pen plotter forsale. it emulates an hp 7570
or 7574 i'm not sure which. it has an option board on it that does
the emulation. it has a serial interface with hardware handshake. i
also have 340 pens for it as follows 10 packs of 4 black oil based , 16
packs of 4 red , green , blue , and black pens , 22 packs of 4 aqueous black ,
7 packs of 4 aqueous r , g , blue , black , 1 pack of 6 aqueous multi color
pens , and 114 assorted non packaged pens mostly colored.

the plotter is used. i have tested it using the windows drivers for
hp 7570 and hp 7574 and both worked fine. it accepts either a or b
sized paper. (8.5 x 11 or 11x17).

i figure that the plotter is worth about 300 and the pens are worth at
least another 200 more.. one thing is certain , you wo n't need to
purchase any pens for quite a while... all of the packaged pens were
sealed so they are all still fresh. the rest were capped and seem to
function as well.

i 'd be willing to sell the pens seperate if anyone is interested in
just them.

i'm selling it because i got a hp laserjet and i do n't need color.

i 'd like 350 or best offer...

chert

chert pellett chert@dungeon.cirr.com chert@dungeon.lonestar.org
panic the cat is nibbling on the power cord !

from hurh@fnal.fnal.gov (patrick hurh)
subject rayshade to dxf , rib , etc.. (strata) \?
organization fnal
lines 30
distribution world
nntp posting host adnet13.fnal.gov

i'm a mac user who wants to use some of the rayshade models i 've built
using macrayshade (rayshade m) with stratavision 3d. since stratavision
can import many different model files i thought this would be a cinch...
but i have n't been able to find a simple translator that will work on the
mac. any ideas \?

stratavision 3d should be able to import

dxf
minicad
super 3d
swivel 3d professional

out of the box and

rib
igs

with externals.

also , if anyone knows of any other translator externals available for
stratavision 3d (esp. rayshade ! ) please e mail me !

btw , i'm going to send mail to the rayshade usrs mailing list tomorrow (i
misplaced the address) but since most users of rayshade do not seem to
operate with macs , i'm not getting my hopes up...

thanks in advance ,

patrick. hurh@fnal.fnal.gov

from ed@cwis.unomaha.edu (ed stastny)
subject the otis project (ftp sites for original art and images)
keywords mr.owl , how many licks...
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 227



............the otis project '93
the operative term is stimulate

this file last updated..4 21 93


what is otis \?

otis is here for the purpose of distributing original artwork
and photographs over the network for public perusal , scrutiny ,
and distribution. digital immortality.

the basic idea behind digital immortality is that computer networks
are here to stay and that anything interesting you deposit on them
will be around near forever. the gifs and jpgs of today will be the
artifacts of a digital future. perhaps they 'll be put in different
formats , perhaps only surviving on backup tapes....but they 'll be
there...and someone will dig them up.

if that does n't interest you... otis also offers a forum for critique
and exhibition of your works....a virtual art gallery that never closes
and exists in an information dimension where your submissions will hang
as wallpaper on thousands of glowing monitors. suddenly , life is
breathed into your work...and by merit of it 's stimulus , it will
travel the globe on pulses of light and electrons.

spectators are welcome also , feel free to browse the gallery and
let the artists know what you think of their efforts. keep your own
copies of the images to look at when you 've got the gumption...
that 's what they 're here for.



where \?

otis currently (as of 4 21 93) has two ftp sites.

141.214.4.135 (projects otis) , the uwi site

sunsite.unc.edu ( pub multimedia pictures otis) , the sunsite
(you can also gopher to this site for otis as well)

merely anonymous ftp to either site on internet and change to the
appropriate directory. do n't forget to get busy and use the bin
command to make sure you 're in binary.

otis has also been spreading to some dial up bbs systems around north
america....the following systems have a substancial supply of
otistuff...
underground cafe (omaha) (402.339.0179) 2 lines
cyberden (sanfran \? ) (415.472.5527) usenet waffle iron



how do you contribute \?

what happens is...you draw a pretty picture or take a lovely
photo , get it scanned into an image file , then either ftp put
it in the contrib incoming directory or use uuencode to send it to me
(email addresses at eof) in email. after the image is received ,
it will be put into the correct directory. computer originated works
are also welcome.

otis' directories house two types of image files , gif and jpg.
gif and jpg files require , oddly enough , a gif or jpg viewer to
see. these viewers are available for all types of computers at
most large ftp sites around internet. jpg viewers are a bit
tougher to find. if you ca n't find one , but do have a gif viewer ,
you can obtain a jpg to gif conversion program which will change
jpg files to a standard gif format.

otis also accepts animation files.

when you submit image files , please send me email at the same time
stating information about what you uploaded and whether it is to be
used (in publications or other projects) or if it is merely for people
to view. also , include some biographical information on yourself , we 'll
be having info files on each contributing artist and their works. you
can also just upload a text file of info about yourself (instead of
emailing).

if you have pictures , but no scanner , there is hope. merely send
copies to

the otis project
c o ed stastny
po bx 241113
omaha , ne 68124 1113

i will either scan them myself or get them to someone who will
scan them. include an ample sase if you want your stuff back.
also include information on each image , preferably a 1 3 line
description of the image that we can include in the infofile in the
directory where it 's finally put. if you have preferences as to what
the images are to be named , include those as well.

conversely , if you have a scanner and would like to help out , please
contact me and we 'll arrange things.

if you want to submit your works by disk , peachy. merely send a 3.5
disk to the above address (omaha) and a sase if you want your disk back.
this is good for people who do n't have direct access to encoders or ftp ,
but do have access to a scanner. we accept disks in either mac or ibm
compatible format. if possible , please submit image files as gif or
jpg. if you ca n't...we can convert from most formats...we 'd just rather
not have to.

at senders request , we can also fill disks with as much otis as they
can stand. even if you do n't have stuff to contribute , you can send
a blank disk and an sase (or 2.50 for disk , postage and packing) to
get a slab o otis.

as of 04 21 93 , we 're at about 18 megabytes of files , and growing.
email me for current archive size and directory.



distribution \?

the images distributed by the otis project may be distributed freely
on the condition that the original filename is kept and that it is
not altered in any way (save to convert from one image format to
another). in fact , we encourage files to be distributed to local
bulletin boards and such. if you could , please transport the
appropriate text files along with the images.

it would also be nice if you 'd send me a note when you did post images
from otis to your local bbs. i just want to keep track of them so
participants can have some idea how widespread their stuff is.

it 's the purpose of otis to get these images spread out as much as
possible. if you have the time , please upload a few to your favorite
bbs system....or even just post this info file there. it would be
keen of you.



use \?

if you want to use any of the works you find on the otis directory ,
you 'll have to check to see if permission has been granted and the
stipulations of the permission (such as free copy of publication , or
full address credit). you will either find this in the .rm file for
the image or series of images...or in the artists directory under the
artists name. if permission is n't explicitly given , then you 'll have
to contact the artist to ask for it. if no info is available , email
me (ed@cwis.unomaha.edu) , and i 'll get in contact with the artist for
you , or give you their contact information.

when you do use permitted work , it 's always courteous to let the artist
know about it , perhaps even send them a free copy or some such
compensation for their files.



naming images \?

please keep the names of your files in dos format. that means , keep
the filename (before .jpg or .gif) to eight characters or less. the way
i usually do it is to use the initials of the artist , plus a three or
four digit code for the series of images , plus the series number.
thus , leonardo devinci 's fifth mechanical drawing would be something
like

ldmek5.gif or ldmek5.jpg or ldmech5.gif etc

keeping the names under 8 characters assures that the filename will
remain intact on all systems.




creating image files \?

when creating image files , be sure to at least include your name
somewhere on or below the picture. this gives people a reference in
case they 'd like to contact you. you may also want to include a title ,
address or other information you 'd like people to know.



hmmm \? !

that 's about it for now. more guidelines will be added as needed.
your input is expected.



disclaimer the otis project has no connection to the church of otis
(a sumerian deity) or it 's followers , be they pope , priest ,
or ezine administrator. we do take sacrifices and donations
however.



disclaimer the otis project is here for the distribution of original
image files. the files will go to the public at large.
it 's possible , as with any form of mass media , that someone
could unscrupulously use your images for financial gain.
unless you 've given permission for that , it 's illegal. otis
takes no responsibility for this. in simple terms , all rights
revert to the author artist. to leave an image on otis is to
give permission for it to be viewed , copied and distributed
electronically. if you do n't want your images distributed
all over , do n't upload them. to leave an image on otis is
not giving permission to have it used in any publication or
broadcast that incurs profit (this includes , but is not
limited to , magazines , newsletters , clip art software ,
screen printed clothing , etc). you must give specific
permission for this sort of usage.



remember , the operative term is stimulate . if you know of people
that 'd be interested in this sort of thing...get them involved...kick'm
in the booty....offer them free food...whatever...

....e (ed@cwis.unomaha.edu)
(ed@sunsite.unc.edu)


ed stastny otis project , end process , sound news and arts
po bx 241113 ftp sunsite.unc.edu ( pub multimedia pictures otis)
omaha , ne 68124 1113 141.214.4.135 (projects otis)
email ed@cwis.unomaha.edu , ed@sunsite.unc.edu

from haberj@informatik.tu muenchen.de (haber joerg)
subject ray tracing spline surfaces
keywords ray tracing , splines
originator haberj@sunbulirsch4.mathematik.tu muenchen.de
organization technische universitaet muenchen , germany
lines 17


hi net !
due to further investigation i would like to study the following article
peterson , ray tracing general b splines ,
proc. acm mountain regional conference , april 1986
unfortunately i did n't find it in any library 's register.
if there is anyone having access to this paper or knowing about a
library containing those proceedings (preferrably in germany) , please
let me know ! any help would be appreciated !

thanks a lot ,
joerg haber


joerg haber haberj@mathematik.tu muenchen.de
mathematisches institut
tu muenchen

from sd345@city.ac.uk (michael collier)
subject converting images to hp laserjet iii \?
nntp posting host hampton
organization the city university
lines 14

does anyone know of a good way (standard pc application pd utility) to
convert tif img tga files into laserjet iii format. we would also like to
do the same , converting to hpgl (hp plotter) files.

please email any response.

is this the correct group \?

thanks in advance. michael.

michael collier (programmer) the computer unit ,
email m.p.collier@uk.ac.city the city university ,
tel 071 477 8000 x3769 london ,
fax 071 477 8565 ec1v 0hb.

from lansd@dgp.toronto.edu (robert lansdale)
subject advice sought turning font outlines into renderable polygons
organization csri , university of toronto
distribution na
lines 53


i am seeking some alternate solutions on how to turn a postscript type 1 or
truetype font outline into polygons that can be subsequently scan converted
by a 3d scanline renderer.

i have been studying the problem of font conversion for a few years but
have never had the need to implement such a system. well , i now have the
opportunity to write some font rendering software so i would like to have
some of my questions answered before i jump into the deep end.

the main problem i face is how to use the even odd or non winding rules to
turn the outlines into a single outline polygon (my renderer can handle
complex polygons so there is no need to reduce the polygons to simple
polygons). for example , in the letter o there are two outlines

1) the outside outline which is clockwise (truetype font)
2) the inside outline which is counterclockwise.

one common solution used by a number of rendering packages is to simply
connect the inner outline to the outer outline at the point where the
two outlines are closest. this is equivalent to descibing a polygon with
holes . the renderer will then make the appropriate hole since the interior
polygon edges are in the opposite direction to the outside edges.

i do not want to use this simplistic system since

1) it will not handle all outline fonts properly (it is not a simple
matter to connect the outer outline to the inner outline for
some fancy fonts).
2) it does not properly handle the even odd or non winding rules.

from my research over the years the proper solution is to use a trapezoid
decomposition algorithm to scan convert the outlines into trapezoids (as
is done by the postscript and truetype font rasterizers). these trapezoidal
polygons can then be easily and properly rendered by the 3d scanline renderer.

my question is are there any better solutions to turning the outlines into
polgyons other than the trapezoid decomposer \? i am not fond of this solution
since it creates excess number of polygons.

another question , for those in the know what is the best algorithm to create
bevelled and or offset curves for font outlines \? i have a dozen papers on these
subjects but i ca n't tell which method is the best to implement.

thanks for any pointers.

rob lansdale


robert lansdale (416) 978 6619 dynamic graphics project
internet lansd@dgp.toronto.edu computer systems research institute
uucp .. ! uunet ! dgp.toronto.edu ! lansd university of toronto
bitnet lansd@dgp.utoronto toronto , ontario m5s 1a4 , canada

from news@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
subject package for fashion designer \?
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 1

this article was probably generated by a buggy news reader.

from u895027@franklin.cc.utas.edu.au (mark mackey)
subject raytracers which is best \?
organization university of tasmania , australia.
lines 15

hi all !
i 've just recently become seriously hooked on pov , but there are a few
thing that i want to do that pov wo n't do (penumbral shadows , dispersion
etc.). i was just wondering what other shareware freeware raytracers are
out there , and what can they do \? i 've heard of vivid and polyray and
rayshade and so on , but i 'd rather no wade through several hundred pages of
manual for each trying to work out what their capabilities are. can anyone
help \? a comparison of tracing speed between each program would also be
mucho useful.
mark.


mark mackey life is a terminal disease and oxygen is
mmackey@aqueous.ml.csiro.au addictive. are you hooked \?


subject xv for ms dos ! ! !
from no e mail address@eicn.etna.ch
organization eicn , switzerland
lines 42

hi ! ! ! this is the response for wayne michael...and certainly for other one )


i'm sorry for...

1) the late of the answer but i could n't find xv221 for msdos 'cause
i forgot the address...but i 've retrieve it..

2) posting this answer here in comp.graphics 'cause i ca n't use e mail ,
not yet....

2) my bad english 'cause i'm a swiss and my language is french....


after a long time i retrieve the address where you can find xv for dos...

site omnigate.clarkson.edu
aliases grape.ecs.clarkson.edu
number 128.153.4.2

pub msdos djgpp pub

it 's xv221.zip ( \? ) i think...


certainly you read the other answer from kevin martin... he write about dv x
( \? ).

what is it \? \? \? \? \? \? could someone answer \? \? \? \?

thanx in advance....




pascal perret perret@eicn.etna.ch
ecole d'ing nieur ets (not available at this time)
2400 le locle
suisse
! ! ! ! enjoy computer ! ! ! !



from oehler@yar.cs.wisc.edu (wonko the sane)
subject 48 bit graphics...
keywords 48 bit alpha channel image
organization university of wisconsin , madison computer sciences dept.
lines 15


i was recently talking to a possible employer ( mine ! ) ) and he made a reference to a
48 bit graphics computer image processing system. i seem to remember it being called image or
something akin to that. anyway , he claimed it had 48 bit color a 12 bit alpha channel. that 's
60 bits of info what could that possibly be for \? specifically the 48 bit color \? that 's 280
trillion colors , many more than the human eye can resolve. is this an anti aliasing thing \? or
is this just some magic number to make it work better with a certain processor.

also , to settle a bet with my roommate , what are sgi 's flagship products \? i know of
iris , indigo , and crimson , but what are the other ones , and which is their top of the line \?
(sadly , i have access to none of them. just a dec 5000 25. sigh.)

eric oehler
oehler@picard.cs.wisc.edu


from ani@ms.uky.edu (aniruddha b. deglurkar)
subject help splitting a trimming region along a mesh
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 28



hi ,

i have a problem , i hope some of the 'gurus' can help me solve.

background of the problem
i have a rectangular mesh in the uv domain , i.e the mesh is a
mapping of a 3d bezier patch into 2d. the area in this domain
which is inside a trimming loop had to be rendered. the trimming
loop is a set of 2d bezier curve segments.
for the sake of notation the mesh is made up of cells.

my problem is this
the trimming area has to be split up into individual smaller
cells bounded by the trimming curve segments. if a cell
is wholly inside the area...then it is output as a whole ,
else it is trivially rejected.

does any body know how thiss can be done , or is there any algo.
somewhere for doing this.

any help would be appreciated.

thanks ,
ani.

to get irritated is human , to stay cool , divine.




