from qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (aamir hafeez qazi)
subject re difference between lexus 300 series \?
article i.d. uwm.1pr5f8inn4om
reply to qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 18
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

from article 1993apr5.200048.23421@ucsu.colorado.edu , by lorenzo@rintintin.colorado.edu (eric lorenzo)
what is the difference between the ls300 , es300 and gs300 \? seems
lexus ca n't stop popping out new models.

let me put it like this. the only similarity between the three models
is the 300 , or 3 liter engine displacement. actually , the sc300 (the
coupe) and the gs300 (the funky looking new sedan) share the same 3.0
liter inline six , and the es300 (popular small sedan) uses 3.0 v6 shared
with the camry. the sc300 is a luxury sports coupe , the gs300 is the new
luxury sedan , and the es300 is the base executive sedan. all three look
completely different.

aamir qazi


aamir qazi
qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
why should i care \? i 'd rather watch drying paint.

from smith@ctron.com (lawrence c smith)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization cabletron systems , inc.
lines 25
distribution world
reply to smith@ctron.com
nntp posting host glinda.ctron.com

in article c5jgc4.ajj@dove.nist.gov , keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys) writes
i know that this is n't the group for it , but since you brought it up ,
does anyone have any idea why they have n't bombed the waco cult \?

perhaps it is because witnesses who have left the compound have all
testified that the batf shot first , they they did not identify themselves
before tossing in concussion grenades (not that anyone inside could have
heard such identification after being near a concussion grenade) and
the announcement from the batf that they have sealed the warrant under
which they were operating which was a search warrant , by the way ,
not an arrest warrant. in short , perhaps because the batf is wildly
out of control and perhaps calmer heads have realized that bombing a
compound full of woman and children will not improve their position.
there is a real chance that koresh will be able to prove self defense
in court. that will leave what \? four officers dead and no one to
blame but the batf.

followups directed to alt.activism , where the discussion has raged nearly
as long as the seige , and which shows every sign of not giving up nearly
as soon.

larry smith (smith@ctron.com) no , i do n't speak for cabletron. need you ask \?

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want ,
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able.

from joes@telxon.mis.telxon.com (joe staudt)
subject re trading in a car that 's not paid for...pointers please
organization telxon corporation
distribution usa
lines 35

in article 49422@fibercom.com rrg@rtp.fibercom.com (rhonda gaines) writes

i'm planning on purchasing a new car and will be trading in my '90
mazda mx 6 dx. i 've still got 2 more years to pay on it. how does
that get taken into account when i purchase my new car \? does the
dealership pay off my car and add on the amount they had to pay to
the purchase price of the new car \? someone please explain this to
me.

if you do n't already know it , you should call the bank credit union
finance company that holds the loan on your present car and get the
current payoff cost.

if you are trading in your current car on the new car , subtract the
payoff amount from the trade in the dealer is giving you. (if this
turns out to be a negative number , you need to reconsider the deal.)
subtract this difference from the price of the new car. this is the
size of the loan you will need for the new car.

the dealer will take care of paying off the loan on your old car out
of the money you give them when you pick up your new car.

at least that 's how it worked for me 5 years ago in ohio...


thanks
rhonda




joseph staudt , telxon corp. joes@telxon.com
p.o. box 5582 usenet is like tetris for people who still
akron , oh 44334 0582 remember how to read.
(216) 867 3700 x3522 j. heller

from zowie@daedalus.stanford.edu (craig powderkeg deforest)
subject re 5w30 , 10w40 , or 20w50
article i.d. daedalus.zowie.93apr5215616
organization stanford center for space science and astrophysics
lines 37
nntp posting host daedalus.stanford.edu
in reply to brad thone 's message of fri , 02 apr 93 21 41 53 cst

in article foo brad thone c09615bt@wuvmd writes
well , there is a difference.

i do n't happen to have my sae manual handy , but oil viscosity in general
decreases with temperature. the sae numbers are based on a `typical'
curve that oils used to all have , running from (say) the viscosity of a
room temperature 90 weight at 0c , down to (say) that of a room temperature
5 weight at 20c , for a typical 40 weight oil.

oils that are designed for operation in `normal' temperatures just have
a weight specification. oils that are designed for operation in exceedingly
cold temperatures have a `w' tacked on the end , so in winter in a cold
place , you 'd stick 10w in your car in the winter and 40 in it in the summer ,
to approximate the appropriate viscosity throughout the year.

modern multi viscosity oils change viscosity much less with temperature.
as a result , their viscosity graphs cross over several curves. a multi vis
specification pegs the curve at two temperatures , a `normal' operating
temperature and a `cold' one (though i ca n't remember the numbers...).

in any event , the weights do indicate a significant difference. remember
that your engine is temperature regulated (by the thermostat and
radiator or air fins) most of the time unless you overheat it or
something.

any weight of oil is better than no oil , or than very old , carbonized
oil. thin oil wo n't (in general) lubricate as well at temperature ,
thicker oil will (like a 20w50) will lubricate better at temperature ,
but not as well during startup , when most engine wear occurs.

if you 're planning on making long drives , the 20w50 is probably fine
(esp. in the summer) in your 10w40 car. but if you 're making short drives ,
stick to the 10w40.



don't drink soap ! dilute dilute ! ok !

from sborders@nyx.cs.du.edu (scott borders)
subject clear coat woes . . .
summary any way to remove fine scratches in clear coat \?
keywords clear coat paint
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci.
lines 27

is clear coat really worth it \? yes , on the showroom floor , the cars
have this deep , lustrous shine that just ca n't be found on paint jobs
that are n't clear coated. on the other hand , it seems that every clear
coated car that i 've seen on the road (in a parking lot , etc.) has
fine scratches throughout the paint job. as does , alas , my 1992 laser.

several weeks ago i had my car professionally polished and waxed.
when i picked it up , it had that same showroom shine that i remember
from a year ago when i bought it. several days ago i took my car
to the dealership for some work. as an added bonus , they washed my
car. unfortunately , whoever washed it either did n't get the roof
(which is black , the rest of the car is red) completely clean before
he dried it , or he used a dirty towel. now my showroom shine is a
haze of fine scratches that are n't really visible until the light
hits the roof at a particular angle.

i am , to put it mildy , somewhat peeved about this. do i have any
chance of getting the dealership to do something about this \?
my guess is 'no'. is there any product on the market that provides
a solution to this problem \? or am i faced with the prospect of
having the car professionally polished again to hide the scratches \?
information , commiseration , and sympathy all greatly appreciated . . .

scott the dealership will never wash my car again borders
sborders@nyx.cs.du.edu
borders scott@tandem.com


from mobasser@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu (bijan mobasseri)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. vu vlsi.c52fre.8qf
organization villanova university
lines 17

my '66 ford has vent windows operated by a crank , just like a window
(only it opened out , like a normal vent window). my '70 f100 , my
dad 's '84 bronco , and pretty much every truck i 've seen that 's
worth riding in has vent windows.

does that mean that i'm not a young feller anymore \? )

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center

i do n't understand the fascination with vent windows. they create a tremendous
turbulence and noise that makes even a simple connversation impossible at
speeds above 40mph. the current flow throuh ventilation , if designed right ,
are far more superior.

bijan

from gregl@zimmer.csufresno.edu (greg lewis)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
keywords brick , truck , danger
nntp posting host zimmer.csufresno.edu
organization csu fresno
lines 33

in article 1qh336innfl5@cs.utk.edu larose@austin.cs.utk.edu (brian larose) writes
this just a warning to everybody on the net. watch out for
folks standing next to the road or on overpasses. they can
cause serious harm to you and your car.

(just a cliff notes version of my story follows)

10pm last night , i was travelling on the interstate here in
knoxville , i was taking an offramp exit to another interstate
and my wife suddenly screamed and something large hit the side
of my truck. we slowed down , but after looking back to see the
vandals standing there , we drove on to the police station.

she did get a good look at the guy and saw him cock his arm with
something the size of a cinderblock , but i never saw him. we are
very lucky the truck sits up high on the road if it would have hit
her window , it would have killed her.

the police are looking for the guy , but in all likelyhood he is gone.
stuff deleted...

i am sorry to report that in southern california it was a sick sport
for a while to drop concrete blocks from the overpasses onto the
freeway. several persons were killed when said blocks came through
their windshields. many overpass bridges are now fenced , and they
have made it illegal to loiter on such bridges (as if that would stop
such people). yet many bridges are not fenced. i always look up at a
bridge while i still have time to take evasive action even though this
sport has not reached us here in fresno.

greg lewis@csufresno.edu
photojournalism sequence , department of journalism
csu fresno , fresno , ca 93740

from sdexter@shl.com (scott dexter)
subject isuzu amigo opinions wanted....
organization shl systemhouse inc.
lines 27
distribution usa
nntp posting host technet1.shl.com



is there anyone out there in netland that has has had one of these \?


can someone give me a non consumer reports review (or point me to a source) \? \? \?


thanks
scott


sdexter@ucrengr.ucr.edu
computer science undergraduate ,
university of california , riverside
internet 138.23.166.21

sdexter@technet1.shl.com
facilities engineer ,
shl systemhouse , inc. , technology network
internet 192.75.61.2

you say its gonna happen now
what exactly do you mean \?
you see i 've already waited too long ,
and all my hope is gone
the smiths

from jp@vllyoak.resun.com (jeff perry)
subject re wife wants convertible
organization private site in san marcos , california
lines 35

aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer) writes


in a previous article , dspalme@mke.ab.com (diane palme x2617) says

nuet ke@pts.mot.com (keith nuetzman x3153 p7625) writes
help ! ! !
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car.
jp@vllyoak.resun.com (jeff perry) writes
fyi , just last week the pbs show motor week gave the results of what they
thought were the best cars for '93. in the convertible category , the

honda civic del sol achieved this honor.
i own a del sol and i must vouch for the interior. i really looks snazzy wh
the top is off. i looks a lot better in person than on the television. (i
that motorweek as well. needless to say i was smiling a bit by the time it
was over ...) )

watch out for that darned convertible tan tho...


i simply must inquire , how can people honestly consider this car
a convertible \? does porsche have a patent on the targa name \?
i mean , convertible to me means top down , which the del sol certainly
does not do. it has the center that lifts out. this is what i would
term a targa(unless porsches was gonna sue me for doing that). i know
the rear window rolls down , but i still can hardly consider this car
to be a convertible.


yes , however , with the top off and the rear window down this car is more
like a convertible than a coupe. think of it as a convertible with an
integrated roll bar like addition.

jp

from markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com (mark monninger)
subject re no haggle deals...save \? \? \?
nntp posting host 223.250.10.7
reply to rapw20@email.sps.mot.com
organization sps
distribution usa
lines 3

you can be sure they would n't do it if it was n't to their advantage.

mark

from jimiii@nimbus.com (jim warford)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
reply to jimiii@nimbus.com (jim warford)
organization nimbus technology , santa clara , ca usa
lines 32

in article 13269@news.duke.edu klg@mookie.mc.duke.edu (kim greer) writes

i was wondering if anyone can shed any light on just how it is that these
electronic odometers remember the total elapsed mileage \? what kind of
memory is stable reliable enough , non volatile enough and independent enough
(of outside battery power) to last say , 10 years or more , in the life of a
vehicle \? i'm amazed that anything like this could be expected to work for
this length of time (especially in light of all the gizmos i work with that
are doing good to work for 2 months without breaking down somehow).

mk48t02 from thomsom. it has a timekeeper (clock) and 512 bytes of nvram which
has a lithium battery backup. the battery has a life of 10 years of poweroff
operation. installed in a car it could be left powered on continuously and not
draw much current. the battery would only be used when your auto battery was
dead or had been removed.

side question how about the legal ramifications of selling a used car with
a replaced odometer that starts over at 0 miles , after say 100 200 300k
actual miles. looks like fraud would be fairly easy for the price of a
new odometer , you can say it has however many miles you want to tell the
buyer it has.

in california they have a line on the transfer of ownership form which states
that the odometer mileage is correct. if incorrect you are required to
fill in what you know (or guesstimate) to be the correct mileage. if you
lie on this form and are caught you can be prosecuted and the buyer can
sue you for the value of the mileage differential.

faster horses
younger women
older whiskey
more money !

from syck5280@miller.cs.uwm.edu (steven b syck)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
article i.d. uwm.1qkqdqinnjfk
organization university of wisconsin , milwaukee
lines 39
nntp posting host 129.89.9.13

in article neilson.93apr15135919@seoul.mpr.ca neilson@seoul.mpr.ca (robert neilson) writes
sorry for the 0 auto content , but ...

that is why low abiding citizens should have the power to protect themselves
and their property using deadly force if necessary anywhere a threat is
imminent.

steve heracleous

you do have the power steve. you can do it. why do n't you \? why do n't you
go shoot some kids who are tossing rocks onto cars \? make sure you do a good
job though do n't miss 'cause like they have big rocks and take it from
me those kids are mean.

as a stong self defense advocate , you 're 'statement' , does littel
but irk me. of course shooting someone because they throw a rock at your
car is out of the question , but what if they disabled your car with their
rock and then wanted to come kill rape rob beat or otherwise harm you ,
your wife , kids \?
i think you would like the power to defend yourself in this situation ,
would n't you \? or is it that you value the lives of such rock throwers
more than your own or those of your family \?
do n't think it could n't happen to you. from the sounds of it here
it has happened to a few people.

please do not misunderstand. the only justification for using
deadly force on someone , is that if you do n't , it will mean your own
death or grave bodily harm. i am far far away from supporting
vilante justice or anything like that..

oh , and if you mean to be funny , please add the appropriate )

followups to talk.politics.guns please... we 're getting a bit off track
here....

steve syck syck5280@miller.cs.uwm.edu




from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re do trains busses have radar \?
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 32

in article 1993apr15.111910.1@bronco.fnal.gov colombo@bronco.fnal.gov (rick 'open vms 4ever' colombo) writes

i do n't know about trains , but i 've saw a sign on the back of a
greyhound bus that warns you that your radar detector may be set off.
it does n't explain why , but it does set off my radar detector.

because greyhound has apparently gotten around to installing their
radar collision prevention system. they use radar to monitor how close
other vehicles are and how fast their relative speeds are , and signals
a warning to the driver if they 're coming up on something too fast
or are getting too close.

this is all i remember from the news reports a few months back at
the time , they were only talking about the possibility of installing
the system. (they did n't mention how it worked in bumper to bumper
traffic , or how it discriminated between a camaro approaching at
120mph and ye olde bridge support in the median being approached
at 60mph on a curve.)

i do recall something about progressive stages of warnings , from
flashing lights to audible warnings ie , it goes from a red too
close light to hysterically screaming we're all going to die ! ! ! ! )

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from thorn@wam.umd.edu (thornwall)
subject q dings in the paint on my hood (
nntp posting host rac3.wam.umd.edu
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park
distribution usa
lines 21


hello ,

i have a 92 toyota 4x4 and in the last few weeks i have been getting quite
a few dings ( in the paint on the hood from rocks and debris off of the
road. i have never had any major problems with other car trucks in the past
(maybe a ding once in a while). i went to the dealer and he said that it
happens all of the time and he recomended putting a bug deflector on the
hood. he said that the trucks , for some unknown reason , seem to have this
problem more than some cars. \?

it seems to me that either my luck is really bad or there might be a problem
with the paint (painted on a monday morning perhaps \? ).

how well do these bug deflectors work for small road debris on trucks \?

if anyone has any experiences suggestions please let me know , thanks.

greg

thorn@wam.umd.edu

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re opel owners \?
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 31

in article c5sxi4.j9b@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes

i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model \?
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater ,
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition ,
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars \? the engine
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and
i am quite interested in it.
thanks !
darren gibbons
gibbonsa@sfu.ca

this would be the manta , would it not \? \? \? sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader \? \? \? \?

sounds a lot more like an opel gt to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same
chassis as the kadett , rather than the bigger manta but i could easily
be wrong. i think the later kadett 's were sold here as buick opels.

craig

chintan amin
llama@uiuc.edu


chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
sig under construction hard hat area



from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re too fast
article i.d. armory.1qkon8 3re
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 56
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
compare either to the porsche 911 and you tell me which was designed

oh , right. only 120 , 000 dollar cars should be driven fast.
they drive goddamn rabbits at 120 mph in europe , pal , and i reckon
a taurus is at least as capable as a rabbit.

my whole point was not to say that the cars could n't go that fast ,
but that they should n't go that fast. a family sedan designed to be
operable at 85mph does n't suddenly become operable at 130mph because
you added some plastic aero effects , slightly wider tires , and a much
larger engine. that 's what the sho is a slightly modified family
sedan with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the
brakes.

the mustang is essentially the same deal as the sho a big power
plant stuck in a mid size sedan , with almost no other modifications.
i have real life experience with the mustang it handles like a
brick (except when you 're invoking oversteer , of course , something i
personally avoid doing on the highway) and stopping power is
inadequate even from 80mph. lots of accelleration but the rest of
the car is not up to par.

i picked the porsche example because they are designed with speed in
mind. it did n't have to be the 911 it could have been the much
cheaper 944 or one of several mercedes or audi models. all of these
cars are fairly expensive but so are the parts that make them
drivable at high speed. this should be elementary.

there are a few things to keep in mind about europe , since you brought
it up. my autobahn knowledge is admittedly second hand , but i believe
the following to be true

1. drivers are much better disciplined in europe than they are here.
2. the roads comprising the autobahn are much better designed than
they are here , and usually include animal fences. this makes them
far more predictable than most us highways.
3. not all of europe is the autobahn. most places in europe have
speed limits that are n't out of line with what we used to have in
the us if my friends were n't lying to me they 're typically not
much higher than 120km h.

i strongly suspect you wo n't find a lot of rabbit owners doing 120mph
(nearly 200km h) on the autobahn , but i could be wrong. some people
have no respect for their own lives.

you certainly have n't convinced me.

of course not. speeding is bad. speeding is illegal.
i will not speed. i love big brother. you had your mind made up
already.

if you think so you sure do n't pay attention to my postings.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

from mps1@cec1.wustl.edu (mihir pramod shah)
subject re new saturn argument
article i.d. wuecl.1993apr6.225025.13054
organization washington university , st. louis mo
lines 78
nntp posting host cec1

in article c50p1m.21o@noose.ecn.purdue.edu rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade) writes

ok , how about this to argue about. why does the sl2 have a much lower base
price than the sc2 \? \? \? it 's over 1k cheaper(i forget the exact amount).
does n't it cost more to have the extra doors windows locks motors etc. that
are in the 4 door \? \? \? \? perhaps it is just a marketing deal....people want the
2door , so they will pay the extra 1.2k \? \? \?

ok , here 's what i understand

the sl sl1 sl2 sw1 sw2 was meant to compete with the following cars

honda civic
toyota tercel (sl , sl1)
toyota corolla (sl1 , sl2)
nissan sentra
mazda 323 protoge'
subaru loyale impreza
isuzu stylus
geo prizm
ford escort
mercury tracer
mistubishi mirage
plymouth dodge colt


their core competition is the civic , corolla , and sentra. most of the other
models are in the same class , but are n't the first cars you would think of.
i threw in the escort tracer because it has a good amount of japanese
technology and has similar reliability stats. i did n't include domestic small
cars such as the cavalier , sunbird , shadow , sundance , tempo , and topaz , since i
think saturn is going after cars that have at least some degree of japanese
roots.

the sc1 sc2 was meant to compete against the following cars

toyota paseo
honda civic si civic coupes del sol si
nissan nx1600 nx2000
mazda mx 3
isuzu impulse
geo storm
ford escort gt


if you look at the prices of these cars , they 're more expensive than they 're
4 door counterparts. the is good reason for this. it is a more upscale and
trend driven market. even though many of these models are based on sedan
platforms , their interior , etc. is good enough to warrant slightly higher
prices. here are some of the platform derivations i can think of

tercel paseo
sentra nx1600 nx2000
civic del sol
323 mx 3 (not sure on this one)
stylus impulse storm

to illustrate , a tercel starts at around 8000 , while the paseo starts at
around 11 , 000. even a 4 door tercel will cost less than a 2 door paseo. now ,
you might be saying that the tercel does n't offer the power that some 4 doors
offer. what i mean is that there is no 4 dr tercel with a comparable
powerplant as its sport coupe derivative. let 's take another example the
isuzu stylus xs and impulse xs storm gsi. both have the same powerplants (a
1.6l 140hp engine) , but the smaller 2 dr coupes are generally more expensive.
again , this is because the two door sport coupe market is a more
fashion oriented and trend setting segment. people are willing to pay more
money for this type of car.


in short , even though the sc1 sc2 may be smaller , hence less car , it 's market
orientation dictates a slightly higher price than its mechanically equivalent
sedan (sl1 sl2) version.

i hope this clears things up a bit......


mihir shah


from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re are bmw 's worth the price \?
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 19

in article 1993apr5.135153.11132@wdl.loral.com gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan) writes
road and track (2 88) bmw325is 0 60 7.5s , 1 4 mile 15.7s
(road test
annual 1993) 0 60 8.3s , 1 4 mile 16.2s


those are the numbers i was quoting , i have driven the older model but not the
newer.


sure sounds like they got a ringer. the 325is i drove was definitely
faster than that. if you want to quote numbers , my aw autofile shows
0 60 in 7.4 , 1 4 mile in 15.9. it quotes car and driver 's figures
of 6.9 and 15.3. oh , btw , these numbers are for the 325i.

i do n't know how the addition of variable valve timing for 1993 affects it.
but do n't take my word for it. go drive it.

teddy

from mac1@isis.msstate.edu (mubashir cheema)
subject 1st time chrysler buyer , 400 off really \?
summary 400 off
keywords 400 off
nntp posting host isis.msstate.edu
organization mississippi state university
lines 13


hello world ,
just bought a new stealth two weeks ago. got a grad student
rebate. someone told me that there 's another 400 reabet for 1st time
chrysler buyer. true \? if yes can i still get it or am i too late \?


mubashir cheema
sparco communications ph (601) 323 5360
lagalarie fax (601) 324 6433
500 russell street , suite 20 email mac1@ra.msstate.edu
starkville , ms 39759


from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re did us drive on the left \?
article i.d. hp col.1pqtuiinnj5d
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 2
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com

desoto 's first year of manufacture was 1928 , so this may indeed have been
an export special , as left hand controls were standard here by then.

from al@qiclab.scn.rain.com (alan peterman)
subject re electronic odometer
organization scn research qic laboratories of tigard , oregon.
lines 24

in article c5fp8b.2co@megatest.com alung@megatest.com (aaron lung) writes
if i'm not mistaken , altering the odometer is illegal . furthermore ,
i surmise it 'll be tough to alter bmw 's odometer if you got at it.
some of the newer bmw 's have electronic odometers making it even
more tamperproof.

on the cars mentioned 3 series from the late 80 's the electronic
odometer is really a mechanical drum type odometer , that is driven
by pulses from a speed sensor on the rear axle. these pulses are
converted into mechanical pulses that turn the odometer and speedometer.
no way changing or erasing an eprom is going to change the mileage
reading. it also means the odometer is just as easy (or hard) to
change as any other mechanical odometer.

on the other hand it is a bit easier to disconnect the speed sensor
and run the car with no speedometer or odometer reading...a simple
switch will do the job. it also will disable the speed limiter ,
which will enable the car to reach it 's full speed. )



alan l. peterman (503) 684 1984 hm work
al@qiclab.scn.rain.com
it 's odd how as i get older , the days are longer , but the years are shorter !

from jahonen@cc.lut.fi (jarmo ahonen)
subject re what is volvo \?
nntp posting host cc.lut.fi
organization lappeenranta university of technology , finland
lines 64

boyle@bbsls23.bnr (ian boyle) writes


740 turbo in uk was good for 124mph. useful for blowing away vw beetles , though i
believe the beetle corners better.

i can say without any doubt that i have never been blown away by any volvo , ever.
i 've been blocked into a few car parks though by shit head volvo owners who 'only thought they 'd be a few minutes'. this does not happen with the owners of any other makes of car.

not sure how long the small shit box volvos last too damn long. the worst car i ever drove was a hired 340. in power , handling and ride it was reminiscent of something
from the 50s , without the character. the 340 only ceased production a couple of years back. i 've only been a passenger in the big volvos , but that was enough. i ought to go
for a test drive because they offer some neat gifts.


oh , well... i have to admit that the most disgusting feature of
volvo 's is their marketing. it looks like volvo uses something like
do you dare to risk your family in any car \? attitude , which is quite
annoying in the long run.

but now volvo has produced a new good car , the volvo 850. front drive ,
2.4 l 20 valves motor , completely new chassis etc. even the british magazine
car liked it (and believe me , that is quite much for a volvo). and
the american magazine road track said that this is not your uncle
olof 's car , and in a positive sense.

but in any case , i 'd still like to own the 960 estate. strong , tank like
chassis , 3.0l inline six , rear drive. ) )

btw , the only car drivers who have blocked me are land rover or jaguar
drivers... ) ) ) )

what \? you mean what i drive \? a cheapo japanese (a toyota) of course ,
i do not have money for a car . (like bmw , merc , jaguar , saab 9000 ,
volvo 850 (or 960) , etc)
if i had the money , i would have bad problems deciding which one
to buy ) ) ).





























from hovnania@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (paul hovnanian)
subject re re toyota land cruiser worth it \?
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 30

in response to a post about suv 's , i got several unsolicited recommendations to
check out the land cruiser , despite its astronomical price.
the toyota dealer told me it 's a cult car .
if a car is good enough to create a passionate and loyal following , there
must be something really extraordinary about it.
so , all you land crusher cultists here is your chance to convert me.


jonathan edwards edwards@intranet.com
intranet , inc 617 527 7020

based on my experience with a '79 fj40 ( the hard top jeep style model ) i
would definitely give a new model consideration if i were in the market. the
older models are very well built. unless toyota lost its mind , i would
assume , until proven otherwise , that the newer models have inherited some
if not all of the qualities of their ancestors.

two major differences in the running gear (that i'm aware of) need study.
my '79 has a solid front axle housing whereas the newer models have
independant front suspension. the solid axle is theoretically stronger and
more reliable than the newer model , but only experience will tell. the
independant front suspension is , no doubt , a compromise made to satisfy
the typical user , who will never need a real utility vehicle. the second
difference is the type of transfer case used on the newer models. i'm
not sure , but i think tioyota went to a full time 4wd or all wheel drive
system. the older landcruisers have a lock up type. both have their
advantages and disadvantages.

paul hovnanian hovnania@atc.boeing.com
std disclaimers apply

from stecz@pencom.com (john steczkowski)
subject re 6700 for hail damage a record \?
reply to stecz@pencom.com
distribution usa
organization pencom software
lines 22

in article 1993apr19.235711.7285@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
writes


my 90 integra was hit hard in the 3 25 hailstorm in austin , tx.
the insurance company cut me a check for 6600 ( 100 deductible)
last week. is this a record \? anybody else had settlements from
the same hailstorm yet \?

craig


rumor has it that a guy at dell computer had his miata totalled , so that would
be about 10k.




john steczkowski stecz@pencom.com
the constitution grants you the right to life , liberty , and the
pursuit of happiness. it does not attempt to guarantee that
everyone will be happy.

from mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu (michael j. edelman)
subject manual shift bigots
organization wayne state university
lines 17
distribution world
reply to mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu
nntp posting host pookie.pass.wayne.edu

now , my ego with regards to my shifting ability is as big as anyone else 's , but
i just ordered my first car with an auto trans. i was n't planning on it but
after driving a few i was convinced things have changed since the days of
slip 'n' slide withe powerglide . they shift better than i do , there 's no
clutch to wear out (honda wanted 800 for my 4wd wagon last year ! got it done
for 500) , it only costs about 5 in gas milage on the highway and it makes it
easier to concentrate on all the radios in my car )

(oddly enough , while two of my best friends both in the auto industry here in the
motor city have switched wholeheartedly to autos , their wives insist on
manual. shift envy \? )

braggadocio aside , given today 's technology and the warranties they 're handing
out the auto trans seemed like an excellent choice. call me a convert.

mike


from maloney@badlands.nodak.edu (pat t maloney)
subject pontiac e mail car clubs
nntp posting host badlands.nodak.edu
organization north dakota higher education computing network
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 8


i am interested to know if there is any pontiac e mail car clubs out
there \? has anyone started one , or is anybody thinking about starting one.
thanks for any info you can give me

maloney@badlands.nodak.edu



from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re looking to buy dodge stealth , have questions
keywords questions
article i.d. cactus.1993apr6.041810.17295
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 88

in article 1993apr5.203719@usho0b.hou281.chevron.com hhtra@usho0b.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes
in article 1993apr2.030031.15691@cactus.org , boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
in article 1993apr1.104746@usho72.hou281.chevron.com hhtra@usho72.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes

i found a mopar spec sheet this weekend


model wgt hp
stealth 3086 164
stealth es 3186 222
stealth rt 3373 222
stealth rt tt 3803 300

okay , i 'll take their word for it.

these arethe numbers i have been stating in the past 5 10 messages. it
really angers me that you insisted you were right , and that you had
no clue what your own car weighed. why did n't you check when i first
told you that your figures were implausible \?





i am giving every chance to retract figures widely known. the mustang is
rated at 205. 222 205 is 17. you have a 17hp advantage over a mustang

seems that the 1993 mustang 5.0 is rated at 205 hp only because ford
changed its testing procedures. under the older procedures , it still
rates closer to 225 hp. that means that the mustang has 3 hp more.

i 'd like to hear a better explanatin of how you come to that
conclusion from the above data.


big threat. you are ko 'd by a civic , acording to c d

yeah , sure , in your wet dreams. and that 's probably where you got
no , sorry your wrong again. you quoted the del sol as doing 0 60 in
8.1 according to c d. interestingly , the stealth es , which is
faster than your rt does the samerun in 8.5 seconds according to
c d. kind of embarassing is n't it \? why did n't you check the figures

before posting \? it only makes you look stupid when you are caught out
twice with your own figures.

that 11.2 second 0 60 for the stealth.


i 'll check c d 's 5 91 issue. strange that you claim to have that

you really should have checked.


go ahead and check asshole , you 'll realize what an idiot you are for not
checking data beforeposting. car drive , may 91. stealth es , 222hp ,
automatic.

for 3 posts now you 've been harping on this may 1991 issue of car driver
2
without posting any numbers. why not \? because they prove me right and you
ai n't got the guts to admit it \? yeah , thought so.

if you insist , i gave you every chance to retract , but

dodge stealth es auto does an 8.5 16.4 wonder why you could n't find it \?

do you realize that a 9k sentra (c d) will run a 16.7 , that a sentra se r or saturn
will run in the 15 's \? do n't you think it is kind of strange that your
222hp sports car is so easily beaten.

a mustang 5.0 , which weights about the same (according to your numbers) ,
has less power and is much quicker \? care to explain. do n't be abusive ,
just try and come up with a rational explanation of where those 222hp
went to , its a mystery to me.

the sentra se r really is alot quicker than the 222hp fwd sports car.
you are close to the 9k sentra e. go look up the numbers in c d and
report please.

no , i'm going to play your game


no way , sentra 's are slow ! i took a test drive and it took
21.7 to go 0 50 ! why , even the hyundai excel blows it doors

i guess you drove a 5 speed and could n't shift
craig

from laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (tyson f nuss)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 37
reply to laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

from article 1pq6i2 a1f@news.ysu.edu , by ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)

cup holders (driving is an importantant enough undertaking)
ashtrays (smokers seem to think it 's just fine to use the road)

oh , sure sorry , but the absence of a cupholder is not gonna
discourage anyone from eating drinking in the car let 's just put one
in anyway , so at least they do n't have the further distraction of trying
not to spill it.
furthermore , you are obviously not a smoker on a cold day , it
takes a certain skill to toss a butt out of a cracked window without having
it wind deflect into the back seat. also , just 'cause some smokers use
the window , does n't mean all of us do.
this reminds me of one pleasant feature in the otherwise
ergonomically hellish interior of the alfa romeo milano you could ash
your cigarette without even removing your hand from the wheel the 'tray
was right there .

fake convertible roofs and vinyl roofs.
any gold trim.

these , i will agree , are abominations , right along with the fake
continental spare tire kit it 's sad watching those little old ladies
try to load their groceries into the trunk with that huge tire medallion
in the way.
most pitiful fake convertible top on a cadillac cimarron , with
all the chrome door trim still visible not fooling anyone .
of course , there was that hyundai excel i once saw...


a laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
redhead afficionado extraordinaire and
v little canadia 's minister of fine tobaccos
o 0 cigaret brands sampled 55 import luxury , 17 handrolling

these opinions are not necessarily mine (or mine , either).
can anyone bum me a .sig \?

from k8gj@vax5.cit.cornell.edu
subject impreza , altima , or what \? \?
distribution rec
organization cornell university
lines 14

a friend of mine is cnsidering buying a new car , and is considering the
subaru impreza or the nissan altima right now. which of these two cars
would you recommend. we definately want an airbag and abs , and room for
tall people and long legs.

if you have other suggestions for cars under 13k after dealing i 'd be
interested
in you opinions as well.

please send replies to sem1@postoffice.mail.cornell.edu , no tthis address.

thanks !
scott


from sheinfel@ssd.comm.mot.com (aviad sheinfeld)
subject re lo jack
organization motorola lmps
keywords n
nntp posting host 145.1.172.11
lines 9

according to a lojack representative i saw recently , lojack must be installed by
an authorized lojack dealer , and is placed in one of (roughly) 30 spots in the
car...

thanks ,
steve m. att.com ! mantic ! srmal

sure ,
aviad

from parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr)
subject options that would be great to have...
nntp posting host acs3.acs.ucalgary.ca
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 26




a list of options that would be useful. they can be existing
options on a car , or things you 'd like to have...

1) tripmeter , great little gadget. lets you keep rough track of
mileage , makes a good second guesser for your gas gauge...

2) full size spare

3) built in mountings and power systems for radar detectors.

4) a fitting that allows you to generate household current with
the engine running , and plug ins in the trunk , engine compartment
and cabin.

feel free to add on...

regards , charles
x

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

from tquinn@heartland.bradley.edu (terry quinn)
subject waxing a new car
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 18
reply to tquinn@heartland.bradley.edu
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu



i have just taken delivery on a new gm car (firebird) with a
clearcoat finish. i assume that it is probably urethane since the
industry has moved in that direction in paints.

in years past , it used to be recommended that owners wait up to
60 days before you wax a car , for the paint to cure. the dealer
shop manager said this also , but i'm not sure that he was n't just
basing it on past tradition. does anyone know if this is still a
recommended practice , or is it better to go ahead and wax right
away (non abrasive new car wax) with the newer finishes \?


terry quinn
germantown hills , il
tquinn@heartland.bradley.edu
from compuserve . . . internet tquinn@heartland.bradley.edu

from bell@plains.nodak.edu (robert bell)
subject re info opinions wanted on cars in this article
distribution na
nntp posting host plains.nodak.edu
organization north dakota higher education computing network
lines 45

in article 1993apr13.182100.26650@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
in article 49071@fibercom.com rrg@rtp.fibercom.com (rhonda gaines) writes

i'm in the market for a new car. currently i own a '90 mazda mx 6 dx
which has served me just fine. however , i 'd like to get
a 4 door car since i do n't relish the thought of moving a carseat
around in a 2 door car. my criteria are 4 door , a c , am fm cassette ,
quick acceleration , cruise control , decent rear seat legroom (my
husband is a 6 footer). it must also be under 20k
preferably closer to the 11 15k range (which will probably rule out
the accord). the '93 cars that have caught my eye are toyota corolla ,
toyata camry , mazda 626 , pontiac grand am , pontiac grand prix ,
honda accord , (and civic if it 's roomy enough and still comes in a
4 door model) , hyundai sonata , and maybe even a small oldsmobile ,
although not the achieva. all opinions , benchmarks ,
recommendations , etc. are welcome.

i really would n't consider the grand am achevia skylark (all the same)
since they are very bad in frontal collsions and do n't have any
other really outstanding qualities.

john


i really must object to that last statement. having a lot of experience
with a '92 grand am coupe , i can firmly state that they do have a lot of
outstanding qualities. very reliable throughout. great layout of controls
and components. very roomy considering the exterior size of the car. they
look sharp inside and out. the v6 that i drive has exceptional power and
drivability compared to other similar cars that i have driven.

all in all , it 's a fun to drive , dependable , and reasonably priced vehicle.
please do n't knock it with a statement like that unless you back it up with
specific reasons why you feel that way.

rob
bell@plains.nodak.edu


john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder



from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re too fast
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 66

in article 1qqv7k e5g@usenet.ins.cwru.edu aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer) writes
in a previous article , callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) says
in article 1qn4ev 3g2@usenet.ins.cwru.edu aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer) writes
in a previous article , wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) says

that shows how much you know about anything. the brakes on the
sho are very different 9 inch (or 9.5 \? i forget) discs all around ,
vented in front. the normal taurus setup is (smaller) discs front ,
drums rear.

one i saw had vented rears too...it was on a lot.
of course , the sales man was a fool... titanium wheels ..yeah , right..
then later told me they were magnesium ..more believable , but still
crap , since al is so m uch cheaper , and just as good....

i tend to agree , tho that this still does n't take the sho up to standard
for running 130 on a regular basis. the brakes should be bigger , like
11 or so...take a look at the ones on the corrados.(where they have
braking regulations).

well , let 's see...my t bird sc has a computer controlled adjustable
suspension , 4 wheel abs disks (11 vented front , 10 ( \? ) rear) , 3 point

rears also vented

belts , sturdy passenger compartment , aerodynamics good enough for
nascar without too much change , 210 hp 310 ft lb supercharged 3.8l v6 ,
4 wheel independent suspension (plus limited slip differential) , with
a top speed in excess of 130mph , and rides on v rated tires (i have yet
to find 225 60 r16s in any other speed rating).

is that up to standard \? if not , why not \?

james , i really hate to do this , but try reading the damn posts !

then you should n't 've done it. try answering the damn question.
i am well aware of the fact that there was no mention of the sc
in there.

never was a t'bird mentioned. the discussion was about sho 's and
'stangs not being up to spec. i do not know about t'birds. i
only know that the specs quoted for the sho by previous poster sounded
a little anemic for me to say that it was up to snuff. this does not
kn any way disencourage me from wishing to own one , nor does it make it
a bad car. it merely means that i think ford could have added that extra
bit of safety and tossed in larger brakes , as the wheels are plenty large
enough for them to fit (if memory serves right , which it may very well not)
and the motor plenty powerful enough to need it.

well , my point was that the sc and the sho both have very similar
characteristics (front and rear disks (abs on the sho \? ) , high output
v6 , 4 wheel independent suspension , very good aerodynamics , 3 point
harness , fat rubber , and 130mph top speed). if one of them is
up to standard (and i think the sc is) , but the other is n't , then
why is that \? no flamage , just curiousity.


james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re basics about maintenance
article i.d. cactus.1993apr6.002142.6753
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 30

in article 1993apr5.175719.7892@telxon.mis.telxon.com joes@telxon.mis.telxon.com (joe staudt) writes
in article 1piip4 bo6@agate.berkeley.edu hubertc@whistle.cs.berkeley.edu (hung hsien (hubert) chang) writes

hi ! being new to a car owner , i would pretty much like to know more about
some basics of maintaining the cars.

i know the following

1. oil has to be changed every 3000 miles.

change the oil filter , too.

2. check tires before going on the high way. and fill up the tank.

make that monthly , or more often if you know one or more of your
tires has a slow leak.

if the tire has a leak you should fix it.


what others \? thank you.


4. check all fluids regularly (every month \? ) , check the oil every time you
fill up with gas.

does n't work too well if the engine is hot , its more accurate to check the
oil when the engine is cool , i.e. not when you are at a gas station.

craig

from issa@cwis.unomaha.edu (issa el hazin)
subject re 300zx or sc300 \? \? \?
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 20

ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha) writes

hi everyone ,

i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to 300zx and sc300.
which might be a better choice \?

thanks for your opnion ,
danny


i 've been asking myself this same question for the past year , so , if when
you find out , would you please share the magistic answer with me..

the way i see it right now , work twice as hard so you can have both.

cheers )

issa


from tpaquette@ita.lgc.com (trevor paquette)
subject my day in court results
nntp posting host curly.ita.lgc.com
organization landmark ita
lines 36


a while back i asked for help in defending a traffic ticket i received.
in short
the ticket was for not stopping at a stop sign. given the conditions
i could not stop in time and decided instead of sliding right through the
intersection , i would complete my right turn and avoid a possible accident.
a police cruiser happened to be approaching the intersection from my left
and gave me the ticket.
the officer said the only reason that you even slowed down in the first
place was that you saw me approaching , otherwise you would have bombed right
through


i would like to thank all those who responded favorably to my request for
help. to all of those who told me to bite the bullet and pay the fine
phghghghgh..

the judge sided with me and decided that in this case not stopping was the
safest thing to do and found me not guilty.

the officer 's statement and my account of the conditions at the time (very
slippery , backed by newpaper weather conditions) were the factors what made
the judge decide on his verdict.


moral if you have never been to court before and you think you have a case ,
go for it. it is a very interesting process , and it is there for
your benefit. exercise your rights.


trev

name trevor paquette landmark ita fahrvergnuegen
email tpaquette@ita.lgc.com calgary , alberta , canada
visitor from cyberspace (403) 269 4669 g60
renegade of virtual reality include disclaimer.h o o

from pp29616@dcl nextsc.cso.uiuc.edu (paul park)
subject re integra gsr (really about other cars)
article i.d. news.c51fs3.37c
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 21

in article 1993apr5.212645.15988@nntpd.lkg.dec.com
kenyon@xqzmoi.enet.dec.com (doug kenyon (stardog champion)) writes

it 's great that all these other cars can out handle , out corner , and
out
accelerate an integra.

but , you 've got to ask yourself one question do all these other cars
have
a moonroof with a sliding sunshade \? no wimpy pop up sunroofs or power
sliding roofs that are opaque. a moonroof that can be opened to the
air ,
closed to let just light in , or shaded so that nothing comes in.

you 've just got to know what 's important ).

doug
'93 integra gs
hahaha ... my sentiments exactly.



from dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day)
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
nntp posting host mudd.se.houston.geoquest.slb.com
organization geoquest system , inc. houston
distribution usa
lines 57

in article 1993apr15.161531.11737@newsgate.sps.mot.com rapw20@email.sps.mot.com writes

their problem , i was n't giving them any more money. the finance guy then
brought in the manager on duty who proceeded to give me a hard time. i
reminded him that i was the customer and i did n't think i should be
treated like that and that if he did n't back off he could forget the whole
deal. he made some smart remark so i told him where he could stick it ,
snatched back my check and left. needless to say , they were not pleased by
the turn of events.

that 's nothing. when a friend of mine went shopping for a small
sedan a few years ago , she brought me along as a token male so
the salespeople would n't give her the bimbo treatment.
her first choice was a mazda 323 , and second choice was a nissan
sentra. we went to a mazda dealership and described what we
wanted. we started negotiating on the price , and the salesdroid
kept playing the let me run this price by the sales manager . after
playing the good salesman , bad salesman game , we finally told him
that if he did n't have the authority to negotiate a price , perhaps
we should be speaking directly to someone who did. he brought in
the sales manager who proceeded to dick us around with every trick
in the book. (read remar sutton 's do n't get taken every time for a
list.) finally , after playing a few more rounds of you 'll have to
work with us on this price , also known as each time you come up a
thousand dollars we 'll come down ten , the salesmanager gave a signal to
his two sales cronies , stood up , and said well , we ca n't come down any
more so i guess we ca n't help you and they trouped out of the room ,
leaving us sitting in the salesman 's office all by ourselves. hmm.
i 'd read that sleazy salesmen sometimes bug their own offices so they
can leave and listen in on couples discussing the sales offer , and
i mentioned this aloud to my friend while we were sitting there wondering
why they would leave us in the office instead of showing us to the
door. for lack of anything better to do , i picked up the phone on
the desk and called another mazda dealership , asked for a salesman ,
and began discussing what kind of price they would consider. a few
sentences into the conversation , mr. salesmanager broke into the line
( ! ) and began telling me how rude he thought it was that i would call
another dealership from his phone ! i said that since he 'd announced
that our business was over , he should n't care , and every time i tried
to talk to the other sales guy the sales manager would drown out our
voices with his own. (how did he know that i was using the phone ,
anyway \? ) finally , i hung up and we headed out of the showroom.
sales manager and cronies come out of a little unmarked room and he
begins to berate us again. we say that we wo n't bother him anymore ,
we 're going next door to the nissan dealership.

then comes the part i wish i could have videotaped. as we go out
the front door , the sales manager shouts across the entire showroom ,
customers and all , go ahead ! you deserve to buy a nissan !
so my friend bought a sentra.

just so the guilty wo n't go unpunished , i 'll mention that the
sales manager 's name was gary tusone. from his manner , his
refusal to come down to a reasonable price , and his anger at the
end , my guess is that he had bet our original salesman (who was
a young novice) that he 'd be able to get at least x dollars out of
us , and he was steamed that we would n't fall for his slimy tricks.

from jason@studsys.mscs.mu.edu (jason hanson)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization marquette university department mscs
lines 14
nntp posting host studsys.mscs.mu.edu

in article 1993apr15.192250.18815@cbnewse.cb.att.com turbo@cbnewse.cb.att.com (gerald.l.lindahl) writes
from article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu , by ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi )
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly

about a year ago , some kids tossed a rock off an overpass on i 94 near eau
claire , wisconsin and it killed the driver below. (i believe he was a
schoolteacher from minnesota.)

jason hanson 915 w. wisconsin ave 1010 (414) 288 2179
marquette university milwaukee , wi 53233 2373 ham radio n9lea ae
jason@studsys.mscs.mu.edu n9lea@n0ary. nocal.ca.usa.na

from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
distribution na
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 42

in article 24485@drutx.att.com klf@druwa.att.com (franklinkl) writes
in article c5hhgm.1rm@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu , callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr13.215605.26252@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
in article 1q4466innb85@ctron news.ctron.com smith@ctron.com writes

it 's a big aftermarket business. almost no cars come from the factory with
vynal any more , and any fake convertible job definitely came from some
aftermarket place. what amazes me is how much people are willing to pay for
bad taste

how about those really ugly fake wheel compartments stuck onto the
trunk or side (or both sides ! ) of some tacky luxury cars \?

some of 'em are n't fake (if you 're talking about the continental kit ,
named after the lincoln continental , the first car to sport one). i
personally would love to have a '56 t bird with a continental kit
(and the supercharged v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful
cars ever built , imho.

james


the continental may have been the first modern era auto to mount the
spare on the rear of the car but it was hardly the first car to sport one.
various mounting techniques for rear mounting the spare were quite common
in early automobiles , both us and foreign.

the 1941 lincoln continental was the first car to sport the continental
kit. the continental kit is not to be confused with ye olde outside
mounting bracket a continental kit is a very specific ornament storage
compartment. (the 1941 continental has a neat trunk it looks rather
like a laundry hamper , imho. )

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from eric@sad.hp.com (eric lucas)
subject clifford delta car alarm \?
organization hp sonoma county (srsd mwtd mid)
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
lines 9


just found a great deal on a clifford delta car alarm , 450 installed.
comes with glass break sensor , motion detector , and shock detector. does
anyone have one of these alarms \? are they any good \? from the looks of it , its
about the best on the market for the price. it 's also on sale , so that 's
another reason to get it. i think i 'll be saving almost 200. any opinions \?

eric lucas


from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject rec.autos frequently asked consumer automotive questions
keywords monthly posting
reply to welty@balltown.cma.com
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 04 03 gmt
lines 508

archive name rec autos part5

this article is one of a pair of articles containing commonly
asked automotive questions the other article contains questions
more geared to the automotive enthusiast , and so is not crossposted
to misc.consumers. rpw

changes as of 14 april 1993 revised brake fluid section , as
non silicone dot 5 fluids are now apparently available rpw

commonly asked automotive questions


tire questions

q what do the funny numbers on the sides of my tires mean \?

a typically , you will see something like 195 60hr14. the 195 is the
overall width of the tire in millimeters , the tread is usually
narrower. the 60 is the `aspect ratio' it indicates the height of the
sidewall of the tire relative to the overall width. our example tire
has a sidewall height of 0.60 195 117 mm. the 14 is the wheel
diameter in inches there are also some special tires called `trx'
tires which have three digit metric wheel diameter designations , like
390 , which is in millimeters. the r means radial , and the h is a speed
rating indicating the highest speed at which the tire , when properly
inflated and carrying an appropriate load , may safely operate. common
speed ratings are s (112mph) , t (118mph) , h (130mph) , and v (up to
150mph.)

recent changes to the method for specifying tire sizes move the speed
rating to a different part of the designation you may therefore find
designations like 195 60r14 85h the 85 indicates the per tire load
associated with the speed rating exceeding this load in continuous
operation at the rated speed is dangerous practice. what follows is
a table showing a number of `load indices' and corresponding maximum
per tire loads

load index 50 51 88 89 112 113 145 149 157
max load (kg) 190 195 560 580 1120 1150 2900 3250 4125

note that the usual mass vs. weight confusion occurs in this table.

in some cases , the letters p or lt may be found in front of a tire
size the lt designation indicates light truck , and the p designation
indicates passenger car. if no letter is given , then the application
of the tire is passenger car usage. as far as i know , these letters
only appear in the us market. the lt designation is prinicipally of
interest to owners of light trucks and other utility vehicles. for
the owner of a passenger vehicle , there is no meaningful difference
between a tire with a p designation and one with no designation at
all.

if the aspect ratio is omitted , it is probably 80 , but may be 78.

tires with an ms (mud snow) designation may have their speed rating
reduced by 20 km h (about 12mph.)

there is an additional set of ratings on tires for temperature ,
traction , and treadwear. temperature and traction are graded
a , b , and c (with a the best and c the worst) treadwear is
a numeric rating. these values are of limited value , as they
are assigned somewhat arbitrarily by tire manufacturers and are
thus not useful in comparing different brands of tires.

q my car has tires with a funny size designation 185 65hr390 can i put
normal tires on the car \?

a your tires are called trx tires they were devised by michelin.
because of a somewhat different bead design , they are incompatible
with normal tires michelin used a different diameter wheel for them
so that they could not be mounted on the wrong type wheel (and so that
more conventional tires could not be mounted on trx type wheels.)
you will need to aquire different wheels to put a normal tire on your
car it is barely possible to fit normal tires on trx wheels , and horribly
dangerous to do so (the tires may simply peel off the rims in a corner ,
or possibly blow out at high speed.) trx type tires are becoming hard
to find in addition to michelin , avon makes suitable tires. goodyear
has apparently discontinued their line of trx tires.

q can i rotate radials from side to side , or rotate them only on one side
of my car \?

a car and tire manufacturers have differing views on this subject many
say that swapping radials between the left and right hand sides of a
car is now ok (this group includes michelin and goodyear) others
(for example , pirelli and nokia) will void warranties if such swapping
is done. the best advice is to read your tire manual carefully before
rotating your tires , and stick to the manufacturer 's recommendations.

q how many snow tires should i buy , and if i buy 2 , which end of the
car should i put them on \?

a in short , 4 , and both ends. to explain , many drivers in areas that do n't
get excessive snow or who do n't drive agressively (or at all) in snow
conditions get away with only two snows on the drive wheels , but there
are circumstances where this can be dangerous practice. with a rear
wheel drive car , you can choose between being able to start the car
going (a function of the rear axle) or stopping and turning the car
(a function of the front axle.) in a front wheel drive car , you start ,
stop , and turn with the front end. the primary risk of putting the
snow tires on the front only is that if you have to put on the brakes
while going downhill , you run a serious risk of going downhill backwards.

radar detectors and speed limits

q why are n't there any comments on radar detectors and speed limits
in this q a posting \?

a because questions about detectors and speed limits crossposted between
misc.consumers and rec.autos. always start long , tedious , and pointless
flame wars. if you want to talk about either of these topics , please
subscribe to rec.autos or alt.flame and keep it there.

safety equipment

q do airbags really work \?

a preliminary statistics suggest the following airbags work much
better than no belts good 3 point belts alone work much better than
airbags alone , and airbags 3 point belts work slightly better than
3 point belts alone. the con to airbags is that some designs tend
to burn the driver 's hands when venting the byproducts of the
explosion that occurs inside the bag , and that some designs (but
not all) may knock the driver 's hands from the wheel , making retention
of control of the vehicle after the bag deflates more difficult.

brake questions

q do i always need to get the rotors on my disk brakes turned \? midas
always wants to do this.

a no. there are specific conditions that mandate turning or replacing
rotors some shops try and make a little extra money by replacing rotors
more often than is strictly necessary. if the rotors are not warped
warped , and only lightly grooved , then there is no need to replace or
to turn them. note also that some rotors (the rotors on many hondas
are a good example) are so narrow to begin with that it is not practical
to turn them they must be replaced when they become too thin , warped ,
or badly grooved.

q they tell me i should downshift when braking to slow my car down. is
this really a good idea \?

a it used to be a very good idea , back in the days of mediocre , fade
prone drum brakes. in modern disc brake equipped cars , use of
downshifting to slow the car is not really necessary , except in cases
of long , steep downhill runs. otherwise , modern disc brakes are more
than adequate to stop a passenger car in all circumstances , and they
are much cheaper to repair than clutch linings.

on the other hand , many standard driver 's license tests in the usa
still specify that the driver being tested downshift under braking i
suggest that before taking a us driver 's test , you either 1) learn to
do this smoothly (which takes some time and practice) or 2) borrow a
car with an automatic to take the test.

q how often should i replace my brake fluid \?

a probably more often than you do. traditional brake fluids tend to
absorb water this water can corrode internal parts of the brake
system and also lower the boiling point of the fluid. dot 3 type
are older fluids dot 4 and dot 5 are newer specifications. the
principal differences are in wet and dry boiling points the dry
boiling point is important in fresh brake fluid , but the wet boiling
point is important in older brake fluid. dot 3 fluids have the lowest
wet and dry boiling point requirements dot 4 fluids have better
boiling point requirements and dot 5 fluids have the best boiling
point requirements (but dot 5 fluids are not clearly superior see
the next q a for more details.) while the requirements imply that
dot 4 fluids are better than dot 3 fluids , there may be specific
cases where a dot 3 fluid is preferable , but these are mostly
competition applications. otherwise , dot 4 type fluids offer much
improved brake pedal feel. replacement once a year is recommended for
dot 4 fluids , although agressive drivers may profit by changing out
fluid more frequently , or at least bleeding a modest amount of fluid
out of the brake calipers fairly regularly.

q what about dot 5 brake fluids \?

a this breaks down in to two parts. the dot 5 specification looks
excellent for performance , but the first dot 5 fluids were silicone
based. silicone fluids are a tricky proposition. unlike dot 3 and
dot 4 fluids , they do not absorb water at all. while this may sound
like a feature , the problem is that any water present pools up in
such systems , interfering with braking performance and corroding any
metals at the spot where the pooling is occuring. the water will tend
to migrate downwards in the braking system to the brake calipers , where
most of the corrosion occurs.

because of this phenomenon , it is essential when converting to
silicone to empty the entire brake system and flush it throughly
beforehand some even recommend replacing all rubber parts in the
brake system when converting to silicone fluids.

two other issues that come up with silicone fluids 1) they are
difficult to pour cleanly (that is , without air bubbles) , which
interferes with getting a good brake pedal feel , and 2) while they
generally have much higher boiling points than dot 4 fluids , they
do have high temperature failure modes which are indistinguishable
in effect from boiling dot 4 fluids. silicone fluids may make sense
in some street car applications , but they are certainly not
recommended for high performance driving applications , and the
economics are questionable for street use.

i have recently become aware of new fluids that meet the dot 5 standard
that do not contain silicones these fluids appear to be reasonably
compatible with the older dot 3 and dot 4 fluids , but i have little
information at this time.

q abs is available on some of the cars i'm looking at , but it costs
more. is it worth it \?

a this does not have a cut and dried answer therefore , this answer will
be quite long in order to cover the pros and cons. the short answer
is that abs costs more , both initially , and to maintain , will generally
work better for the `average driver' (that is to say , a driver who does
not have extensive experience in high performance driving techniques) ,
and may require the `unlearning' of some obsolete braking techniques
like pump braking which should be unlearned in any case.

now for the long answer. abs works by monitering the wheels of the
car , looking for signs of locked brakes. it may or may not be able
be able to distinguish between the different wheels (there are several
systems on the market.) it cannot detect impending lockup (which is
what you would really want in an ideal world) , but only the existence
of lockup. the sensors used vary some of the less well designed
sensors are sensitive to tire size , and to brake pad material , and
may cease to function properly if the owner deviates from original
equipment or oe equivalent components.

when the sensors detect lockup , the abs system responds by unlocking
the brakes (either individually , or all at once , depending on the
system.) if the driver keeps their foot firmly planted , the abs
will end up cycling between the locked and unlocked states (if a
sensor existed that could detect impending lockup , then we could
sit right at that point , which is where maximum braking effect is
achieved.) this pulsing can often be felt in the brake pedal , as
the system cycles. the percentage of the time that the brakes are
truly engaged is called the `duty cycle' typically in an abs system
this is about 40 on dry pavement , a trained driver can beat this
duty cycle quite reliably using a technique called threshold braking
on wet pavement , braking is so chancy that abs will outperform
threshold braking nearly every time. unfortunately , on mud and on
snow , often maximum braking effect can be acheived with the brakes
locked only audi , of the manufacturers producing abs equipped cars ,
has seen fit to provide a disable switch for the abs system for this
eventuality.

a particularly important feature of abs is that it preserves
steering control. this is the case simply because , if you are
braking near the limit and turn the wheel , the abs will release
the brakes if it sees steering triggered lockup , and back off
on the percentage of the time that the brakes are applied.
braking distances will lengthen accordingly.

an important caution abs cannot exceed the maximum theoretical
braking force in any given situation if you start sliding on
glare ice , do n't expect an abs system to help you out very much.
the coefficient of friction is not changed by the presence of an
abs system in your car.

as far as maintenence goes , in addition to the potential
restrictions i 've listed above , you have to worry about the
following 1) parts costs are much higher the oe master cylinder
for my obscure european sedan lists for 185 , but the oe master
cylinder for the abs equipped version of the same car lists for
over 1000. most manufacturers explicitly forbid use of dot 5
(silicone) brake fluids in abs equipped vehicles. because of
the potential cost of replacement of corroded brake system
components , regular (i suggest annual) replacement of brake fluid
becomes very important.

q what about this threshold braking business \?

a normally , i 'd not put this in the consumers q a , but recent
publicity about a number of accidents involving police drivers
in abs equipped chevy caprices suggests that this section is
needed here rpw

threshold braking is a technique practiced by all serious high
performance drivers if made a habit , it replaces the `stab
the pedal and lock 'em up' panic habit entirely , and is much
to be prefered. basically , the premise is that tires generate
maximum braking force when they have just started to slide , but
just before the wheels lock up entirely. drivers who threshold
brake learn to feel what this `threshold' feels like , and learn
to search for it and hit it on the application of the brake
pedal. in many cars , you can feel that you are near the
threshold when the pedal starts to firm up as you depress it.
in any case , if you ca n't hear the tires whine just a bit , you 're
not very near the threshold.

in a car with abs , often there is a twinge in the pedal just
before the system starts cycling if the driver backs off on
the pedal just a tad when the twinge is felt , then they are very
close to the threshold and they 'll probably achieve better
stopping distances than if they just punched it and let the abs
take over.

recently , there has been a rash of publicity over a number of
accidents , and one death , involving police cars equipped with
abs systems. the police departments in question quickly blamed
the new abs systems , but according to autoweek magazine , it now
seems clear that the problem was a lack of training none of the
involved officers had any recent performance driving training.
there is reason to believe that the drivers reacted to the pulsing
brake pedal by `pump braking' , an old and discredited technique
of stabbing and releasing the brake pedal , the goal being to
try and get brakes back with a failing hydraulic system. if you
think about it for a minute , you 'll realize that pump braking must
cut the effective operation of a working brake system by at least
1 2 , so if you cut the 40 duty cycle of an abs system by that
much , you are giving up most of your brakes for the wrong reason.
threshold braking has the advantage in that it is an effective
and useful technique regardless of whether your car has abs if
you do fear a failed hydraulic system , then one or two stabs at
the pedal will be sufficient.

gas questions

q does high octane gasoline help \?

a maybe , maybe not. some cars have knock sensors , and can adjust the
engine timing or turbocharger boost to suit the gasoline being used.
on most cars , however , you should use the cheapest gas that makes your
car run well. check your owner 's manual for details on what your car
needs.

q my car was made for leaded gasoline. will unleaded gas hurt it \?

a it is possible that unleaded gas may slightly increase valve wear ,
although the amoco oil company argues otherwise. the actual increase
in valve wear will be almost unnoticeable , however , as modern leaded
gasolines actually contain very little lead. you should , however ,
check your owner 's manual many cars from the early 1970s do not
actually require leaded gasoline.

q do fuel treatments help \? what kind should i use \?

a some do and some do n't. during the winter , it is a good idea to use
dry gas however , some may be harmful to fuel injection systems.
never use an additive containing methanol (sometimes called methyl
alcohol) such additives may damage fuel systems in cars with carbs
and almost certainly will damage cars with fuel injection.

manufacturer 's opinions vary on additives containing ethanol (sometimes
called ethyl alcohol) if your car has fuel injection , check the owner 's
manual on your car before using these. most manufacturers consider
10 ethanol acceptable in gasoline. additives with isopropyl alcohol
(isopropanol) , and petroleum distillates are fine in fuel injected
cars.

an occasional bottle of fuel injector cleaner is helpful in cars with
fuel injectors , although many premium gasolines contain detergents that
do the same job. some off brands of fuel injector cleaners contain
ethanol or methanol always check the ingredients before putting anything
in your gas tank.

there are a small number of particularly good additives these are
noticeably more expensive that the run of the mill ones , but work
much , much better. among these are chevron techron , redline sl 1 ,
wurth `lubrimoly ventil sauber' , and bg 44k. a bottle of one of these ,
once every six months , is highly recommended.

q what about detergent gasolines \?

a the quality of detergent packages in gasolines varies somewhat bmw
has instituted a testing program , and gasoline brands which pass this
test may advertise that fact. stickers indicating passage of the test
are now beginning to appear on fuel pumps at gas stations. if such
gasolines are used , then fuel injector cleaners are probably optional.
beforewarned that while use of bmw approved gasolines will keep a clean
engine clean , they may not clean a motor with bad valve deposits.

lubrication questions

q what do the numbers and letters in a motor oil designation mean \?

a there are several different items encoded. there is a two letter
code indicating the type of detergent package that the manufacturer
uses in the oil this looks like se , sf , cd or such. the s codes are
for gasoline engine applications the c codes are for diesel engine
applications. the second letter is assigned in sequence as new levels
of protection are developed thus sf is considered better than se ,
se is considered better than sd , and so forth.

the more noticeable designation is the oil weight. this is either
a single number (e.g. , 30 weight) or a pair of numbers separated by
the letter w (e.g. , 10w30.) the latter type is much more commonly
used these days , and are the only type that most automobile
manufacturers specify in operators manuals. the first number in the
designation (10w) is the apparent viscosity of the oil when it is cold
the w stands for `winter'. the second number (30) is the viscosity
of the oil when hot. there is a trick here the oil does n't actually
get thicker (turn from 10 weight to 30 weight) as it gets hotter. what
is actually happening is that when the oil is cold , it has the viscosity
of a cold 10 weight oil. as it gets hotter , it does n't get thin as fast
as a 10w oil would by the time it is up to temperature , it has the
viscosity of a hot 30 weight oil.

note that these numbers actually specify ranges of viscosities not
all 10w oils have exactly the same viscosity when cold , and not all
30 weight oils have the same viscosity when hot. note also that the
novel behaviour of multi grade oils is caused by additives , and it has
been reported that with the sole exception of castrol gtx , 10w40 oils
do not retain their multi grade characteristics well over time. 10w30 ,
15w40 , and 20w50 oils work very well , though.

q are `quick lube' places any good \?

a some do adequate work , but there are quite a few incompetent ones out
there. let the buyer beware , watch them while they work , make sure
that they do n't overtorque the oil drain plug , and keep your hand on
your wallet at all times.

q are oil additives like slick 50 or tufoil any good \?

a slick 50 and tufoil are ptfe based additives. many of these have
come onto the market recently they are different from the moly based
additives that have been around since the early 50 's. ptfe is the
chemical name for teflon(tm) , a trademark owned by dupont. in general ,
auto manufacturers do not recommend use of these products. most usenet
responses to questions on these additives are favorable (slight
increase of mpg after application , smoother revving) but long term
results (whether ptfe additives are effective after 5k miles) are
debatable. some manufacturers (such as saab) claim that either the
product or the engine flush that preceeds application causes
deterioration of the oil seals and eventual leakage. some bmw owners
have reported death of valve seals shortly after the addition of
slick 50 to their cars. this writer has been cautioned by a slick 50
dealer ( ! ) that slick 50 should not be used in japanese motors , as
it may clog the oil return passages in the engine. otherwise , there are
no known reports of damage caused by ptfe additives.

on the other hand , there are satified slick 50 customers in the world.

q do synthetic oils really work \?

a yes , but. more specifically , most auto manufactuers accept synthetics ,
but disagree with the extremely long oil change intervals claimed by
oil manufacturers. auto manufacturers recommend that you continue to
change oil at the intervals recommended in the owners manual for your
car. even if you decide to try the longer intervals , at least change
the oil filter at regular intervals , as synthetics get just as dirty
as conventional oils.

synthetic gear lubricants for manual transmissions are another matter
entirely amsoil , redline , and agip are very highly regarded and very
effective. mobil 1 synthetic gear lube gets mixed reviews , however.

q manufacturers are specifying longer and longer oil change intervals.
how often should i change my oil \?

a it depends on how you drive. if your car always (or nearly always)
gets warmed up , and you do n't drive it very hard and keep the revs
down , the manufacturer 's recommendation is probably fine. if , however ,
you drive it hard , drive it at high revs , or alternatively , if you
only drive it to and from the supermarket so that it does n't get up
to temperature , then you may wish to change oil much more often ,
perhaps at 3000 mile intervals (given that most manufacturers are
now specifying 7500 mile intervals.) if you do n't drive your car
much at all (say 7500 miles a year) , then you probably want to change
oil every six months anyway. if you are storing a car during the winter ,
then change oil before storing it and change oil when you bring it out
of storage.

misc. questions

q my car has a timing belt. i hear that bad things happen when they
break. what 's the story \?

a it depends on the internal design of the motor. early ford escorts ,
for example , will suffer severe valve damage if the belt breaks , but
the newer cars will just require a tow and installation of a new belt.
some honda motors will not be damaged , but others will be.

if no replacement interval is specified for your car , then change the
belt at least every 60 , 000 miles some cars may require more frequent
replacement. ask your dealer or independent mechanic. also , ask if
there are any related repairs that should take place at the same time
(for example , the same ford escorts that suffer valve damage also have
a timing belt driven water pump , which has been known to seize ,
destroying the timing belt , and which then causes major valve damage
as a side effect. replacing the timing belt while ignoring the water
pump can be a costly mistake.)

q why would anyone be stupid enough to design a motor so that it
self destructs when the timing belt breaks \?

a for performance reasons. compromising piston design so that the
valves and pistons will not collide requires that the compression
ratio of the engine be reduced significantly this is why you are
more likely to avoid valve damage in economy cars than in performance
oriented vehicles.

q what causes unintended acceleration \?

a the final report of the national highway , transportation , and safety
administration concluded that unintended acceleration could not be
caused by any mechanical failure of the vehicle in question and at the
same time be consistent with the physical evidence. the nhtsa report
goes on to conclude that `pedal misapplication' by the vehicle operator
is probably the cause.

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from c23tvr@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (thomas redmond)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
originator c23tvr@koptsy17
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers
organization delco electronics corp.
distribution us
lines 19


in article 1r1d62 d6s@agate.berkeley.edu , bh@anarres.cs.berkeley.edu (brian harvey) writes
rfelix@netcom.com (robbie felix) writes
how about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local
agencies to help children , seniors , the homeless \?

hear , hear ! thanks , robbie.

you also do n't read that much about violence against teenagers , such as
george bush burying alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year olds ,
who were trying to surrender , with bulldozers.


on the other hand , i think it is true , without singling out teenagers
for blame , that violence is more socially acceptable than it used to be.
those of us who 'd like to discourage violence have plenty of work to do
with people of all ages.

i did n't know george could drive a bulldozer !

from markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com (mark monninger)
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
nntp posting host 223.250.10.7
reply to rapw20@email.sps.mot.com
organization sps
distribution usa
lines 28

in article 1993apr15.234508.20032@slcs.slb.com
dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
...(relates an experience similar to mine) ...
then comes the part i wish i could have videotaped. as we go out
the front door , the sales manager shouts across the entire showroom ,
customers and all , go ahead ! you deserve to buy a nissan !
so my friend bought a sentra.
...

this kind of behavior is what i was shocked by in my 'experience'. for
crying out loud , how do these turkeys think they can talk to customers
this way and still stay in business \? again , i do n't expect sales people to
bow , scrape , and grovel in my presence but i sure do n't expect to be
abused either. i was very surprised by the way the sales people talked to
me and in other 'negotiating' sessions i overheard in neighboring sales
cubicles. evidently , their success rate is high enough that they continue
to do business this way. there must be a lot of people out there who are
easy to intimidate.

on the other hand , i'm not sure about the 'one price , no haggling'
approach that saturn and other are starting to use. i guess if their fixed
price is fair it 's ok. maybe the best approach is to do your homework
before you go in. find out the invoice prices of the car , add a reasonable
profit for the dealer ( 200 300 \? \? ) , offer them that price and stick to
it. if they get abusive , just leave. then , do n't let them try to screw you
after the deal is agreed on.

mark

from bmoss@grinch.sim.es.com (brent woody moss)
subject re do trains have radar \?
nntp posting host 130.187.200.5
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut
lines 34

in article x ! fvt b@dixie.com , jgd@dixie.com (john de armond) writes
hhtra@usho72.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes


while taking an extended easter vacation , i was going north on i 45
somewhere between centerville , tx and dallas , tx and i came upon a
train parked on a trestle with its locomotive sitting directly over
the northbound lanes. there appeared to be movement within the cab
and out of curiosity i slowed to 85 to get a better look. just as i
passed from underneath the trestle , my radar detector went into full
alert all lights lit and all chirps , beeps , and buzzes going strong.
i thought i had been nailed good but no police materialized.

some , but not all , locomotives have doppler speedometers. the radar head is
mounted looking down at the ground (to minimize intereference sent and
received) but looking tangentally at a wheel. these are low power units
and typically wo n't trigger radar detectors unless an unusual situation
such as yours arises.

john


john de armond , wd4oqc interested in high performance mobility \?
performance engineering magazine(tm) interested in high tech and computers \?
marietta , ga send ur snail mail address to
jgd@dixie.com perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
need usenet public access in atlanta \? write me for info on dixie.com.


this makes sense(radar pointed down) , because almost every train i pass head on that triggers
my radar detector does so more just after i have passed the front of the engine.
i get a little of the reflections as i am approaching and the instant i get to
the side of the first engine the detector receives a fairly strong signal for
a short time. it happens with just about every train i see.

from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re license plates nissan
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 12
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , edf003@marshall.wvnet.edu () says

hi , i'm interested in getting the list for license plate numbers. if anyone
has a listing i 'd appreciate getting a copy of it. thanks !

you must be incredibly bored. have you considered reading the phone book \?

dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from zaphod@madnix.uucp (ron bean)
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting
organization arp software
lines 30

jong@halcyon.com (barking weasel) writes

schludermann@sscvx1.ssc.gov writes

my technique is to ease back off the throttle and at the same time gently
wrist back on the shift lever. if for some reason i miss the shift window ,
i lightly press the accelerator try agian. i 've found that clutchless
shifting is eaiser quicker at high rpms (4000 7000). i also skip gears some
times using 1 3 5 , 1 2 4 5.

sounds about right. i usually slip it out during throttle down
and then blip the throttle and wait until it feels like things are right
(usually about a second) and then slip it into gear...

so , how did you guys learn this \? is it something you were
born with , or did you make horrible grinding noises the first few
times \? (how many times \? )

i would think you 'd have to have a certain amount of feel
for it to begin with. some people would never get it , and others
(like me) would never have the guts to try it , unless maybe you
were planning to buy a new transmission anyway...

(btw , i 've heard that quite a few truckers and race car
drivers shift this way).


zaphod@madnix.uucp (ron bean)
uwvax ! astroatc ! nicmad ! madnix ! zaphod


from bjones@trentu.ca (name)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
reply to bjones@trentu.ca
organization trent university , peterborough
lines 26

in article 1993apr16.091938.6821@hasler.ascom.ch , kevinh@hslrswi.hasler.ascom.ch (kevinh) writes

in article c5h7qz.kya@boi.hp.com , wesf@boi.hp.com (wes fujii) writes
brian larose (larose@austin.cs.utk.edu) wrote

i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us ,
and take the truck.

please be aware of folks. and for your own good , please don't stop ! ! ! !

sad. this sort of thing is on the rise across the country. south florida
is getting a lot of national tv coverage on the subject where vacationers
are being attacked (and some killed) in schemes similar to this.

make that worldwide coverage. i know numerous people who were planning
holidays to the florida , and have now chosen another (non us)
destination. you expect this sort of thing , perhaps , in third world
countries but not the us !

in response to this and other articles that have been written on this
subject , i would like to say that it is not just a us problem. in southern
ontario last summer there were several instances along the 401 where people
(mainly truckers) were shot at from overpasses. there are many sick people
out there and it makes you wonder what the worlds coming to.
kevinh@hasler.ascom.ch

from brian@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (brian donnell)
subject for sale '91 celica repair manuals
nntp posting host hotspare.arc.nasa.gov
organization nasa arc information sciences division
lines 12

two volume soft cover repair manuals
for all models of '91 toyota celicas.
(probably good for '92 models as well.)
like new condition.
these are the manuals used by the
toyota dealers' mechanics they normally
cost over 80 new.

50 obo

brian donnell
brian@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov

from theckel@col.hp.com (tim heckel)
subject re instead of a saturn sc2 , what \? \? \?
organization colorado springs it center
lines 7
distribution na
nntp posting host pizza8.cs.itc.hp.com

for those that are interested i got my fully optioned (air , abs ,
sunroof) '92 se r in september 1991 for 13 , 555 in sacramento , ca. it
was one of the 1st '92s sold , few of the dealers had any , no local
dealer had an abs equipped se r. i went straight to the fleet manager
at the dealership i liked , told him what i wanted , made him aware that i
knew what his price should be. he called me back with exactly what i
wanted from a dealer 125mi away , i took delivery the next day.

from baker@dfwvx1.dallas.geoquest.slb.com
subject insurance says car is totalled.
nntp posting host dfwvx1.dallas.geoquest.slb.com
reply to baker@dfwdsr.sinet.slb.com
organization schlumberger data services dallas
lines 26




on wednesday morning , another driver decided to illegally
turn left in front of me , doing great damage to my car
(honda civic).
i have yet to pay off the car , and the body shop says the
insurance company wants to total the car. i have n't
been able to get in touch with the person handling my claim ,
so i checked on some things

1) my payout is 3700.00
2) blue book retail is 5650.00
3) loan value is 4450.00
4) trade in value is 4000.00

could anyone give me any advice on what i should could do
if the insurance company does not give me a reasonable
amount for the loss of the car.

thanks ,
james baker

baker@dfwvx1.dallas.geoquest.slb.com



from rhorwell@crab.network a (roland faragher horwell , crab)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all tim
reply to rhorwell@atc.boeing.com
organization boeing computer services
lines 19

in article 1el@targhee.idaho.amdahl.com , rbs@sawtooth.idaho.amdahl.com (bob smith) writes
in article 1993apr7.173712.23250@cas.org , sdm24@cas.org () writes
imho , the dumbest thing we ever did in copying the japanese was moving the
dimmer switch from the floor to the lever controlling the turn signal cruise
control bun warmer , etc.

well , my 1973 porsche had the dimmer on the turn signal stalk. guess those
dumb germans were copying the japanese too. )

rest deleted


not to mention my friend 's '54 citroen traction avant with the light switch and
dimmer integrated in a single stalk off the steering column ! those dumb french
were apparently copying the japanese before the germans ! )

roland



from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re is car saftey important \?
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 14
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

tcorkum@bnr.ca (trevor corkum) writes
is it only me , or is
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car \?

it depends on your priorities. a lot of people put higher priorities
on gas mileage and cost than on safety , buying unsafe econoboxes
instead of volvos. i personally take a middle ground the only
thing i really look for is a three point seatbelt and 5 mph bumpers.
i figure that 30mph collisions into brick walls are n't common enough
for me to spend that much extra money for protection , but there are
lots of low speed collisions that do worry me.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

from smorris@sumax.seattleu.edu (steven a. morris)
subject re wife wants convertible
organization addiction studies program , seattle university
lines 15
nntp posting host sumax.seattleu.edu

if you hold off , there are a number of interesting convertibles coming
to market in the next few years.

the new lebaron will be based on the mitsubishi galant , which should
be an improvement over the current model.

the new pl compact will have a convertible option (also a chrysler
product)

kia , makers of the ford festiva is planning a larger convertible.

steve morris , m.a. internet smorris@sumax.seattleu.edu
addiction studies pgm uucp uw beaver , uunet ! gtenmc ! dataio ! sumax ! smorris
seattle university phone (206) 296 5350 (dept) or 296 5351 (direct)
seattle , wa 98122

from rkim@eecg.toronto.edu (ryan kim)
subject new break pads exhausts after 96k km (60k mi) on '90 maxima \?
organization csri , university of toronto
lines 43


hi , maybe someone can help me here...
i am looking to buy this 1990 nissan maxima gxe for cdn 14000 right now.
the car has 96000 km (or about 60000 miles) on it.
a typical mileage for 1990 cars seem to be about 70000 km (or about 43k mi).
the seller just informed me that when he brought the car in for certification
he was told that the front break pads and the exhausts had to be replaced
to meet the legal standards. (he said he will replace the components before
selling the car to me.)

being copmletely ignorant to the technical stuff on cars , i do n't know
what this could mean...
is 96k km about the time typical for replacing the above mentioned items \?
or is this an indication that the car was abused \?
would other things break down or have to be replaced soon \?
the seller told me that he used the car on the highway a lot , but ,
i do n't know how to verify this... i 've seen the paint chipped away
in tiny dots in the front edge of the hood , though.

although the maxima is an excellent car and the car is very clean and
well kept , it 's currently out of warranty
(a similarly priced '90 accord with 70k km will have 2 years or 30k km
worth of warranty left) and i do n't want to worry about paying for
any repair bills...
but , i also need a car for 5 people...

when will the new maxima come out , by the way \?

i would very much appreciate your input in this.
please reply by e mail (preferred) or post in this newsgroup.
thanks !

ryan




ryan kim
university of toronto , eecg , computer graphics rkim@eecg.toronto.edu
do not weave between traffic cones at road works.
from the new british highway code
(toronto star april 3 , 1993)


from finnegan@invader.navo.navy.mil (kenneth finnegan)
subject re 5w30 , 10w40 , or 20w50
article i.d. cs.1993apr6.130550.13550
reply to finnegan@navo.navy.mil
organization grumman data systems
lines 9
nntp posting host nntpd 8755 invader.navo.navy.mil

as an additional data point , i have run castrol 20w50 exclusively
in the following cars 75 rabbit , 78 scirocco , 76 rabbit , 78 bus ,
70 beetle , 76 bus , 86 jetta gli. i 've never had an oil related
problem.

disclaimer it gets mighty hot down here.

kenneth
finnegan@navo.navy.mil

from andyh@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (andrew j. huang)
subject re audiwatch update (tm) 11
organization brandeis university
lines 17

in article 1993apr2.194838.13476@news.cs.brandeis.edu andyh@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (andrew j. huang) writes
in article 1993apr2.181037.11188@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu bqueiser@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (brian j queiser) writes
powell@interlan.interlan.com (glen d. powell) writes

the kind of corporate raiding apparently undertaken by vw is shameful.

agreed. however , the particular execs had been working with iggy for
many years and had left gm europe to go to detroit. with their raison
andy

i was out of date. vw is stealing execs directly from opel ,
independent of lopez. shameful.

andy




from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re sho clutch question (grinding noise \? )
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 9

in article c5h6f8.ldu@news.rich.bnr.ca jcyuhn@crchh574.nosubdomain.nodomain (james yuhn) writes
that 's not the clutch you 're hearing , its the gearbox. early shos have
a lot of what is referred to as 'gear rollover' noise. you can generally

i have one of the first shos built , and mine does n't make
this noise.




from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re too fast
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 24

in article 1qkon8 3re@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
larger engine. that 's what the sho is a slightly modified family
sedan with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the
brakes.

that shows how much you know about anything. the brakes on the
sho are very different 9 inch (or 9.5 \? i forget) discs all around ,
vented in front. the normal taurus setup is (smaller) discs front ,
drums rear.

your argument still boils down to an sho should n't be driven
fast because i , jim frost , say it is n't designed to go fast.

pffffftttttt.

if you think so you sure do n't pay attention to my postings.

damn straight. you 're one of those people who makes stuff
up and tries to pawn it off as god 's own truth. if i want lies i can
go listen to television.

the wharf rat



from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 38
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , crh@regent.e technik.tu muenchen.dbp.de (christian huebner) says

brad@buck.viewlogic.com (bradford kellogg) writes

i think he 's talking about a different form of rush. evidently , it 's fun to be
terrified. but hey , if you want that kind of rush , try bobsledding. you may
only get up to 80 or so , but it makes 130 in a car feel like a stroll in the
park.

why should a good driver be terrified at 130mph \? the only thing i fear
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left lane without using
either rear view mirror or flashers. doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much faster.

but in one point you are quite right. if you are terrified at 130 you
should better not drive that fast , or you 'll be a hazard to others.

btw , before you flame me , read my e mail address. i know what i'm
talking about , as i live in germany.

bk

chris crh@regent.e technik.tu muenchen.de

not a flame , just a point i 'd be scared at 130 here , not because i feel
i or my car could n't handle it , but because of exactly what you said
drivers who are stupid. like the ones who are doing 130 also , and so
they pull in right behind you at maybe 1 2 car lengths....oh yeah , real
smart... this scares me in cities at 50. when i ca n't see enough of
the car to make it recognizable , they are following too close. and
when i see them doing this and reading a newspaper..... sigh ...this
is why america has 55 65 speed limits our drivers are too dumb to realise
that reading the paper should be done at breakfast , or work , not in their
car.

my thoughts..
drew

subject after market cruise controls specific questions
from mikew@canc.byu.edu (m.d. (mike) wieda)
organization byu
nntp posting host 128.187.203.40
lines 82

howdy ,

i'm a little new to this newsgroup , but i would like to tap some of the
knowledge and expertise available here.

the subject after market cruise controls

the background
i recently broke my ankle in a road bicycling accident (4 places , five
screws , yuk ! ( ). in two weeks i will be returning to texas (my
home) from my school (byu) in provo , utah. as you can imagine , trying to
drive nearly 1300 miles with a broken right ankle is n't just the epitome of
a good time. my car does not have a cruise control , so i would have to do
all the pedalling (ha ha) with my messed up ankle.

my question
what is the general opinion of after market cruise control units \? i
realize that a cheap cc (cruise control) from , say , pep boys , is n't going to
be as good as a factory or professionally installed unit (if there is such a
thing). and i uderstand that i probably ca n't expect much in the way of
accuracy , looks and that sort of thing but anything 's gotta be better than
trying to drive with a hosed ankle.

i have a 1984 jeep cherokee , 4 speed , standard , 4 4 , 2.5l engine with
kettering(sp \? ) ignition (y'know , distributor cap , rotor , that set up not
electronic. maybe you could 've guessed it being an '84 , but i'm just trying
to give information as completly as i can).

i found a cc unit for 80 bucks. it seems to use the vehicles vacuum system
instead of an electric servor motor. is this good or bad \? if i did buy
this cc , which vacuum hose should i tap \?

it has two speed sensors one magnetic , and one that gets a signal from the
negative side of the distributor , kinda like a tach pick up , or so i
understand. i can use either one. which is best \? the manual says (i read
it in the store today) that the magnetic axle set up is more accurate , but
harder to install. is there really a big difference \?

it has a sensor for the brake pedal , just like other ccs , but does not have a
sensor for the clutch pedal. so if i was n't paying real close attention i
might push the clutch in while the cruise is trying to get the speed up. which
would wind the engine up kinda high until i got my wits about me and turned
the thing off. i'm pretty coordinated , so this does n't bother me , if it
were for my girlfriends car , then it would bother me , but i'm ok with it.

the installation also calls for an attachment to a steady on brake signal
and a switched on brake signal. i think i can get a switched brake signal
from the correct side of the brake light blade fuse. am i right \? but i'm
not sure where to get the steady on brake signal , or , for that matter , what
exactly it is \? any ideas as to what the manufaturer wants and where to get
it \?

i think i can figure the other things out. like how to hook up the negative
side tach type sensing gizmo and the cabin control unit , and the ground and
all that miscellaneous business. but i need a little help with

1. is it worth the money and safety risk (if any) for such a
device \?
2. is there any particularly good after market cc \?
3. are professionally installed ccs signifacantly better and
worth the cabbage \?
4. if the unit i saw (sorry , no manufacturer or model number , just
that it is at pep boy and its 80) is sufficient for my simple
needs , how do i get the thing installed properly (specifically ,
the questions above) \?

my father and i built a veep (volkswagen powered jeep cj 2a) when i was in
high school , so i consider myself fairly good with tools , electronics , and
cars. so the installation does n't scare me. i just want to be certain that
i get the thing installed correctly as my cherokee is just a wee bit more
complicated than my veep. )

i appreciate your time in reading my post , and i would appreciate any
expertise or opinion anybody has on the subject. if you would like to share
some of your wisdom , please email as i do n't get over this group very often
(but i check my mail all the time).

again , thanks for any help anyone may have.

mike wieda
mikew@canc.byu.edu


from eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions
keywords saturn , subaru , manual , automatic
article i.d. engr.apr19.045221.19525
organization clearer than blir
lines 40
nntp posting host lanmola.engr.washington.edu


an excellent automatic can be found in the subaru legacy. it switches to
sport mode when the electronics figure it , not when the driver sets
the switch.. which is the proper way to do it , imo. so what does sport
mode entail \? several things

1) revving to red line (or to the rev limiter in the case of the legacy)

2) delayed upshifts. (i.e. if you lift off briefly , it will remain in the
low gear. this is handy if you are charging through corners and
would like to do without the distraction of upshifts when there 's
another curve approaching)

3) part throttle downshifts , based on the speed at which the pedal is
depressed , rather than the position of the pedal. modern
electronics can measure this very easily and switch to sport mode.
this is wonderful if you want to charge through a green light about
to turn red. my audi senses this very well and can downshift on as
little as half throttle if my right foot is fast enough.

also , i think that a smart automatic can deliver better gas mileage
than a dumb driver with a stick , all else being equal.. remember that
the idea of a stick being more economical than an automatic makes a
big assumption that the driver is smart enough to know what gear to
use for each situation.. how many times have you ridden with an
inattentive driver cruising on the highway at 55 65 in 4th gear (of a
5 speed) \?

how many of people who drive manuals really know what the best
gear to use is for every conceivable situation \? i'm sure there will
be some who know , but i suspect that a chip controlled automatic with
all possible scenario ratio combinations stored in rom is likely to do
better. i can also say that all my previous assumptions were proved
wrong after i got a car with instantaneous mpg readout... high gear ,
low revs and wide open throttle is more economical than low gear , high
revs and small throttle opening. the explanation is quite simple if
one sits down to think about it , but not that obvious at first sight.


eliot

from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re 1993 infiniti g20
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 14

in article 78834@cup.portal.com carl f hoffman@cup.portal.com writes
2) there is a special deal where i can get an infinity g20 , fully
loaded , at dealer cost (i have check this out and the numbers match
up). they are doing this because they are releasing and update mid 1993
version (includes dual air bags) and want to get rid of their old 1993 's.

is this really the dealer 's cost \? did you get the dealer 's cost by
looking at the invoice \? there may be factory to dealer incentives.
i 'd check this out , since i have trouble believing that a dealer would
sell a car to me at his cost.

dealer invoice is not necessarily the dealer cost.

teddy

from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 33

tobias@convex.com (allen tobias) writes

in article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi ) writes
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly
a small girl sitting in the front seat of one of them was struck
in the head by one of the larger rocks. i do n't recall if she
made it , but i think she was comatose for a month or so and
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live.

the girl 's ok , actually , and she recovered well enough to go home. i
do n't know if she has any permanent damage , though. just in case anybody was
concerned...


what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

erik velapold

if people start forcing others to take responsibility for their actions
things like this would n't happen. untill we stop blaming outside causes , and
start blaming the criminals , we will continue to let things like this happen.



chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
neil peart , (c)1981
quick to judge , quick to anger , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice
and fear walk hand in hand

from gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization loral software productivity laboratory
lines 12

why should a good driver be terrified at 130mph \? the only thing i fear
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left lane without using
either rear view mirror or flashers. doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much faster.

in defense of the drivers , who are in the right lane. here in the states , people simply do not expect when they are driving to be overtaken at a speed differential of 50 mph. i do n't think this is because they are stupid (of course , there are exceptions) , they are just programmed because of the 55mph limit. do you (in the states) when you look in the rear view always calculate future positions of cars based on a 50 speed differential.

dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left lane fast but when i overtake
cars who are on the right , i slow down a tad bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car , to recognize the speed differential , i would be the stupid one.

btw , if no one else is around , then go for it ! .


from rremaley@bcm.tmc.edu
subject re 6700 for hail damage a record \?
organization baylor college of medicine , houston , tx
lines 8
distribution usa
nntp posting host 128.249.27.175

i was in the great storm.....my mazda mpv was damaged so bad they are
going to replace the top , doors and hood. it is black so they will repaint
the entire vehicle...estimated cost around 7000 and repair time approx. 3
to 4 weeks.


rremaley@bcm.tmc.edu


from sylveste@ecs.umass.edu
subject re ultimate awd vehicles
lines 24

in article apr09.084236.19413@engr.washington.edu , eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot) writes
in article 1q34huinnjrv@uwm.edu qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu writes
subarus do n't sell that well , although the percentage of subes purchased
with awd is probably relatively high.

56 of all subarus sold are 4wd awd.

audi is backing down on the number
of models it offers with awd. before , one could purchase an 80 or 90 with
awd , but now it is reserved strictly for the top line model the same goes
for the 100 200.

the 80 80q has been eliminated from the us lineup , but the 90 is still
available in quattro version , though it is hardly cheap. they are
still true to their pledge of making 4wd an option on their entire
line of cars. now , if only they will bring in the s4 wagon..

eliot

before the s4 became the s4 it was called the 200 turbo quattro 20v.
this model did come in a wagon , a very quick wagon. very rare also.

mike sylvester umass


from jong@halcyon.com (barking weasel)
subject re rfi art of clutchless shifting
organization northwest nexus inc. (206) 455 3505
lines 36

schludermann@sscvx1.ssc.gov writes

i'm wondering if anybody else out there is a clutchless shifter \? i 've been
doing it my self over 200 , 000 miles , on my current toyota truck i 've got
over 150k. i 've heard people talk about how doing this can damage a
transmission. my experiences suggest otherwise. what techniques do you use \?

yeah. i do n't use the clutch all the time either. i 've done it
with fords , bmw , datsun , and chevy and it works fine. i ca n't think of
any reason that it would damage the tranny. essentially you are just
doing what the synchros do anyhow match the engine speed with the
tranny speed and slip it into gear.


on some old pieces of junk i drove , the transmission was so
worn that pumping the clutch was the only way to shift , except clutchless.
to date i 've driven rabbits , datsuns , comets , fords a chevy. some where
harder than others to shift but generally the higher the milage the smoother
quicker easier they where to shift.

my technique is to ease back off the throttle and at the same time gently
wrist back on the shift lever. if for some reason i miss the shift window ,
i lightly press the accelerator try agian. i 've found that clutchless
shifting is eaiser quicker at high rpms (4000 7000). i also skip gears some
times using 1 3 5 , 1 2 4 5.

sounds about right. i usually slip it out during throttle down
and then blip the throttle and wait until it feels like things are right
(usually about a second) and then slip it into gear...

krispy


jon you obviously do n't know who you 're dealing with gross
jong@halcyon.com


from zakir@leland.stanford.edu (zakir sahul)
subject inflation in car prices
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution usa
lines 5


anyone have figures or pointers to references about
how fast much car prices have gone up in the last decade \?

thanks.

from hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen)
subject re lois chevrolet \?
organization wake forest university
lines 22
nntp posting host ac.wfunet.wfu.edu



the chevrolet brothers were respected racers test drivers for the
buick co. when durant was there.

when the directors kicked durant out of gm in 1910 he took chevrolet and
others with him. as mentioned before , they founded the successful
chevrolet company.

a little known fact is that the chevrolet co. actually took over gm !
that was how durant got back in charge of gm legally his new company
chevrolet co. did the buying , and gm was a division of chevrolet !

after 1920 and into the sloan era , gm shuffled things so that the gm
board was superior , but there was always a degree of autonomy given
the chevy division , presumably because of the initial structure.
(if you look at the organization chart for gm in sloan 's book , chevy
division reports directly to 14th floor , not through the passenger
car division which covers buick , olds , cadillac , and oakland pontiac)

jeff hagen (minor deity of worthless auto trivia)
hagenjd@ac.wfu.edu

subject re mgbs and the real world
from derek@nezsdc.icl.co.nz (derek tearne)
organization fujitsu new zealand software development center
lines 20

in article 1993apr8.095119.5367@hasler.ascom.ch kevinh@hasler.ascom.ch writes

oh yeah , i had a 1975 1275gt mini , and even before i did anything
to it , it could leave an mgb standing anywhere except , perhaps , on a long straight
motorway run at 90 .

people who bought mgb`s bought them because they were an open topped sportscar
and embodied what people thought they should for an old fashioned traditional
brit. sportscar not because they were great at anything.

pretty much like the people who buy the mazda mx 5 (miata) today. small
fun and you can fool yourself (and a lot of other people) that you have the
performance of many far superior (and much more expensive) performnace cars.



derek tearne. derek@nezsdc.icl.co.nz fujitsu new zealand
some of the more aware dinosaurs were worried about the environmental
consequences of an accident with the new iridium enriched fusion reactor.
if it goes off only the cockroaches and mammals will survive... they said.

from jjmckay@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (jim mckay)
subject re water in trunk of 89 probe \? \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 37

tszeto@sneezy.ts.stratus.com (tommy szeto) writes

water gradually builds up in the trunk of my friend 's 89 ford probe. every
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and scoop out the water
under the plywood carpet cover on the trunk. i would guess this usually happens
after a good thunder storm. a few qs

1) is this a common problem \?

yes this is a common problem. the leaks occur through the seal of the
taillights. unfortunately , ford has this with most probes and does
not have a recall for it. very dissatisfying to say the least.

2) where are the drain holes located for the hatch \?

there is no drain holes that i know of. i used a margine tub to drain it
regretably i waited three months as i was short cash and they would n't fix it
under warrantee. then i paid dearly as it messed up my electrical system
including a balance motion sensor which is located near the fuel shutoff in
the trunk. this resulted in my passive restraints malfunctioning they would
not retract. so i ended up paying about 200 to have the sensor replaced
90 to have the tail lights resealed (they firts replaced the hatch gasket
which i insisted was not the problem so they did not charge me for that
when i proved to be right.) not to mention the water damage to the
covers to the trunk spare com partment and algae in the taillights.

very annoying. do n't let the water problem go get it fixed or you 'll pay
more later. considering how common a problem it is i hope every one
complains to ford.

thanks for any info.
tom


tom szeto no ! not those peanuts ! the ones on the
tszeto@sneezy.ts.stratus.com bottom....ggnuuaahuuhh
include disclaimer.h homer simpson

from stevewall@aol.com (steve wall)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization anhedonics anonymous
lines 22
nntp posting host hipmac1.pica.army.mil

in article 1993apr15.173851.25846@convex.com , tobias@convex.com (allen
tobias) wrote


society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the seams ! the basic reason
is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on murderous acts on tv , we can abort
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised
when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. they do n't care because the
message they hear is life is cheap !

i think this is getting a little overheated. highway robbers have been a
part of life since the middle ages at least. it 's human nature to look
at history through rose colored glasses , but random acts of violence have
been a ceaseless part of our heritage. overall , life is better now than it
ever was then. it 's just that random individual acts of violence have
never
been historically significant , and record keeping in the past was never
good
enough to retain them all.

steve wall

from kensib@cary112.its.rpi.edu (brian c. kensing)
subject re manual shift bigots
nntp posting host cary112.its.rpi.edu
reply to kensib@rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny.
lines 10

i prefer a manual to an automatic as it should be. i believe that automatics
should only be manufactured for people with physical disabilities who otherwise
would not be able to drive. automatic transmissions allow drivers to be lazy.
more time is available to fiddle with the radio or to look at the scenery
instead of concentrating on the road. the manual transmission keeps the drive
always doing something , granted it is n't a large movement. plus , driving should
be fun ! driving a manual is fun , driving an automatic is a chore.
in the case of shift speed , automatics can be made to shift far faster
that any human could move a stick. if i was racing , i 'd want and automatic. for
normal driving go with the manual.

from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 13
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


cup holders (driving is an importantant enough undertaking)
cellular phones and mobile fax machines (see above)
vanity mirrors on the driver 's side.
ashtrays (smokers seem to think it 's just fine to use the road)
fake convertible roofs and vinyl roofs.
any gold trim.


dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from kevinh@hslrswi.hasler.ascom.ch (kevinh)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
originator kevinh@nath
reply to kevinh@hasler.ascom.ch
organization ascom hasler ag
lines 20


in article c5h7qz.kya@boi.hp.com , wesf@boi.hp.com (wes fujii) writes
brian larose (larose@austin.cs.utk.edu) wrote

i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us ,
and take the truck.

please be aware of folks. and for your own good , please don't stop ! ! ! !

sad. this sort of thing is on the rise across the country. south florida
is getting a lot of national tv coverage on the subject where vacationers
are being attacked (and some killed) in schemes similar to this.

make that worldwide coverage. i know numerous people who were planning
holidays to the florida , and have now chosen another (non us)
destination. you expect this sort of thing , perhaps , in third world
countries but not the us !

kevinh@hasler.ascom.ch

from tvervaek@col.hp.com (tom vervaeke)
subject re toyota land cruiser worth it \?
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 20
nntp posting host itchub21.cs.itc.hp.com

my wife and i looked at , and drove one last fall. this was a 1992 model.
it was wayyyyyyyyy underpowered. i could not imagine driving it in the
mountains here in colorado at anything approaching highway speeds. i
have read that the new 1993 models have a newer , improved hp engine.

i'm quite serious that i laughed in the salesman face when he said once
it 's broken in it will feel more powerful . i had been used to driving a
jeep 4.0l 190hp engine. i believe the 92 's land cruisers (land yachts)
were 3.0l , the sames as the 4runner , which is also underpowered (in my
own personal opinion).

they are big cars , very roomy , but nothing spectacular.


( ) ( )
tom vervaeke email tvervaek@cs.itc.hp.com
hewlett packard co. phone 719 590 2133

i love animals. they taste delicious.
( ) ( )

from wl@cypress.com (wilbur luo comm)
subject heard of these south bay shops \?
originator wl@coast
nntp posting host coast
organization cypress semiconductor
distribution ba
lines 13

i need to bring on my vw corrado for body work (i got hit). i was
wondering if anyone has heard of any of these south bay body shops

akins collision center of santa clara on reed st
auto west collision in san jose
los gatos acura
royal auto body in sunnyvale

thanks !

w



from jwg@sedv1.acd4.acd.com (jwg)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
in reply to bhtulin@unix.amherst.edu 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 20 35 23 gmt
organization u jwg .organization
lines 16

in article c5hqj0.57@unix.amherst.edu , bhtulin@unix.amherst.edu (barak h. tulin) gives forth
i just started reading this thread today , so forgive me if it has already been
mentioned. but...what was the deal with renault 's putting the horn on the
left hand turn signal stalk \? it was a button on the end , where the washer
button would be on the wiper washer stalk. could the frenchies not figure
out the wiring through the steering wheel , or what \?

had an '83 alliance for a long time. it was a comfortable but sluggish
car. i got very used to the horn on the stalk , after a couple months worth
of getting used to it. after i bought my next car , a chevy , it took me
for ever to get used to the horn on the steering wheel again !

jim grey
jwg@acd4.acd.com

up the irons !

from wiggs@stsci.edu (michael s. wiggs)
subject kubelwagen
organization space telescope science institute
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 7


the answer to your question is...sort of. volkswagen had a
much less robust version of this army vehicle out in the
early '70 's (or thereabouts). it was called the volskwagen
thing , and was , of course , a convertible. i havent seen
many around then or now. good luck...
mik

from mwbg9715@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (mark wayne blunier)
subject re 5w30 , 10w40 , or 20w50
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 12

zowie@daedalus.stanford.edu (craig powderkeg deforest) writes

if you 're planning on making long drives , the 20w50 is probably fine
(esp. in the summer) in your 10w40 car. but if you 're making short drives ,
stick to the 10w40.

several years ago gm was having trouble with the rings sticking on the
5.7 diesel. they traced a cause to the use of 10w 40 oil. they would
not honor warranty work if 10w 40 was used (if my memory serves me).
5 30 , 10 30 or 20 50 was ok 'd though.

mark b.

from keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys)
subject re alarm systems are they worthwhile \?
organization national institute of standards technology
distribution usa
lines 50

in article 1993apr19.164451.3744@news.eng.convex.com dodson@convex.com (dave dodson) writes
is it worthwhile to get an alarm system on a new car \?


although , others have in the past and will continue to disagree
i think that it is worthwhile to get an alarm.


what features are important \?

i think that it is important to protect your trunk , engine bay , all
doors. i 'd get flashing lights , led 's mounted on the drivers and
passenger door and a relay to disable engine operation. toss in
a glass break sensor , and shock sensor. door lock and unlock ,
two remotes and panic feature are also nice to have.

most important is where you have the installation done ! some places
may cost a little more , but a poorly installed alarm (no matter how
much it cost) will be a major burden.


what features are unimportant \?

imo , things like engine starters , voice alarms , window sunroof open
and close , and most other conveniences.




dave dodson dodson@convex.com
convex computer corporation richardson , texas (214) 497 4234

.

larry
keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov




oo

1990 2.0 16v


fahrvergnugen forever !
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates
that you probably would n't understand anyway !



from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re changing oil by self.rist , another dealer service scam...
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 21
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , bmoss@grinch.sim.es.com (brent woody moss) says



i was worried about someone stealing my oil once also. i finally
decided to just have my drain plug welded shut. it works great !
i figure that when i add three or four quarts when the oil light
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000 miles.
works for me , i must say.


i did the same thing to my drain plug for the same reasons. i was wondering
how you filled your crankcase though as i welded my hood shut also out of fear
that somebody might steal my air filter.

dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from gregg@xenon.stanford.edu (gregg l. kasten)
subject differences in insurance companies' rates
keywords insurance
organization cs department , stanford university , california , usa
distribution ca
lines 23

i am considering buying an new car , so i called three insurance
companies in california to get estimates. i asked for the same
coverage and same deductibles. most of the companies charge you
according to your zip code. others charge according to your city.
anyhow , i gave the same zip code and city to all three places. here 's
what i found (for a '93 integra gs)

aaa 2000 yr.
state farm 2614.92 yr.
allstate 1220 yr.

aaa is non profit , so they said i could also expect to receive about
200 300 back at the end of the year.

still , there is a huge gap between all of these companies. state farm
wants more than twice as much as allstate. i think i should be
suspicious , but i 've never heard anybody else complain.

any comments \?

thanks ,
gregg l. kasten
gregg@cs.stanford.edu

from klui@corp.hp.com (ken lui)
subject re license plates
organization hewlett packard company
lines 16
distribution na
nntp posting host klui.corp.hp.com

in article 1993apr14.143750.120204@marshall.wvnet.edu edf003@marshall.wvnet.edu writes
hi , i'm interested in getting the list for license plate numbers. if anyone
has a listing i 'd appreciate getting a copy of it. thanks !

you can go to the dmv and ask for their listing. although i
do n't know where you may actually buy a copy , you can use theirs
for your perusal. in california , the listing of personalized
license plates run 3 volumes , each about 1.5 thick. i hope this
is what you 're asking for.


ken

kenneth k.f. lui , klui@corp.hp.com 3000 hanover street ms20bj
corporate administrative information systems palo alto , ca 94304 usa
core application technologies 1(415)857 3230 fax 1(415)852 8026

from kvk@questor.sw.stratus.com (ken koellner)
subject sticky lock on tailgate
organization stratus computer , software engineering
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host questor.sw.stratus.com



my 1988 toyota 4runner has a rolldown rear window with a keylock
switch. it sticky on me. yesterday it was tough to get the
key to work and it also happened to stick on in the up direction
so the stalled motor was powered all night killing the battery.

i 'd like to try to lubricate the lock switch. what should i lubricate
the lock with \?

email please ,

thanx , ken.


do n't drink american corporate swill. support you local micro brewery. me


from ari@leland.stanford.edu (ari ollikainen)
subject re 5w30 , 10w40 , or 20w50
article i.d. morrow.1psg9cinnn86
distribution world
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 20
nntp posting host mordor.stanford.edu

in article jgladu 060493121851@128.249.27.63 jgladu@bcm.tmc.edu (grungy john f. gladu) writes
in article 1993apr6.130550.13550@cs.tulane.edu ,
finnegan@invader.navo.navy.mil (kenneth finnegan) wrote

as an additional data point , i have run castrol 20w50 exclusively
in the following cars 75 rabbit , 78 scirocco , 76 rabbit , 78 bus ,
70 beetle , 76 bus , 86 jetta gli. i 've never had an oil related
problem.

add mine to that list '71 , '72 superbeetles '68 , '69 bugs '61 dddpanel
(cringe) '87 toyota tercel (it 's my wife 's car , honest ). i'm still
chicken about running it in the '90 vanagon that 's got castrol 10w40 in
it.

i do n't understand this last statement about the '90vanagon...our '90vanagon
owner 's manual recommends 20w50 ! !

ari ollikainen(former vw fanatic 62bug , 62bug porschepower , 64.5porsche356sc ,
68bugauto stick , 69camper , 71camper , 73westfalia , 73vwporsche914 2.0 ,
81westfalia , 85vanagon , 85westfalia...and now only 90vanagoncarat)

from ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com (les bartel)
subject fast idle on 88 ford ranger
reply to ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation
lines 21

it did it again. this morning , my 88 ford ranger was idling at 10 , 000 rpm.
ok , so i exaggerated a little , but it was idling very fast. it has a 2
liter carburated engine in it , and no blipping of the throttle would
cause the idle to drop back to normal (i do n't think the linkage is stuck).
what can i do to fix this problem \? this has been a problem from time to
time , but has straightened itself out until now. i do n't have a tach ,
but by gauging by the sound of the engine , it is idling about twice as fast
as it should be. this is down from what it was idling at when i pulled up
at a stop light.

many thanks for any suggestions.

les


les bartel i'm going to live forever
intergraph corporation ... or die trying
electronics division
ljbartel@ingr.com
or ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com
(205) 730 8537

from andrew@frip.wv.tek.com (andrew klossner)
subject re lh car order delay
article i.d. shaman.3038
reply to andrew@frip.wv.tek.com
organization tektronix color printers , wilsonville , oregon
lines 13



i read an article in the 3 25 chicago tribune stating that
chrysler is having problems addressing the demand for the 3.5l
engine for it 's lh cars. can anyone post how long they are
waiting for an ordered car or how long they have been told
they 'll have to wait \? \?

ordered mine december 30 , got it nine weeks later. but the dealer said
that new orders were being held up he did n't expect to see any
more 3.5l engine lhs for awhile.

andrew klossner (andrew@frip.wv.tek.com)

from zampicem@hpcc01.corp.hp.com (mike zampiceni)
subject re mazda just does not feel right
organization the hp corporate notes server
lines 2

the car might also need a front end alignment , particularly if you 're
describing wandering.

from pp@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (peter.peng)
subject 1990 integra ls for sale
organization at t bell laboratories
distribution nj
keywords for sale integra
lines 15



1990 integra ls for sale

5 speed , sunroof , rear spoiler , new tires
59.7k miles

7950 or best offer.

call 908 949 0878
908 938 4101

email att ! hotsoup ! peng



from mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil (malcolm g. costello)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
reply to mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil (malcolm g. costello)
distribution usa
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 25

x
x fake convertible roofs and vinyl roofs.
x any gold trim.
x
x these , i will agree , are abominations , right along with the fake
x continental spare tire kit it 's sad watching those little old ladies
x try to load their groceries into the trunk with that huge tire medallion
x in the way.
x most pitiful fake convertible top on a cadillac cimarron , with
x all the chrome door trim still visible not fooling anyone .
x of course , there was that hyundai excel i once saw...
x
least you think bad taste is something new
back in the early 1970s i saw a couple of cars with flocked paint jobs.
thats not a typo. i think they sprayed on some kind of glue then blew
on tiny pieces of nylon. it comes out looking like felt. can you picture
a huge plymouth fury iii in dark blue felt \? i think i can even remember
one guy who did it in red to a early 1960s corvette. that was after he had
turned it into a station wagon.

mack costello mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil code 65.1 (formerly 1720.1)
david taylor model basin , carderock division hq. nswc
bethesda , md 20084 5000 phone (301) 227 2431 (



from eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re manual shift bigots
organization clearer than blir
lines 34
nntp posting host lanmola.engr.washington.edu

in article c5liw2.cax@news.rich.bnr.ca peon w o email (eric youngblood) writes
in article 1qn2lo c9s@vela.acs.oakland.edu , mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu (michael j. edelman) writes
the big disadvantage of automatics is the 10 hp they consume that never
gets to the wheels. in this respect they are at a disadvantage to a manual.

only when the torque converter is not locked up. there are autos out there
with converter lock up in 2nd , 3rd and 4th gears.

dont forget that now that new 6 speed manual trannys are available the drive
train is more optimally geared to get the most out of the engine.

rare.. so are 5 speed autos.. but very real.

bottom line is both manuals and automatics have vastly improved.

i think that automatics have advanced far more than manuals.
especially in shift intelligence. i say that a smart automatic is
better than the majority of drivers in terms of being in the right
gear at the right time , which to me is more important than torque
converter losses.

i prefer the stick for fun and the auto for traffic.

who says you ca n't have your cake and eat it too \? a well designed
shifter will easily facilitate manual , clutchless shifts. i am
referring to the much copied mercedes jagged gate. the only
department where you lose out is in the number of ratios available ,
and of course the converter losses..

if ayrton senna can drive a racecar with fully automatic transmission ,
it ca n't be half bad.. )


eliot

from sawicki@naspac.tc.faa.gov (michael j. sawicki cta)
subject regal fiberglass parts \? \?
organization faa technical center , pomona , nj
lines 10
distribution world
nntp posting host haydn.faa.gov
summary regal fiberglass parts \? \?
keywords regal fiberglass parts \? \?

i have a 1982 regal and i am interested in buying
a fiberglass hood , trunk , and bumpers for it. does anybody
know of a company who makes fiberglass parts for regals \? \?


thanks in advance ,


mike


from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 36

in article 1qugvu ai8@quad.wfunet.wfu.edu hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen) writes

thanx to all those who responded , particularly those never driven an xxx
but here 's what it 's like guys...

ok , we all know that new age at 's are great in traffic , and do a satisfactory
job in acceleration when you keep your foot buried in the carpet.

my question regards downshifting. not downshifting to pass (at 's are
good at this now) , but manually moving the lever to 3 , 2 , or 1 at a point
where you would downshift a manual e.g. approaching a red light , or a
curve , or just tooling around a parking lot in 1st or 2nd w o shifting.
this is why i'm still a manual trans bigot the downshifting for
deceleration seems so natural. when i try this in an automatic , the
tranny does n't seem to understand what i want.

addendum is n't it great , after downshifting while approaching that
red light , when the light goes green , and you 're already on cam
(or the turbo 's already spooled up ! ) zippppppppppp !

hagen. (hagenjd@ac.wfu.edu)


i have a grand am with auto and quad4. around the gear selector there is a
plastic strip which covers the space so you ca n't see inside. anyway...i took
the cover off and cut the end of this long strip to a specific length , the
strip curls up into a cirlce at one end inside. anyway , by doing this the
strip ca n't feed into the lip that circles it , , , , so...i can push button , pull
down and the gear shifter will only go back to 2 from drive , , , no accidental
hitting first. i drive around town in 2 to keep the revs up. shift to drive
above 50 and pull down to 2 when coming up to lights..if i want. if i am
eating food...i drive in drive. there are probably aftermarket shift kits
that will accomplish the same thing. porsche 's tip tronic automatic can be
driven like an auto...or put into mode. tip up...upshift...tip down...
downshift. of course there is an override so you do n't redline the engine.


from stefan.m.gorsch@dartmouth.edu (stefan m. gorsch)
subject importing volvo \?
x posted from internews1.0b10@newshost.dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
lines 11

well , i'm afraid the time has come my rice burner has finally died.
i 'd always promised my wife that we would do a scandanavian tour when
my car died and pick up a volvo in sweden , drive it around and then
import it home.

can anyone give me 1) advice on feasibility and relative costs 2)
references where i might learn more 3) personal experience \?

please email

thanks

from sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin)
subject re changing oil by self.
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution usa
lines 22


in article c5lmtr.mo7@mentor.cc.purdue.edu marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu (za
uberer) writes
in article 1qgi8einnhs5@skeena.ucs.ubc.ca , yiklam@unixg.ubc.ca (yik chong
lam) writes
hello ,
does anyone know how to take out the bolt under the engine
compartment \? should i turn clockwise or counter \? i tried any kind
of lubricants , wd 40 , etc , but i still failed !
do you think i can use a electric drill( change to a suitable
bit ) to turn it out \? if i can succeed , can i re tighten it not too
tight , is it safe without oil leak \?
thank you very much in advance winson

do n't worry about leaks. do n't worry about which way to turn the damn thing.
take a good claw hammer and pry it straight out. now , you 'll notice , after
all the oil pours out , that there are no theads where there used to be.

thats why 'heli coils' were invented. yes , buy a few of these gems , and
rethread the hole a little larger each time you change the oil.
when the hole gets too big for any heli coil you can buy , its time to trade in
the car...

subject traffic rules at intersections
from jsv@math.canterbury.ac.nz (julian visch)
organization department of mathematics , university of canterbury
nntp posting host sss330.canterbury.ac.nz
lines 20

i am presently doing a masters thesis to do with traffic intersections in
new zealand but a lot of the books i am researching from , are from america or
australia and so i was wondering if anyone could please tell me what the road
rules are in either country with regard to intersections.

thanks
julian visch
jsv@math.canterbury.ac.nz


,


i ,
.






from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions.
organization lehigh university
lines 19

in article 1993apr17.175451.30896@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu , ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (d
anny phornprapha) writes
i have 30 , 000 as my budget. i'm looking for a sports or gt car.

what do you think would be the best buy \? (i'm looking for specific models)

thanks ,
danny


i 'd say an rx 7 would be right up there. you could easily deal down to 30.
it has some of the most impressive performance figures around , and automotive
magazines eat it up. one car to seriously consider in that price range.

rob fusi
rwf2@lehigh.edu




from fsmlm2@acad3.alaska.edu (rebelheart)
subject alaska car show
news software vax vms vnews 1.41.uac
keywords car show , peninsula cruisers , kenai , alaska
nntp posting host acad3.alaska.edu
organization r.e.b.e.l.h.e.a.r.t.
lines 32

peninsula cruisers third annual autofaire

what car show (for any and all types of vehicles including pedal cars)
where kenai mall , kenai , alaska
when may 14 , 15 , 16 , 1993
who peninsula cruisers car club , kenai , ak (907 283 4979)
why proceeds of this event to benefit the cooper landing ambulance corps.

general this car show is open to all types of cars , trucks , motorcycles ,
factory and modified , mild to wild , antique , special interests ,
race , drag , mudders , hi po , or just plain ugly )

this is a fun event , intended for the occassional gear head to the most
serious gear slammer. we would like to have as many entrants as possible ,
but please contact us for space availability ( first come first serve)

p.s. all out of town entrants can stay right next door at the
kenai merrit inn for a special rate of 60 a night
(single or double occupancy) call the merit @
907 283 6131

if you'd like any further information , you can contact me at the
addresses below.

mel mckay cant drive 55 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! rebelheart , a gorgeous 90 supercoupe
remember ....55 saves lives , 110 saves twice as many )

rebelheart
too old for some things...
define bitnet fsmlm2@alaska too young to know
define e mail fsmlm2@acad3.alaska.edu which things.


from raman@translab.its.uci.edu (balaji v. ramanathan)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
nntp posting host translab.its.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 23
distribution usa

in article 1qofeainnn7h@shelley.u.washington.edu gaia@carson.u.washington.edu (i we are gaia) writes
just stopped putting money into it. i must have put at least 5000 7000
worth of repairs over it 's lifetime. i am sorry but lee iacocca can bite
me. bullshit , whoever backs em best , is just afraid the stupid things area
the part about spending 5000 7000 on repairs reminds me
of an article i read in a magazine comparing the 5 year ownership costs
of a toyota camry and a ford taurus or something like that. the result ,
which they announced with great flourish was that it cost the same at the
end of the period. that was their argument to prove that you do n't go
wrong buying the ford taurus over the camry.

now , if i remember correctly , the camry costs about 4000 or so more
in initial costs. essentially , it means that you spend about 4000 extra
on repairs on the taurus. that is ridiculous. every time your car
needs repairs , it is extra hassles , loss of time and a dozen other things.
i would much rather spend 5000 more in initial costs than spend 4000 more
in repair costs.


8 cut here for signature ! 8
balaji ramanathan ,
institute of transportation studies , i do n't believe in luck !
university of california , irvine. i rely on it ! !

from sprec j@acsu.buffalo.edu (joel sprechman )
subject cleaning eurowiper boots \?
organization ub
lines 15
nntp posting host autarch.acsu.buffalo.edu

i have the eurowiper boots in white and had to throw away the first pair
since i found no way of cleaning them after they looked almost black. now
i have my second pair of white ones and once again they are dirty. i need
a way to clean them w o removing them since i had to cut them to remove
them , is there a way \? or should i just buy black ones \?
thanks
joel


joel sprechman sprec j@acsu.buffalo.edu
university at buffalo v069pff7@ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu

it 's not a black white thing , it 's a homosapian thing
it takes a big man to cry , and an even bigger man to laugh at that man
jack handy

from conradie@firga.sun.ac.za (gerrit conradie)
subject re dealer cheated me with wrong odometer reading. need help !
organization university of stellenbosch , sa
distribution usa
lines 26

in article 1qvrnpinnnid@shelley.u.washington.edu yongje@hardy.u.washington.edu (yong je lim) writes
subject dealer cheated me with wrong odometer reading. need help !

here is a story. i bought a car about two weeks ago. i finally can
get hold of the previous owner of the car and got all maintanence
history of the car. in between '91 and '92 , the instrument pannel
of the car has been replaced and the odometer also has been reset
to zero. therefore , the true meter reading is the reading before
replacement plus current mileage. that shows 35000 mile difference
comparing to the mileage on the odometer disclosure from. the
dealer never told me anything about that important story.

i hope that i can return the car with full refund. do u think this
is possible \? does anyone have similar experiences \? any comments
will be appreciated. thanks.

something that happened in south africa about a year ago a dealer sold a
mercedes with an odometer reading of 150k kilometers to a lady. turned out
that the actual reading should have been 160k. court case followed because
lady said she would n't have bought a car with that much km 's. dealer found
quilty , fined and had to take back the car.

i think you have a case if you can get a sworn statement from the previous
owner. take the car back to the dealer and threaten him or something.

gerrit

from crh@regent.e technik.tu muenchen.dbp.de (christian huebner)
subject re manual shift bigots
organization technical university of munich , germany
lines 33

in rec.autos you write

if ayrton senna can drive a racecar with fully automatic transmission ,
it ca n't be half bad.. )

this mclaren auto transmission (i still think it 's only half auto ,
but you may be right) has nothing to do with your gm , chrysler , volvo ,
or whatever auto transmission. it 's a normal manual transmission
gearbox with clutch and all , but there are servo motors , which do
the shifting.

that means , there is no power loss in the drivetrain (if you take out
minimal mechanical friction) , and the sami auto transmissions
(ferrari , williams , mclaren( \? ) , ...) do n't tell you , when to shift ,
either. however , these transmissions share an important disadvantage
with your stock auto trannie they are expensive.

as long as these servo shifted gearboxes are n't available on
'normal' cars i'm gonna stick with my manual. i just ca n't see an
advantage to make up for two grand i lose in this deal and the
loss in mileage and power (except maybe in real heavy traffic). but
then i drive mostly on the autobahn and country roads anyway.

there 's no point in making a religion out of this , i just wanted to
point out a few technical facts and my own opinion , so there 's
no need for a flame war.

eliot

have a safe ride

chris


from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re most bang for 13k
organization lehigh university
lines 41

in article 1993apr17.014638.56998@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu , rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (r
obert william fusi) writes
in article 23056.74.uupcb@cutting.hou.tx.us , david.bonds@cutting.hou.tx.us (d
a
vid bonds) writes
in rec.autos , cpkjp@vm.cc.latech.edu (kevin parker) writes
i 'd like to get some feedback on a car with most bang for the buck in the
13000 to 16 , 000 price range. i'm looking for a car with enough civility to b
e
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to fe
e
l

take a look at a '91 taurus sho they can be found for 13k , and are the
ultimate in 4 door sports cars. performance similar to a mustang , but
quite civil and comfortable... try to get a late model 91 for the better
shifter.




the cutting edge bbs (cutting.hou.tx.us) a pcboard 14.5a system
houston , texas , usa 1.713.466.1525 running uupcb

well , you could always go with a 5.0 mustang lx with a pleasant v8 , but the
diamond star cars (talon eclipse laser) put out 190 hp in the turbo models ,
and 195 hp in the awd turbo models , these cars also have handling to match
the muscle , and are civil in regular driving conditions , rather than having a
harsh , stiff ride....the awd turbo is clearly the better choice of the two
(because of all that torque steer on the front drive model) , but you may have
to go with a leftover or slightly used model for that price range....tough
decision...

rob fusi
rwf2@lehigh.edu


car and driver did a test with the same basic idea and chose the ford probe
gt (5sp of course)



from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re lh workmanship
article i.d. cactus.1993apr15.221421.21839
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 30

in article 1993apr15.203750.25764@walter.bellcore.com jchen@ctt.bellcore.com writes
i just visited the ny auto show , and saw two lh cars on the floor eagle
vision and dodge intrepid.

really nice i must say. very attractive styling , lots of features and room ,
at a competitive price.

unfortunately , the workmanship is quite disappointing. on both cars ,
the rubber seals around the window and door fell off. it turns out
the seals are just big grooved rubber band. it goes on just by pressing
the groove against the tongue on the door frame. surely it would come
off easily.

lack of build quality was the thing i notced on the first 2 lh 's i
saw months back. the panel gaps were large and non uniform between
the 2 cars i saw the kind of thing you expect and accept on a
mustang but not from chrysler 's savior. i drove one of the low
end cars , and thought it was more than adequate. i 'd prefer
an lh to a taurus from my brief experience.

craig


i am not sure how many of this kind of pooring engineering assembly
problems that will show up later.

i may still consider buying it , but only when it establishes a good
track record.

jason chen

from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re too fast
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 7

in article 3090@shaman.wv.tek.com andrew@frip.wv.tek.com writes
so is cocaine. what 's your point \?

that neither is harmful when used carefully \?




from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re sho and sc
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 16

in article c5l8re.28@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
why anyone would order an sho with an automatic transmission is
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a
regular taurus and leave the sho to real drivers. that is not to
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick (eg
disabled persons) , but they are n't in any position to use an
sho anyway.

actually , disabled persons have been known to drive in scca
races. i 'd be careful about making sweeping generalizations here.

i 'd prefer a manual transmission , but the early sho had an
awful transmission that felt like it came out of a truck or something.
it was almost enough to make me want an automatic.

teddy

from kenyon@xqzmoi.enet.dec.com (doug kenyon (stardog champion))
subject re integra gsr (really about other cars)
reply to kenyon@xqzmoi.enet.dec.com (doug kenyon (stardog champion))
organization digital equipment corporation
lines 13


it 's great that all these other cars can out handle , out corner , and out
accelerate an integra.

but , you 've got to ask yourself one question do all these other cars have
a moonroof with a sliding sunshade \? no wimpy pop up sunroofs or power
sliding roofs that are opaque. a moonroof that can be opened to the air ,
closed to let just light in , or shaded so that nothing comes in.

you 've just got to know what 's important ).

doug
'93 integra gs

from daz1@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (demosthenis a. zeppos)
subject re integra gsr
article i.d. ns1.1993apr5.234729.100387
organization lehigh university
lines 67

in article 3mwf2b1w165w@njcc.wisdom.bubble.org , jonc@njcc.wisdom.bubble.org (j
on cochran) writes
i 'd like to add the beretta gtz as a car which will kick gs r butt
anyday , and it 's a lot cheaper to boot

i will take this one with a definate grain of salt. performance data shows a

if this poster has some proof(other than my friend blew one away last week


want proof \? here is some data on acceleration and handling from
motor trend (apr '93).

integra gs r beretta gtz

0 60 7.7 7.7
1 4 mile 16.0 88.1 16.1 87.8
l acc (g 's) .84 .86
slalom 63.7 68.4
wrong
why do n't you look again at motor trend 's , slalom times , they are 67.9 , right
along with the integra , and the car does that with small 14 inch tires that
are all weather xgtv4 , not to mention that the integra rides alot better than
a beretta.
your acceleartion times also vary , magazine to magazine
road track and car driver have the gs r at 6.8 to 8.0 for road and track.
also quarter mile times vary from 15.4 to 16.1
you ca n't tell exactly by the numbers. furthermore , the integra will
definately outrun the beretta on the high end. car driver and road track
have the gs r doing 136 to 141 mph , and it gets there fast.


so , the beretta can out handle the integra and it can certainly keep
up with it in acceleration. and the beretta probably has a higher top
speed due to the horsepower advantage (160 117 (hp torque) for the
integra vs. 180 160 for the beretta).
you always believe those exact numbers , why do n't you drive a gs r , and see
for your self , while the gs r has a low 117 torqye , its high gearing over a 8000
rpm make up for the difference (still would n't call it a torque moster though ! )

the biggest advantage would have to be the price. the integra costs
19 , 111 (as tested motor trend) , the gtz costs 16 , 134 (as tested). the
gtz also has standard nicities and airbag and antilock brakes. an airbag
is not available on the integra and lower models do not have abs.
considering you save almost 3 , 000 dollars for the beretta , and the quad4
is a reliable engine , it does n't make sense to get the integra as a
performance coupe , which is what people have been trying to make it out
to be.


quad 4 reliable , yeah , what 's your definition of reliable if that 's reliable ,
then its safe to say that integra engines in general are near perfect
(not to mention , a hell of alot smoother and quieter balance shafts.the acura has the engine
wins the reliablity contest hands down. you can rev that car all day , everyday ,
and you 'll never blow a hose , or crack the block , or anything else. (i speak
from expierence ! )
i'm not saying the quad 4 is a bad engine , but do n't highlight reliability when you
comparing it to a acura engine. and while the integra costs alot more , it is a
better investment since it will hold its value considerably much better. and
does a nice job at being a sporty car and practical at the same time.

note this is n't a flame on the gtz , or other gm quad 4 products. the berreta
is a nice car , and puts out respectable performance and a very reasonable
price not to mention , it has an airbag. but to start quoting figures from one
source , is n't too reliable. read other sources , and drive both cars. while i
have n't driven a gtz , i have driven gts , and grand ams with quad 4 engines ,
(so they are similair.)

from ernie@.cray.com (ernest smith)
subject re aftermarket a c units
originator ernie@ferris
lines 34
nntp posting host ferris.cray.com
organization cray research , inc.
distribution usa


in article 1qcaueinnmt8@axon.cs.unc.edu andrew brandt writes
i looked into getting a c installed on my 1987 honda crx si.
the unit is 875 plus shipping , installation is like 5 1 2 hours on
top of that. this is a hunk of change.

does anyone know any place that does aftermarket a c installation
(not with a honda a c unit , but some third party unit).

i cannot seem to find anyone who can put a third party a c unit in a
honda. i am in no carolina , so i would prefer some place nearby , but
any references would be handy.

thx , andy (brandt@cs.unc.edu)

les bartel 's comments
sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to
make concerning aftermarket a c units. i have a frost king or frost temp
(forget which) aftermarket unit on my cavalier , and am quite unhappy with
it. the fan is noisy , and does n't put out much air. i will never have
an aftermarket a c installed in any of my vehicles again. i just ca n't
trust the quality and performance after this experience.

les


les bartel i'm going to live forever

let me add my .02 in. i had a a c installed by the ford garage and it did not
work as well as the a c that was installed by the factory in pickups
identical to mine. i have talked to other people that have had the same
result. do n't know if this is just a probable with ford or what \? \?

ernie smith

from danmg@grok85.columbiasc.ncr.com (daniel adams)
subject re bmw 3 series for 94 \?
nntp posting host grok85.columbiasc.ncr.com
reply to dan@grok85.columbiasc.ncr.com
organization ncr corporation
lines 19

in article 1qll56innp9r@uwm.edu , qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (aamir hafeez qazi) writes
from article eabu288 140493210752@dialin33635.slip.nts.uci.edu , by eabu288@orion.oac.uci.edu (alvin)

is there going to be a bmw 328 in 1994 \?

could be. is n't the 2.5 liter six supposed to be enlarged to 2.8 liters
in the not too distant future \?


makes sense , since the new mercedes benz engines go from 2.2l 4 to a 2.8l 6.
nothing in between. btw , i beleive the numbers on those mb engines are
156 and 225 hp respectively. the one upmanship in hp might induce bmw
to create a larger six. also , the 2.6 190e has lagged behind the 3 er
2.5 for some time wrt hp. i am sure the bavarians would n't want to be
shown up by the schwabians.

ps those mb engines have n't been released over here yet.

daniel

from jkjec@westminster.ac.uk (shazad barlas)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization university of westminster
distribution usa
lines 8

dumbest options \? well here in the uk , bmw offer a 'no smokers' option...
it just means they take the fag lighter out.... big deal....

btw i just bought a honda crx f1..... its neat... did consider an mr2 targa ,
mx5 (you guys call it miata \? ).... but that crx just one my heart with that
body kit and 8 spokes....

ps is richard out there somewhere \?

from bh@anarres.cs.berkeley.edu (brian harvey)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 15
nntp posting host anarres.cs.berkeley.edu
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers

rfelix@netcom.com (robbie felix) writes
how about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local
agencies to help children , seniors , the homeless \?

hear , hear ! thanks , robbie.

you also do n't read that much about violence against teenagers , such as
george bush burying alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year olds ,
who were trying to surrender , with bulldozers.


on the other hand , i think it is true , without singling out teenagers
for blame , that violence is more socially acceptable than it used to be.
those of us who 'd like to discourage violence have plenty of work to do
with people of all ages.

from eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re top 10 reasons why i love cr (not for the humor impaired)
article i.d. engr.apr06.203257.20048
distribution na
organization clearer than blir
lines 15
nntp posting host 192.42.145.4

in article 1993apr6.194738.20021@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes

blah blah blah

ok if you are so right , name a few good examples that were brought up.


let 's create a new group rec.autos.cr is right no its not yes it is oh yeah
my father can lick your father .......


)


eliot

from matmcinn@nuscc.nus.sg (matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization national university of singapore
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 9

callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your
alarm \? i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun.

i think people have a right to kill to defend their property. why not \? be
honest do you really care more about scum than about your car \?

from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re license plates
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 16
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu




in a previous article , edf003@marshall.wvnet.edu () says

hi , i'm interested in getting the list for license plate numbers. if anyone
has a listing i 'd appreciate getting a copy of it. thanks !

you must be incredibly bored. have you considered reading the phone book \?



dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from grady@world.std.com (dick grady)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 10

in article 0w2z2b1w164w@cellar.org blu@cellar.org (dan reed) writes
fact is , i just leave the valet key in my glovebox for whenever
i need it...

that will make it easy for a car thief.
saves him her the trouble of popping your ignition !


dick grady salem , nh , usa grady@world.std.com
so many newsgroups , so little time !

from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re dumb options list
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 21
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) says

the idea here is to list pointless options. you know , stuff you
(can) get on a car that has no earthly use \?

1) a fitting that allows you to generate household current with
the engine running , and plug ins in the trunk , engine compartment
and cabin.

feel free to add on...

regards , charles
x

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

)

from kak@hico2.westmark.com (kris a. kugel)
subject storing a car long term
keywords tires cars storage
article i.d. hico2.c50myy.4ew
reply to kak@hico2.westmark.com
organization high country software
lines 16

i bought a car with a defunct engine , to use for parts
for my old but still running version of the same car.

the car i bought has good tires.

is there anything in particular that i should do to
store the defunct car long term \? i 'd hate to have
parts of it go bad. someone has told me it 's bad
for the tires to not move the car once in a while.
is this true \? do i need some props to take the
weight of the tires \?

best to reply by mail , i am getting spotty news delivery.

kris a. kugel 908 842 2707
hico2 ! kak kak@hico2.westmark.com

from tspila@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tim spila romulan )
subject re auto air conditioning without freon
distribution usa
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 9

in article 1993apr21.034751.23512@ntuix.ntu.ac.sg mgqlu@ntuix.ntu.ac.sg (max lu) writes
we are working on gas solid adsorption air con system for auto applications.
in this kind of system , the energy for regenerating the adsorbent is from
the exhaust gas. anyone interested in this mail email me or follow up this
thread , we may have a discussion on prospects of this technology.

ok , i 'll bite. how is this supposed to work \?

tim.

from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 32

in article 1993apr17.051701.3419@nuscc.nus.sg matmcinn@nuscc.nus.sg (matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal) writes
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your
alarm \? i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun.

i think people have a right to kill to defend their property. why not \? be
honest do you really care more about scum than about your car \?

yo ! watch the attributions i did n't say that !

again , this is n't an appropriate forum for discussions on whether you
should shoot someone for property damage vandalism theft , but every
responsible gun owner realizes that there are limits , and the punishment
must fit the crime. i mean , think about it is a (really) harmless
prank worth killing over \?

as i said , the situation described (punks setting off alarms and
taunting people to come out) could turn very ugly very quickly , and
it is worth being prepared when your life is potentially on the line.

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan)
subject re are bmw 's worth the price \?
organization loral software productivity laboratory
lines 18

sure sounds like they got a ringer. the 325is i drove was definitely
faster than that. if you want to quote numbers , my aw autofile shows
0 60 in 7.4 , 1 4 mile in 15.9. it quotes car and driver 's figures
of 6.9 and 15.3. oh , btw , these numbers are for the 325i.

car and driver rated the 325is (1988) at 7.2 0 60 , 1 4 at 15.2 (after 30k miles) last time i checked 8 .

automobile magazine rated new 325is 1 4 mile@16.2.

gee , aint quotiin funner than the dickens !

sounds like we need a race. i 'll let you have the newer version. can someone out there lend me a 1988 325is for a day 8 . i wont hurt it , i promise.

i do n't know how the addition of variable valve timing for 1993 affects it.
but do n't take my word for it. go drive it.

actually i will take your word on it. i refuse to test it (new 325is) because
i love bmw 's and would probably want to buy it. problem is , my income just does n't support that.

from eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re mr2 noisy engine.
organization clearer than blir
lines 20
nntp posting host lanmola.engr.washington.edu

in article 1r1vofinn871@usenet.pa.dec.com tomacj@opco.enet.dec.com (thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) writes
are there any mr2 owners or motor head gurus out there , that know why
my mr2 's engine sounds noisy \? the mr2 's engine is noisy at the best of times ,
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very ugly noises.

assuming yours is a non turbo mr2 , the gruffness is characteristic of
a large inline 4 that does n't have balance shafts. i guess toyota
did n't care about little details like that when they can brag about
the mid engine configuration and the flashy styling.

myself , i automatically cross out any car from consideration (or
recommendation) which has an inline 4 larger than 2 liters and no
balance shafts.. it is a good rule of thumb to keep in mind if you
ever want a halfway decent engine.

if the noise really bugs you , there is nothing else that you can do
except to sell it and get a v6.


eliot

from lmann@jjmhome.uucp (laurie mann)
subject clothing (was re male female mystery re dumbest automotive... )
lines 41

in article 1pima2inn180@gap.caltech.edu , wen king@cs.caltech.edu (wen king su) writes
this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put
their keys in their pants pockets like men do \? i have two pockets on the
back of each of my pants. i put my keys in one and wallent in another.
many of the pockets even have a botton on them so i can close them securely.
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same \?
is is biological (ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus keys and
a wallet) or is it the way they are raised by the parents \?

oh pulleeze !

it 's not biology at all , it 's clothing design. women 's clothing is
generally designed to be as non functional as possible. it 's only been
in the last five years or so that you could buy women 's pants with
pockets deep enough to carry anything in. previously , deep pockets were
virtually unknown in women 's clothing. skirts generally have better
pockets now , too. dresses , espcially fancy dresses , are still pretty
hopeless. i often hand my driver 's license over to my husband if we 're
dressed up to go out somewhere , so i do n't have to be encumbered by a
purse.

if women consistently bought functional clothing , and boycotted the
manufacturers who refuse to make functional women 's clothing , i think
manufacturers would tend to bow to market pressures. there 's
an interesting chapter in susan faludi 's backlash that described
what happened the last time clothing manufacturers ignored the
need for functional women 's clothing. the manufactuing industry
lost millions.

from a woman who would rather buy men 's clothing with decent pockets and
long legs and high waists than women 's clothing without....







lmann@jjmhome.uucp (internet) laurie.mann (genie)
claiming that sex education leads to irresponsible sex is like
claiming that driver education leads to car accidents.

from kimata@convex.com (hiroki kimata)
subject re open letter to nissan
distribution na
nntp posting host zeppelin.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 43

in 1qideqinnl79@sumax.seattleu.edu smorris@sumax.seattleu.edu (steven a. morris) writes

hey , nissan , why are n't you guys making any station wagons \? you used
to make a wagon on every platform (sentra , stanza , maxima) and now
none at all.

in fact , they make some , but they just do n't sell them here in u.s.

sunny california is a 1.6l wagon based on sentra.
avenil is a 2.0l 4wd 2wd wagon .(it looks like infinity g20
but actually it 's independently designed to be a wagon.i mean , it 's
not based on any sedans.)

nissan had better consider to sell them here.

after buying my se r and really loving it , i would like to buy another
nissan product for my wife but prefer a wagon (i 've owned minivans
and do n't prefer them.)

how about an altima wagon \? or a sentra wagon would do...

sounds nice. but i doubt they have a plan. coz avenil was introduced
to replace any sedan based wagon.

or , here 's an even better suggestion , why do n't you guys go ahead and
buy the rest of fuji heavy industries (subaru) and put either an
in line 4 or v 6 into the legacy 4wd wagon. i 'd buy the legacy in a
minute if it had a nissan engine instead of the horizontal 4 that they
seem sentimentally attached to.

with all the camry , accord , taurus , volvo and subaru wagons out there
it 's got to be a market segment that would be worthwhile !

i can wait a year or two but if you do n't have something to compete
by the 1995 model i may have to go elsewhere.

thanks.


steve morris , m.a. internet smorris@sumax.seattleu.edu
addiction studies pgm uucp uw beaver , uunet ! gtenmc ! dataio ! sumax ! smorris
seattle university phone (206) 296 5350 (dept) or 296 5351 (direct)
seattle , wa 98122

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions.
organization university of virginia
lines 2

good luck.


from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re best radar detector \? \? \?
organization lehigh university
lines 38

in article 1993apr10.013011.808@lrc.edu , burnside br@lrc.edu writes
in article 1993apr6.225034.7184@opencon.com , giand@opencon.com (deepak s. gia
nchandani) writes
mubashir cheema

do n't buy one , that is the best way to avoid tickets ,
i used to have one and whenever a cop would pull me over , see
the thing , give me a ticket. one time my sister was driving ,
and had it in the glove compartment , it was broken , and she
got a ticket. in 1987 , i had received 4 tickets because of
it , one for my sister (so a total of five).

that was five years ago , now i do n't have one and have not
gotten a ticket. my driving habits have not changed
drastically. only two days ago i was going 77 mph on highway
with 55 mph limit , cop saw me , i break a little , nothing
happened (i was driving a mini van , with my family in it).
otherwise , i have cutlass supreme , which i do 70 most of the
times on the highway.

so basically my opnion is not to get one , if you do get pulled
over , the cop will hear your excuse , but if you have a radar
detecter , he will not. (again , this has been my experienc


just get a remote model that is not visible to the cop. but , be sure to get
front and rear sensors...

you can also just put the detector off to the side on the dash so the cop
does n't see it right away...valentine is the best detector by far (as stated
by car and driver) and even tells you what direction the radar is coming from.
it also gives the amount of threats it is picking up , so if you go through
the same place everyday , and it always goes off there , you can glance at the
number of threats the valentine is detecting to see if it is a genuine cop.
it 's about 300 and you can only get it factory direct..one problem.
rob fusi
rwf2@lehigh.edu


from matmcinn@nuscc.nus.sg (matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization national university of singapore
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 12

mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee) writes
significantly less than the value of many automobiles. and for those who will
argue that the animals out there stealing cars and everything else (not to
mention committing completely senseless acts of violence , such as rape) cannot
be valued in terms of money because they are human beings , i submit that they
are not human beings. jim callison , i think , is on the right track. and

absolutely. a scratch on my car bothers me more than the death of any
number of scum. all of you feel the same way you just wo n't admit it.
when are people going to realise that the mere fact that a piece of flesh
moves and has the approximate shape of a human being does not in itself
mean that it has rights \?

from bmoss@grinch.sim.es.com (brent woody moss)
subject re changing oil by self.
keywords n
nntp posting host 130.187.200.5
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut
distribution usa
lines 26

in article 1993apr15.160922.8797@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu , sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin) writes

in article 1993apr15.135514.29579@cbnewsj.cb.att.com rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com
(ronald.j.deblock..jr) writes

you can avoid these problems entirely by installing an oil drain valve in
place of the bolt. i have one on both of my cars. there have been no
leaks in 210 , 000 miles (combined miles on both cars).

yes , but then someone would have no problem draining your oil in a parking lot.

all they have to do is reach underneath , turn a valve , and forget the trip
home.
but there is less likelyhood they have a wrench with them.

i personally recommend , installing a 'special' locking drain plug to keep
vandals away. )

steve

i was worried about someone stealing my oil once also. i finally
decided to just have my drain plug welded shut. it works great !
i figure that when i add three or four quarts when the oil light
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000 miles.
works for me , i must say.

from mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 35

matmcinn@nuscc.nus.sg (matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal) writes

callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your
alarm \? i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun.

i think people have a right to kill to defend their property. why not \? be
honest do you really care more about scum than about your car \?

i ca n't tell if matt is being sarcastic here or not , but to be honest , many
automobiles are worth far more to their owners (in value and investment)
than the people that would take them. i do n't have figures on average property
tax in the u.s. or how much of it is allocated for housing projects , inferior
public schools , jails , or the like , but i have a feeling that the amount the
government steals from an honest , productive citizen to breed this trash is
significantly less than the value of many automobiles. and for those who will
argue that the animals out there stealing cars and everything else (not to
mention committing completely senseless acts of violence , such as rape) cannot
be valued in terms of money because they are human beings , i submit that they
are not human beings. jim callison , i think , is on the right track. and
chintan amin remarked earlier that we cannot blame environment for the actions
of a single criminal. i could n't agree more. one could trace any crime back
to the environment upbringing of the criminal should we let all of them out ,
from pickpockets to rapists to inside traders , because what they did was n't
their fault \? where does one draw the line \?

0.02

michael t. chaffee
mchaffee@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu email
mchaffee@sumter.cso.uiuc.edu nextmail
.sig under construction. excuse

from zorro@picasso.ocis.temple.edu (john grabowski)
subject re taurus sable rotor recall
organization temple university
lines 23
nntp posting host picasso.ocis.temple.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

antonio l. balsamo (save the wails) (balsamo@stargl.enet.dec.com) wrote

from opdbs@vm.cc.latech.edu
subject taurus sable rotor recall

my '92 taurus gl with only 26k on the clock also has rotor warp.
apparently they haven't fixed the problem yet. but try convincing the ford
service person to fix it for free...right ! ! !

tony


gads , i have heard so many horror stories with taurus and sable cars ! i thought
these were premium american automobiles. the way they sell , you 'd think so.
is ford really no better than in the late '70s when it was turning out tin
cans like the granada and the fairmount \? which would you get , a taurus or
a camry or accord \?


john
zorro@picasso.ocis.temple.edu
zorro@astro.ocis.temple.edu


from mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu (michael j. edelman)
subject re saturn 's pricing policy
organization wayne state university
lines 21
distribution world
reply to mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu
nntp posting host pookie.pass.wayne.edu

i just ordered a saturn sl1 after considering a few imports. frankly , the saturn
way of doing business and service was a very big plus. i had n't bought a new
car since i bought my honda 4wd back in '85 , and i was unbelieveably offended by
most salespeople i met.

saturn was indeed very different. i made three different visits to the dealer where
i bought my car , and was never pressured. saturn also had the best after sales
support , and the fixed pricing made it very easy for me to decide exactly what
i wanted to buy. another big selling point was running into my mechanic at the
dealer. he 's been fixing imports for 20 years...and bought a saturn , based on
what he 's seen and heard from his customers.

saturn also has a good extended warranty program 675 for 6 year 60k miles ,
fully refunded if you do n't use it. that works out to an actual cost of 170 or
so , based on the 6 year treasury rates. using savings account rates it 's more
like 120. in the first three years it also buys you free rental during any
warranty work , without counting against the refund.

mike



from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject rec.autos automotive mailing lists
keywords monthly posting
reply to welty@balltown.cma.com
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 01 03 gmt
lines 166

archive name rec autos part2

automotive mailing lists (electronic mail , that is)

last updated 3 17 93 new lotus , exotic cars list subscription info
added portland , or motorsports list , corvair list , triumph tr8 list rpw

there are a number of electronic mailing lists on the network devoted to
various special automotive topics.

to the best of my knowledge , all the lists appearing here have open
membership policies. it is my policy not to list `closed' mailing lists
here.

most mailing lists provide separate addresses for administrative
queries and for general mail where separate administrative
addresses exist , i have listed those below , as the general addresses
are not appropriate for inquirys and requests.

audi
(send requests to quattro request@aries.east.sun.com)

autocross solo
(send requests to autox request@hoosier.cs.utah.edu)

bmw
(send requests to bmw request@balltown.cma.com
both regular and digest forms available)

british cars
(send requests to british cars request@hoosier.cs.utah.edu)

buick grand national regal gnx
(send requests to gnttype request@srvsn2.monsanto.com)

camaro firebird (gm f body)
(send requests to f body request@boogie.ebay.sun.com)

corvair
(send requests to bryan@pegasus.mitre.org)

corvettes
there are two lists the first is more of a competition oriented
list , and the second is more general in nature (or so i am told)

competition
(send requests to vettes request@cimage.com)
general
(send requests to vettes request@compaq.com)

datsun fairlady roadsters
(send requests to datsun roadsters request@hoosier.cs.utah.edu)

dodge stealth mitsubishi 3000gt
(send requests to stealth req jim.uucp@wupost.wustl.edu)

eclipse talon laser
(send requests to diginst ! talon request@radius.com)

electric vehicles
(send requests to info ev request@ymir.claremont.edu)

exotic cars
(send requests to exotic cars request@sol.asl.hitachi.com)

fabrication (race cars)
(send requests to racefab request@pms706.pms.ford.com)

international harvester (discussion of scouts , pickups , etc.)
(send requests to ihc request@balltown.cma.com)

italian cars
(send requests to italian cars request@balltown.cma.com
both regular and digest forms available)

hondas
listserv@brownvm.brown.edu use standard listserv subscription
procedure the mail message body to listserv should be
sub honda l your real name with no subject line in the header

hot rods
(send requests to hotrod request@dixie.com)

land rovers
(send requests to land rover owner request@stratus.com)

lotus
(send requests to lotus cars request@netcom.com)

mazdas
(send requests to mazda list request@ms.uky.edu)

miata
listserv@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu use standard listserv subscription
procedure the mail message body to listserv should be
sub miata your real name with no subject line in the header

merkurs
(send requests to merkur request@pcad.uucp)

mopar
(mostly high performance chrysler , dodge , plymouth products.
send requests to mopar@casbah.acns.nwu.edu)

mr2
(send requests to mr2 interest request@validgh.com)

mustangs
there are two lists , the first is for mustangs through 1973 ,
the second for mustangs from 1980 on. nobody cares about
the mustang ii , so do n't ask.

classic
(send requests to classic mustangs request@hpfctjc.fc.hp.com)
modern
(send requests to mustangs request@cup.hp.com)

offroad 4x4
(send requests to offroad request@ai.gtri.gatech.edu)

porsches
(send requests to porschephiles request@tta.com)

portland , oregon motorsports activities
(send requests to pdxracer request@reed.edu)

rally
(send requests to rally request@stratus.com)

rx7
(send requests to jjn@cblpf.att.com)

saabs
(send requests to saab@network.mhs.compuserve.com)

saturn
(send requests to saturn request@oar.net)

school (high performance driving schools)
(send requests to school request@balltown.cma.com)

sentra se r , g20 , n2000
(send requests to se r request@pencom.com)

supras
(send requests to supras request@vicor.com)

toyota
(send requests to toyota request@quack.sac.ca.us)

triumph tr7 v8 , tr8
(send requests to jtc@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu)

volvos
(requests to swedishbricks request@me.rochester.edu)

wheel to wheel racing
(forum for race drivers , workers , crew , and wannabes
send requests to wheeltowheel request@abingdon.sun.com)

z cars (nissan datsun)
(send requests to z car request@dixie.com)

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re changing oil by self.rist , another dealer service scam...
organization megatest corporation
lines 25

in article 1qk5m9 pbe@news.ysu.edu ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker) writes

i was worried about someone stealing my oil once also. i finally
decided to just have my drain plug welded shut. it works great !
i figure that when i add three or four quarts when the oil light
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000 miles.
works for me , i must say.


i did the same thing to my drain plug for the same reasons. i was wondering
how you filled your crankcase though as i welded my hood shut also out of fear
that somebody might steal my air filter.

oh come on , silly , all you have to do is cut a hole in your hood and
put a tube there so you can get to the oil fill hole. what do you
think all those big air intake things are for on those hot rod cars \?
they 're just for looks only...little does anyone know , they provide
access to the oil fill hole.

well , over where we live , we have problems with vandals stealing
people 's wheels. those locking nuts did n't stop them. so to be
safe and sure , i welded the lug nuts to my wheels together. it
works , serious ! i have n't had my wheels stolen yet !
.

from hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
organization chicago home for the morally challenged
distribution usa
keywords bad drivers
lines 27


i agree that if traffic is all blocked up and you want to pass , you might
not feel like moving over for someone behind you because you do n't want to
give them that one car length , when they should just wait like you are.
but , if you 're one of those people that just sit 's behind the person , and
does n't flash them with the high beams , or pull left and flash them , or
ride their bumper , or otherwise tell them that you do in fact want to
go by , and you 're not just drafting them , then get the hell out of the
way of someone who will ! i especially hate it when you flash someone at
the back of a line and they do n't 'pass it on'.
and there 's also the issue of some cars being more intimidating to get
people out of the way than others... (for instance '85 '86 gts look
pretty mean in a rearview mirror at night with the foglights on... )
there have been plenty of times when i 've broken up a pack that a
second in line hyundai has been behind for miles... you just need to
know how to get their attention...


i 'd like to see you use this method on a couple of semi drivers. if they see you ,
they usually acknowledge by sticking their hand out the window with their middle
finger extended. because it is also obvious to them that there is no clear lane
ahead.



h.h.m.


from drew@kinglear.cs.colorado.edu (drew eckhardt)
subject re changing oil by self.
keywords n
nntp posting host kinglear.cs.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado at boulder
distribution usa
lines 27

in article 1993apr15.160922.8797@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin) writes

in article 1993apr15.135514.29579@cbnewsj.cb.att.com rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com
(ronald.j.deblock..jr) writes

you can avoid these problems entirely by installing an oil drain valve in
place of the bolt. i have one on both of my cars. there have been no
leaks in 210 , 000 miles (combined miles on both cars).

yes , but then someone would have no problem draining your oil in a parking lot.

all they have to do is reach underneath , turn a valve , and forget the trip
home.

most cars have drain petcocks in the radiators , and i 've never
seen nor heard of a vandal opening one. i imagine that there
would be an even lower risk with an oil plug because you have
to crawl furthur under the car to open it.

car vandals are usually real traditional in their methods , and do things
that do n't get them dirty , like keying your car , dumping sand , sugar
or mothballs in the gas tank , tping it , etc.


boycott usl novell for their absurd anti bsdi lawsuit. drew eckhardt
condemn colorado for amendment two. drew@cs.colorado.edu
use linux , the fast , flexible , and free 386 unix

from jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen)
subject re integra gsr
article i.d. magnus.1993apr6.143853.11641
organization the ohio state university
lines 17
nntp posting host photon.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

in article 1993apr6.035020.16730@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
miles , a rare screw up by honda.
both the gtz and gsr are flawed cars. the performance enthusiasts would take
the gtz and the cr purchase would be the gsr.



the cr purchase would be the ford probe gt.

john



john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder

from sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin)
subject re changing oil by self.
keywords n
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution usa
lines 16

in article 1993apr15.170720.8538@colorado.edu drew@kinglear.cs.colorado.edu (
drew eckhardt) writes

most cars have drain petcocks in the radiators , and i 've never
seen nor heard of a vandal opening one. i imagine that there
would be an even lower risk with an oil plug because you have
to crawl furthur under the car to open it.

car vandals are usually real traditional in their methods , and do things
that do n't get them dirty , like keying your car , dumping sand , sugar
or mothballs in the gas tank , tping it , etc.

usually....go enough places and you 'll see stuff happen you did n't think did.


steve

from dje@bmw535.nosubdomain.nodomain (don eilenberger)
subject re do trains have radar \?
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
lines 30

in article 1993apr13.111652@usho72.hou281.chevron.com , hhtra@usho72.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes


while taking an extended easter vacation , i was going north on i 45
somewhere between centerville , tx and dallas , tx and i came upon a
train parked on a trestle with its locomotive sitting directly over
the northbound lanes. there appeared to be movement within the cab
and out of curiosity i slowed to 85 to get a better look. just as i
passed from underneath the trestle , my radar detector went into full
alert all lights lit and all chirps , beeps , and buzzes going strong.
i thought i had been nailed good but no police materialized.

could this have been caused by the train 's radio or what \?


travis

boy , travis..

were you lucky ! ! .. you went under the new texas rangers
stealth patrol car ! good thing you slowed down !

newsgroups rec.autos
distribution world
references 1993apr13.111652@usho72.hou281.chevron.com
from dje@bmw535.nosubdomain.nodomain (don eilenberger)
organization
subject re do trains have radar \?
keywords

from tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen)
subject re top 10 reasons why i love cr (not for the humor impaired)
organization software metrics inc.
distribution na
lines 19

chints@iscs.nus.sg writes
here are another ten reasons why we should all love cr
10. car salesmen love their new car buying service
...
7. car salesmen rec.auto readers turned into expert statistics critics
...
5. lucky owners of cr unreliable cars who say mine never had a problem
4. those same owners joining the sceptics a few months later
3. and later subscribing to cr and taking it soooo seriously
2. and later on buying a cr idealized family sedan

and my number 1

1. the spectacle of the religious fervour of the cr true believers .


tom haapanen tomh@metrics.com software metrics inc waterloo , ont
stick your index fingers into both corners of your mouth. now pull
up. that 's how the corrado makes you feel. car , january '93

from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re too fast
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 22

in article 1qmcih dhs@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
they light the highways in texas \? funny , everywhere else i 've been
they only light 'em at junctions.

and armadillo crossings.

texas is pretty much an edge case you ca n't assume that everywhere
has roads in such good condition , such flat terrain , and such
wide open spaces. it just ai n't so.

well , let 's see , in just my own personal experience there 's
nevada , new mexico , texas , wyoming , utah , south dakota , nebraska ,
minnesota , montana , florida , and parts of louisianna.

nobody said let 's go into town and drive 130 on main st.
and you could n't go that fast on the graveled washboard that passes
for highway in some parts. but that only really expensive cars should
be driven fast crap , is , well , crap...

wr



from zdem0a@hgo7.hou.amoco.com (donna martz)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
keywords bad drivers
organization amoco
distribution usa
lines 53

hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo) writes

so , i block the would be passers. not only for my own good ,

but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it.
! ! ! ! ! !
as a rule of philosophy , i do n't feel particularly sorry when somebody gets
offed by his own stupidity , but it does worry me when some idiot is in a
position to cash in my chips , too.
h.h. mayo

zdem0a@hgo7.hou.amoco.com (donna martz) writes
well , are n't we just mr. altruism himself ! ! just what the world needs ,
another frustrated self appointed traffic cop.

hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo) writes
well , if you want to stick the nose of your car up the ass of a 50 foot semi ,
i suppose it 's your neck , however , i'm not going to let you kill me in the
bargain. if you get frustrated by somebody delaying your inevitable death
due to less that wise driving practices , then tough ! ! !

well , i never wrote that i would act as you described. i stated that i
would not block a would be passer. i would not block a would be passer
for their own good or for any reason other than i was prevented from
doing so due to the traffic circumstance. i fail to see how deterring a
passer under these circumstance would in any way decrease your chances
of being involved in an accident , fatal or otherwise. in fact , i could
imagine how blocking a would be passer would actually increase your
chances of being offed or involved in an accident , especially if
this passer is riding your bumper. intentionally blocking a person
riding your bumper is certainly not a wise driving practice , it
only causes the jam to become more congested.

i do n't mess with trucks and i actually watch the road ahead and the
road behind ! if i perceive that i am rapidly closing on a pack
of vehicles , i try to avoid getting caught up in situation such as you
decribe. usually either traffic is just building and i have to deal
with this fact of life , or i wait to a slow passer to complete their
pass and make way for the pack to clear. if someone decides then to
pull up on my bumper , i signal my intention to move to the right , and
do so at the first opportunity ( hope they will open the jam). i
feel this is not only courteous driving , but alot safer than the
actions you advocate ! ! ! there are actually many courteous drivers
on the road who do not intentionally impede others.

if someone in front of me seems to be oblivious to the fact that they
are blocking traffic i use my blinker or flash my lights , or , if all
else fails , will briefly speed up slow down so they might get the
message that i am a faster vehicle trying to pass. i feel it is never
safe to ride anyone 's bumper. if someone is intentionally blocking
traffic , because they feel that it is civil duty or philosophic duty
or for some unfathomable reason , i feel they deserve , at the very least ,
derision. (sorry this is soooooooo long.)

from daniel u. holbrook dh3q @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re did us drive on the left \?
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 28
distribution world
reilly 140493131545@rreilly.fnal.gov
nntp posting host po4.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to reilly 140493131545@rreilly.fnal.gov

rob reilly

whips and their tempers. initially , all cars were built with the driver 's
controls on the right because that 's the way people drove buggies , so the

this is just not so many of the earliest cars had their steering
controls in the center of the vehicle , and there is no discernible
pattern of left or right hand steering controls until a few years into
the 20th century , when , in america at least , left hand wheels became the
pattern. the mule team (or horses , i imagine) explanation , however ,
seems to have some merit.

dan
dh3q@andrew.cmu.edu
carnegie mellon university
applied history

this coffee plunges into the stomach...the mind is aroused , and
ideas pour forth like the battalions of the grand army on the field
of battle.... memories charge at full gallop...the light cavalry
of comparisons deploys itself magnificently the artillery of logic
hurry in with their train of ammunition flashes of wit pop up like
sharp shooters.
honore de balzac , 30 cups day.





from wen king@cs.caltech.edu (wen king su)
subject male female mystery re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization california institute of technology
lines 16
nntp posting host neptune.cs.caltech.edu

in article 1993apr1.191826.28921@iscnvx.lmsc.lockheed.com sharen@iscnvx.lmsc.lockheed.com (sharen a. rund) writes

apparently you 're not a woman my husband hates the auto door locks
features , but forgets that besides families with children , a woman
feels safer in a car that locks easily (in addition to watching around
checking out if anyone 's near me when i get to my car never park
in a secluded spot , etc have my keys ready to open the door so i'm
not fumbling in my purse looking for them ....

this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put
their keys in their pants pockets like men do \? i have two pockets on the
back of each of my pants. i put my keys in one and wallent in another.
many of the pockets even have a botton on them so i can close them securely.
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same \?
is is biological (ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus keys and
a wallet) or is it the way they are raised by the parents \?

from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc)
subject re instead of a saturn sc2 , what \? \? \?
distribution na
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 39

srihari@cirrus.com (srihari shoroff) writes

in ifn spo00iv18 a8nz@andrew.cmu.edu jr4q @andrew.cmu.edu (jason m. roth) writes

r t had an article on cars of the sc1 ilk and they liked the civic ex ,
the escort gt and the mx 3 best of all , and the sc1 was way down the
list except for braking.

i just looked at that article first of all , this summary is inaccurate
of 10 cars , the sc1 was 5th , right behind these mentioned and the suzuki
swift ( ! ). as has been pointed out , it was a semi silly comparison the
saturn was at least 500 cheaper than the mx 3 and escort (admittedly
negligible , but an issue) , and 1500 ( ! )less than the honda. the stated
goal was a base under 12k the honda was 500 over , while the sc2 at
the same price was excluded. in other words , they let the best honda
play , but not the best saturn. note that the saturn did beat the 13k

i dont know about the car comparison but as far as the price goes rest
assured that the street prices for the mx 3 and escort and (maybe) even
the honda will be lesser than that of the saturn you 're talking about.
all price comparisons i 've seen are based on msrp and of course the
saturn dealer will sell the car for sticker price whereas the others
will do it way below sticker.

srihari

i 'd hate to rehash an old thread , but... would someone kindly quote
a prices that a dealer quotes for a civic ex , and escort gt. also , i'm a
assuming that the mx 3 was the v 6 , so go ahead and look that up , too. if
someone has one of those yearly buyers' guides that give a low quote price ,
please quote them , too. then find the the sc1 base price.

thanks.


chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
neil peart , (c)1981
quick to judge , quick to anger , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice
and fear walk hand in hand

from behanna@syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna)
subject re carb cleaners do they work \? \? \? (performance \? ) carb rebuild \?
organization nec systems laboratory , inc.
lines 34

in article 1993apr15.062557.1224@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
in article c5fyt4.jby@cpsc.ucalgary.ca schaffer@cpsc.ucalgary.ca (doug schaffer) writes

how hard is a carb rebuild for moderately experienced backyard mechanic \?
i 've done my clutch and miscellaneous little engine fixes.

the hardest part is usually getting the darned thing off the intake
manifold. rebuilding a carb is fun , if you 're into things with
lots of little parts. i used to rebuild them for all my friends'
cars in high school , so it does n't take a phd. buy a carb rebuilding
kit from an auto supply store. buy a gallon of the best carb cleaning
solvent you can find (do they still make tyme \? ) as a rule of thumb ,
buy the one with the scariest warning labels. put it into a metal( ! )
bucket. make yourself a dipping can by punching holes in the bottom of
a coffee can and attaching a wire handle to it. if the carb cleaner
does n't strip the paint right off the coffee can , you 're not
using the right stuff. use the can to soak the little stuff , and
just hang the big parts from a coat hanger. wash them off with a
garden hose , wipe off excess water with paper towels , and air dry.
then remember where all the little parts go. follow the rebuild
kit 's instructions concerning float height , choke tension , etc.
bolt it back on the engine and admire the super clean carb on the
filthy engine.

heed this man 's warnings ! if you get carb cleaner this strong on
your hands , your hands will be eaten away. not pretty. hence the dipping
can method.

later ,

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d fxwg wide glide jubilee 's red lady
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com 1975 cb360t baby bike
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name
agree with any of this anyway \? i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs.

from dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host mudd.se.houston.geoquest.slb.com
organization geoquest system , inc. houston
lines 16

in article c5k9m5.7ku@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes

if i hear someone screwing with my car (ie , setting off the alarm) and
taunting me to come out , you can be damn sure that my colt delta elite
will also be coming with me. it 's not the screwing with the car that 'd
get them shot , it 's the potential physical danger. if they 're
taunting like that , it 's very possible that they also intend to rob
me and or do other physically harmful things.

here in houston last year a woman heard the sound of someone in her
garage , so she went to investigate with a gun in her hand. she
found a guy in the process of stealing her bicycle. she quite
reasonably asked him to stop. he refused , began taunting her , and
as the woman was quoted in the police report , he told me to go
ahead and shoot him , so i did. the moron survived , and no
charges were filed against the woman.

from c23tvr@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (thomas redmond)
subject re 6700 for hail damage a record \?
originator c23tvr@koptsy17
organization delco electronics corp.
distribution usa
lines 34


in article 1993apr21.053516.28846@cactus.org , boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
in article 1993apr20.203219.7724@pencom.com stecz@pencom.com writes
in article 1993apr19.235711.7285@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
writes


my 90 integra was hit hard in the 3 25 hailstorm in austin , tx.
the insurance company cut me a check for 6600 ( 100 deductible)
last week. is this a record \? anybody else had settlements from
the same hailstorm yet \?

craig


rumor has it that a guy at dell computer had his miata totalled , so that would
be about 10k.

i guess it either had the top down , or the hail ripped through the top , as
you could not do 10k worth of hail damage to a miata body.

craig




john steczkowski stecz@pencom.com
the constitution grants you the right to life , liberty , and the
pursuit of happiness. it does not attempt to guarantee that
everyone will be happy.


there was a volvo owner that had 3000 dollars worth of improvements to the
looks of the car by hail ).

from m it2691@doc.cs.nyu.edu (tim tsai)
subject awd bmw
lines 11
x received by usenet.pa.dec.com id aa12484 mon , 5 apr 93 23 06 31 0700
x received by inet gw 2.pa.dec.com id aa26423 mon , 5 apr 93 23 06 30 0700
x received by doc.cs.nyu.edu (5.61 1.34)
id aa07384 tue , 6 apr 93 02 07 00 0400
x to rec.autos.usenet
x mailer elm version 2.3 pl2


any truth to the rumor of an awd 3 series for '94 \? i believe
this info was published in either popular science or autoweek
a couple of months ago.

also , a friend told me that bmw used to make an awd 325 called
the 325ix. i 'd appreciate any info about this car too. thanks..

thanks.

tim

from hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen)
subject improvements in automatic transmissions
organization wake forest university
lines 18
nntp posting host ac.wfunet.wfu.edu
summary query
keywords saturn , subaru , manual , automatic


the biggest hurdle for automatics (imho) is not shifting speed
per se , but rather the transmission 's reaction speed when you
try to force it to shift manually.

this was the biggest fault with the subaru ecvt it took soooooo
lonnnnnnnnggggg for the tranny to find the right ratio.

the sales propaganda says the saturn automatic is effectively an
electronically shifted manual. might this mean that saturn has
conquered the problem \? (i dunno , only driven saturn 5 speeds)

input , please !

another question any plans for a manual trans chrysler lh \?
does anyone else out there fall asleep at night dreaming of this combo \?



from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re too fast
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 43

in article 1qh61m b6l@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
it 's a bit hard to prove a point like this , but i can compare the

i was hoping for something like the chassis exhibits x
degrees of flex when subjected to forces of more than y units.
forces of more than y units begin to manifest at z miles per hour.

not well , gee , it was n't designed to go fast because , uhh ,
well , gee , it was n't designed to go fast. it 's not a porsche , you
know .

come with better seatbelts , more supportive seats , a stronger
passenger compartment cage , better brakes , a stiffer suspension ,
different tires , and a body design that takes advantage of aero
effects to keep the car on the ground. what do they come with \?

well , as compared to the normal taurus , the sho comes
with more supportive seats , better brakes , a stiffer suspension ,
different tires , and a body design that takes advantage of aero
effects to keep the car on the ground (or at least i think that 's
what all that boy racer plastic is for). you 're kidding yourself if
you think any car on the road has a passenger compartment made to
withstand 130 mph impacts.

compare either to the porsche 911 and you tell me which was designed

oh , right. only 120 , 000 dollar cars should be driven fast.
they drive goddamn rabbits at 120 mph in europe , pal , and i reckon
a taurus is at least as capable as a rabbit.

certainly have n't convinced me.

of course not. speeding is bad. speeding is illegal.
i will not speed. i love big brother. you had your mind made up
already.

it 's interesting that lots of the roads out west had no
speed limits until 1975.

wr




from rfelix@netcom.com (robbie felix)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 56

in article 19apr199316162857@erich.triumf.ca music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach) writes
in article c5r1iy.8v0@ssd.intel.com , jrowell@ssd.intel.com (janet rowell)
writes...
could we plase cease this discussion. i fail to see why people feel the need
to expound upon this issue for days and days on end. these areas are not
meant for this type of discussion. if you feel the need to do such things ,
please take your thought elsewhere. thanks.

exactly my point. there is a lot of hostility to , and from , teenagers.

if you follow the news for the northwest usa , you will have heard that a
group of 20 year old boys (barely out of the teens , certainly their outlook
was developed during their teens) just shot and killed an innocent little
girl riding in a car in the seattle area when her mother (who was driving)
honked her horn at the car with the boys in it. this is really upsetting
and makes my stomach turn as it would any parent 's. does n't your heart
just go out to that poor mother \?
teenagers both drive cars and are involved in automotive vandalism and
crime. maybe someone on this newsgroup has had specific experience in
dealing with violent teenage offenders like these kids are. at the same

it seems sad that people lose all perspective when they here about a
case of violence by teenagers...

for a little perspective

how about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local
agencies to help children , seniors , the homeless \?

did you read about all the kids at stanford who spent their spring
breaks helping out in inner city areas \? what about the hundreds of
volunteers ( teenagers and others) who worked to clean up the mess
after the rodney king riots in la \?

have you gone to your local high school play recently \? attended the
school orchestra performances \? have you seen how many kids volunteer
to pick up trash , plant trees , do walk a thons \? how many kids have
tried to sell you stuff to benefit organizations they belong to \? how
many girl scout cookies have you bought \? how many chocolate bars for
good causes \?

the media picks up on all the anomalies , the sensational...

what about the wonderful teenagers all over the place who work hard at
school , get good grades , go to college (or to work) and make a real
contribution to our society \?

all humans are teenagers at some time in their lives ! mother theresa
was a teenager and so was geoffrey dahmer.

it is really sad to see so many people who buy the sensational
reporting of the media as some kind of reflection of the world today !
it is a reflection of what is happening on the outer fringes of our
society and nothing more...

rf

from hong@remus.rutgers.edu (hyunki hong)
subject vw passat advice sought
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 8


i am currently in the car market and would like opinions on a vw
passat glx. how does it compare to a toyota camry \? i thought the car
looked very solid , stable and european. only disappointment so far is
that that it does n't offer an airbao my next question is , why is n't vw
offering automobiles with airbags \? should i pay the extra three
thousand for a bmw 318 is even though it is smaller and less powerful
than than the passat \?

from balsamo@stargl.enet.dec.com (antonio l. balsamo (save the wails))
subject re advise needed in buying automobile
reply to balsamo@stargl.enet.dec.com (antonio l. balsamo (save the wails))
organization digital equipment corporation
lines 20


from thwang@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (tommy hwang)
subject advise needed in buying automobile

i am in search of a dependable automobile to purchase. below
are its requirements
5. v6 or above

most of the cars you mentioned are below (smaller than) v6 engine.

tony



name antonio l. balsamo
company digital equipment corp.
shrewsbury , mass.
work (508) 841 2039
e mail balsamo@stargl.enet.dec.com


from qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (aamir hafeez qazi)
subject re instead of a saturn sc2 , what \? \? \?
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 22
distribution na
reply to qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

from article 1qkkl5innbvo@hp col.col.hp.com , by theckel@col.hp.com (tim heckel)
for those that are interested i got my fully optioned (air , abs ,
sunroof) '92 se r in september 1991 for 13 , 555 in sacramento , ca. it
was one of the 1st '92s sold , few of the dealers had any , no local
dealer had an abs equipped se r. i went straight to the fleet manager
at the dealership i liked , told him what i wanted , made him aware that i
knew what his price should be. he called me back with exactly what i
wanted from a dealer 125mi away , i took delivery the next day.

when i was selling nissans last summer , i sold a '92 se r in early august
when its supply was getting quite scarce. the car was black with abs ,
value option pkg , and power moonroof. i sold it for 12 , 900 plus tax.
naturally , my manager did n't really care to sell one of the most desirable
se r 's for virtually no profit (to the best of my knowledge).....

aamir qazi



aamir qazi
qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
why should i care \? i 'd rather watch drying paint.

from erich.lim@yob.sccsi.com (erich lim)
subject re militech
distribution world
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
reply to erich.lim@yob.sccsi.com (erich lim)
lines 22

jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen) writes

i saw an interesting product in ny auto show , and would like to hear
your comments.

militech(tm) is yet another oil additive. but the demonstration of
this product really impressive , if it did n't cheat.

well , i heard that militech stuff works pretty good too.. one of my
friends who races in scca sanctioned events and all that stuff got the
militech stuff early as a trial thing , and he put it in his crx.. he
says it worked great , but i did n't ask him for any details.


erich
erich.lim@yob.sccsi.com



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re too fast
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 108

in article 1qkon8 3re@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes

stuff about autobahn and safety of sho at speed deleted
the mustang is essentially the same deal as the sho a big power

the mustang is a much worse case of design irresponsibility than the
sho.
plant stuck in a mid size sedan , with almost no other modifications.
i have real life experience with the mustang it handles like a
brick (except when you 're invoking oversteer , of course , something i

its hard to predicatbaly drift a stock mustang because
of the suspension.

personally avoid doing on the highway) and stopping power is
inadequate even from 80mph. lots of accelleration but the rest of
the car is not up to par.

yes. when i think mustang , i think school bus f16 motor. in
my mind the mustang should be fitted with a speed limiter at 80 90
or so. it just is n't safe , check out your local junkyard , mustangs
outnumber other cars by a proportion way in excess of sales in
junkyards.

i find it astonishing the cu or somesuchlike has not jumped on the
mustang for poor brakes in relation to power. ford should at least
standardize on the svo rear brakes for all 5.0 's.




i picked the porsche example because they are designed with speed in
mind. it did n't have to be the 911 it could have been the much
cheaper 944 or one of several mercedes or audi models. all of these
cars are fairly expensive but so are the parts that make them
drivable at high speed. this should be elementary.

there are a few things to keep in mind about europe , since you brought
it up. my autobahn knowledge is admittedly second hand , but i believe
the following to be true

1. drivers are much better disciplined in europe than they are here.

true of northern europe , latin countries are something else.

2. the roads comprising the autobahn are much better designed than
kindof true. remember they were build by adolf in the '30 's.

they are here , and usually include animal fences. this makes them
far more predictable than most us highways.

yes.

3. not all of europe is the autobahn. most places in europe have

autobahn is the german word for freeway. other countries have
different names for loose equivalents autostrada , autoroute , motorway
etc.

speed limits that are n't out of line with what we used to have in
the us if my friends were n't lying to me they 're typically not
much higher than 120km h.

europe did seem on the brink of a 130kmh limit. it has n't passed as
far as i know. typical speeds in western europe are much higher than
the us. law enforcement is negligible in my experience (comapred
to the us) as there is no revenue enhancement motivation. the things
you really notice are the higher speed differentials , and the more
professional attitude to driving. you just never see two cars
running parallel at 55.1 mph oblivious to all around them.


i strongly suspect you wo n't find a lot of rabbit owners doing 120mph
(nearly 200km h) on the autobahn , but i could be wrong. some people

you 're wrong. gti 's go this fast. just kind of noisy , not the ideal

autobahn car. a lot of times you see cars being driven with the drivers
foot on the floor. how do i know \? when you 're not making any ground
on the identical car in front of you !

have no respect for their own lives.

if something happens at 130 150 you 're dead , but the same goes for much
over 35. driving at high speed forces you to concentrate. i feel much
safer driving 130 on the autobahn than 60 80 in typical us traffic
because most people seem to be awake. i 've never seen any driver reading
a book on an autobahn , i see it all too often in the us.

craig

it just does n't seem fast after 30 minutes or so of aclimation. everybody
drives that fast , no big deal.

craig

you certainly have n't convinced me.

of course not. speeding is bad. speeding is illegal.
i will not speed. i love big brother. you had your mind made up
already.

if you think so you sure do n't pay attention to my postings.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com



from wdh@grouper.mkt.csd.harris.com (w. david higgins)
subject '93 ford probe gt engine problems \?
organization harris csd , ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 21
distribution world
nntp posting host grouper.mkt.csd.harris.com

one of the local dealers has a used (7k miles) '93 probe gt
on the lot with a photocopy of a document taped to the
window saying the dealership bought the car back from
the previous owner because of engine noises , but that
the ford district rep had ok'ed the car saying those
noises were normal . i thought it was worth looking
into (the car seems otherwise clean) and mentioned this
to a co worker , who proceeded to tell me a horror story
about her son 's '93 probe gt , which had several problems ,
ending with engine noises which she said was something
with the heads , that ford acknowledged the noise , said
they were working on it , but did n't have a cure as of
yet. her son traded the car in (and i checked not
the same car). so i have some evidence of a reoccuring
problem with the v6 in the probe gt 's , and by extension
with the madza 626 and mx 6.

anything to this \? i 'd love to consider buying the gt (i'm
turning 40 time for my scheduled mid life crisis )
but i 'd hate to find out i just became the proud owner
of a lemon.

from johnson@spectra.com (boyd johnson)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization spectragraphics corporation
lines 31

in article c5jgc4.ajj@dove.nist.gov keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys) writes

this is n't anything new. back in 1985 i was driving under a high
overpass at night on i 805 in san diego when i caught a glimpse of
someone on the overpass. as i passed under a rock slammed against the
metal between the winshield and right front window. my girlfriend was
in the seat next to it. i called the police from the next exit , but i
doubt if they were found.

about five years ago in san diego someone was put into a coma from a
brick being thrown through his sunroof as he was driving and
subsequently crashed. i do n't think he ever came out of the coma , and i
have n't heard anything about it for a couple years.

i know that this is n't the group for it , but since you brought it up ,
does anyone have any idea why they have n't bombed the waco cult \?

probably because there are many children there. also the minor fact
that other than defending themselves from 100 some people attacking them
they have n't threatened or attacked anyone outside the compound in
years. being a promiscuous religious nut does not constitute grounds
for a mass murder of koresh and his followers.

sorry for posting this to this group , but i thought the previous post
needed a rebuttal. if you follow up to this portion please cross post
and direct follow ups to a more appropriate newsgroup.


boyd johnson nosc ! spectra.com ! johnson san diego , california
intermittent newsfeed at best and only to selected groups.
my opinions certainly do n't match those of my employer.

from davew@cs.umd.edu (david g. wonnacott)
subject questions about insurance companies (esp. geico)
distribution usa
organization u of maryland , dept. of computer science , coll. pk. , md 20742
lines 13

i'm considering switching to geico insurance , but have heard that
they do not assign a specific agent for each policy or claim. i was
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim. i have
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident.

i'm interestend in determining whether or not these things are true.
has anyone out there with geico made a claim \? i 'd be interested in
hearing whether or not you were satisfied with the service and whether
you then had trouble renewing your policy.

i'm also interested in any good or bad stories about liberty mutual or
state farm.


from jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen)
subject re ford probe opinions \? (centered around the gt)
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 21

in article 1993apr20.124228.5357@ncsu.edu chuck@eos.ncsu.edu (chuck kesler) writes
rear hatch has no padding on corners when up. i'm waiting for the day when
i bash my head on the corner.
horn buttons behind air bag in spokes and not in center (personal preference)

the latter is probably because of the air bag. it 's pretty much takes up
all the space where you 'd expect to find the horn.


all toyotas have airbags with a real horn. come on , how hard can it
be to put a little pressure plate there. i hope toyota does n't follow
everyone else and make the horns little buttons that i would n't want
to fumble for.

john


john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder

from tommy@boole.att.com (tommy reingold)
subject re where can i get a new york taxi \?
reply to tommy@boole.att.com
organization at t bell labs , holmdel , nj , usa
distribution na
originator tommy@hoodlum
nntp posting host hoodlum.l1135.att.com
lines 18

wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes

...
actually , you want a checker special if you can find one.

good luck. i'm sorry i let mine go...

i grew up in new york city so i rode in many checker cabs. the jump
seats were fun as a kid. although the cars were roomy a good trait
for a taxi they had a design flaw that i do n't understand they never
fixed the rear passengers tended to fall out of their seats when the
driver braked. i would n't want to take a long ride in the back seat of
one of these vehicles. why did you like yours \? i never drove one , so
i have to ask.

tommy reingold
at t bell labs , holmdel , nj
tommy@boole.att.com or att ! boole ! tommy

from mart@csri.toronto.edu (mart molle)
subject re changing oil by self.
distribution mxmsd
lines 26

bobml@mxmsd.msd.measurex.com (bob lagesse) writes

long silly discussion deleted...

and while you 're at it , why bother with removing
the drain plug when you could remove the dipstick instead and suck it out from
there with your mouth and then spit it out \?

this suggestion is n't as far fetched as it sounds. years ago in another
time and place , i used to do oil changes in boats powered by automotive
engines. in many cases , there was no way to get any sort of a tray under
the oil pan because it was boxed in by the bottom of the hull and various
floation chambers on each side. and if you did get something there , you 'd
spill all the oil out of it for sure trying to get it back out again.

so we used a small pump powered by an electric drill to suck the oil out
the dipstick hole. there was a long thin hose on the inlet side designed
to fit down the dipstick tube , and another , thicker shorter hose on the
outlet side that you put into any convenient container. i'm sure these
gadgets are still available from marine hardware suppliers if you want one.

mart l. molle
computer systems research institute
university of toronto
toronto , canada m5s 1a4
(416)978 4928

from laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (tyson f nuss)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all tim
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 23
reply to laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

in article 1993mar29.161044.1@uncavx.unca.edu , bwillard@uncavx.unca.edu
wrote

8. saab 900 ignition is on floor ! \? !

actually , this started as a great idea. before steering column
locks became popular , saab installed a gearshift lock put the car
in reverse , remove the key , and the car stays in reverse !
also , suppose you get into your car , and a thug comes up and
demands your keys at gunpoint. you hand them over , he gets in , and
has no idea where to put the key ! at this , he will run away (or perhaps
shoot you anyway ). i heard this actually happened somewhere...
btw , i hear that the saab 900 's new successor will have the
ignition on the console , between the seats , where it belongs.


a laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
redhead afficionado extraordinaire and
v little canadia 's minister of fine tobaccos
o 0 cigaret brands sampled 55 import luxury , 17 handrolling

these opinions are not necessarily mine (or mine , either).
can anyone bum me a .sig \?

subject apology (was re did us drive on the left \? )
from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu
lines 54


in a previous article , dh3q @andrew.cmu.edu ( daniel u. holbrook ) says

i'm guessing , but i believe in the twenties we probably drove mostly down
cattle trails and in wagon ruts. i am fairly sure that placement of the
steering wheel was pretty much arbitrary to the company at that time.....

by the 1920s , there was a very active good roads movement , which had
its origins actually in the 1890s during the bicycle craze , picked up
steam in the teens (witness the linclon highway association , 1912 or so ,
and the us highway support act (real name something different) in 1916
that first pledged federal aid to states and counties to build decent
roads. also , the experience of widespread use of trucks for domestic
transport during ww 1 convinced the government that good raods were
crucial to our national defense. anyway , by the 20s there were plenty
of good roads , at least around urban areas , and they were rapidly
expanding into the countryside. this was the era , after all , of the
first auto touring fad , the motel , the auto camp ground , etc. two good
books on the subject spring to mind warren belasco america on the
road (title may not be exact author is) and another called the devil
wagon in god 's country author i forget. also , any of john flink 's or
john bell rae 's auto histories.

i'm sorry , as i have never heard of any of this. guess they do n't think
it 's important enough for a classroom , and i was going on what i 've seen
in pics.(some movies real nice scource there , huh \? ) i just always
recall thinking that good roads of asphalt did n't come around til the
interstate hiway act , or whatever they called it(60 's \? ) , and that wood and
cobblestone roads were fairly rare up through the depression , except in
overpopulated places like england and us cities. obviously netwisdom
says i am wrong.

as to placement of the steering wheel being arbitrary , by the early
teens there were virtually no american cars that did not have the wheel
on the left. in the early days , cars had the wheel on the left , on the
right , and even in the middle , as well as sometimes having a tiller
instead of a wheel. this was standardized fairly early on , though i
do n't know why.

i knew it was almost always done , but i knew of no reason that it might not
be done the other way by desoto for their car. seems like they had some
other deviations from the norm too , at times )

dan
dh3q@andrew.cmu.edu
carnegie mellon university
applied history

world history strides on from catastrophe to catastrophe , whether we
can comprehend and prove it or not.
oswald spengler

thanx for corrrecting me , and again , i aplogize for harebraned post.
drew

from tjz6624@zeus.tamu.edu (zingale , thomas j)
subject re 86 chevy sprint
organization texas a m university , academic computing services
lines 51
distribution world
nntp posting host zeus.tamu.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article wfnmbjg00wboe3l2c0@andrew.cmu.edu , srinagesh gavirneni sg48 @andrew.cmu.edu writes...
i have a 86 chevy sprint with a c and 4doors. it 's odometer turned 90k
and the sensor light started blinking. i went to the dealer and he said
it was a maintenance light saying i need to change the oxygen sensor. he
said , it is to be changed every 30k , but since i bought the car when it
had 77k , i do n't know if the same thing happened at 30k and 60k. he
quoted 198 for the part and 50 to install it. the part cost 30
outside , but the mechanic i went to could not fix it saying the sensor
is placed too deep in the engine parts. he suggested i wait till it
malfunctions before i do anything. if anyone out there owns a chevy
sprint , i want to know how they got their oxygen sensors changed. also ,
did you face any problem with fixing it without the dealer 's help. also ,
what are the results of the oxygen sensor malfunction.
any help would be greatly apprecisted
thanks

nagesh
i have owned my sprint from the beginning and that sensor light comes on every
30k to let you know it 's time for a check up. when that light goes on , i just
take it to the delaer tell them it 's that time and they work on it for 4 hou
and you pay 5 for parts and 100 for labor. (ahh...what they get for labor)
i currently have about 95k on my sprint and of all the times i took it in for
service , i never say on the payment sheet anything about the replacement of the
oxygen sensor. what the heck is an oxygen sensor \? as far an i know of , i have
never had that thing replaced in my car and the car is purring like a kitten.
now , i do n't have a c (mother nature does that for me ) ) and that might have
something to do with it , but i still never heard of an oxygen sensor. the only
major service job i have had on my car (besides getting the tires replaced
if you want to call that a service job) was getting the rotor , distributor and
gasket replaced. and that was all done within the past 2 months.

what i do at 30k is have a good tune up , let them replace what ever they need
to , pay the bill (about 125) and go home and do n't worry about the car for
another 30k. oh , i just remembered something. if that little sensor light
bothers you , in the fuse box right below the turn signal lever up against
the dash , there is a swith on the right side. flip that switch and the light
will go off. i do that so that little light wo n't annoy me. if you ca n't
find it , look it up in the car manuel. i hope that i have helped a little
and good luck with the oxygen sensor \?

thomas


e mail address give me an an army of west point ,
tjz6624@zeus.tamu.edu graduates and i 'll win a battle...
give me a handful of texas aggies ,
creator of mot power ! and i 'll win a war.
gen. george s. patton




from sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin)
subject re changing oil by self.
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution usa
lines 18


in article 1993apr15.222254.6651@rtfm.mlb.fl.us gwalker@rtfm.mlb.fl.us (grays
on walker) writes
why crawl under the car at all \? i have a machine i got for my boat that
pulls the oil out under suction through the dip stick tube. it does an
excellent job and by moving the suction tube around , you can get more
old oil out than by using the drain plug. i think i paid 25 at e b marine.
the oil goes into a steel 3 gal can wait until it cools and decant into
your favorite device. i use soft drink bottles. easy to take them down to
the local oil recycle center.


yeah i suppose you could do that. but then you do n't get the broken knuckles ,
the rust in your eyes , the oil bath , and the burns from the exhaust.

i mean come on ! ...

steve

from jfox@hooksett.east.sun.com (john fox sunexpress ir)
subject re jeep grand vs. toyota 4 runner
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 54
distribution world
reply to jfox@hooksett.east.sun.com
nntp posting host hooksett.east.sun.com

in article igw@world.std.com , edwards@world.std.com (jonathan edwards) writes
i am considering buying one of these two vehicles (new).
i want a fun to drive family vehicle that can go through anything.
the jeep is very popular , and has the features. all wheel drive , 4 wheel
anti lock , roomy passenger cabin (but limited cargo with an internal spare).
the toyota is an aging design with only part time 4 wheel and only rear
anti lock (and no anti lock in 4wd ! ). it also has a very inconvenient
rear gate , not to mention awkward ingress to the passenger cabin.


any reason you are limited to the two mentioned \? they are n't really at
the same point along the suv spectrum not to mention price range.
how about the explorer , trooper , blazer , montero , and if the budget
allows , the land cruiser \?
bear in mind that 90 of all suv 's purchased never venture off road.
carefully weigh the trade off between comfort and off road performance
when choosing one , and realistically decide whether you 'll actually
make enough use of the off road ability to sacrifice (some of) the
on road comfort.



john










john





















from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution usa
lines 19

in article 2bd0bdc3.25868@news.service.uci.edu raman@translab.its.uci.edu (balaji v. ramanathan) writes
the part about spending 5000 7000 on repairs reminds me
of an article i read in a magazine comparing the 5 year ownership costs
of a toyota camry and a ford taurus or something like that. the result ,
which they announced with great flourish was that it cost the same at the
end of the period. that was their argument to prove that you do n't go
wrong buying the ford taurus over the camry.

now , if i remember correctly , the camry costs about 4000 or so more
in initial costs. essentially , it means that you spend about 4000 extra
on repairs on the taurus. that is ridiculous. every time your car
needs repairs , it is extra hassles , loss of time and a dozen other things.
i would much rather spend 5000 more in initial costs than spend 4000 more
in repair costs.

did you account for depreciation \? i seriously doubt that a taurus
would rack up an extra 4000 in repair costs over 5 years.

teddy

from grahamt@phantom.gatech.edu (graham e. thomas)
subject re blast to the past !
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 17
nntp posting host oit.gatech.edu

amh2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (alois m. himsl) writes
be worthwhile \? or how about something like the old mgb with new technology \?
just think about it the old style with upgraded safety features and perhaps a
natural gas operated engine for less than 10k. i think it would go over well.
what is your opinion \? \? \? \? \? \?
al h

well , the mgb is currently in production for the english market , built
by rover. it now has a v8 , improved suspention , and a slightly
updated body. too bad it 's only available in gb and would set one
of us back about 42 , 000 .



graham e. thomas blah blah blah blah blah
georgia institute of technology blah blah blah blah blah
internet grahamt@oit.gatech.edu blah blah blah blah blah

from damelio@progress.com (stephen d'amelio)
subject re ford and the automobile
nntp posting host elba
organization progress software corp.
lines 19

rwong@eis.calstate.edu (russel wong) writes

hello , my name is russell wong and i am doing a research project on henry
ford and his automobile. i need information on whether ford is
partially responsible for all of the car accidents

ya , he cut me off on 128 the other day , he drives like a crazy person.
i 'd have to say he 's responsible for most accidents , they really should
pull his licence.

steve


7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7
alan kulwicki 1992 winston cup champion
1954 1993
7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7



from schludermann@sscvx1.ssc.gov
subject rfi art of clutchless shifting
lines 18
nntp posting host sscvx1
organization superconducting super collider laboratory

i'm wondering if anybody else out there is a clutchless shifter \? i 've been
doing it my self over 200 , 000 miles , on my current toyota truck i 've got
over 150k. i 've heard people talk about how doing this can damage a
transmission. my experiences suggest otherwise. what techniques do you use \?

on some old pieces of junk i drove , the transmission was so
worn that pumping the clutch was the only way to shift , except clutchless.
to date i 've driven rabbits , datsuns , comets , fords a chevy. some where
harder than others to shift but generally the higher the milage the smoother
quicker easier they where to shift.

my technique is to ease back off the throttle and at the same time gently
wrist back on the shift lever. if for some reason i miss the shift window ,
i lightly press the accelerator try agian. i 've found that clutchless
shifting is eaiser quicker at high rpms (4000 7000). i also skip gears some
times using 1 3 5 , 1 2 4 5.

krispy

from damelio@progress.com (stephen d'amelio)
subject re changing oil by self.
nntp posting host elba
organization progress software corp.
lines 34

hanguyen@megatest.com (ha nguyen) writes

in article 1993apr14.203800.12566@progress.com damelio@progress.com (stephen d'amelio) writes
bmoss@grinch.sim.es.com (brent woody moss) writes

you could take a screw driver and hammer and start punching holes in
various locations and when some black slippery stuff starts pouring
out then you would know that the oil drain plug is nearby (within a foot
or two anyway). close the holes with toilet paper before refileing with oil
though.

you have to refill the engine with oil ! wow , no wonder i ca n't get
an engine to last more than my first oil change. do n't forget to
punch holes in the radiator too , it will spray nice refreshing water

on the engine and keep it nice cool. )

steve

gee , you really make me confused. what is radiator \? where is it located \?
what does it look like \? will it release any radiation (since it sounds
like radia tion genera tor) when you punch holes \?


of course it releases radiation ! thats why your car goes faster when
you punch the holes in it. all that radiation gets on your engine
and gives it pep (scientific term). you get more horsepower
torque too ! if you do n't know what hp torque are , you can read
mile long threads on the subject , but they are all wrong. horsepower
is how much power a horse can make pulling a subaru , and torque is
a name invented by craftsman for a wrench.

steve


from dalibor@cip.informatik.uni erlangen.de (stefan dalibor)
subject re too fast
organization csd. , university of erlangen
reply to dalibor@immd3.uni erlangen.de
nntp posting host faui00g.informatik.uni erlangen.de
lines 85

jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes

there are a few things to keep in mind about europe , since you brought
it up. my autobahn knowledge is admittedly second hand , but i believe
the following to be true

my knowledge about driving in the u.s. is also second hand , but i think i can
correct your statements about our autobahn

1. drivers are much better disciplined in europe than they are here.

oh yeah , that would be paradise... in fact , you can forget it. from all i 've
heard from my u.s. relatives , drivers esp. here in germany are much more agg
ressive , but not disciplined. one of my relatives , a l.a. resident , hired a car
at the nuernberg airport and went about 18 miles to our home. he said then that
he grew about 1 year older during this ride and swore he 'd never drive a car in
germany again (this was in 1982 and he kept his promise the situation now is
even worse as effect of the increased volume of traffic).
what you mean by `better disciplined' should perhaps be considered `cautious due
to fear'
when driving around here , you always have to take into consideration that the
majority of the other drivers absolutely relies on you they expect that nobody
fails or sleeps many of them exploit this by driving as fast as their car can
go (of course only where that is allowed , you might think dream on ).
so any mistake you make is a very high risk to your health and if you 're ex
posed to such a situation from your very first day as a driver , you learn to
handle it or you lose...
that 's the way i and most people i know experience our traffic situation
whether you think this is pleasant or efficient is up to you i think we handle
a very high volume of traffic and that at high speeds with modest (compared to
the volume) and decreasing rates of lethal accidents otoh , more and more
people (esp. women) dislike driving (because they feel overtaxed and threatened)
and each accident is one accident too much.

2. the roads comprising the autobahn are much better designed than
they are here , and usually include animal fences. this makes them
far more predictable than most us highways.

better designed and maintained , may be but animal fences are very rare. auto
bahnen and many other streets have guard rails (i hope that 's the right word
a plank made from thick steel sheet fixed on uprights it 's about 2 feet high)
those guard rails are designed for keeping vehicles on the road. smaller animals
can crawl under the plank , bigger ones can easily jump over it. the point is
that esp. larger animals are very rare in germany they tend also to be very
timid. accidents caused by animals are a neglegible danger.

3. not all of europe is the autobahn. most places in europe have
speed limits that are n't out of line with what we used to have in
the us if my friends were n't lying to me they 're typically not
much higher than 120km h.

you 're right (there are speed linits even on the major part of the autobahn)
but the attitude towards driving (see above) seems to be very similar to that
in germany (i 've been in france , switzerland , italy , austria , spain , belgium ,
the netherlands) besides that , you really ca n't rely on the residents abiding
the local speed limits. i 've got quite a lot of practise ( 120k miles) and i'm
used to travel at 130 mph (fyi , with a car even smaller than a rabbit) , but i
consider driving on the highways round paris or milano really a thrill...

i strongly suspect you wo n't find a lot of rabbit owners doing 120mph
(nearly 200km h) on the autobahn , but i could be wrong. ...

sorry , but you 'll find quite a lot rabbit class car (or even smaller , mine is a
peugeot 205) owners going that fast small cars with much hp are very `hip' over
here and most people buying such cars are n't afraid to let them run.

... some people
have no respect for their own lives.

i disagree the size or weight of a car is rather irrelevant. formula 1 cars
weigh less than 700 kg and the drivers have a chance to survive accidents at
130 mph or higher otoh when crashing against a solid object at 130 mph ,
it makes no difference whether you sit in a porsche , a mercedes , a tank or on
a bicycle your 're dead.

bye ,
stefan

stefan dalibor (dalibor@immd3.uni erlangen.de)

...and now for the next case in kangaroo court , i accuse you of being the
reincarnation of adolf hitler. i do n't think that mere denials will be
sufficient you will have to submit to examinations by a parapsychologist
that i personally select...
perry metzger (pmetzger@shearson.com) in article 2074 in news.admin.policy

from cak3@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (chad andrew kauffman)
subject car alarm info. (ungo box)
organization lehigh university
lines 12




i want to get a car alarm and i am thinking about getting an ungo box.
does anyone out there have any knowledge or experience with any of
these alarms \? how about price ranges for the different models \?
are these good car alarms \? please email me any responces.

cak3@ns3.lehigh.edu

chad
chad

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re dumbest driver action
organization corporation for open systems
distribution usa
lines 41

in c5dq2n.5ub@news.cso.uiuc.edu mwbg9715@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (mark wayne blunier) writes

jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes

i wish i had the figures with me to back me up , but i recall
statistics showing that women tended to have more accidents than men
but the damage was generally quite minor. men had fewer but far more
expensive accidents. the rate of total vehicle destruction was
significantly higher for men than women , particularly in the younger
male age groups.

imho social considerations are probably the strongest influence here ,
possibly more so than any difference between the sexes. social
influences often affect the type of car that 's bought and the
situations the car is used in , and the type of car and driving
situations have a major effect on accident risk. thus if society
expects you to buy a mustang and race it on the street you 're more
likely to do it , and our society expects that of males more than
females.

i agree with some of your social influences , such as driving conditions ,
but lets get real here. guys do n't drag race becuase there expected too ,
we do it becuase its fun ! (and we find out whose car is faster).
guys drive different than women becuase there men. when a driver is
driving 'unusually' , i can usually figure out if it is a male or female
driver without looking at the driver.
social influences may give a person more reason to buy a vehicle that
has a certain amount of character which he or she would like associated
with. do you change your driving habits when no one is around \?

sheesh ! i do n't know what kind of women they have where you guys live ,
but there are some ladies here who will blow your doors off. or at least
they will try to , but we just ca n't let the youngsters get too uppity
with us old folks ).
my .02.
mark b.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com
bob


from tcorkum@bnr.ca (trevor corkum)
subject is car saftey important \?
nntp posting host 47.141.0.88
reply to tcorkum@bnr.ca (trevor corkum)
organization bell northern research ltd.
lines 11

i was recently thumbing through the 1993 lemon aid new
car guide. what i found was a car would be given a 'recommended'
under the picture while a few sentences later noting how a
driver and passenger were virtually guaranteed to be killed
in a front end collision. the most highly recommended small
car (the civic) has the worst crash rating of all of the small
cars listed. there were many such cases of 'great' vehicles
where you would n't survive an accident. is it only me , or is
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car \?



from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
keywords bad drivers
organization corporation for open systems
distribution usa
lines 52

in 1993apr14.230524.9578@ctp.com bpita@ctp.com (bob pitas) writes

in article zdem0a.734707529@hgo7 zdem0a@hgo7.hou.amoco.com (donna martz) writes

stuff deleted


excuse me , but i understood what mr. smith meant. and , i have often observed
when traffic is blocked solid , that if a few people yeild to the moron
who is impatiently riding bumpers , the slug at the front of the pack will
miraculously wake up , change lanes , and viola ! no more jam. granted the
situation here does not apply to rush hour in a crowded city. but i have
observed this situation regularly on your average interstate , six or
eight sets of cars , side by side , bunched up in a pack with open
freeway fore and aft as far as you can see. the people who refuse to
yeild as a point of honor are just as annoying as the slug in the front.

i agree that if traffic is all blocked up and you want to pass , you might
not feel like moving over for someone behind you because you do n't want to
give them that one car length , when they should just wait like you are.
but , if you 're one of those people that just sit 's behind the person , and
does n't flash them with the high beams , or pull left and flash them , or
ride their bumper , or otherwise tell them that you do in fact want to
go by , and you 're not just drafting them , then get the hell out of the
way of someone who will ! i especially hate it when you flash someone at
the back of a line and they do n't 'pass it on'.

so after i 've flashed my lights at the chap in front and he does n't
'pass it on' (and few if any do) , what next \? on major highways , 3 or more
lanes in each direction , keeping to the extreme right blocks folks who
are entering. also , as someone posted in this thread , here in the d.c.
area we have a few left lane exits (sounds like 66). if you wait until
the last minute to get in the left lane you wo n't , cause these yoyos
wo n't make room.

we have a particularly bad strech here in merryland just over the cabin
john bridge. there are two very long entry ramps which all the hurry up
yahoos dive into cause they want to get ahead. when we get to the point
where these ramps merge , all hell breaks lose. the result is that traffic
which was moving at 55 on the va side of the bridge , stalls on t'other
side. if these dingbats had stayed in lane , allowed the folks coming up
the two ramps to merge , we would still be doing 55. instead we do start
stop for 4 miles. dave barry 's idea of a laser equipped car would be
real useful here.

bob

ps if you drive the beltway and want to merge , look for a brown probe
with a silver haired driver , then use your signals i do n't read minds ,
but i do try to be courteous. they told me courtesy was contagious , but
i guess the folks around here have had their shots


from marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu (zauberer)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization purdue university
distribution usa
lines 28

remember roads in america are not designed for speeds above 80 meaning they
would be safe at 55 65. roads like the autobahn are smoother , straiter ,
wider and slightly banked.

example a few months back i was traveling late at night ( 3 00 am or so)
and i was changing highways at a bent crosssing. it curved off to the south
east becoming hidden by trees after about 1 , 000 ft and continued to the
left strait north. i wanted to turn north , checked the south lane , rolled
into the crossing and checked the north lane. nevertheless there was n't
a car in sight , so i took one last look and pulled into the left hand lane.
now my car is n't a 5 sec 0 60 performer but i was in the corect lane and
over 40 in decent time , even at 3 00 i was n't wasting time. it was then
that i checked my mirror and saw a mustang closing in my lane fast , he
had just turned the corner and was just noticing me. luckly he saw me and
changed lanes in time , i estamate he was moving in excess of 90 or so.
i was just a by stander , i had no chance of runing from him , or moving out
of his way. i'm glad he saw my brake lights in time. i shudder to
think of what would have happened had i wainted to pull out and not
left the time he needed to dodge me.

rule just because your car can do 100 , and your way is clear ,
do n't assume it will stay that way.


travis disclamer the ideas expressed above are in fact the same as
my employer , since i have none )
e mail , flame , at marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu


from mobasser@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu (bijan mobasseri)
subject re renting from alamo
organization villanova university
lines 14

'cause a friend rented a car last year and it turned out he needed a lot more
insurance than what 's included in the base price. but on the other hand he
did n't rent it from alamo.

probability that i 'll be needing more insurance \?

unless you have an accident , you wo n't need more.

joe


let me see , unless you have an accident , you wo n't need more , hmmmmmmm.

bijan

from behanna@syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna)
subject re auto air conditioning without freon
organization nec systems laboratory , inc.
lines 33

in article 1993apr14.155159.32619@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu amh2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (alois m. himsl) writes
yes , i have the same questions. what makes me upset is that r12 costs are
skyrocketing and in fact ca n't be bought anymore in my area. also this is yet
another way mechanics and dealers can rip off customers. also i was reading
that the new refrigerant is not compatible with the r12 system and that it
would cost 300 upto a 1000 to retrofit a car with the old r12 system.
although it is important to consider the environment i think the sudden ban is
a slap in the face for the consumer. why is it that the consumer should have
to pay for the retrofit \? the auto companies should have seen this coming \? also
why is it that the governments of the world were so quick in banning freon use
and yet so slow in banning gasoline. in my opinion gasoline is just as
hazardous as anything else. why ca n't they start proposing bans on this and
switch to natural gas or electric \? the technology is there. hopefully some
chemist will come up with another alternative coolant that will be compatible
with the old system.
al h.

several chemists already have come up with several substitutes for
r12. you do n't hear about them because the mobile air conditioning society
(macs) , that is , the people who stand to rake in that 300 to 1000 per
retrofit per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to squash those
r12 substitutes out of existence if not ban them altogether (on very shaky
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at worst).

does this piss you off \? yes \? write a letter to your congressman , to
your senator , to the president , to the epa , and to the dot and complain.

later ,

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d fxwg wide glide jubilee 's red lady
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com 1975 cb360t baby bike
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name
agree with any of this anyway \? i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs.

from nill.toulme@datadim.uu.holonet.net (nill toulme)
subject used taurus sho purchase
article i.d. datadim.274.332.uupcb
reply to nill.toulme@datadim.uu.holonet.net (nill toulme)
distribution world
organization the data dimension pcboard norcross , ga 404 921 1186
lines 31

quoting jeffrey j. nucciarone 's (nucci@microwave.gsfc.nasa.gov) article
c4g8hv.cs4@skates.gsfc.nasa.gov of 04 06 93 , in pertinent part

jj i am considering buying a used '90 taurus sho. the car in
jj question has 37k miles. i took it for a test drive the other day
jj and a few questions came up.
jj
jj . . .
jj second , is there anything i should specifically look for in an
jj sho of this vintage \? anything i should specifically ask abt \?
jj (brakes , cluthch , etc.) i noticed on the drive the clutch engagemen
jj point seemed a little high since all my other cars are auto tragics
jj i'm not sure abt this point. i had my foot firmly planted on the
jj brake when i started it up. there was a bit of a pop in the pedal
jj soon after the engine started. this also occured on a few t bird sc'
jj i test drove. was this the abs self test \?

brake rotors and the clutch are the main things. there has been a clutch
replacement program you might check to see if the car is still eligible ,
as it is a change well worth making. you can also swap the cruddy cable
shifter for the newer rod shifter , also a change worth making , but that 'll
cost you some .

my brakes usually do one wibble wobble on startup , so that is probably
normal. did n't know they had a self test , that 's interesting.

what kind of tires does the car have on it \?


winqwk 2.0b 131 for a good time dial 7000 on your sho.


from jyow@desire.wright.edu
subject re alarm systems are they worthwhile \?
distribution usa
organization wright state university
lines 27

in article 1993apr19.164451.3744@news.eng.convex.com , dave dodson dodson@convex.com writes
is it worthwhile to get an alarm system on a new car \?

what features are important \?

what features are unimportant \?

that is a question that can only be answered by yourself and where you live.
if you live in a place where crime is apparent , then it might be a good idea to
get one simply as a deterrent. however , if a professional thief wants your
vehicle , its as good as gone no matter what you do. but to slow down any
thieves it would be a good idea to get the basic options. that would be

1) ignition kill or fuel cut off
2) a flashing red led

these two are basic to a decent alarm system.
to slow down the criminal some more , get a steering wheel lock.
that should be sufficient to persuade the thief to find an easier target.
but , then there 's always car jacking.
why is life so confusing \?
i hope i helped somewhat.


jason yow human factors psychology program
wright state university , dayton , oh e mail jyow@desire.wright.edu


from jdenune@pandora.sdsu.edu (john denune)
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
organization san diego state university , college of sciences
lines 40
distribution usa
nntp posting host pandora.sdsu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

mark monninger (markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com) wrote
while not exactly a service incident , i had a similar experience recently
when i bought a new truck.
i had picked out the vehicle i wanted and after a little haggling we
agreed on a price. i wrote them a check for the down payment plus tax
and license and told them i 'd be back that evening to pick up the truck.
when i returned , i had to wait about an hour before the finance guy could
get to me. when i finally got in there , everything went smoothly until he
started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had
miscalculated the tax license by about 150. he then said he needed
another 150 from me. i said we had already agreed on a price and it was
their problem , i was n't giving them any more money. the finance guy then

a similar thing happend to me a year ago. i bought a used ford bronco
(which has since been stolen... ( ) and few weeks after i paid
and took delivery , they sent a letter telling me they goofed and
miscalculated the license renewal by 300 and that i need to send
in a check to avoid further delay in the processing of my registration.
the thing is , i had already received the pink slip from the dmv , so
i ignored it. i received another letter and then the phone calls
started coming. first from the finance guy and then from the general
manager , both hounding me for the extra money. they left me alone
once i told them i already had the paperwork and pointed out the clause
in the contract that stated that the final price was just that final.
afterall , they would n't budge if i had told them i wanted another
300 off after the deal had been signed , right \? i told them not
to call again and that i would not do business with them in the future.
they did n't seem to have a problem with that. this , after all , was a
used ford at a toyota dealership.

i had a much better experience buying a new pathfinder about a month
ago. it certainly pays to buy a car on the last sunday of the month.
it was even raining too , so they had done very little business that
weekend and were really willing to deal. i kept telling them i would
think about it , and they kept dropping the price. got a very good
deal and so far have been very please with the service.

john
jdenune@pandora.sdsu.edu


from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. news.c5jnk3.jkt
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 39

parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) writes

in article 1327@qa1.wichitaks.ncr.com jhart@qa1.wichitaks.ncr.com (jim hart) writes
in article 1993mar29.161044.1@uncavx.unca.edu bwillard@uncavx.unca.edu
writes
my top 10 list of dumbest automotive concepts ever

10. 1984 dodge colt vista tachometer only avail. with automatic trans.
9. back up lights on corvette they 're on the sides of the car !

sure would be interested to know what year(s) this was !
i do n't seem to recall any car with back up lights on the sides , much
less any corvette. i suppose i could be mis interpreting what you are
trying to say here.....

just a quick comment. backup lights mounted on the side
would actually be extremely useful for people backing out of
parking stalls...

regards , charles

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

was n't the original intent of the reverse lights for the driver , so he
could see where he was backing up \? \? \? although reverse lights on the sides
are useful for telling whether cars are backing up out perpendicular to the
path of the car , i do n't think warnings were their original intents , since they
are colored white.




chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
neil peart , (c)1981
quick to judge , quick to anger , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice
and fear walk hand in hand

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re did us drive on the left \?
article i.d. cactus.1993apr6.060553.22453
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 14

in article yfkbjqs00uh e9tfo @andrew.cmu.edu daniel u. holbrook dh3q @andrew.cmu.edu writes


stuff about rhd desoto 's deleted

well sweden and australia , and lord knows wherever else used to drive on
australians still do drive on the wrong side of the road. i believe
sweden changed in 1968. the way i heard it was that they swapped
all the traffic signs around one sunday....

the wrong side of the road , so the export market might have been
larger then than just the uk.

craig

from yongje@hardy.u.washington.edu (yong je lim)
subject dealer cheated me with wrong odometer reading. need help !
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 14
distribution usa
nntp posting host hardy.u.washington.edu

here is a story. i bought a car about two weeks ago. i finally can
get hold of the previous owner of the car and got all maintanence
history of the car. in between '91 and '92 , the instrument pannel
of the car has been replaced and the odometer also has been reset
to zero. therefore , the true meter reading is the reading before
replacement plus current mileage. that shows 35000 mile difference
comparing to the mileage on the odometer disclosure from. the
dealer never told me anything about that important story.

i hope that i can return the car with full refund. do u think this
is possible \? does anyone have similar experiences \? any comments
will be appreciated. thanks.

yongje@u.washington.edu

from mike@mks.com (mike brookbank)
subject mgbs and the real world
organization mortice kern systems inc. , waterloo , ontario , canada
lines 14

my sister has an mgb. she has one from the last year they were produced
(1978 \? 1979 \? ). its in very good shape. i 've been bugging her for years
about selling it. i 've said over and over that she should sell it
before the car is worthless while she maintains that the car may
actually be increasing in value as a result of its limited availability.

which one of us is right \? are there mgb affectionados out there who are
still willing to pay 6k to 8k for an old mg \? are there a lot out in the
market \?


mike brookbank , mks 35 king st. north mike@mks.com
director , interopen sales , mkt waterloo , ontario (519)884 2251
mortice kern systems inc. mks canada , n2j 2w9 fax (519)884 8861

from tulsi@ws19.b30.ingr.com (neeraj tulsian)
subject re mazda rx7 parts jc whitney
lines 5
reply to tulsi@ws19.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph , al

their number is 1 800 541 4716
they are based in chicago , il in case
you need to call dir assistance.

their prices are more down to earth than
any other source for car innards outers.

they will send you a free catalog.

neeraj

from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re jeep wrangler opini
organization sun microsystems
lines 35
distribution world
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com

in article 4db@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu , mobasser@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu (bijan mobasseri) writes
how do i square this with a respectable resale value \? easy if it 's expensive
to buy new , it 's gonna be expensive to buy used.

a patently false statement. try this logic on an alfa 164. in fact ,
marketplace has a wonderufl mechanism to adjust the value of the cars that
are overpriced by the manufacturer. if it is expensive to buy new it is not
necessarily expnesive to buy used. in fact , it could be real cheap to buy
used , depending what that car is of course. note that i do not question your
statements on the reliability of wrangler. i have never owned one , driven one
or been in one (i do love to have one though ! ).


what i do n't understand is why
this apparent neglect of quality for so many years has not filtered down into
the used market.is jeep so intoxicating , so irresistable and so seductive as
to make its purchase a fatal attraction \? .

bijan



yep. they are popular vehicles. you do n't see a lot of previous model year
ones sitting on dealer 's lots for any lenghth of time after the new ones are
out. the things sell , they are popular.

because they are popular , and high priced new , they are high price used , very
simple.

i knew they were overpriced when i bought it... i knew they had a terrible
reliability record when i bought it. but i did n't expect anything like i
got , especially with a dealer network unable to repair it. personal experience
has quickly cured me of my infatuation with the machine.

dave

from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re open letter to nissan (really station wagon)
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution na
lines 10

in article apr16.000710.27408@engr.washington.edu eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot) writes

this week 's autoweek talks about how wagons are getting back in vogue.
i would n't mind an audi s4 wagon (great stealth value) but you 'll
never catch me dead in a minivan !

even a minivan based on viper running gear \?

teddy
p.s. i think the audi s4 gets a 4.2 liter v 8 next year.

from jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen)
subject re lh workmanship
nntp posting host wind.bellcore.com
organization bellcore
lines 28

in article 1ql178inn51q@tamsun.tamu.edu dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf) writes
in article 1993apr15.203750.25764@walter.bellcore.com jchen@ctt.bellcore.com writes
i just visited the ny auto show , and saw two lh cars on the floor eagle
vision and dodge intrepid.
at a competitive price. ...

unfortunately , the workmanship is quite disappointing. on both cars ,
the rubber seals around the window and door fell off. it turns out
the seals are just big grooved rubber band. it goes on just by pressing


through a single data point , you can draw any line you want.
dr. s. bart childs , professor , texas a m dept. of computer science

wrong. i got two points , which were the 100 sample space on the show
floor. by the previous quote , i guess i may drow a determinstic line \?

both my pastor 's late model corolla and my father 's 1987 stanza
have demonstrated the falling door seals problem.

as unfair as it may seem , the difference between chrysler and toyota is
that chrysler needs to prove that it can build quality cars. toyota can
afford make a few small mistakes without hurting the image.

after all , door seal failing on a 6 year old stanza is not comparable to
the same problem on a brand new intreprid.

jason chen

from kmac@cisco.com (karl elvis macrae)
subject sport utility vehical comparisons \? any opinions \?
organization tattooed love boys
lines 36
distribution world
nntp posting host glare.cisco.com



i just read articals on this in road and track and car and driver
(is that one mag or two \? b ) , and i was wondering if people out
there have any opinions that differed from what these mags have to
say...


i'm looking at the following three suv 's anyone who 's driven all
three have any strong opinions \?


ford explorer
toyota 4runner
nissan pathfinder


currently i'm leaning toward the toyota , 'cause i 've had big success
with toyota trucks in the past , and 'cause i think it 's the best
looking of the three. but i thought i 'd see if anyone has any strong
opinions....



thanks !


karl



karl elvis macrae software release support cisco systems
kmac@cisco.com or batman@cisco.com 415 688 8231 dod 1999 fj1200

shovels and rakes and implements of destruction
arlo guthrie

from adn6285@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
subject mr2 parts
nntp posting host vaxa.isc.rit.edu
reply to adn6285@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
organization rochester institute of technology
lines 4

does anyone know of a dead first generation mr2 \? i need body parts , steering
rack , and a few minor pieces. i was about to buy a parts car , but the owner
backed out after 3 month of pulling my leg. arrrrgh.
mike.s

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 56

in c5hi0b.26c@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes

in article 1993apr13.220105.26409@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
in article 93apr08.202003.27851@acs.ucalgary.ca parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) writes
as a long time motorcyclist , i have never understood what
posessed auto builders to put delicate controls , which must
be used with skill and finesse , like clutches and brakes ,
on the floor.

why not hand control \? it 's much much easier.

in the early days , neither of these functions had power assist , so
only legs had enough strength to activate them. since then , it 's
been traditional and people would have a hard time getting
used to anything else.

well , where , exactly , would you put a hand clutch and brake \? on
a motorcycle , it 's easy the handlebars have a very limited
range of turning. steering wheels , on the other hand , turn around
and around and around...which is fine for electrical relays (like
your cruise control and airbag) but how many of you want to
lose your clutch and or brake due to a short circuit \?

shades of the edsel ! they had pushbuttons in the steering wheel hub
that controlled the auto tranny. it was very disconcerting to shift
into reverse when turning a corner and the wires shorted.

there are workarounds , but there 's really no reason to use hand
power on a car 's clutch or brakes , and lightening them to the
point that they are finesse controls suitable for hand use
would increse the mechanical complexity substantially (look at
power brakes and non power brakes for an example).

i saw an experimental car that had a joystick instead of a steering
wheel...

that 's about useless , imho.

another automotive oddity is separate keys for trunks , doors , and
ignitions. why on earth would you want this \?

i know i do n't.

i want a separate trunk key for security reasons it gives me a totally
separate , lockable container. for door and ignition....ehhh , the same key 's
ok , i guess.

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from grady@world.std.com (dick grady)
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
distribution usa
lines 15

in article 93106.161324libemc@byuvm.bitnet libemc@byuvm.bitnet writes
mark states in his post to know the dealer price and offer 200 300
above. my husband and i are in the market to buy our first car
together , and neither of us know how to go about it. how do
you find out the dealer price \? are their books to look in \? do
you send away somewhere for it \?

several company publish periodicals (3 or 4 times a year) which list the
sticker prices and the dealer invoice prices of all the cars and their
options. edmund 's is the name of one such price guide. you can find
these price guides at most places which sell magazines.


dick grady salem , nh , usa grady@world.std.com
so many newsgroups , so little time !

from mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu (michael j. edelman)
subject re saturn 91 92 manual transmission problem
organization wayne state university
lines 17
distribution world
reply to mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu
nntp posting host pookie.pass.wayne.edu

in article ka6@crdnns.crd.ge.com , cimjfg@sn370.utica.ge.com writes
.

after many trips to the dealer , who has admittedly been patient with me ,
they are admittedly going to do nothing about it....
the dealer did however follow the bulletin and review proper shifing
procedures with the owner ....
my next attempt at satisfaction in the customer 800 number but from the first
round it does n't sound too hopeful.


i'm surprised. i know of a local case where a guy took his saturn back five
times to complain they had n't properly eliminated a rattling noise...so saturn
gave him a new car.

call that 1 800 number.


from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re mgbs and the real world
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 11

in article 1qlg02 iu6@uniwa.uwa.oz.au scott@psy.uwa.oz.au (scott fisher) writes
have you driven a turbo converted
mx5 \? now they are starting to perform ! i 've often thought a mazda rotary
would go well in the xm5 too....anyone done it \?

no , but somebody 's dropped a ford 302 v 8 into the miata , somewhat
reminiscent of the shelby cobra. the car 's obviously not as nimble
as before , but it 's supposed to have a near 50 50 weight distribution
and handle very well. i 'd sure love to drive one.

teddy

from bmoss@grinch.sim.es.com (brent spuzy moss)
subject re water in trunk of 89 probe \? \?
nntp posting host 130.187.200.5
organization evans sutherland computer corp. , salt lake city , ut
lines 4

the rubber drain plugs under my carpet in my mazda glc leaked
like the ones are doing under your spare in the probe.
i tooke them out and put some silicone sealant on them
and put them back in.

from eric thomas@mindlink.bc.ca (eric thomas)
subject 1962 thunderbird
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 4

i just bought a 1962 t bird and would like any info on a club
in and around the the b.c. coast.
eric thomas


from dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf)
subject plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization texas a m university , college station
lines 9
distribution usa
nntp posting host tamuts.tamu.edu

another user recently requested info about the shadow sundance
cars , but i have n't seen any public responses.

what are people 's experiences with these cars \?

daryl

daryl biberdorf n5gjm d biberdorf@tamu.edu
sola gratia sola fide sola scriptura

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re 6700 for hail damage a record \?
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
distribution usa
lines 30

in article 1993apr20.203219.7724@pencom.com stecz@pencom.com writes
in article 1993apr19.235711.7285@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
writes


my 90 integra was hit hard in the 3 25 hailstorm in austin , tx.
the insurance company cut me a check for 6600 ( 100 deductible)
last week. is this a record \? anybody else had settlements from
the same hailstorm yet \?

craig


rumor has it that a guy at dell computer had his miata totalled , so that would
be about 10k.

i guess it either had the top down , or the hail ripped through the top , as
you could not do 10k worth of hail damage to a miata body.

craig




john steczkowski stecz@pencom.com
the constitution grants you the right to life , liberty , and the
pursuit of happiness. it does not attempt to guarantee that
everyone will be happy.



from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re too fast
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 35

in 1993apr14.045526.21945@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes

in article 1qg19v 5ju@umcc.umcc.umich.edu mhartman@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (mark hartman) writes

i do n't know why you are complaining about 130. alot of us have cars that
can easily top that. most that go 130 are built to do it also and can handle
the speed. why complain and just join in on the fast fun \? can i ask.
have any of you been at the speed of 130 \? its a rush.

driving 130 in a straight line is fine , you very soon become aclimated
to it. it 's only a rush when there are corners that you do n't
think you can make.

on a clear autobahn , 130 is nothing. in the u.s. 99 of people and
all judges would label you insane and it is difficult to persuade
people otherwise.

sure , but the surface condition of most good autobahns is far better
than most of the roads here. a dip in the asphalt that you test your
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130. do n't get me wrong , i love to
drive quickly and they say my probe will do 130 , but that 's 30 more
than i 've ever tried in it cause there is n't a decent enough piece
of road hereabouts.

craig


mark hartman mhartman@umcc.umcc.umich.edu
kalamazoo , mi bk405@cleveland.freenet.edu
i'm naked in the school ! sleepyhead


bob



from qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (aamir hafeez qazi)
subject re bmw 3 series for 94 \?
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 14
reply to qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

from article eabu288 140493210752@dialin33635.slip.nts.uci.edu , by eabu288@orion.oac.uci.edu (alvin)

is there going to be a bmw 328 in 1994 \?

could be. is n't the 2.5 liter six supposed to be enlarged to 2.8 liters
in the not too distant future \?

aamir qazi



aamir qazi
qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
why should i care \? i 'd rather watch drying paint.

from swdwan@napier.uwaterloo.ca (donald wan)
subject just testing
organization university of waterloo
lines 3

hello testing



from george.howell goucher@wb3ffv.ampr.org (george howell)
subject re impala ss going into
distribution world
organization goucher college , towson , md
reply to george.howell goucher@wb3ffv.ampr.org (george howell)
lines 9

does that mean that they 're gonna bring back the biscayne and bel
air \?

or how about the 210 \?

george.howell goucher@wb3ffv.ampr.org

george


from sekell@bb1t.monsanto.com
subject monthly posting buick grand national regal t type mailing list
lines 16
organization monsanto company , st. louis , mo


monthly posting regarding the buick grand national regal t type mailing list.

this list is for owners and other parties interested in the 82 87 buick grand
nationals , regal t types , gnxs , and other turbocharged regals. discussions
include technical information and parts sources. particular emphasis is given
to performance enhancements and racing.

to join , or ask , about the mailing list , contact

gnttype request@srvsn2.monsanto.com


scott keller 1 314 537 6317 the agricultural group of monsanto company
sekell@bb1t.monsanto.com ka0wch packet ka0wch@k0pfx.mo.usa.na
keeper of the buick grand national regal t type mailing list

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 32

i consulted with someone working on an electronic odometer. the
design was to use a microprocessor based system to write a somewhat
ofuscated pattern into an eeprom. the idea was to make the circuit
difficult to program arbitrary values into the eeprom. the
secondary purpose , acutally the primary purpose from the standpoint
of practicality , was to distributed the writes so as to avoid
exceeing the maximum number of writes fof the eeprom being used.
the microprocessor also ignored pulses coming from the hall effect
at a rate any higher than 110 mph so as to make spoofing the reading
by bench pulsing at least somewhat undesirable. this was for an
automobile that was not expected to ever exceed 110 mph in
operation. the case , of course , might not be the same for your
1993 rx 7 !

the ecm modules of some cars do indeed store info about conditions
under which cars have been operated. since steering angle and
velocity data , etc is available it would not be difficult to
collect all sorts of interesting demographic information about the
drivers' use of the car. i am not aware of any manufacturer
currently trying to enforce warranty restrictions based on reading
out use data from the ecm. while it could be a potential invasion
of your privacy for manufacturers to have access to data about your
driving style , it could also provide valuable information from
actual field use conditions to help engineer more appropriate cars.
i personally would n't mind the dealer collecting my driving
demographics as long as it is done in an anonymous fashion.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re open letter to nissan
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 17
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , smorris@sumax.seattleu.edu (steven a. morris) says


or , here 's an even better suggestion , why do n't you guys go ahead and
buy the rest of fuji heavy industries (subaru) and put either an
in line 4 or v 6 into the legacy 4wd wagon. i 'd buy the legacy in a
minute if it had a nissan engine instead of the horizontal 4 that they
seem sentimentally attached to.

what do you find so wrong with the flat 6 in the subaru 's , or the flat 4 for that
matter \?

dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from srihari@cirrus.com (srihari shoroff)
subject re instead of a saturn sc2 , what \? \? \?
organization cirrus logic inc.
distribution na
lines 24

in ifn spo00iv18 a8nz@andrew.cmu.edu jr4q @andrew.cmu.edu (jason m. roth) writes

r t had an article on cars of the sc1 ilk and they liked the civic ex ,
the escort gt and the mx 3 best of all , and the sc1 was way down the
list except for braking.

i just looked at that article first of all , this summary is inaccurate
of 10 cars , the sc1 was 5th , right behind these mentioned and the suzuki
swift ( ! ). as has been pointed out , it was a semi silly comparison the
saturn was at least 500 cheaper than the mx 3 and escort (admittedly
negligible , but an issue) , and 1500 ( ! )less than the honda. the stated
goal was a base under 12k the honda was 500 over , while the sc2 at
the same price was excluded. in other words , they let the best honda
play , but not the best saturn. note that the saturn did beat the 13k

i dont know about the car comparison but as far as the price goes rest
assured that the street prices for the mx 3 and escort and (maybe) even
the honda will be lesser than that of the saturn you 're talking about.
all price comparisons i 've seen are based on msrp and of course the
saturn dealer will sell the car for sticker price whereas the others
will do it way below sticker.

srihari


from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re re aftermarket a c units
organization purdue university engineering computer network
distribution usa
lines 29

les bartel 's comments
sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to
make concerning aftermarket a c units. i have a frost king or frost temp
(forget which) aftermarket unit on my cavalier , and am quite unhappy with
it. the fan is noisy , and does n't put out much air. i will never have
an aftermarket a c installed in any of my vehicles again. i just ca n't
trust the quality and performance after this experience.
les

let me add my .02 in. i had a a c installed by the ford garage and it did not
work as well as the a c that was installed by the factory in pickups
identical to mine. i have talked to other people that have had the same
result. do n't know if this is just a probable with ford or what \? \?

ernie smith

i agree , never have the dealer add anything to your car. if you want a c
make sure it is factory installed(honda 's maybe excluded , many ca n't be
bought with a c installed at the factory , but i think , maybe , they actually
use all the needed parts for a true factory install when they put one in...as
in bigger radiator etc...or are designed properly for this in the 1st place) ,
anyway , my point is the dealer installed a c wo n't be anywhere near as good
as factory and the service bums will mess up your car when installing it...
scratches , screwdriver holes in seats...parts not reinstalled correctly or
with all the screws etc. i know a guy who has been service manager at a gm
dealer for 18 years...he said never have a dealer add anything to your car...
except , maybe , floormats...



from dunnjj@ucsu.colorado.edu (dunn jonathan james)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 24

ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker) writes


cup holders (driving is an importantant enough undertaking)

this is a good idea so you can carry your (non alcoholic) drinks without
spilling or having someone hold on to them.

cellular phones and mobile fax machines (see above)

fax machines , yes. cellular phones why not get a hands free model \?

fake convertible roofs and vinyl roofs.

seemingly unique to american luxury cars. the big three have n't yet realized
that the 1970s are over.

any gold trim.

i agree. just another display of yuppie excess.

jon dunn



from atom@netcom.com (allen tom)
subject re dumb options list
organization sirius cybernetics corporation complaints
lines 22

in article 93apr16.185044.18431@acs.ucalgary.ca parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) writes
the idea here is to list pointless options. you know , stuff you
get on a car that has no earthly use \?


1) power windows

i like my power windows. i think they 're worth it.

however , cruise control is a pretty dumb option. what 's the point \?
if you 're on a long trip , you floor the gas and keep your eyes on
the rear view mirror for cops , right \?

power seats are pretty dumb too , unless you 're unlucky enough to have
to share your car. otherwise , you 'd just adjust it once and just leave
it like that.


allen tom you 're not like the others... you like the same
atom@soda.berkeley.edu things i do... wax paper... boiled football
atom@netcom.com leather... dog breath... we're not hitchhiking
anymore... we're riding ! ren

from tomacj@opco.enet.dec.com (thunderbirds are go ! ! ! )
subject mr2 noisy engine.
organization digital equipment corporation
lines 19
nntp posting host opco


g 'day people ,

are there any mr2 owners or motor head gurus out there , that know why
my mr2 's engine sounds noisy \? the mr2 's engine is noisy at the best of times ,
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very ugly noises.
i do an oil change every 2 3 months , and for about 2 months the engine
noise sounds relatively quiet during driving and idling. at around the 3 month
mark , after an oil change (i 've been tracking this very thoroughly for months
now) it starts to get that very disgusting noise , not so much during driving ,
but more so during idling.
what 's its problem \?
also.. i do n't know if it 's just me , but if noticed a little
performance drop. it just has n't got the acceleration it used to.

any help tips would be appreciated ! !


worried.

from sjp@hpuerca.atl.hp.com (steve phillips)
subject re ford and the automobile
organization hewlett packard narc atlanta
x newsreader tin 1.1.3 pl5
lines 14

ford and his automobile. i need information on whether ford is
partially responsible for all of the car accidents and the depletion of
the ozone layer. also , any other additional information will be greatly
appreciated. thanks.

sssssoooooooooooo ! ! ! ! ! its all his fault ! ! thank god louis chevrolet is
innocent ! and that guy diesel , he otto feel guilty !



stephen phillips
atlanta response center
atlanta , ga.
home of the braves !

from bowmanj@csn.org (jerry bowman)
subject re opel owners \?
nntp posting host fred.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs
lines 26

in article c5sxi4.j9b@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes

i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model \?
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater ,
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition ,
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars \? the engine
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and
i am quite interested in it.
thanks !
darren gibbons
gibbonsa@sfu.ca

this would be the manta , would it not \? \? \? sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader \? \? \? \?

chintan amin
llama@uiuc.edu
if it looks like a miniature corvette it would be an opel gt , the
headlights are flipped over by pulling a lever inside.

chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
sig under construction hard hat area



from garyl@moe.corollary.com (gary lorman)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization corollary , inc.
lines 42

in article 9833@dirac.physics.purdue.edu lovall@bohr.physics.purdue.edu (daniel l. lovall) writes
in article conradie.40.734872761@firga.sun.ac.za conradie@firga.sun.ac.za (gerrit conradie) writes

.....

however , if i were to design a bmw 's electronics , i will use a counter to
count the number of times the car passed 1 million miles (or whatever) , and
store it in the car computer 's memory. this could be read when doing a
diagnostics test. ditto for the date of the odometer. as easy as this is , i
do n't know why manafucturers do n't do it (do n't they \? ) to prevent illegal
odometer tampering.

but as a previous writer said , it will in any case take aeons to reset an
odometer , mechanic or electronic by simulating a driving car. it will be
easier to reprogram it. how , i do n't know.

it should n't be that hard if you know much about digital electronics. if the
counter is made with standard ttl chips , all you should need to do is find
the chip(s) used for counting , figure out what mileage you want to put in ,
and preset it but wiring the preset pins directly to low high (you 'd also have
to know what the conventions are for low and high). it might be a little more
involved than this , but it should n't be beyond someone with a bsee or bs eet.
all the display does is convert what the counter chips say into digits using
a translation table stored in rom.

selah ,

dan

but , those chips are probably inside a custom chip , (to make it smaller and
use less power) and the preset data pins are not going to be available.
it would probably not be ttl but might be cmos
(wider operating voltage range) , not that the tecnology would make
much difference.
plus the custom chip would probably be potted (encapsulated with epoxy).
good luck.


garyl
any shark that gets to be 11 or 12 feet long with
300 big teeth can be considered dangerous 'shark bowl '92'


from c23st@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (spiros triantafyllopoulos)
subject re ad said nissan altima best seller \?
organization delco electronics corp.
lines 23

in article 1r0vk6innaft@cronkite.central.sun.com dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com writes
i too was puzzled by this obvious untruth. what i think is going on is that
nissan claims that the altima is the best selling new car namelplate in
the us (i think i have this near verbatim). lee iaccoca 's statistics
dept. would have been proud of that sentence.

note that the corolla prism are also new designs... but hey are not new
nameplates. i guess nissan does n't even sell as many altimas as
toyota does corollas , or there would be no nameplate qualifier.

but waiiiiiit , is n't nissan officially registering the car as far as
government paperwork goes , nissan stanza altima , to avoid costly and
lengthy paperwork \? i read this on the net a while ago , and someone
actually may have said there 's a little stanza logo on the altima
somewhere.

you can have it both ways )

spiros

spiros triantafyllopoulos c23st@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in 46904 i post , therefore i armm

subject convertibles
from bouton@gertrude.cms.udel.edu (katherine bouton)
reply to bouton@gertrude.cms.udel.edu
organization u of delaware , college of marine studies lewes
nntp posting host gertrude.cms.udel.edu
lines 4

i was wondering if someone could point me to somewhere i could
find a list (and hopefully comparison) of all the convertibles that are
out these days. seems like they are making a big comeback but i'm not
sure where to look

from keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys)
subject re necessity of fuel injector cleaning by dealership
organization national institute of standards technology
lines 58

in article 1993apr6.131018.12873@acd4.acd.com jwg@sedv1.acd.com ( jim grey) writes
in article 1993apr2.174850.6289@cbnewsl.cb.att.com prm@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (paul.r.mount) writes

in your experience , how true is it that a fuel injector cleaning
will do much more good than just using detergent gas. while i
agree that a clogged fuel injector would darken my day , how clogged
do they get , and is 59 a good price (or can i do it myself by buying
a can of (what \? ) and doing what \?


a fuel injector cleaning at the dealer is probably little more than
them opening your gas tank , dumping in a bottle of fuel injector cleaner ,
and sending you on your merry way 59 poorer. go to kmart and buy the
cleaner yourself for 1.29.

personally , i would n't use the 1.29 product from kmart. i knew about
this previously , but this past weekend on pbs 's motorweek pat goss
(their resident tech type) discussed these products , and recommends
not using them (i.e , the non isopropyl alcohlo based injector cleaners).

supposedly only the isopropyl based cleaners actually remove moisture
from your fuel tank as they clean your injectors. and although the
others (ethyl based) do clean injectors they also cause rubber
components in the fuel system to deteriorate , and they do n't mix well
with water to help remove it from the fuel system.

i use a product recommended by vw called 44k (by bg products , inc.).
it cost more about 14.00 , but it is supposed to do the job without
the potential harmful side effects , and its results are supposed to
last from 2k to 4k miles. i have also used chevron 's techtrolene (sp \? ).

i ca n't say that i have noticed any difference using either , since i
only use these product as a preventative maintenance item.


just because you dealer sez you need it , do n't mean it 's necessarily so.
be suspicious.

jim grey
jwg@acd4.acd.com

.

larry
keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov




oo

1990 2.0 16v


fahrvergnugen forever !
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates
that you probably would n't understand anyway !


from rts@nwu.edu (ted schreiber)
subject opinions on recent alfa spiders
nntp posting host mac178.mech.nwu.edu
organization mechanical engineering
lines 15

anyone have any opinions on fairly recent model alfa spiders ( 86 )

reliablilty for what their class ( i'm not talking alfa vs. toyota corrola
which is more relaible )

as far as i can discern , in recent years , there are 3 levels with all
basically the same mechanical aspects.

please email any responses


ted schreiber
mechanical enginering
northwestern university
tel 708.491.5386 fax 708.491.3915 email rts@nwu.edu

from khalsa@spartansandiego.ncr.com (g.k. khalsa)
subject re options that would be great to have...
reply to g.k.khalsa@sandiego.ncr.com
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing , san diego , ca
lines 36

in article 93apr16.185510.36600@acs.ucalgary.ca , parr@acs.ucalgary.ca
(charles parr) writes



a list of options that would be useful. they can be existing
options on a car , or things you 'd like to have...

1) tripmeter , great little gadget. lets you keep rough track of
mileage , makes a good second guesser for your gas gauge...

2) full size spare

3) built in mountings and power systems for radar detectors.

4) a fitting that allows you to generate household current with
the engine running , and plug ins in the trunk , engine compartment
and cabin.

feel free to add on...

ok...

5) how about a fuel gauge that really told you how much fuel was
left. like , can i make it to where the gas is 1.14 or should
i get gouged right here at 1.35 \? accurate to the tenth of a
gallon would be great.

...............................................................
on contract to
gk khalsa ncr engineering and manufacturing
.................... 16550 w. bernardo dr.
(619) 485 2460 san diego , ca 92127
! .................... ! ........................................ !
! .................g.k.khalsa@sandiego.ncr.com................. !


from 6500alh@ucsbuxa.ucsb.edu (archie holmes)
subject prizm 's radio question
keywords prizm , geo , radio , theft
distribution rec
lines 7


i was lloking at the geo prizm lsi today (very nice). anyway , i had a
questions that the salesperson could n't answer. how does the theft
deterrent on the prizm 's audio systems work \? ca n't find the answer
in any of geo 's lterature. thanks in advance.

archie holmes

from mark@luke.cray.com (mark dean)
subject re ford and the auto
nntp posting host nntpd 29970 luke.navo.navy.mil
reply to crayce1@pops.navo.navy.mil
organization cray research
lines 20

hello , my name is russell wong and i am doing a research project on henry
ford and his automobile. i need information on whether ford is
partially responsible for all of the car accidents and the depletion of
the ozone layer. also , any other additional information will be greatly
appreciated. thanks.


so would mr. benz.. eh \?

and mr. chevy , mr. toyokogio , and mr (insert car name here...)



dan reed blu@cellar.org eat your pets poke out your eyes kill your
boss burn down your house move to elmer nj rip out your nose hairs with
a lead holder use x acto knives for dental work hit your mother.......

people get a life ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

md

from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (carolinafan@uiuc)
subject re saturn 's pricing policy
article i.d. news.c51sma.anc
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 75

cs012055@cs.brown.edu (hok chung tsang) writes

in article c4vir5.l3r@shuksan.ds.boeing.com , fredd@shuksan (fred dickey) writes
carolinafan@uiuc (cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu) wrote

the biggest problem some people seem to be having is that saturn
dealers make 2k on a car. i think most will agree with me that the car is
comparably priced with its competitors , that is , they are n't overpriced
compared to most cars in their class. i do n't understand the point of
arguing over whether the dealer makes the 2k or not \?

i have never understood what the big deal over dealer profits is either.
the only thing that i can figure out is that people believe that if
they minimize the dealer profit they will minimize their total out of pocket
expenses for the car. while this may be true in some cases , i do not
believe that it is generally true. i bought a saturn sl in january of '92.
at that time , based on studying car prices , i decided that there was
no comparable car that was priced as cheaply as the saturn. sure , maybe i
could have talked the price for some other car to the saturn price , but
my out of pocket expenses would n't have been any different. what 's important
to me is how much money i have left after i buy the car. reducing dealer profit
is not the same thing as saving money ! show me how reducing dealer profit
saves me money , and i 'll believe that it 's important. my experience has
been that reducing dealer profit does not necessarily save me money.

fred


say , you bought your saturn at 13k , with a dealer profit of 2k.
if the dealer profit is 1000 , then you would only be paying 12k for
the same car. so is n't that saving money \?

yes. but the point is that prices are competetive. saturn may
well be selling a car intended on giving the dealer a 2000 profit , but
since a comperable honda with 500 profit is more expensive , it may be well
worth it to buy the saturn.

moreover , if saturn really does reduce the dealer profit margin by 1000 ,
then their cars will be even better deals. say , if the price of a saturn was
already 1000 below market average for the class of cars , then after they
reduce the dealer profit , it would be 2000 below market average. it will

1) attract even more people to buy saturns because it would save them money.

2) force the competitors to lower their prices to survive.

now , not only will saturn owners benefit from a lower dealer profit , even
the buyers for other cars will pay less.


not necessarily. it seems to me that saturn salesdroids , who do n't
make a commision , whereas their counterparts at other dealerships generally
do , make more per hour or whatever. this means that saturn does n't give up
the profit to their employees through commision , which is taken out of per
car profits. they just pass it along to less pressureing salesmen women.

is n't that saving money \?

maybe. maybe not. depends on accounting practices. i 'd rather pay
more for dealer service that does n't cut corners to contain costs...


0.02 ,
doug.

2 100
cka
'87 (carolina) blue honda civic dx



chintan amin the university of illinois urbana champaign mail llama@uiuc.edu

because he was human because he had goodness because he was moral
they called him insane... peart cinderella man

from mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil (malcolm g. costello)
subject re changing oil by self.
reply to mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil (malcolm g. costello)
distribution usa
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 35

in rec.autos , boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
xin article 1qgi8einnhs5@skeena.ucs.ubc.ca yiklam@unixg.ubc.ca (yik chong lam)
x writes
x hello ,
x
x does anyone know how to take out the bolt under the engine
x compartment \? should i turn clockwise or counter \? i tried any kind
x of lubricants , wd 40 , etc , but i still failed !
x do you think i can use a electric drill( change to a suitable
x bit ) to turn it out \? if i can succeed , can i re tighten it not too
x tight , is it safe without oil leak \?
x
xassuming you do n't have a russian car with opposite threads , then
xyou turn counterclockwise. i would get some professional
xhelp here , you may not have located the draing plug and
xactually be trying to loosen something else.
x
xcraig
x
x
x thank you very much in advance winson
x
this reminds me of the first time my cousin did an oil change on his
car. he crawled under , removed a bolt , drained the fluid , replaced the
bolt , then carefully poured in 5 quarts of oil. did n't bother to
check the dip stick , just drove off. did n't get too far till me found
out that he 'd drained the 4 speed trans and dumped an extra 5 quarts
into the engine. ( moral as craig said do n't be ashamed to get some
in person help the first time.

mack costello mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil code 65.1 (formerly 1720.1)
david taylor model basin , carderock division hq. nswc
bethesda , md 20084 5000 phone (301) 227 2431 (



from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re wife wants convertible
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 17
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , nuet ke@pts.mot.com (keith nuetzman x3153 p7625) says


help ! ! !
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car.
we live in south fla. , so we are definitely in the right are for one.
my wife has mentioned the miata , but i think it is too small.
i would like to wait for the new mustangs ( dec. '93 i think).
anyone have any opinions on any all convertibles in a reasonable price range.

thanx


geo metro lsi
)
drew

from turbo@cbnewse.cb.att.com (gerald.l.lindahl)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization at t
lines 19

from article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu , by ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi )
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly
a small girl sitting in the front seat of one of them was struck
in the head by one of the larger rocks. i do n't recall if she
made it , but i think she was comatose for a month or so and
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live.

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

erik velapold

yes
! ! ! !
!

from jcorry@erasure sl.cc.emory.edu (jeremy corry)
subject mbenz 300 series , vw passat
lines 31
nntp posting host erasure sl.cc.emory.edu


my boss is interested in a new 300 series mercedes benz wagon.
does anyone have any testimonial evidence and or strong opinions
on this car (or line) \?

particularly , i would like to hear about power (manual t. only)
reliability , feel , and any unusually good or bad features of the
line.

she currently drives a vw passat , and is being plagued by its
electrical problems. the dealer claims there is nothing wrong ,
even though the doors have a habit of locking and unlocking them
selves while you are driving down the road. the automatic shoulder
restraints also like to move back and forth as you move along.
she does not have the new , larger engine and is quite
dissatisfied with its lack of power.

the mb wagon would have to have more power and no peculiar problems
such as the passat 's electrical system. she is also considering
a saab 9000 (add some letters). any comparisons between the 9000
line and the mercedes would be helpful.

price is not an impediment.


jeremy j. corry churchill claimed the traditions
jcorry@erasure sl.cc.emory.edu of the navy are rum , mutiny , and
sodomy.

my opinions are my own , but i probably got them from someone else.


from jdenune@pandora.sdsu.edu (john denune)
subject re sport utility vehical comparisons \? any opinions \?
organization san diego state university , college of sciences
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host pandora.sdsu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

karl elvis macrae (kmac@cisco.com) wrote

i'm looking at the following three suv 's anyone who 's driven all
three have any strong opinions \?

ford explorer
toyota 4runner
nissan pathfinder

well , i was just in your position and i drove all three and liked
all three. it was a toss up. i marginally went with the pathfinder
based on reliability and looks.

i do n't think you can go wrong with any of them.

john
jdenune@pandora.sdsu.edu


from pp@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (peter.peng)
subject need info on mazda 626
organization at t bell laboratories
distribution na
keywords mazeda 626
lines 15



i test drove a mazda 626 lx this past weekend and
liked it.

the dealer offered it for 15k.

1) is this a good price \?
2) any comments on 626 in general \?

please use email. thanks


peter
att ! hotsoup ! peng

from mgqlu@ntuix.ntu.ac.sg (max lu)
subject re auto air conditioning without freon
organization nanyang technological university singapore
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
distribution usa
lines 12

we are working on gas solid adsorption air con system for auto applications.
in this kind of system , the energy for regenerating the adsorbent is from
the exhaust gas. anyone interested in this mail email me or follow up this
thread , we may have a discussion on prospects of this technology.

max


max g q lu , phd internet mgqlu@ntu.ac.sg
division of thermal enginerring bitnet mgqlu@ntuvax.bitnet
school of mpe , nanyang technological university phone (65) 7994818
nanyang avenue , singapore 2263 fax (65) 7911859

from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000
organization purdue university engineering computer network
distribution na
lines 18

in article 33759@oasys.dt.navy.mil tobias@oasys.dt.navy.mil (steve tobias) writes
in rec.autos , cpkjp@vm.cc.latech.edu (kevin parker) writes
i 'd like to get some feedback on a car with most bang for the buck in the
13000 to 16 , 000 price range. i'm looking for a car with enough civility to be
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to feel
some acceleration. handling is important also , as are reliability and pretty
low maintenance costs. a stylish appearance is nice , but i do n't want a car
that is all show and not much go. even though many of the imports are fast , i
do n't really want a turbo , and i never have cared for the song sung by a four
clyinder. i 'd prefer a v6 or v8 for the engine. if you have any suggestions ,
kevin parker

there 's only one car that really fits your needs. it 's spelled

5.0 liter mustang


not ! sorry , he said cvility , long trips , reliability , and low maintenance cost !

from klf@druwa.att.com (franklinkl)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
summary be careful about concealed weapons ! ! !
lines 45

in article c5srib.6ah@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu , callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr19.145238.9561@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu bqueiser@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (brian j queiser) writes
anything if he had n't emptied his gun into the asshole. texas it 's
whole other country.

that reminds me of one of texas 's ads...you hear a guy speaking in
french (like it 's a letter home) , then the french moves to the
background , and a french accented voice come to the foreground , talking
about how he went walking on the beach , and it felt so much like
home that he decided to take his shoes off...and the rest of his
clothes. it ended with please send bail. )

on an rec.autos note , does anyone carry a gun on them or keep one in
their car (which is bad idea , is n't it \? ) if you work in a bad part of
town (or regularly go through one) \? is this a loaded question \? )

i normally have an unloaded colt delta in my glove box with a loaded
magazine handy (which is perfectly legal in oklahoma). for those
times that i'm travelling inter state , i keep an unloaded
s w .44 magnum revolver in the glove box , with a speed loader

in my pocket (which is legal everywhere , under federal law , illinois
state police be hanged).

as i 've said before , this is stricly for defense my insurance
will pay to replace my car , but i only have one life...

james


carrying a pistol , loaded or unloaded , in the glove compartment , is
considered carrying a concealed weapon in colorado and is illegal without
a concealed weapons permit. unless the law has been changed recently ,
carrying a weapon openly is legal in colorado but concealing it is illegal.
i read a newspaper account last year where police stopped a car on a
traffic infraction and observed a .357 magnum revolver sitting on the
seat. the driver could not be cited for possessing or carrying the weapon
because it was not concealed. the article stated that if the gun had
been discovered in the glove box , it would have been considered a crime.


ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait
ama and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't
gwrra i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints
dod 0126 the sinners are lots more fun , y'know only the good die young

subject re ford sho engine parts !
from david.bonds@cutting.hou.tx.us (david bonds)
reply to david.bonds@cutting.hou.tx.us (david bonds)
distribution world
organization the cutting edge houston , tx 713 466 1525
lines 21


w will not do work on internal engine components of the sho engine. this
w
w good thing , too.
w
w at about 25k miles my cam sensor went south. 2 different ford
w dealers tried 5 or 6 different fixes , none of which worked. finally
w i took it down the street to the local mechanic. this guy reads the
w code off the engine computer , says bad cam sensor , and fixes it in
w an hour...

a friend of mine had some sensors damaged by flood waters , ford denys any
sensors are registering bad. he and his father did the short a circut via
paper clip method (not sure of the exact technique) , and read the codes off
the service engine light flashes generated from this. came up with the
damaged sensors , went back to ford , and told them what was wrong. they
fixed the car after that. what a bunch of bozos.


the cutting edge bbs (cutting.hou.tx.us) a pcboard 14.5a system
houston , texas , usa 1.713.466.1525 running uupcb

from bw662@cleveland.freenet.edu (bill cray)
subject re thinking about buying intrepid good or bad idea \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 6
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


i bought an intrepid about two months ago and am very happy with
it. lots of room inside and even with the smaller engine it has
enough power for me. the only problem i found was a small
selection on the dealer 's lots. they are hot sellers around here.


from jobin@server.uwindsor.ca (scarecrow)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization university of windsor , ontario , canada
lines 37

seningen@maserati.ross.com (mike seningen)
85 mph speedos esp. the electronic ones.

the digital dash of the 87 cougars with the large analog clock in
the middle of the dash everything was digital except the stinking clock \?

the funny thing about the digital dash (87 t bird) with the 85mph speedo
limit was that if you pressed the button to convert to kilometers it would
read all the way up to 187kph. at this point the stock anemic 302 would get
short of breath. this of course was equivalent to about 116mph (hehe).i bet
i really coulda confused this thing if i 'd toyed with the engine and rolled
the stupid thing (the digits were limited to 199).

i 've gotta agree with ya on the analog clock w digital dash though. my
girlfriend had a '85 turbocoupe with a digital clock and analog gauges radio.
go figure...


usenet@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu (usenet administrator)
i love the keyless entry on my t bird it 's great for those times that
i had to stop to put air in my tires. i could get out and lock the door
with the engine running while i ran around to air up the tire. it also

i had a great feature on my t bird.... i could pull the key out and
leave the ignition on. this scared the hell out of me the first time it
happened but i kinda grew to like it. musta been a bad key copy or
something.

mark novakovic

there is no god up in the sky tonight
no sign of heaven anywhere in sight nin jesus loves ya. blow me.
in tribute to my former
area supervisor jim bonneau
and the infamous bonneau math
(demoted not departed)
ministry

from ct22@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (constantino tobio)
subject re quick question
article i.d. news.1993apr6.050302.13153
organization columbia university
lines 62
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu

newsgroups rec.autos , rec.autos.vw
subject re quick question
summary
expires
sender
reply to ct22@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (constantino tobio)
followup to
distribution
organization columbia university
keywords removing panels.

in article 1993apr5.211457.12789@ole.cdac.com ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate) writes
how do you take off the driver side door panel from the inside
on an '87 honda prelude \? the speaker went scratchy , and i want
to access its pins.

i see only one press button and the rest is snug fit.


s
ssave@ole.cdac.com

quick question. why are you posting this to a vw newsgroup \?

newsgroups rec.autos , rec.autos.vw
subject re quick question
summary
distribution world
organization columbia university
keywords

newsgroups rec.autos , rec.autos.vw
newsgroups rec.autos , rec.autos.vw
subject re quick question
summary
expires
references 1993apr5.211457.12789@ole.cdac.com
sender
reply to ct22@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (constantino tobio)
followup to
distribution
organization columbia university
keywords removing panels.

in article 1993apr5.211457.12789@ole.cdac.com ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate) writes
how do you take off the driver side door panel from the inside
on an '87 honda prelude \? the speaker went scratchy , and i want
to access its pins.

i see only one press button and the rest is snug fit.


s
ssave@ole.cdac.com

quick question. why are you posting this to a vw newsgroup \?
constantino tobio , jr. ct22@columbia.edu
tremble you weaklings , cower in fear , i am your ruler , land , sea and air.
immense in my girth , erect i stand tall , i'm a nuclear murderer.
i am polaris ! megadeth , rust in peace

from ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate)
subject re changing oil by self.
organization cdac , wa
lines 27

in article 1993apr14.130427.21349@porthos.cc.bellcore.com dje@bmw535.nosubdomain.nodomain (don eilenberger) writes

in article 1qgi8einnhs5@skeena.ucs.ubc.ca , yiklam@unixg.ubc.ca (yik chong lam) writes
hello ,

does anyone know how to take out the bolt under the engine
compartment \? should i turn clockwise or counter \? i tried any kind
of lubricants , wd 40 , etc , but i still failed !
do you think i can use a electric drill( change to a suitable
bit ) to turn it out \? if i can succeed , can i re tighten it not too
tight , is it safe without oil leak \?
thank you very much in advance winson

i would suggest you take the car to the nearest chevron dealer , with
your own oil and filter. ask for an oil change. it will cost less
than 10. watch him her do it. just from watching someone do a job ,
you will be able to learn and remember the sequence , and do it right
when you do it yourself the next time. besides , when he she loosens
the drain nut , the next time around it will be easier for you.

if it is stuck , use an impact wrench. not too much force though.
use a new washer each time you put the nut back.....

s
ssave@ole.cdac.com



from jdrout@scott.skidmore.edu (jtd is lost)
subject honda new car info
organization skidmore , somewhere down from reality
lines 38


from kay honda 's helpful hints about your honda infromation sheet
(given to new owners of honda vehicles).

a burning smell may be evident from your new car shortly after taking
delivery.
i now own a fire extinguisher


on prelude s mels at temperatures above 32 degrees push the
accelerator pedal to the floor one time , release slowly , and with your
foot off the accelerator , crank the engine until it starts. moe than
5 seconds ! ! ! ! ! ! ! my note of cranking may be required. in
temperatures below 32 degrees the accelerator will have to be
depressed 2 3 times.

door panels and interior trim can be damaged if they are not buckled
by getting caught when closing doors.

when shifting accord automatic transmissions from park neutral , or
reverse into drive the transmission shifts into 3rd gear.

in case of towing
1 start the engine
2 shift into drive from park , then from drive to neutral
3 turn off engine
what if you are getting towed b c engine wo n't run \?

if engine does not run do not use this procedure !
phew , i was worried !

insert smilies where appropriate , though this is real.

jonathan

jdrout@scott.skidmore.edu
skidmore college , saratoga ny
93 civic si aftermarket fogs (if you own one , you understand ! )

from markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com (mark monninger)
subject re auto air conditioning without freon
nntp posting host 223.250.10.7
reply to rapw20@email.sps.mot.com
organization sps
distribution usa
lines 20

in article 1993apr15.222600.11690@research.nj.nec.com
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna) writes
...
several chemists already have come up with several substitutes for
r12. you do n't hear about them because the mobile air conditioning
society
(macs) , that is , the people who stand to rake in that 300 to 1000 per
retrofit per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to squash
those
r12 substitutes out of existence if not ban them altogether (on very
shaky
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at worst).
...

now , i'm not saying you 're wrong because i know that the r 12 substitutes
exist , but this sounds a lot like the 200mpg carbs that the oil companies
keep us all from getting.

mark


from sgs1679@ucs.usl.edu (sudhindranath sira g)
subject help ! ! ! ! (mercury capri query).
keywords gas mileage , high idling , carburettor , tune up.
organization univ. of southwestern la. , lafayette
distribution usa
lines 34

hi folks ,

i recently bought a 1981 mercury capri (my first car ever ! ).
i have noticed a few problems with the car

1. it gives very low gas mileage (something like
11 miles gallon i hear other car owners speak of
gas mileage figures like 25 miles gallon (wow ! ) etc.).

2. when i start the car , it goes into high idling (something
like 1500 (or is it 15000 \? ) rpm. after driving 4 or 5 miles ,
it comes down to 300 (or 3000 \? ) rpm.

i would like to know if there is any way by which i can fix these
problems. or is it natural for an old car like this \? (it has
done about 117 , 000 miles). someone suggested that i change rebuild
recondition the carburettor. i am not prepared to do it
unless i am sure it will fix the problem. and yes , i got the
car tuned up recently (within the last 200 miles or so).

please let me know if you have any suggestions. please respond
by email since i do n't scan this newsgroup regularly.

thanks.

regards ,

sudhi.


sira gopinath sudhindranath. email sudhi@ucs.usl.edu.

is he one of us or is he one of them \? so ask small minded men.
those of noble mind think the entire world as their family. hitopadesha

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re new break pads exhausts after 96k km (60k mi) on '90 maxima \?
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 78

in article 1993apr16.000601.14223@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu rkim@eecg.toronto.edu (ryan kim) writes

hi , maybe someone can help me here...
i am looking to buy this 1990 nissan maxima gxe for cdn 14000 right now.

so its an automatic \? do n't know if us spec cdn spec. for maximas.

the car has 96000 km (or about 60000 miles) on it.
a typical mileage for 1990 cars seem to be about 70000 km (or about 43k mi).
the seller just informed me that when he brought the car in for certification
he was told that the front break pads and the exhausts had to be replaced
to meet the legal standards. (he said he will replace the components before
selling the car to me.)

being copmletely ignorant to the technical stuff on cars , i do n't know
what this could mean...
is 96k km about the time typical for replacing the above mentioned items \?
or is this an indication that the car was abused \?

if it is the first set of brake pads on front , then this is fine. my car
eats a set every 15k miles or so. the fact that he is replacing the
muffler too is also ok.

would other things break down or have to be replaced soon \?

the mileage is fairly low but typical fwd stuff is cv joints. check
the maintenance records with the manufacturers requirements for valve
adjustments , timing belt changes and so on.

the 60k mile service is often expensive , so make sure he has done everything.


the seller told me that he used the car on the highway a lot , but ,
i do n't know how to verify this... i 've seen the paint chipped away
in tiny dots in the front edge of the hood , though.

well , this is one of the commonly cited methods for identifying a
car with highway miles.
might check the gas pedal wear too. ask him how many sets of tires he
has been through. a highway car might have squeezed by on 2 sets ,
a hard driven car 6 10 sets.


although the maxima is an excellent car and the car is very clean and
well kept , it 's currently out of warranty
(a similarly priced '90 accord with 70k km will have 2 years or 30k km
worth of warranty left) and i do n't want to worry about paying for
any repair bills...

well , the maxima should be pretty reliable but if its out of warranty
you should get it checked out by someone knowledgeable first. stuff
for japanese cars can be expensive.

but , i also need a car for 5 people...

when will the new maxima come out , by the way \?

1995 model year , i believe.

i would very much appreciate your input in this.
please reply by e mail (preferred) or post in this newsgroup.

craig
thanks !

ryan




ryan kim
university of toronto , eecg , computer graphics rkim@eecg.toronto.edu
do not weave between traffic cones at road works.
from the new british highway code
(toronto star april 3 , 1993)




from sergei@is.morgan.com (sergei poliakoff)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host nyis113
organization morgan stanley is
lines 19

mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee) writes
be valued in terms of money because they are human beings , i submit
that they are not human beings.

such submissions have been made before , e.g. regarding jews.

in article 1993apr21.042234.23924@nuscc.nus.sg , matmcinn@nuscc.nus.sg (matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal) writes
absolutely. a scratch on my car bothers me more than the death of any
number of scum. all of you feel the same way you just wo n't admit it.
when are people going to realise that the mere fact that a piece of flesh
moves and has the approximate shape of a human being does not in itself
mean that it has rights \?

all you dirty harry types , eager to pull a gun on some scum guilty of
scratching your stupid painted metal boxes on wheels have you ever
killed a human to speak so lightly about such matters \?

sergei


from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject rec.autos frequently asked questions
keywords monthly posting
reply to welty@balltown.cma.com
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 03 03 gmt
lines 251

archive name rec autos part4

this article is one of a pair of articles containing commonly
asked automotive questions the other article contains questions
of general consumer interest , and is broken out to facilitate
crossposting to misc.consumers rpw

last change 8 february 1993 ct now permits radar detector usage ,
new tire traction q a rpw

commonly asked questions

radar questions

q where are radar detectors illegal \?

a in the us , currently virgina and the district of columbia prohibit
all usage of radar detectors. new york prohibits their use in
large trucks. in canada , they are illegal in manitoba , ontario ,
quebec , newfoundland and pei (prince edward island). they
are apparently are illegal through most , if not all , of europe.
legislation which would make them illegal is pending in many other
jurisdictions chances of such legislation passing varies a great deal.

q where are radar detector detectors used \? do they really work \?

a usage is spreading rapidly initially they were used only in canada ,
but now they are appearing in new york and virginia. it is unsafe
to assume that they are not in use in connecticut and d.c.
they work by detecting a certain frequency radiated by many currently
available super het radar detectors some brands of detector radiate
more strongly than others , and are thus more likely to be spotted.
new radar detectors are becoming available which may not be detected
by the current generation of detector detectors. note that a
detector may only be spotted by one of these devices if it is turned
on.

q what is vascar \? is it some kind of radar \?

a vascar is nothing more than a fancy stopwatch and time speed distance
computer. it depends on the operator pressing buttons as the target
vehicle passes landmarks. no radar signals are emitted by a vascar
system.

q what is ka band radar \? where is it used \? should a radar detector be
able to handle it \?

a ka band has recently been made available by the fcc for use in the us
in so called photo radar installations. in these installations , a
low powered beam is aimed across the road at a 45 degree angle to the
direction of traffic , and a picture is taken of vehicles which the
radar unit determines to have been in violation of the speed limit.
tickets are mailed to the owner of the vehicle. because of the low
power and the 45 degree angle , many people believe that a radar
detector cannot give reasonable warning of a ka band radar unit ,
although some manufacturers of radar detectors have added such
capability anyway. the number of locales where photo radar is in use
is limited , and some question the legality of such units. best advice
learn what photo radar units look like , and keep track of where they
are used (or else , do n't speed.)

q do radar jammers work \? are they legal \?

a quick answer no , and not in the usa.
detailed answer cheap radar jammers do not work well at all.
jammers that work are expensive and usually the property of the
military. jammers are a major violation of the regulations of the
federal communications commission of the usa.

driving technique and vehicle dynamics questions

q what are understeer and oversteer \?

a understeer and oversteer are terms describing the behaviour of a
car while cornering near the `limit' (limit of adhesion , that is.)
most drivers do not normally drive hard enough for these terms to
be descriptive of the situations they encounter. simply put , they
tell whether the car wants to go straight in a corner (steer `less' ,
or `understeer') or it wants to turn more in a corner (`oversteer'.)
understeer is commonly designed into most production cars so that
untrained drivers , inadvertantly traveling too fast , wo n't get into
trouble. understeer may also be induced by using too much throttle
in a corner. oversteer is designed into some more performance
oriented cars it may be induced by lifting on the throttle (trailing
throttle oversteer , or tto). in extreme cases , lifting on the throttle
may induce so much oversteer that the car reacts by fishtailing or
spinning.

some technical details in a corner at speed , the tires on the car
will develop what are called `slip angles' the slip angle is the
angular difference between the direction that the car is traveling
and the direction that the steering wheel is directing the car to
travel. in understeer , the front wheels have a greater slip angle
than the rear wheels. in oversteer , the rear wheels have a greater
slip angle than the front wheels.

q what is a rev matched downshift \?

a when downshifting , the engine must be rotating faster in the lower gear
than it was in the higher gear. however , during a downshift , normally
you declutch and lift your foot from the throttle , so the revs drop
rather than increase. in rev matched downshift , you blip the throttle
before re engaging the clutch so that the engine will already be up to
the new speed. this results in a much smoother and faster downshift.

q what does heel and toe mean \?

a heel and toe is a technique used to do a rev matched downshift while
braking. this is normally challenging , because you need the right foot
for both the brake and throttle. it is called heel and toe because you
use one end of the foot on the brake , and the other on the throttle to
match revs for the downshift. in many modern cars this is a misnomer
often you must use the ball of the foot on the brake and the right side
on the throttle.

note that some race car drivers will skip the clutch , and just use the
left foot on the brake and the right foot on the throttle , accomplishing
the same thing.

q what is double clutch downshifting \?

a while your right foot is doing the above , your left foot can do one of
three things nothing , declutch once , or declutch twice. the reason for
declutching twice is to match the speeds of the two shafts in the
transmission to the speed of the engine. this is usually coupled with
rev matching , so that while the engine is in neutral and the clutch
engaged , the throttle is blipped and both shafts of the transmission
speed up.

the procedure is as follows
(0) declutch
(1) move gearshift lever to neutral
(2) engage clutch
(3) match revs
(4) declutch
(5) move gearshift lever to next lower gear
(6) engage clutch

this sounds like a lot of work , but with practice it becomes natural.
the problem that double clutching solves is normally the function of the
synchronizers within the gearbox. in transmissions without synchros or
with very worn synchros , double clutching makes it much easier to shift.
basically , if you double clutch well , you are not using the synchros at
all. this is generally unnecessary on street cars with synchros in good
condition.

q what do the numbers for acceleration from 0 60 , 1 4 mile , skidpad , and
slalom times in the auto magazines really mean \? may they be compared \?

a in short , 1) not as much as the magazines want you to believe , and
2) almost never.

in more detail the acceleration numbers (0 60mph and 1 4 mile times
in the us) may be vaguely compared as long as they all come from the
same source. testing procedures vary so much from magazine to magazine
that comparing a road track number to a car driver number is quite
pointless. keep in mind , too , that the same variation applies from
driver to driver on the street the driver is a major (often the
major) part of the equation.

skidpads vary , and even if they did n't , skidpad figures are really
only tests of the stickiness of the stock tires they change radically
when tire compounds change. do not make any assumptions about the
comparative handling of , say , two sports sedans based on skidpad numbers.
this is not to suggest that skidpads are without value , however. skidpads
are an excellent educational tool at driving schools. they are simply
of limited value in the comparison of anything except tires.

slalom times are slightly more useful they test some small parts of the
automobile 's transient response. however , they are also heavily influenced
by the stock rubber on the car , and they do not test many corners of the
car 's envelope. they do not tell you all you need to know before making
a buying decision. for example , they do n't tell you what the rear end
of the car will do on a road which suddenly goes off camber. when a car
has an adjustable suspension , these tests are usually done in the `sport'
setting , which may be quite unsuitable for daily driving. the list of
caveats could go on for page after page.

q my buddy claims that wide tires do n't make any difference , according
to his freshman physics textbook , and that you ca n't ever accelerate
or corner at more than 1.0g. does he know what he 's talking about \?

a 1) in short he has n't got a clue.

2) in more detail the equations for friction used in freshman physics
textbooks presume that the surfaces are smooth , dry and non deformable ,
none of which properly apply to tire traction except in the case of a
stone cold tire on dry pavement which is far below its proper operating
temperature.

pavement is never smooth it is always irregular to a greater or lesser
extent. tires , which are not really dry and solid (as rubber is a
substance which in its natural form is liquid , and which has only been
coerced into a semblance of solidity by chemical magic) , deform to match
the surface of the pavement which a vehicle is traveling over. in a tire
at operating temperature , grip is actually generated by shear stresses
inside the deformed rubber , and not by anything even remotely resembling
friction in the freshman physics sense of the term. the colder a tire
is relative to its operating temperature , the closer its behaviour will
be to the traditional concept of friction if much hotter than the its
proper operating temperature , the more likely the possibility of some
part of the tire actually ``reverting'' to liquid , which is mostly like
to happen deep in the tread , causing characteristic blisters and chunking.
(this latter , though , is almost completely unlikely to happen in normal
street driving , so unless you 're a competition driver or do a lot of
high speed track driving , do n't worry about it.)

because tire traction is completely out of the domain of simple friction ,
it does not obey the freshman physics equation at all thus dragsters
accelerate at more than 1.0g and race cars corner and brake at more than
1.0g. because simple friction does not apply , it is actually possible
for different sized contact patches to generate differing amounts of
grip. an actual analysis of tire behavior would require techniques
such as finite element analysis , due to the complexity of the mechanism.

misc. questions

q what does name or acronym stand for \?

a here is a list of some of the names which are commonly asked
about be careful in soliciting the meanings of other names
as misinformation abounds on the net. in particular , never
ask in rec.humor if you want a useful result.

saab svenska aeroplan a. b. ,
or the swedish airplane corporation

alfa societa anonima lombarda fabbrica automobili ,
or the lombardy automobile manufacturing company

fiat fabbrica italiana di automobili torino ,
or the italian automobile manufacturers of turin

bmw bayerische motoren werke ,
or bavarian motor works

mg morris garage


q does vw own porsche \?

a no. porsche is a publicly held company , controlled by the porsche and
piech families. porsche has extensive business dealings with vw audi ,
which causes some confusion. since currently porsche is in some
financial difficulty , there is a possibility that mercedes or vw may
be interested in purchasing the company in the near future , but this
is only speculation at this time.

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from lorenzo@rintintin.colorado.edu (eric lorenzo)
subject re integra gsr
nntp posting host rintintin.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 25

in article 1993apr5.234729.100387@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu daz1@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (demosthenis a. zeppos) writes
why do n't you look again at motor trend 's , slalom times , they are 67.9 , right
along with the integra , and the car does that with small 14 inch tires that
are all weather xgtv4 , not to mention that the integra rides alot better than
a beretta.

my gs came with xgt v4s and they are not all weather tires. i took
out my right front bumper sliding on packed snow (not ice) , before i learned
this fact. i immediately bought xgt h4s which are definately all weather.
a carrera 4 i walk by everyday has xgt v4s on it even. the michelin dealer
where i bought my new tires said the v4s were made out of a different
rubber that gets really hard and slick when the weather gets near feezing.
said he 'd only try to sell me those tires during the winter if we were in
texas and not colorado.

thanks ,
eric




o an inactive lifestyle eric j. lorenzo
violates our genetic warranty lorenzo@rintintin.colorado.edu
not to excercise is not also @spot @ucsu
to be fully human. keith johnsgard

from roger@hpscit.sc.hp.com (roger mullane)
subject re 86 acura integra 5 speed
organization hewlett packard , santa clara , ca
lines 26

i have a 1986 acura integra 5 speed with 95 , 000 miles on it. it is positively
the worst car i have ever owned. i had an 83 prelude that had 160k miles on
it when i sold it , and it was still going strong . this is with religious
attention to maintenance such as oil changes etc. both cars were driven in
exactly the same manner..

1. it has gone through two clutches (which are underrated.)
2. 3 sets of tires (really eats tires in the front even with careful align)
3. all struts started leaking about 25 30k miles
4. windshield wiper motor burned up (service note on this one)
5. seek stop working on radio about 20k miles
6. two timing belts.
7. constant error signals from computer.

8. and finally. a rod bearing went out on the no. 1 piston seriously damaging
the crankshaft , contaminating the engine etc. when the overhaul was done
last week it required new crankshaft , one new cam shaft (has two) because
the camshaft shattered when they tried to mill it. the camshaft took 4
weeks to get because it is on national back order.

everything on the engine is unique to the 1986 year. they went to a new
design in 87. parts are very expensive.

no way would i ever buy another acura. it is highly overrated. .



from zowie@daedalus.stanford.edu (craig powderkeg deforest)
subject re quick question
organization stanford center for space science and astrophysics
lines 8
nntp posting host daedalus.stanford.edu
in reply to ssave@ole.cdac.com 's message of mon , 5 apr 1993 21 14 57 gmt

in article foo ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate) writes
how do you take off the driver side door panel from the inside
on an '87 honda prelude \? the speaker went scratchy , and i want
to access its pins.

why are you posting this tripe to rec.autos.vw \?

don't drink soap ! dilute dilute ! ok !

from mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee)
subject re viper
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 14

rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen) writes


last night i had a dream that my dad bought a viper.
i took it out for a test drive , without his knowledge ,
and had to push it all the way home just to avoid a ticket.
wierd dream , i wonder what it means....

vell...let 's see...vas you muzzah in der passenger seat \? or vas you muzzah in
der leefing room , vit you fazah \?

m.
(feeling a tad bit freudian , doubtless inspired by the magnificent phallic ness
(some word) of the viper)

from jek@icf.hrb.com (joe karolchik)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization hrb systems , inc.
lines 31

(i deleted your name because i do n't want to sound accusative in my remark)

this is a two sided problem. unfortunately our culture has been deteriorating over time.
the breeding of these low life 's is getting worse our justice system is at best
extremely weak to handle these problems. that is why low abiding citizens should have
the power to protect themselves and their property using deadly force if necessary
anywhere a threat is imminent.

my camaro (my pride and joy) got stolen right out of my driveway a few years back.
the persons that did that were eventually caught (lucky for me ! ) but not before
having trashed the car.

on another occasion , on my way from texas to florida , i had stopped in a small motel
for the night in a small town somewhere in florida. about 5 youths were disturbing my
car , setting off the alarm and challenging me to come out. when i and another tenant
walked out with a 357 magnum and a 45 automatic respectively , they vanished.
needless to say , i immediately packed up and left.

watch out for car jacking and staged accidents. they can be deadly !

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your
alarm \? i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun.

we can all ask what 's happening to society these days , but do n't forget to
ask another important question too what effort am i expending to make it any
different than it is \?

just my thoughts ,
joe karolchik

from mliggett@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (matthew liggett)
subject re opel owners \?
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 62

in c5t3b2.dg@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes

boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes

in article c5sxi4.j9b@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes
i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model \?
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater ,
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition ,
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars \? the engine
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and
i am quite interested in it.
thanks !
darren gibbons
gibbonsa@sfu.ca

this would be the manta , would it not \? \? \? sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader \? \? \? \?

sounds a lot more like an opel gt to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same
chassis as the kadett , rather than the bigger manta but i could easily
be wrong. i think the later kadett 's were sold here as buick opels.

craig

i think the manta is the european name for the gt. i'm pretty sure
that the only kadett 's sold here were are the pontiac lemans. i think the
gt is just an early '70s to mid '70s manta.

chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
sig under construction hard hat area

bzzt.
the manta was a two door sedan in the us.
it had a 1900 engine.
was sometimes referred to as an opel 1900.
manta 's are also ve hot and fun cars too.





















mliggett@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (mliggett@iugold.bitnet
'junk' collector , toys r us kid , antiauthoritarian , and fan of
frogs , iguanas , and other herps.

from abbott@priory.enet.dec.com (robert abbott)
subject re water in trunk of 89 probe \? \?
nntp posting host priory
organization tp performance
lines 18


in article 1r1crn 27g@transfer.stratus.com , tszeto@sneezy.ts.stratus.com (tommy szeto) writes...
water gradually builds up in the trunk of my friend 's 89 ford probe. every
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and scoop out the water
under the plywood carpet cover on the trunk. i would guess this usually happens
after a good thunder storm. a few qs

1) is this a common problem \?
2) where are the drain holes located for the hatch \?


i had the same problem in my '90 mx 6. luckily i had it fixed
under warranty. i think they replaced a tail light gasket.
check with a dealer , it 's a known problem.


robert k. abbott
abbott@tps.enet.dec.com

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject re ad said nissan altima best seller \?
organization university of virginia
lines 35

boyle@cactus.org writes
in article 1qv7mn dql@menudo.uh.edu thang@harebell.egr.uh.edu (chin heng thang) writes
recently , i saw an ad for the altima which says that it is the
best seller for the past 6 months , is that true \?


i too was puzzled by this obvious untruth. what i think is going on is that
nissan claims that the altima is the best selling new car namelplate in
the us (i think i have this near verbatim). lee iaccoca 's statistics
dept. would have been proud of that sentence. what they mean , i think , is
that of all totally new models , i.e. cars never sold before in any
form , the altima is the best seller , thereby eliminating accord , taurus
etc.
this is from the same people who make the claim that our minivan is outsellin
theirs.... implying that the nissan quest murcury villager are out selling
the chrysler mini vans.... not only is this not true at all , but it was a stupid
claim to make... the commercial was part of the introduction campaign for the
vans. kind of a bold statement to make when you have n't even sold one yet , eh \?


and i thought buick and oldsmobile where bad. shame on you nissan and
mercury !

any other interpretations \?


craig
does anyone has anyhting regarding the of cars sold for the
past 6 months \?



tony



from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject thinking about buying intrepid good or bad idea \?
organization boeing computer services
lines 7

i'm thinking of buying a new dodge intrepid has anyone had any
experiences that they 'd like to share \?

thanks.

bobc


from wanderer@camelot.bradley.edu (kevin murphy)
subject old license plates wanted
nntp posting host camelot.bradley.edu
organization bradley university
lines 18


hi.. me and my roomate are going to redecorate the living room and
we thought it would be a cool idea to have a license plate from every
state in the us and then from whereever else we could find , like canada ,
mexixo , even some european ones.

if anyone has any ideas or knows someone that could help us out
please let me know.... the more recent , the better , but anything
would be nice.

either that or if you have an old plate hanging around... (hint hint ! )

kev
wanderer@camelot.bradley.edu

kevin c murphy
1312 west main street 421
peoria il 61606

from gkirkaldie@sanity.tdkcs.waterloo.on.ca (george kirkaldie)
organization sanitarium bbs cambridge , ontario , canada
subject re birds are they physics majors \?
reply to gkirkaldie@sanity.tdkcs.waterloo.on.ca
x software hermes gus 1.04 rev. sep 5 1992
lines 28

in c5pn2p.l44@darkside.osrhe.uoknor.edu , operator writes
crazy question anyone ever wonder how birds can drop a load on a car
going over 65 mph \?

i took a non stop trip , got shitted on four times (every time hitting the
windshield , not even the open sunroof ! guess we have conscientious birds )
was going 75 mph.



i used to have a '67 galaxie convertible , was sitting at a light waiting
for it to turn green. it turned green , but i hesitated a little (sleeping i
guess) and a bird bombed me , it landed directly in front of me at eye
level , i guess the bird miscalculated and thought i was going to take off
right away.

and i'm still trying to figure out the one i got under my rear bumper as
well \? ! \? ! \? ! was the bird flying up and doing fancy acrobatics at my car and
decided to drop one while executing a perfect loop \? \?



tt030 '87 mustang gt george kirkaldie
pioneer , audio control gkirkaldie@sanity.tdkcs.waterloo.on.ca
phoenix gold , kicker
flowmaster , motorsport cambridge , ontario , canada
a t a r i


from hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
organization chicago home for the morally challenged
distribution usa
keywords bad drivers
lines 29

in article zdem0a.734809554@hgo7 , zdem0a@hgo7.hou.amoco.com (donna martz) writes

so , i block the would be passers. not only for my own good ,

but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it.
! ! ! ! ! !
as a rule of philosophy , i do n't feel particularly sorry when somebody gets
offed by his own stupidity , but it does worry me when some idiot is in a
position to cash in my chips , too.
h.h. mayo

well , are n't we just mr. altruism himself ! ! just what the world needs ,
another frustrated self appointed traffic cop.


well , if you want to stick the nose of your car up the ass of a 50 foot semi , i
suppose it 's your neck , however , i'm not going to let you kill me in the bargain.
if you get frustrated by somebody delaying your inevitable death due to less that
wise driving practices , then tough ! ! !





thank god for the fourth of july , for it yearly rids the earth of a considerable
load of fools

mark twain


from jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen)
subject lh workmanship
nntp posting host wind.bellcore.com
reply to jchen@ctt.bellcore.com
organization bell communications research
lines 19

i just visited the ny auto show , and saw two lh cars on the floor eagle
vision and dodge intrepid.

really nice i must say. very attractive styling , lots of features and room ,
at a competitive price.

unfortunately , the workmanship is quite disappointing. on both cars ,
the rubber seals around the window and door fell off. it turns out
the seals are just big grooved rubber band. it goes on just by pressing
the groove against the tongue on the door frame. surely it would come
off easily.

i am not sure how many of this kind of pooring engineering assembly
problems that will show up later.

i may still consider buying it , but only when it establishes a good
track record.

jason chen

from jfox@hooksett.east.sun.com (john fox sunexpress ir)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 50
distribution world
reply to jfox@hooksett.east.sun.com
nntp posting host hooksett.east.sun.com

in article 5276@unisql.uucp , wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
in article c5r43y.f0d@mentor.cc.purdue.edu marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu (zauberer) writes
i guess i was n't clear enough here. i said the roads were designed for
speeds of 80 or so and still be safe. the current 55 65 will add a saftey
margin.

they were designed for speeds of upwards of 80 i forget the
exact spec but for military vehicles. that 's 80 in a 1958 dodge
powerwagon. not 80 in a 1993 ford taurus.






ah yes , the 58 powerwagon. now there was a vehicle that today 's cars ca n't
touch in terms of high speed road holding ability ! )

from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re toyota wagons
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 15

in article 1993apr5.213032.26844@pmafire.inel.gov russ@pmafire.inel.gov (russ brown) writes
in article 1pq6bl 9rj@news.ysu.edu ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker) writes
has anybody noticed that toyota has an uncanny knack for designing horrible
ugly station wagons \? tercels , corollas , camrys. have their designers no
aesthetic sense at all \?

the new camry wagon may just be even uglier than my tercel. )

toyota has cornered the market on ugly station wagons.
after seeing the new camry sedan , i had thought toyota would
finally turn out something nice looking. the new camry station
wagon bears a strong resemblance to a hearse , and a weird looking
one at that.

teddy

from hhtra@usho0b.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock)
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions.
organization chevron
lines 19

in article 1993apr17.175451.30896@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu , ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha) writes

i have 30 , 000 as my budget. i'm looking for a sports or gt car.
what do you think would be the best buy \?

well , for a bit more you could get an mazda rx 7 , definitely a best.

for under 30k you 're stuck with (in no particular order)

chevy camaro z28 lt1 1
ponitac firebird firehawk
ford mustang cobra
toyota mr2 turbo
gmc typhoon )



travis


from lstowell@pyrnova.mis.pyramid.com (lon stowell)
subject re how hard to change springs on f350 truck \?
article i.d. pyramid.186044
reply to lstowell@pyrnova.pyramid.com.pyramid.com (lon stowell)
organization pyramid technology corporation
lines 5

in article 1993apr3.005245.10615@michael.apple.com ems@michael.apple.com (e. michael smith) writes
does it take any peculiar tools to remove the rear springs from a ford
f350 truck \? o

naah. just a coupla nice big bumps.

from edwards@world.std.com (jonathan edwards)
subject re jeep grand vs. toyota 4 runner
article i.d. world.c51hn0.2ji
organization intranet , inc.
lines 18

in article 1pq29p 29p@seven up.east.sun.com jfox@hooksett.east.sun.com writes

any reason you are limited to the two mentioned \? they are n't really at
the same point along the suv spectrum not to mention price range.
how about the explorer , trooper , blazer , montero , and if the budget
allows , the land cruiser \?

any advice on how to buy a land cruiser \? my local toyota dealer says they
get two a year , and if i want one i can just get on the waiting list.
forget about a test drive or even kicking the tires.
and if they are that rare , i doubt there is much of a parts inventory on
hand.




jonathan edwards edwards@intranet.com
intranet , inc 617 527 7020

from smartin@cbnewsm.cb.att.com (steven.c.martin)
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 36

from article 1993apr16.162950.25849@newsgate.sps.mot.com , by markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com (mark monninger)

this kind of behavior is what i was shocked by in my 'experience'. for
crying out loud , how do these turkeys think they can talk to customers
this way and still stay in business \? again , i do n't expect sales people to
bow , scrape , and grovel in my presence but i sure do n't expect to be
abused either. i was very surprised by the way the sales people talked to
me and in other 'negotiating' sessions i overheard in neighboring sales
cubicles. evidently , their success rate is high enough that they continue
to do business this way. there must be a lot of people out there who are
easy to intimidate.


a couple of months ago i went to a dealership to test drive a car. afterwards ,
we sat down to discuss prices. i explained that i wanted a car just like the
one i drove , but in a different color. he said he could get one exactly like
i wanted from the dealer network within a day. we then negotiated a price and
signed the deal.

next day , i get a call. he explains that they goofed , and they had neglected
to take into account a price increase. (the last price increase had occurred
over 4 months prior to my visit.) if i still wanted the car , i would
have to fork over another 700. as an alternative , they would honor the
price if i bought the car i test drove (which had been sitting around for
6 months and had a few miles on it). i said goodbye. this was a good
example of how they can lowball you and still cover their butts. it 's too
bad more people do n't demand honesty or these types of dealers would
no longer be in business.

the next dealership i went to was straightforward and honest. first thing the
salesman said was , lets 's see what you have for dealer cost and work out
how much profit i should make. the deal went through with no problems.

steve



from jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen)
subject re top 10 reasons why i love cr (not for the humor impaired)
article i.d. magnus.1993apr6.214754.23608
distribution na
organization the ohio state university
lines 52
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

in article 1993apr6.195710.24227@cs.tulane.edu finnegan@navo.navy.mil writes
in article 1993apr6.180456.17573@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu , jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
in article 1993apr06.133319.7008@metrics.com tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes
chints@iscs.nus.sg writes
here are another ten reasons why we should all love cr
10. car salesmen love their new car buying service
2. and later on buying a cr idealized family sedan

and my number 1

1. the spectacle of the religious fervour of the cr true believers .

or the spectacle of macho real men who would never bother to read the
magazine but are more than apt to criticize it.

hey , i'm a macho real man and i do read it. so i can criticize
it all i want , especially since i pay for the publication. (they
accept no outside advertising , do n't you know....)

john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder

relying on consumer reports to pick your automobiles is like
letting field stream select your living room furniture.

kenneth
finnegan@navo.navy.mil

no one should ever rely on just a magazine to determine what car they
buy , i do n't care what magazine. btw , i subscribe to three other
auto rags , i just think cu is getting a bum rap by these macho men
from hell who think real men should read . . . .

statements like what you said above have no meaning. people keep on
saying cu is only good for dishwashing detergent or as you
said relying on consumer reports . . . . is like. . . and that is
all they say.

if there were as critical of themsevles as they are of cu maybe there
would be some real content.

john




john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder

from mps1@cec1.wustl.edu (mihir pramod shah)
subject re saturn performance(was re saturn puzzled by its pricing
nntp posting host cec1
organization washington university , st. louis mo
distribution na
lines 27

in article 4fjdcfu00iv2i9kap @andrew.cmu.edu jason m. roth jr4q @andrew.cmu.edu writes
i ca n't imagine any civic or saturn owners flex'n there egos in stop light
races. it generates as much excitement as two nerds challenging each other
in a game of one on one basketball ! !

the sl2 does 0 60 in about 8.5 note that this is closer to a 968 than
to a paseo or storm (pseudo sporty cars). that 's a ridiculous
comparison , i know , but the point is that saturns (and high end civics ,
for that matter) accelerate just fine , in fact better than most
unimproved muscle cars of the 60s 300 hp is great , but tied to 2
tons , it just does n't go that quick. saturns , on the other hand , use 125
hp tied to 2400 lbs with some short gearing to move very quickly off the
line. anyway....




while your 0 60 time is consistent with most car magazines and reports , i saw
the pbs motorweek show clock a 5 speed sl2 at 7.9 seconds. i'm sure that most
sl2 owners will be very lucky to get this speed , but 7.9 seconds is still
astonishingly fast for a small 4 door. a new civic ex runs about 8.2 seconds
0 60 , if i'm not mistaken. most cars in this class are lucky to be in the
9 second range.


mihir shah


from cfj@ssd.intel.com (charlie johnson)
subject re lh car order delay
nntp posting host alaska
organization intel corporation
lines 23

in article 1993apr2.135926.1@skcla.monsanto.com , mas@skcla.monsanto.com writes
i read an article in the 3 25 chicago tribune stating that chrysler is
having problems addressing the demand for the 3.5l engine for it 's lh
cars. can anyone post how long they are waiting for an ordered car or
how long they have been told they 'll have to wait \? \?

thanks !

john mas


e mail address mas@skcla.monsanto.com

i ordered an intrepid es on jan 25th and have n't seen it yet. i called
a couple of weeks ago and was told 2 3 more weeks. it 's probably time
to call again.

charles johnson
intel corporation
supercomputer systems division
ms co1 01
15201 nw greenbrier pkwy
beaverton , or 97006 phone (503)629 7605 email cfj@ssd.intel.com

from hacker@cco.caltech.edu (jonathan bruce hacker)
subject re was re safety from how far can you see a car \?
article i.d. gap.1psle4innkm2
distribution na
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 105
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate) writes


.... these
lit up cars make non illuminated things less visible (like pedistrians and
bikes). hopefully we 're not going to mandate drl 's for people and bikes
too.

well , drl 's are already mandatory for motorcycles...





























































































jon hacker get the os 2 2.1 march beta cd rom
caltech , pasadena ca for 15
hacker@tumbler ridge.caltech.edu call 1 800 3 ibm os2

from bowmanj@csn.org (jerry bowman)
subject re old corvettes low insurance \?
nntp posting host fred.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado boulder , ocs
lines 52

in article c5j5mi.fmi@news.rich.bnr.ca peon w o email (eric youngblood) writes
in article 1993apr15.011805.28485@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu , swr2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (scott warren rosander) writes
in article c5csux.fn1@news.cso.uiuc.edu , gdhg8823@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (george hei
nz) writes
after too many years of school i'm finally graduating and getting a real
job. of course i am trying to make plans of how to spend all this extra
money. right now i have an 89 accord , a good car , but not real sporty
i was thinking of selling it in about two years and dropping around
20k on a sports car of some kind. after thinking about it , i may have a
better idea i 'll keep the accord until it drops and buy the car i 've
always wanted a corvette stingray. my reasoning is that 8000 (accord)
8000 (corvette) 16000 is less than what i would spend anyway.

basically , i'm thinking of a late 70 's , early 80 's for around 7 10k.
my question is , what are good years to consider (for reliability , looks ,
horsepower in that order , believe it or not , horsepower is not a main
concern , if i want to go fast , i get on my motorcycle) and what are
good prices \?

also , what would insurance look like \? i'm male , single , 23 (i might
wait until i'm 25 to get the car lower insurance). would the fact that
i mainly drive the other car lower it \? is there some type of classic
car or rarely driven insurance class for driving it under 10k miles
per year \?

my dad has a 66 vette and its on what you say 'classic insurance'.
basically what that means is that it has restricted amount of driving
time , which basically means it cant be used as an every day car and would
probably suit your needs for limited mileage.


in my area , denver , if you look around alittle you can get an
1984 for 10 , 000 or less , not much less. you said your not looking
to go fast , they are a really nice car just not real powerful.
in addition to restricted mileage , many classic insurance carriers also require
that the vehicle be garaged when not in use.

0.02

ericy



eric youngblood
bell northern research
richardson , texas 75082
,
(
peon w o email privs




from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re is car saftey important \?
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 32
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes

in article 1r1jr9 m1v@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
tcorkum@bnr.ca (trevor corkum) writes
i figure that 30mph collisions into brick walls are n't common enough
for me to spend that much extra money for protection , but there are
lots of low speed collisions that do worry me.

get into an 30 mph accident and you may reconsider. i 've been in one
and it is really scarey. my life is something i value more
than a car 's looks or handeling. consider it insurance , it may not
happen often but when it does , you 'll sure be glad you got a safe car.

granted the tests are n't perfect but i 'd much rather be in a car that
did well in the test than a car that did horribly.

you raise a valid point , but again it 's a tradeoff how much money
do you want to spend for that kind of protection \? you could buy a
volvo , saab , or 'benz and get really good crash protection (and other
luxuries) but you 'll pay significantly more for it. in my case it 's
out of the question because all of those cars are beyond my budget.

even in high speed head on collisions the most beneficial item you can
have is a good old 3 point seatbelt. nowadays , at least in the us ,
you get an airbag if you get a 3 point belt so (presumably) you get an
added safety benefit there as well. that 's something i certainly look
for and which can be had in inexpensive cars.

my .02 , of course.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

from vlasis@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (vlasis theodore)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization cybernet bbs , boca raton , florida
lines 61

tobias@convex.com (allen tobias) writes

in article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik vel
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly
a small girl sitting in the front seat of one of them was struck
in the head by one of the larger rocks. i do n't recall if she
made it , but i think she was comatose for a month or so and
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live.

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

erik velapold

society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the seams ! the basic reason
is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on murderous acts on tv , we can abort
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised
when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. they do n't care because the
message they hear is life is cheap !

at

well people fortunatly or unfortunatly ,
only the us is experiencing the devaluation of human life (among
developed nations).

i am an american but i was raised in europe , where the worst thing that
can happen to somebody is get his car broken into , or have his pocket
picked by slaves or russian refugees.

of cource there will be some nutcases , but thats extremely rare.

i.e. in greece you can walk through any neighborhood at any time during
the night without even worrying.

in germany , you can walk the sidewalks at 4.00 am and not even look
behind your back , at the sanitation crews that clean the streets to a
sparkling cleen.

whoever of you have been there you know what i am saying.

i dont have any easy answers but if we as a nation do some selfcritisism
we might get somewhere.

of course these postings sould be in soc.culture.us but if we reduce
crime here it 'll mean less car insurance rates , thus we could spend
more money on modifing our cars. (now my posting is rec.autos.tech
revelant).

vlasis theodore


software engineer
idb mobile communications.

sig under development ...

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject viper
organization university of virginia
lines 8


last night i had a dream that my dad bought a viper.
i took it out for a test drive , without his knowledge ,
and had to push it all the way home just to avoid a ticket.
wierd dream , i wonder what it means....

roy.


from hamachi@adobe.com (gordon hamachi)
subject re honda accord brake problem
organization adobe systems incorporated
lines 32

joni ciarletta writes
my honda accord just hit the magic 100 , 000 mile mark and now
all sorts of things are beginning to go bad. the latest problem
i am experiencing is with my brakes. they still stop the
car fine , but once i am stopped completely , my brake pedal
will sink another 2 or 3 inches all by itself. if feels really
strange , and i am worried my brakes will quit working one of
these days.

i checked my brake fluid , and the reservoir was full , but the
fluid itself looked really dirty (like dirty oil). i called
my mechanic and he told me i need a new brake master cylinder ,
which will cost me a whopping 250 300.

you are not alone. my '79 honda accord with 110 , 000 miles on it started
showing the same behavior.

i replaced the brake master cylinder myself. it took about an hour and cost
about 45. sure beats paying 300 to have someone else do it ! if i wanted to
rebuild my own master cylinder instead of putting in a rebuilt one , it would
have cost only 20 to 30 for the rebuild kit.

the honda brake master cylinder is easy to get to. two bolts attach it to the
engine compartment. two brake lines enter the master cylinder. the tricky
part was that the brake lines were stuck tight. my craftsmen open end wrench
rounded off the bolt heads ! i had to use vise grips to loosen those suckers.
wow ! best invention since sliced bread. after that it was very easy. bolt
the new part in place , add new brake fluid , and bleed the brakes.

this is quite easy even for a beginner. my local auto parts store had a repair
manual for the honda accord it had detailed diagrams of the master brake
cylinder and a step by step procedure for replacing it.

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization university of virginia
distribution usa
lines 12


i do n't know if some lemons are out there , but from personal experience
my brother 's has been trouble free. not one single repair , only
regular maintainance. the only work he had done on it was a result
of his stupidity... he stopped suddenly in the middle of a left turn
on a busy intersection , and was rear ended. he has a 1989 plymouth
sundance. i would recomend it , but i would also like to say that if
you can wait about six months , chryco is coming out with a new car
called the neon , that is built in the same way as the lh 's where.
good luck with your desiscion.



from bbenson@sscvx1.ssc.gov
subject re mazda just does not feel right
lines 24
nntp posting host sscvx1
organization superconducting super collider laboratory

in article mxm1003.734826257@msi.umn.edu , mxm1003@s15.msi.umn.edu (ram v. mohan) writes
i 've a 89 mazda 323 with about 42000 miles on it. recently i do not get
a good feeling of the road , esp. on a wet pavement when driving the car.
it feels as if the car is wandering and there is no grip on the road.
the tires are the original ones and have threads on them (passes the
penny head test). i had the shocks and struts and alignment checked and
things are fine. however i feel like that i dont have the grip of the
road and feel as if the car is wandering esp. on turns. any help
in this is appreciated. thanks.


two shots at it (1) check the tires again if you can see the wear bars ,
you 're down to problem area (and some tires pass a penny test between the
bars that 's no guide at all). your problem in the wet is call hydroplaning.
you may not have enough tread left to channel water out from under the
tire so it goes fishy on you as it lifts off the road.

(2) tires age. in particular , soft tire compounds get harder as you put
them thru more heat cycles. harder compounds do n't grip as well as
soft ones. effect is very noticable on tires that get very hot very
often , such as in competition , but it hits all tires.

bob benson


from ak954@yfn.ysu.edu (albion h. bowers)
subject re too fast
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 42
reply to ak954@yfn.ysu.edu (albion h. bowers)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen) says

in article 1qh61m b6l@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
compare either to the porsche 911 and you tell me which was designed
to go fast.

you have a point about the brakes , especially seeing as how the
mustang does n't even have disc brakes in the back.
but there are significant differences between the latest 911s and
the late 80 's 911s , not the least of which is handling. i'm not


i think you mean late '60s. the biggest change that porsche undertook to
alter the tailhappieness of their baby was way back in august 1968 (for the
'69 model year) when they stretched the wheelbase. besides , some people
actually know how to take advantage of oversteer , and enjoy it.

in europe. the 911 got low marks for high speed handling (though to
be fair , they might have been comparing it to the vette 's handling).


what was that phil hill (famous race car driver) said about the


you should have seen what phil hill ( world champion ) had to say about
the vette 's he 's driven.

911 turbo \? you ca n't make a thoroughbred out of a pig , but you can
have an awful fast pig.


yeah , that was what he said. )

paul frere agreed. they both prefered the porsche (modified by ruf) to
either of the vette 's at that test.



al bowers dod 900 alfa ducati hobie kottke 'blad iaido nasa
well goodness sakes...do n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar \?
mary chapin carpenter

from qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (aamir hafeez qazi)
subject re how is cizeta v16t doing \?
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 20
reply to qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4
originator qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

cs173sbw@sdcc5.ucsd.edu (cs173sbw) writes

does anyone know what happpened to the venerable v16t ! \? has claudio
done any enhancement to it \? are there any pictures of this beast i
can ftp down somewhere \?
thanks
p.s. better , seen any rc model of this beauty \? )

autoweek had an article about the car within the past six weeks.
it was the issue with the diablo vt awd on the cover. naturally , i
do n't remember the date of the issue offhand , but i can check it if
anyone is interested.

aamir qazi



aamir qazi
qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
why should i care \? i 'd rather watch drying paint.

from barnesm@sun.com (mark barnes sunsoft)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 12
distribution world
reply to barnesm@sun.com
nntp posting host vavau.corp.sun.com

...and in san francisco recently , some of our finest examples of humanity
poured oil over a road so that vehicles going uphill would suddnely become
immobile , and then they would walk right up to the vehicles and make their
demands known.

mark barnes , system engineer insert standard disclaimers here
sunsoft
corporate technical escalations i speak for myself , an individual ,
menlo park , ca , usa not for the company for which i work.
barnesm@vavau.corp.sun.com



from tom neumann tom.neumann@canrem.com
subject vw passat \? (again)
reply to tom neumann tom.neumann@canrem.com
organization canada remote systems
distribution rec
lines 25


kojo@valet.phx.mcd.mot.com (kojo yeboah) writes

ky to all those who have passats , do you recommend using super unleaded or just
ky regular unleaded gasoline. i have been using regular unleaded. a friend of mine has
ky a jetta and has always used super unleaded and thinks i should be using the same
ky however , i believe the advantages of super unleaded for cars 30000 and under
ky has been overplayed by guess who the companies who sell them , because that is
ky where they make the most profit. a ralph nader report and other consumer advocates
ky have in the past spoken against those oil companies.

your passat vr6 is designed to run on premium gasoline , however the
engine electronics will retard the timing so that no harm wil be done
to the engine with lower octane fuel.

you will likely , however , get somewhat more power and fuel mileage
(especially in hot weather) out of this particular engine if you do
run it on premium.

tom neumann

deluxe 1.25 350 i sell volkswagens.

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

from nataraja@rtsg.mot.com (kumaravel natarajan)
subject dirty diesels \?
nntp posting host opal12
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group
distribution na
lines 17

i heard the diesels are considered cleaner burning than
gas engines because the emit less of carbon monoxide ,
hydrocarbons , and oxides of nitrogen. (co , hc , nox).

but they can put out a lot of particulate matter. i heard
something about legislation being discussed to clean up
diesel emissions . is there anything in the works to
install scrubbers for diesels \? how about the feasibility
of installing them on trucks and cars \? would it be any
different than a catylitic converter \? i 'd assume easier ,
since we 're removing particulate matter instead of converting
gasses. let 's hear people 's opinions...



vel natarajan nataraja@rtsg.mot.com motorola cellular , arlington hts il


from tjo@scr.siemens.com (tom ostrand)
subject radio for toyota tercel
keywords radio , tercel , replacement
nntp posting host bugatti.siemens.com
organization siemens corporate research , princeton (plainsboro) , nj
lines 19

i'm looking for a replacement radio tape player for a 1984
toyota tercel. standard off the shelf unit is fine , but
every place i 've gone to (service merchandise , etc.) does n't
have my car in its model application book. i want to just
take out the old radio , and slide in the new , with minimal time
spent hooking it up and adjusting the dashboard.

if you have put in a new unit in a similar car , i 'd like to hear
what brand , how easy it was to do the change , and any other
relevant information.

please answer via e mail.
thanks , tom ostrand


tom ostrand e mail tjo@scr.siemens.com
siemens corporate research phone 609 734 6569
755 college road east fax 609 734 6565
princeton , nj 08540 6668

from rcg1597@zeus.tamu.edu (guynn , richard carl)
subject re mgbs and the real world
article i.d. zeus.5apr199321160020
distribution world
organization texas a m university , academic computing services
lines 34
nntp posting host zeus.tamu.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr5.181056.29411@mks.com , mike@mks.com (mike brookbank) writes...
my sister has an mgb. she has one from the last year they were produced
(1978 \? 1979 \? ). its in very good shape. i 've been bugging her for years

last year produced 1980.

about selling it. i 've said over and over that she should sell it
before the car is worthless while she maintains that the car may
actually be increasing in value as a result of its limited availability.

which one of us is right \? are there mgb affectionados out there who are
still willing to pay 6k to 8k for an old mg \? are there a lot out in the
market \?


yes , there are still alot of mgbs out there. the earlier cars (pre
74 1 2) are usually more desirable due to certain things that went with having
chrome bumpers (ride height , generally more power). the older cars are
appreciating... slowly. the newer ones seem to be at a stable level at the
moment. 6 to 8k would require extremely good condition and low miles.
if the car is in good shape and regular maintenance is kept up on it , the car
should last for a long time. there are still plenty of parts sources ouththere.
the mgb is a great , fun little car. if she is keeping it solely in the hopes
that it is going to appreciate , tell her to sell it. it is not worth waiting
the time it would take to appreciate to a real profitable level.


rick guynn mg driver soontobe. mga 1600 mkii
rcg1597@zeus.tamu.edu rebuild (complete) to be finished \? \?
texas a m university
keeper of the eternal octagon `69 mgb roadster
a.k.a. the marque symbol that i 'll have it registered soon ,
refuses to die. honest !


from c23st@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (spiros triantafyllopoulos)
subject re bullet proof luxury sedans
distribution usa
organization delco electronics corp.
lines 51

in article 1pnigoinn5in@senator bedfellow.mit.edu chsu@mtl.mit.edu (charles h. hsu) writes
i am interested to find out if there is any domestic car manufacturer
(especially gm and ford) which produces bullet proof luxury sedans.

i understand caddy is working on one , double battery , super high perf
engine , more gauges , a bit 'stretched' , etc , lots of communication equipment ,
the works. color selection is limited though.

the problem is that the guy at 1600 penn. avenue is about to get it
(pres. clinton) (last time it was a lincoln , this time a caddy).

i am just wondering if this so called bullet proof (perhaps reinforced
windows , special materials for the body engine etc.) luxury car lincoln
and cadillac models is readily available to the public.

not to my knowledge i know gm does conversion work for things like
hot climates (i.e. the chevy caprices sold to the middle east) but
things like that are always done by third parties , not the manufacturer.
maybe you will need to buy a specific package that has beefed up everything ,
perhaps the police cruiser package on the caprice crown vic and start from
there.

do we have
to go through any special dealership to obtain these cars \? i would really
like to hear from anyone who has experience with the bullet proof cars.

and i wuz drivin' along in my armored seville sts and this punk pulls out
of nowhere with an rpg (rocket propelled grenade) but the bulletproof
windshield stopped him ) do n't think many people on the net have a need
for bulletproof cars.

check with local armored service companies security bodyguard places. they 'd
know best. i think your average luxury car dealer will have a coronary if
you told them i 'll take the blue caprice , with options fz01 (fuzzy dice) ,
pr11 (power everything) , and ar007 (armor).

any information regarding the dealers and after market shops that have
bullet proof lincoln 's and cadillac 's is greatly appreciated. you may
email me at chsu@mtl.mit.edu or post the message in this newsgroup if
you believe other netters might be interested as well. btw , same information
on mercedes benz , bmw , lexus , and infiniti luxury sedans is needed
as well if you have it.

i believe an article on the conversion process appeared in the car press within
the last few months.

spiros

spiros triantafyllopoulos c23st@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in 46904 a different kind of disclaimer

from nuet ke@pts.mot.com (keith nuetzman x3153 p7625)
subject re lois chevrolet \?
summary louis chevrolet
nntp posting host 145.4.54.110
reply to nuet ke@pts.mot.com
organization paging and wireless data group
lines 13


a little bit off of the subject but here goes
yes he is one in the same (i.e. chevrolet motor div)
also his brother gaston raced at indy and was the winner in 1920.
i have also seen the name arthur chevrolet in the early teens (1911 and on)
i assume he is related

keith nuetzman , nuet ke@pts.mot.com
motorola inc.
paging and wireless data group
boynton beach , fl

see ya at indy 500 and 400 ...yes ! ! !

from jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen)
subject militech
nntp posting host wind.bellcore.com
reply to jchen@ctt.bellcore.com
organization bell communications research
lines 34

i saw an interesting product in ny auto show , and would like to
hear your comments.

militech(tm) is yet another oil additive. but the demonstration of this
product really impressive , if it did n't cheat.

the setup of the demo is fairly simple. a cone shaped rotor is
half submerged in a small oil sink , filled with motor oil. the rotor
is powered by an electronic motor. a metal pad is pressed against
the rotor using the torque wrench until the rotor stopped by friction.
the torque that is needed to stop rotor is read from the torque wrench.

before militech was added , the rotor was stopped with about 60 lb ft
of torque (you pick the brand of oil , no difference). once militech was
added to the oil , the rotor could not be stopped even with 120 lb ft of
torque.

here is the good part even after the salesman emptied the oil sink ,
you still could not stopped the rotor with the thin film remained on it.

they say you need only add 2oz per quart of oil every 15k miles. a 16 oz
bottle is 25.

i still have my doubts. if this product is really so great , why it was
so little known \? the salesman said it is widely used in military. i did n't
believe it. the demo was so impressive , that i bought a bottle against
my common sense.

has anyone heard of or actually used this product \? is it real \?
if you are going to the auto show , please visit this stand on the
second floor. see if can find out if the demo is a hoax or not.

jason chen


from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re sho and sc
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 53
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , a207706@moe.dseg.ti.com (robert loper) says

in article c5l8re.28@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr15.232412.2261@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us david@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us (david hwang) writes
in article 5214@unisql.uucp wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
in article chrissc587qb.d1b@netcom.com chriss@netcom.com (chris silvester) writes


why anyone would order an sho with an automatic transmission is
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a
regular taurus and leave the sho to real drivers. that is not to
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick (eg
disabled persons) , but they are n't in any position to use an
sho anyway.

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic
transmissions from all performance type cars (like the 5.0l
mustangs , camaros , and the like) we 'd cut down on the number of
accidents each year. autos are fine for sedate little sedans ,
but they have no business in performance cars , imho.

james

i have to disagree with this. i have a 92 z28 with a 350 and a 4 speed auto
w overdrive , and it is really better that way. chevy autos are reknowned
for their long life and ability to handle copious amount of power. i live
in the dallas area , and a manual would be much harder to drive in the traffic
here. now if i still lived out in the sticks like i used to , a manual would be
more fun.

safety wise , an auto is less distracting...i would hate to have to be
shifting gears while i was trying to ease into traffic in the freeways here.
performance wise , i can hold my own against any stock 5.0 mustang or 5.0
camaro w a five speed.

all of this imho... )

all of my ho 's disagree with your ho 's. i loved dallas rush hour in my stick..
detested it in the auto(like i did any other time in the auto...). of course ,
dalls rush hours are nothing , from what i hear..if i lived in la , i might
be of a different persuasion. and , just for the record , rarely do you shift
gears when merging into traffic..that is what 5 speeds are good for..4th is
good up through around 80 90 , most of the time , so you can just wind it out..
it 's not going to hurt anything , and keeps it in the powerband anyway..
only shift into top gear when you are exceeding redline in 4th(fairly rare ,
unless you drive a ferrari or some such , i 'd bet) or when you hit cruising
speed where you feel comfortable(or when my mother is sitting in the
passanger seat complaining about how you wind her poor little engine way
too hi )
just my ho 's..

drew

from gyu@bbn.com (george yu)
subject re the kuebelwagen \? \? ! !
lines 43
nntp posting host bbn.com

thwang@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (tommy hwang) writes

sorry for the mis spelling , but i forgot how to spell it after
my series of exams and no on hand reference here.

is it still possible to get those cute wwii vw jeep wanna be 's \?
a replica would be great i think.

tkh '93

according to the complete guide to specialty cars , 7th edition , from
crown publishing , it 's the vw kubelwagen (w 2 dots over the 'u').
the company is

wolfkam
p.o. box 1608 , vika
0119 oslo 1 , norway

011 47 30 26601 voice line
011 47 2 166138 fax line


an excerpt from the blurb

...this fine kubel clone from wolfkam is a very close copy of
the original , and offers the same all weather and cross country
capabilities as its wwii forebears. the robust fiberglass body
kit is very complete , and includes all the hardware you will
need , except for your own vw donor car. the phone number ...
is the entire at t dialing sequence call and ask for karl
torum , or send 5 cash or international money order
for a complete literature package.


george.

p.s. , i 'd be happy to share what info i have on other kit cars and
kit car manufacturers.

p.p.s. , i'm looking for a used or partially completed porsche 356
speedster convertible d replica from intermeccanica. i 'd
appreciate any leads or advice stories from any owners
out there.

from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 17
distribution na
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

nancy@hayduke (nancy feagans) writes
ashtrays and cigarette lighters. these should be an option .

gm , at least , is heading in that direction. one of the post sale
questions they asked me was if i 'd like the choice of a cigarette
liter or an accessory plug , and another whether i 'd like the choice of
an ashtray or a cup holder.

the '93 geo storms have the cigarette lighter vs accessory plug option
(which did not exist in the '92 i bought) i'm not sure about the
ash tray vs cup holder. it 's a step in the right direction.

the ashtray does make a convenient change holder so it 's not
completely useless.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

organization ryerson polytechnical institute
distribution na
from syst8145@ryevm.ryerson.ca
subject van step... van accessory help
lines 13


hello netters ,

i would like to find out information about a device that is used on vans and
trucks. this device is a step that hooks onto the tire and folds up for
storage. i 've seen this device on tnn 's shady tree mechanic. i would like to
know if it is a good product and i would also like the price and address
of where i can purchase this product.

thanks ,

george chan
email syst8145@ryevm.ryerson.ca

from brandt@cs.unc.edu (andrew brandt)
subject 4runner and pathfinder recent changes.
organization the university of north carolina at chapel hill
lines 9
nntp posting host axon.cs.unc.edu
keywords 4runner , pathfinder , change , update

i am interested in finding out how the 4runner and pathfinder have
been updated in the past few years. like new engine , suspension and
the like. i noticed that the 1993 and 1992 4runners are identical ,
for example , and was looking into buying a used one.

any info would be appreciated , esp. models years to check out or
avoid.

thx , andy (brandt@cs.unc.edu)

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re too fast
article i.d. cactus.1993apr17.063040.2177
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 63

in article 1qmcih dhs@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
the quality of autobahns is something of a myth. the road surface
is n't much different to a typical tx freeway. they are better
in terms of lighting , safety , signs , roadmarkings etc.

they light the highways in texas \? funny , everywhere else i 've been
they only light 'em at junctions.

sorry , by they i meant autobahns , not us freeways.


i wo n't even get into how much road markings vary between states and
localities except to say that there are some areas where markings are
essentially nonexistant.

than most of the roads here. a dip in the asphalt that you test your
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130. do n't get me wrong , i love to

it would have to be quite severe. i do n't recall any us freeway ,
without road damage warnings , that i would regard as unsafe
at 130 in any decent , well damped car.

i suspect you have very limited experience us freeways vary
dramatically , particularly between states. i can name a number of
interstate highways in various parts of the country where 130 would be
very optimistic in any car.

well , i 've driven in every state but alaska , and drive about 60k per year.
i take long cross country trips any chance i get its fun for me and i
can get reimbursment.
my job allows me to drive rather than fly. not to labor the point , but
i 've driven just about every freewayin the us , germany , uk and france plus
some in mexico , which was surpisingly good.


i'm not sure what you call quite severe in terms of road deviations
but i suspect every single bridge junction on i84 through ct would be
considered so. they 're hard to take at 85mph. that 's not the only
interstate i 've seen with such deviations , but it 's one i drive
frequently.

yes , but as a age of the total freeway in the us \?
all you have to do in this case is mark the hazard , advising people to
slow to 85 or so.


texas is pretty much an edge case you ca n't assume that everywhere
has roads in such good condition , such flat terrain , and such

texas freeways are varied , sometimes a good surface. mostly flat. but ,
i5 in ca is comparable and hilly.

wide open spaces. it just ai n't so.

given the absence of other traffic and car built for 130 (e.g. 535)
most us freeways are just fine. the problem is other road users and
cops.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

craig

from hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen)
subject bmw 's new plant in greer , sc
organization wake forest university
lines 8
nntp posting host ac.wfunet.wfu.edu


is anyone reading this message involved with the new bmw plant \?
(does bmw corporate even have a net connection \? )

desperately seeking info ,
jeff hagen
hagenjd@ac.wfu.edu


from tommy@boole.att.com (tommy reingold)
subject rfd rec.autos.saab
article i.d. rodan.1psb8qinnbb2
organization at t bell labs , holmdel , nj , usa
lines 42
nntp posting host rodan.uu.net

request for discussion

this is a request for discussion on the creation of a newsgroup
concerning saab cars. it will allow participaants to exchange
information on purchasing , maintaining , repairing , and outfitting
saabs.

group name

rec.autos.saab

status

unmoderated

rationale

there may be enough people with saab cars or interested in
buying a saab or interested in knowing more about saabs for any
reason to justify such a new newsgroup. the recent growth of
the net could improve the turnaround time between posing a
question and receiving answers from the community.

discussion

comments on this proposed new newsgroup should be posted to the
usenet newsgroup news.groups . if the reader is not able to
do so , comments may be e mailed to the proposer , at the address
below.

voting

if no problems arise , voting will start 1 month from the
posting date of this rfd.

proposer

tommy reingold tommy@boole.att.com

tommy reingold
at t bell labs , holmdel , nj
tommy@boole.att.com or att ! boole ! tommy

from nsx@carson.u.washington.edu ( ns x )
subject re 300zx or sc300 \? \? \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 18
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha) writes
i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to 300zx and sc300.
which might be a better choice \?
thanks for your opnion ,
danny


i 've been asking myself this same question for the past year , so , if when
you find out , would you please share the magistic answer with me..
the way i see it right now , work twice as hard so you can have both.
cheers )
issa


my suggestion is why not work twice as hard (like issa
suggested above) then get acura nsx \? ! ) enjoy. seb



from rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (ronald.j.deblock..jr)
subject re male female mystery re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. cbnewsj.1993apr6.171209.13913
distribution na
organization at t
lines 15

in article 1pq8tkinnbek@chester.ksu.ksu.edu bets@chester.ksu.ksu.edu (beth schwindt) writes

besides which , where would men put all their crap if their wives
did n't carry purses \? )


beth


my wife rarely carries a purse , so all of her crap ends up in my pockets !



ron deblock rdb1@homxb.att.com (that 's a number 1 in rdb1 , not letter l)
at t bell labs somerset , nj usa

from kking@cs.uah.edu (ken king)
subject re the kuebelwagen \? \? ! !
reply to kking@uahcs2.uah.edu (ken king)
organization computer science dept. univ. of alabama in huntsville
lines 36

in article c5k5co.f09@mentor.cc.purdue.edu thwang@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (tommy hwang) writes
sorry for the mis spelling , but i forgot how to spell it after
my series of exams and no on hand reference here.

is it still possible to get those cute wwii vw jeep wanna be 's \?
a replica would be great i think.

greetings
you may be in luck. i seem to recall seeing a blurb in one of
the kit car magazines about a company in norway who pulled a
mould (sp \? ) off a real kubel , and has adapted it to the beetle
floorpan. as for the suspension , all i can remember about the
vw thing i used to own is that it had about 3 more suspension
travel than a stock beetle , but i 'd heard that there were after
market parts for off road use that were as good or better. note
that the major difference (looks wise) between a kubel a thing
are the hood and the fenders. the kubel had an external spare
mounted on the hood , and the hood sloped down (for visibility \? )
sharply , and had rounded fenders. the thing has a lightly sloped
hood with the spare mounted inside (unless moved to make for more
luggage space...) and has half hexagon shaped fenders (imagine a
nut large enough to put a tire in , and cut off the bottom half
of it...).
unfortunately , i do n't have that info anymore. try stopping
at a local bookstore and copying down the phone numbers for the
two big mag 's and calling them. they might be able to get the
number for you (do n't forget to calculate the time difference to
norway before calling...).

later ,
kc

a quick bones , help me get include
. ( o ) . this klingon off my ss ! std disclaimer.h
damn it , jim , i'm a
() kking@cs.uah.edu () doctor , not a bidet ! )

from bernstei@next3.corp.mot.com (andrew bernstein)
subject re geico mechanical breakdown insurance
organization motorola
distribution usa
nntp posting host 129.188.149.38
lines 36

in article c50pbh.244@noose.ecn.purdue.edu rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu
(robert j. wade) writes
@ in article 1993apr4.010517.9701@lds.loral.com mcculloc@sps204.lds.loral.com (thad mcculloch) writes
@
@ has anyone had any experience with geico 's extended
@ warranty plan. it seems to be slightly less expensive than
@ the normal dealer sponsored policy.
@
@ and once again.... never buy extended warranties....they are a complete and
@ total ripoff period ! ! ! ! you are better off taking your money and putting it
@
in a bank and using that money for repairs. many extended warranties never
@ pay or have co payments etc.
@


how many people will actually put that money in the bank and keep it there for the
sole use of a automotive repair......maybe for people who have a hard time saving
money or do n't want the hassle of worrying about paying for everything the
extended warranty is worth it.....for some people it is worth it...others not , and
for some the peace of mind knowing you wo n't have too many unexpected expenses
is enough.....if you drive a lot , your basic warranty can be up in a little longer than
a year....how many people can make the car payments as well as large repairs....

it may work for some people......

andrew




andrew bernstein
motorola inc. there 's no such thing as sanity ,
1299 e. algonquin road and that 's the sanest fact
schaumburg , il 60196 1077 dire straits
bernstei@next3.corp.mot.com (next mail ok)

from jwl@cbnewsm.cb.att.com (james.w.lee..iii)
subject re new saturn argument
article i.d. cbnewsm.1993apr6.203837.14323
distribution usa
organization at t
lines 17

in article c50p1m.21o@noose.ecn.purdue.edu , rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade) writes

ok , how about this to argue about. why does the sl2 have a much lower base
price than the sc2 \? \? \? it 's over 1k cheaper(i forget the exact amount).
does n't it cost more to have the extra doors windows locks motors etc. that
are in the 4 door \? \? \? \? perhaps it is just a marketing deal....people want the
2door , so they will pay the extra 1.2k \? \? \?


the sc1 sc2 has a shorter wheel base than the sl sl1 sl2 sw1 sw2 , just a
thought. ithink your right though......


james lee @ a.t. t. bell labs
murray hill , n.j. 07974
room 2a 336 201 582 4420
att ! conceps ! jwl

from opuglies@academ01.mty.itesm.mx (ing. orlando pugliese)
subject is this a good price \?
organization itesm , campus monterrey
lines 25
nntp posting host mtecv2.mty.itesm.mx



hi everybody ,

i will buy a honda civic ex coupe. the dealer ask 12 , 750 for it ,
including a c ( installed ) , but not including stereo , tax , registration
fees. i live in mexico , so i do n't have time to go to a lot of dealers
and compare their prices. the dealer is in mcallen , tx. is this a good
price for that car \? if not , how much should i pay for it \?

please e mail asap if you do n't want to post. thanks a lot.

orlando pugliese
opuglies@mtecv2.mty.itesm.mx





orlando pugliese n
instituto tecnologico y de estudios
superiores de monterrey
depto. de informacion academica
monterrey , n.l. , mexico
(83) 58 2000 ext 4113

subject 1993 honda civic
from libemc@byuvm.bitnet
organization brigham young university
lines 8

i 'd like to converse with anyone who has purchased a 1993 honda
civic about their experience. i'm new to the car buying game
and would like to know what price i can expect to pay for a sedan
after bargaining.

thanks in advance ,

ellen

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from u37955@uicvm.uic.edu
subject internal leak in carburetor
lines 9

hi ,

my friend 's 1983 toyota tercel accelerates by itself without using
the gas peddel. the repairman said it has a internal leak of air in
the carburetor and needs a new carburetor (costs 650). she likes
to know if it is possible to fix the problem without replacing
the whole carburetor.

thank you.

from europa@tomcat.raleigh.ibm.com (welch bryan)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host tomcat.raleigh.ibm.com
organization ibm , research triangle park , north carolina
keywords brick , truck , danger
lines 66

in article c5joit.e31@bcstec.ca.boeing.com , neil@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (neil williams) writes
larose@austin.cs.utk.edu (brian larose) writes

this just a warning to everybody on the net. watch out for
folks standing next to the road or on overpasses. they can
cause serious harm to you and your car.

(just a cliff notes version of my story follows)

10pm last night , i was travelling on the interstate here in
knoxville , i was taking an offramp exit to another interstate
and my wife suddenly screamed and something large hit the side
of my truck. we slowed down , but after looking back to see the
vandals standing there , we drove on to the police station.

she did get a good look at the guy and saw him cock his arm with
something the size of a cinderblock , but i never saw him. we are
very lucky the truck sits up high on the road if it would have hit
her window , it would have killed her.

the police are looking for the guy , but in all likelyhood he is gone.

i am a very good driver (knock on wood) , but it was night time and
i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us ,
and take the truck.

please be aware of folks. and for your own good , please don't stop ! ! ! !

peace.




brian larose larose@cs.utk.edu 12 , 3103 essary rd. knoxville , tn 37918.



as long as we 're on the subject... several years ago myself and two others
were riding in the front of a toyota pickup heading south on interstate 5
north of seattle , wa. someone threw a rock of an overpass and hit our
windshield. not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the
overpass quickly to see who did it. we figured it was kids , reported it and
left.
a couple of years ago it happend again and killed a guy at my company. he was
in his mid fourties and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was
a reformatory for juviniles a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old
that did it. they put a cover over the overpass , what else could they do \?
i do n't think i 'll over forget this story.

in des moines , iowa , about a year ago , some kid dropped a rock from an
overpass and hit car just behind the windshield. it put a dent in the roof ,
so i guess i was lucky it hit metal.

it 's frustrating that we ca n't do much. bother the city government to put
covers on all overpasses \? slow down speed up a bit when driving under all
overpasses in the city \? i like the first better , but that will take time
and lots of people talking to the city governments.

just another .02...


bryan welch amateur radio n0sfg
internet europa@vnet.ibm.com (best) , bwelch@scf.nmsu.edu
everything will perish save love and music. scots gaelic proverb
disclaimer it 's all opinion. everything. so there.

from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject rec.autos welcome to to the new reader
keywords monthly posting
reply to welty@balltown.cma.com
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 00 05 gmt
lines 269

archive name rec autos part1

most recent changes , 15 march 1993 addition of alt.autos.karting rpw

welcome to rec.autos.

this article is sent out automatically each month , and contains a general
description of the purpose of each of the automotive newsgroups , and
some suggested guidelines for discussions. the keywords `monthly posting'
will always appear to make killing this article easy for users of
newsreaders with kill facilities. this article is posted to all autos
groups , but followups are directed only to rec.autos. if you do n't
understand what this means , ask your system administrator for help , or at
least for copies of the newuser documentation. failing that , please
subscribe to the newsgroup news.announce.newusers and read the
documentation provided there.

introduction to the rec.autos newsgroup hierarchy

rec.autos.tech

is intended for technical discussions of automobiles , their design ,
construction , diagnosis , and service. other discussions are largely
inappropriate , especially for sale ads.

rec.autos.sport

is intended for discussion of legal , organized competition involving
automobiles. technical discussions are appropriate insofar as they apply
to competition vehicles. discussion from either of two viewpoints ,
spectator and participant , is encouraged. arguments about sports cars are
largely inappropriate , as are most other discussions. for sale ads are
inappropriate unless they are for competition vehicles and or equipment.
discussions of illegal events are marginal one should probably avoid
advocating breaking the law. (remember , the fbi reads usenet ! )

rec.autos.driving

is intended for discussions related to the driving of automobiles.
also , if you must discuss 55 vs. 65 , or radar detectors , or insert
your pet driving peeve boneheads , do it here.

rec.autos.vw

is intended for discussion of issues related to the use and ownership
of automobiles manufactured by volkswagen (this includes vws , audis ,
seats , etc.) it was created on the grounds that the info vw mailing
list was very successful. it should not be presumed from the existence
of this group that it is appropriate to create many groups to cover many
different marques groups specific to individual marques should only be
created on demonstration of sufficient interest , via some avenue such as
a mailing list.

rec.audio.car

is not properly part of the rec.autos. hierarchy. it is , however ,
the correct place for discussion of automotive audio equipment , and
so is mentioned here.

rec.autos.antique

is intended for the discussion of older cars (usually more than 25 years
old , although this is not a hard and fast rule.)

alt.hotrod

is not part of the hierarchy , but also of potential interest to the
rec.autos reader. it is gatewayed to the moderated hotrod mailing
list , and is for serious discussion of modifying and developing
performance vehicles.

alt.autos.rod n custom

also not part of the `official' hierarchy devoted to that peculiar
american hobby of customizing older cars.

alt.autos.karting

for the discussion of the popular motorsport and hobby , karting.

rec.autos

is intended to capture discussion on all other automotive topics.


crossposting

crossposting occurs when more than one newsgroup name is included on
the newsgroups line in the article header such articles will appear
in all of the newsgroups listed.

crossposting is one of the most misunderstood and misused facilities on
usenet. you should only post to a group because you feel an article is
appropriate you should never crosspost just to reach a particular
audience. this distinction is subtle , but important. radar detector
articles , for example , are more or less appropriate in rec.autos. they are
almost never appropriate in sci.electronics or rec.ham radio , and the fact
that you might want to reach the audience in sci.electronics or
rec.ham radio is not adequate justification for posting to either group.

crossposting between any or all of the rec.autos. groups is usually
inappropriate if you find yourself doing so , consider whether or not it is
truly advisable , before sending your article. consider setting followup to
to point to only one newsgroup if you feel you must crosspost.

crossposting between rec.autos. and misc.consumers is chancy at best in
particular flame wars over the speed limit in the us and or the use of
radar detectors should never be crossposted between any of these groups.

most readers of sci.electronics and rec.radio. could n't care less about
the police radar and radar detector arguments that go on endlessly in
rec.autos.

it is an excellent idea to check the newsgroups and followup to lines of
articles before posting a followup. in particular , be wary of posting to
misc.test , rec.arts.startrek. , or talk.bizarre , or any combination of these
three. the life you save may be your own.

distribution

there is a field in the header of any news article which allows you to
(partially) control where the article goes it is called the distribution
field. it may be very useful for many reasons it should also serve
as a reminder that news is a very large and widespread system.

the distribution of rec.autos. is fairly extensive. as of this writing ,
the automotive newsgroups are known to reach most of europe , australia ,
new zealand , and some locations in japan. with this in mind , i offer the
following hints about use of the distribution field in your article
headers , and on article content.

1) please take care not to send for sale ads about clapped out ford
mavericks in new jersey to france or california i doubt that anyone in
either place will care , except for my girlfriend , who for some strange
reason likes mavericks (but only 4 door mavericks , at that.)

2) when posting technical questions , please include the market for which
your car was manufactured. for example , there are a number of differences
between a european market ford escort and a us market escort. likewise ,
all 1750cc and early 2000cc alfa romeos reached the us with spica fuel
injection european market cars usually got carbs (often webers). these
differences can be important to your readers make your situation clear.
failure to do so can lead to pointless flame wars and a significant
spread of misinformation.

3) be careful about your capacities and specifications when posting
in the us we get a mix of metric and english system values , whereas
europe is almost entirely on the metric system. a future edition
of this monthly posting will contain a list of commonly used
abbreviations that may not be known in some places that rec.autos
reaches this cuts both ways so let us not be parochial about it.

4) use the distribution field to limit where your article goes , when
possible. within north america , the values na (north america) , can
(canada) , and usa may be used. in addition , the two letter state
abbreviations of the us are supported in some cases e.g. if i wanted
to send an article only to new york and new jersey , i could put
ny , nj in a distribution field. note that multiple , comma separated
values are legal. these distribution fields vary widely , however , so
you should check with your local sysadmin to find out what is likely
to be supported in your area.

the dangers of overgeneralization

to amplify a warning from the distribution section of this article
be wary of making foolish assumptions about all cars , tires , etc. what is
true for a 1973 buick with a 455cid engine may be quite utterly wrong for a
1976 honda with a 1200cc engine. headlight laws in sweden are decidedly
different from those in idaho.

the need for adequate specification

when you ask a question , please give a reasonable amount of information
e.g. , if you have a question about your honda , please specify year ,
model , engine size , etc. otherwise , most answers to your question may be
quite useless.


concerning lemons

at one time or another , every auto manufacturer has manufactured a lemon or
two even honda admits to this. please do n't waste everyone 's time by
announcing to the world that your `brand x' automobile is terrible , so all
`brand x' automobiles are terrible , so no one should ever buy a car from
the `brand x' company. such articles are worse than useless , because they
cause substantial wasted bandwidth while carrying little or no useful
information.


concerning flames

as much as we might wish it , a flame free newsgroup is something that most
likely will never occur. here are some guidelines for flames and how
to deal with them (a list of flame prone topics follows in the next section
of this posting)

if you post something truly obnoxious and inflammatory , do n't imagine for a
minute that including the words `no flames' will work. it wo n't , and
you 'll get exactly what you deserve.

if you 're going to flame , you 're more likely to get away with it if you can
cite a fact or maybe a well known reference. no one is likely to believe
bald , unsupported assertions.

be careful about who you choose to insult. consider not insulting anyone.


asking the question

it is a bad idea to post a question and end it with a phrase like `please
send email , i do n't read this group'. it is a much better idea to
end the question with `please send email , if there is sufficient interest
i 'll summarize the results in a later posting. i may miss posted responses
to this request'.

answering the question

if someone wants to hop up their yugo , do n't tell them to get a mustang.
either be silent , or give them useful advice. if someone wants advice on
defending a speeding ticket , do n't tell them to obey the law next time
it 's offensive , presumes guilt which is not proven , and does n't directly
address the original question. in general , do n't post in order to see
your words in print , and do n't post in order to enjoy feeling smug and
self righteous.


stale and or inflammatory topics

certain topics are considered stale by `old timers' while discussion of
them is certainly ok , and new , factual information is welcome , ravings
about them are extremely tiresome , and may get the person who posts them
ignored altogether. some topics are naturally inflammatory it is
difficult if not impossible to have meaningful discussion of them. some
of these topics include the following

1) the 55mph speed limit in the us pro and con

2) discussions about the morality and legality of the sale and usage of
radar detectors.

3) discussions over which radar detector is best.

4) discussions over what is a sports car (this is one reason why
rec.autos.sport is not a `sports car' group everyone would argue
about what constitutes a `sports car'.)

5) disputes over whether or not us federal law protects the driver 's
right to own and operate a radar detector

6) `buy american' discussions

7) `clever' bumper stickers and personalized license plates

8) insert nationality here cars are terrible

9) what kind of car did maxwell smart drive \?
when i have a complete , accurate answer it will be added to the
commonly asked questions article which is also posted monthly.
until then , please do n't waste bandwidth on this topic. rpw



please direct comments and suggestions about this article to

welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from barryf@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (barry fowler)
subject re impala ss going into production !
organization hp colorado computer mfg. operation
lines 1

does that mean that they 're gonna bring back the biscayne and bel air \?

from steve.green@its.csiro.au (steve green)
subject any subaru liberty owners out there \?
article i.d. toyland.steve.green 060493151309
organization its branch , csiro , australia
lines 16
nntp posting host toyland.its.csiro.au

i 've had my subaru liberty 4wd station wagon for about 8 months now. saying
i'm happy with it would be an understatement !

just great. well built , handles beautifully , plenty of power. i 've only
had if 'off tar' once. did a trip over the mountains on a narrow , windy
dirt road , often very dodgey in parts. the subaru did it with ease.
i havent had so much fun driving a car for years !

any other owners out there \?


steve green hey rocky , watch me pull a rabbit outa' my hat !
comms group that trick never works
its branch nothin' up my sleeve presto !
csiro australia no doubt about it i gotta get another hat


from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re spark plug question \?
distribution na
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 21

in article mgolden.733994052@cwis mgolden@cwis.unomaha.edu (brian golden) writes
the nice thing about real platinum plugs is that you do n't have to change
them very often at all. (i think like 50 , 000 miles ! ! ) they might cost 10
each , but they would save for themselves in the long run.

my t bird sc 's manual says to replace the platinum plugs every 60 , 000mi.
wal mart has autolite platinum plugs for 2.00 each. are these real
platinum plugs \? (i had bosch platinums in my '80 fiesta and my dad
had 'em in his '84 bronco note the keyword had. they did n't last
very long (much less than 50 , 000mi) before they had to be replaced.
i agree that they were n't the greatest.)

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from neilson@seoul.mpr.ca (robert neilson)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
in reply to madman@austin.ibm.com 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 17 31 58 gmt
nntp posting host seoul
organization mpr teltech ltd. , burnaby , b.c. , canada
1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu c5jcpa.1ptt@austin.ibm.com
lines 12

sorry for the 0 auto content , but ...

that is why low abiding citizens should have the power to protect themselves
and their property using deadly force if necessary anywhere a threat is
imminent.

steve heracleous

you do have the power steve. you can do it. why do n't you \? why do n't you
go shoot some kids who are tossing rocks onto cars \? make sure you do a good
job though do n't miss 'cause like they have big rocks and take it from
me those kids are mean.

from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re mr2 noisy engine.
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 33
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot) says

in article 1r1vofinn871@usenet.pa.dec.com tomacj@opco.enet.dec.com (thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) writes
are there any mr2 owners or motor head gurus out there , that know why
my mr2 's engine sounds noisy \? the mr2 's engine is noisy at the best of times ,
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very ugly noises.

assuming yours is a non turbo mr2 , the gruffness is characteristic of
a large inline 4 that does n't have balance shafts. i guess toyota
did n't care about little details like that when they can brag about
the mid engine configuration and the flashy styling.

myself , i automatically cross out any car from consideration (or
recommendation) which has an inline 4 larger than 2 liters and no
balance shafts.. it is a good rule of thumb to keep in mind if you
ever want a halfway decent engine.

if the noise really bugs you , there is nothing else that you can do
except to sell it and get a v6.


eliot

nice theory. too bad the mr2 's never came with a four cylinder over 2.0
liters. more like 1.6. or did they \? were the nonturbo mr2ii 's 2.2 or
some such \?

i also understand that anyone using balancing shafts on four cylinders , must
pay saab a royalty for using their patented design..like porsche 's 3.0 i4...

c ya
drew

from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re new alarm proposal
organization lehigh university
lines 22

in article 1993apr14.190652.19777@slcs.slb.com , dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.co
m (dan day) writes
in article 1qeee6 o7s@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) w
rites

an audible alarm is just an annoyance to either a professional or
amateur. nobody listens to audible alarms anymore. the thieves know

this is why i think there ought to be a heavy fine on false alarms.
i'm really honked off about the fact that due to all the
cars with cruddy alarms crying wolf , no one will pay any attention
to my car if its alarm ever goes off for real.

depends on your area , in the city , nobody thinks about it...but at a mall or
something near the suburbs , people do at least glance over. remember , an
alarm is only a deterent , not a prevention. if a thief sees two cars he
likes , one has an alarm and the other does n't , he 's obviously going to skip
the alarmed car and avoid the hassle. there is a way around every alarm , but
at least you 've got something on your side.....
rob fusi
rwf2@lehigh.edu


from jackd@sad.hp.com (jack dauler)
subject re tires for ford ranger pickup
organization hp sonoma county (srsd mwtd mid)
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
lines 3

i have had good luck with my ranger and yokohama 371 s m tires.
the tires have been wearing well and even the few times i have hauled
heavy loads they have done well.

from kissane@black.berkeley.edu (john g. kissane)
subject re manual shift bigots
nntp posting host black
reply to kissane@rtsg.mot.com (john g. kissane)
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group
lines 7

as a matter of interest does anyone know why autos are so popular in the us while
here in europe they are rare \? \? \? just wondering.....


john kissane motorola ireland ltd. , 'o.o'
uucp ..uunet ! motcid ! glas ! kissanej mahon industrial estate , () ()
internet kissanej@glas.rtsg.mot.com blackrock , cork , ireland u

from mani@raunvis.hi.is (m'ani thorsteinsson)
subject lois chevrolet \?
distribution rec
lines 7
nntp posting host raunvis.hi.is


i was whatching the history of the indy 500 the other day ,
and early in the film , around the '10 '20 's , a name , lois chevrolet ,
came out of the blue. i wanted to know if he is the chevrolet founder
or mearly a driver who 's name was called the same as the other guy 's \? )

koni.

from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re saturn 's pricing policy
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 22

in article 1qn19m c9s@vela.acs.oakland.edu mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu writes
i just ordered a saturn sl1 after considering a few imports. frankly , the saturn

stuff deleted...

saturn also has a good extended warranty program 675 for 6 year 60k miles ,
fully refunded if you do n't use it. that works out to an actual cost of 170 or
so , based on the 6 year treasury rates. using savings account rates it 's more
like 120. in the first three years it also buys you free rental during any
warranty work , without counting against the refund.
mike

in general extended warranties are a ripoff. this 6yr 60k is really only
3yr 24k because you get the 3yr 36k one free with the car. also , is there
perhaps a deductible you pay each and every time you use the warranty \?
also , are certain items excluded from coverage on the extended warranty \?
and if you use it at year 4 for some 60 buck job and pay a 50 deduct and then
you have used it so no refund ever !
again , extended warranties are ripoff , high profit items for the dealer.




from jitloke@tekig5.pen.tek.com (jit loke lim)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
keywords bad drivers
distribution usa
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 33

in article 1993apr14.140642.19875@cbnewsd.cb.att.com hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo) writes
anybody is going anywhere. so , i block the would be passers. not only for my own
good , but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it.

ah , we are looking for good people just like you. we are a very concerned
group of citizens who are absolutely disgusted at the way that the majority
of drivers simply disobey traffic rules like going above the speed limit ,
passing on our right , and riding our tails , while all the while we respectfully
abide by the rules of this great country and maintain the mandated speed
limits with our calibrated , certified cruise controls , while keeping the
respectful 1.5 car length distance 10 mph speed. how many times have you been
ticked off by some moron who jumps ahead in the (5.5 1.5)8.25 car lengths
that you have left between you and the vehicle ahead of you while driving
55 mph \? finally you have an option. we are a totally member supported group
that perform functions for our own good , for the good of this great country but most of all for those unfortunate ones that are too stupid to realize it ,
bless their souls. for a paltry 10 , you can join citizens for rationally
advanced piloting(c.r.a.p) , a non profit , members only , society. but , but , but ,
there is a slight hitch , the initiation rite. to be a full fledged member of
this exclusive club , you must proof that you are able to be in the fast lane of
the busiest interstate in your area , keep the correct 1.5 car lenth 10 mph speedand i know this can be difficult with those morons around , not let anybody pass
you , not in the next lane , not in the slow lane , not in the breakdown lane ,
not nowhere. for a complete list of acceptable interstates and times , send 5.
and by the way , over 90 of our members are highly regarded attorneys in the
auto field and they are completely , absolutely positively in the business only
to serve your best interests. as a testament to their virtues , they will give
members 90 off the initial consultation fee. feel free to drop me a line at
your earliest convenience and remember , only speed kills !

jit





from europa@tomcat.raleigh.ibm.com (welch bryan)
subject re changing oil by self.
distribution usa
nntp posting host tomcat.raleigh.ibm.com
organization ibm , research triangle park , north carolina
lines 20

in article 1993apr15.222254.6651@rtfm.mlb.fl.us , gwalker@rtfm.mlb.fl.us (grayson walker) writes
why crawl under the car at all \? i have a machine i got for my boat that
pulls the oil out under suction through the dip stick tube. it does an
excellent job and by moving the suction tube around , you can get more
old oil out than by using the drain plug. i think i paid 25 at e b marine.
the oil goes into a steel 3 gal can wait until it cools and decant into
your favorite device. i use soft drink bottles. easy to take them down to
the local oil recycle center.

this does sound good , but i heard it tends to leave more grit , etc in the
oil pan. also , i 've been told to change the old when it 's hot before the
grit has much time to settle.

any opinions \?


bryan welch amateur radio n0sfg
internet europa@vnet.ibm.com (best) , bwelch@scf.nmsu.edu
everything will perish save love and music. scots gaelic proverb
disclaimer it 's all opinion. everything. so there.

from shou@logos.asd.sgi.com (tom shou)
subject ford explorer 4wd do i need performance axle \?
organization silicon graphics , inc.
lines 27
nntp posting host logos.asd.sgi.com

we 're considering getting a ford explorer xlt with 4wd and we have the
following questions (all we would do is go skiing no off roading)

1. with 4wd , do we need the performance axle (limited slip axle).
its purpose is to allow the tires to act independently when the tires
are on different terrain.

2. do we need the all terrain tires (p235 75x15) or will the
all season (p225 70x15) be good enough for us at lake tahoe \?


thanks ,


tom






tom shou silicon graphics
shou@asd.sgi.com 2011 n. shoreline blvd.
415 390 5362 ms 8u 815
415 962 0494 (fax) mountain view , ca 94043



from murthy@watson.ibm.com (sesh murthy)
subject re bimmer vs beamer
distribution usa
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm
nntp posting host panini.watson.ibm.com
organization ibm t.j. watson research center
lines 12

in article 1993apr18.173934.14572@newsgate.sps.mot.com , markm@latium. (mark monninger) writes
although not in direct response to the referenced article , just to set the
record straight , beamers are bmw motorcycles. bmw cars are bimmers. please ,

huh ! i though beamers were ibm employees )

let 's get our terms straight.

actually , some purists would argue that the only true bimmer is a round
tail light 2002 or 1600.

mark

from jao@megatest.com (john oswalt)
subject re legal car buying problems
organization megatest corporation
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
distribution ca
lines 32

rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie) writes
in article 9285.27317@stratus.swdc.stratus.com bob@runway.swdc.stratus.com (bob hutson) writes
after agreeing to terms i signed the contract and drove home in my new
car. later that same night i noticed that the terms in the were
different from the terms i had agreed to. (i made the stupid mistake
of not checking everything on the contract). this all happened last
saturday.

i have heard that there is a cooling off law allowing me three days
to reconsider the contract. is this true \? can anyone point me to the
law \? the transaction happened at the dealership , if it matters.

this cooling off period applies only in certain situations lik ewhen
you are solicited at home. i also think the cooling off period ends
if you actually accept the merchandise.

if this were not the case , any car buyer would have the right to return
a slightly used , highly devalued , car 2 days after buying it. yeah
that 's the trick if i want to buy a new car , i 'd have a firend buy
return one , then go in and negotiate a better deal on a pre owned
used car.

however , if you agree some terms , and then , when about to sign , the
dealer slips you a contract with different terms , and leads you to
believe that it embodies the terms you verbally agreed to , that
is fraud. there is no 3 day limit on restitution for fraud.

you may have to sue (and win) to get out of this. you will almost
certainly have to threaten to sue.


john oswalt jao@megatest.com or jao@netcom.com

from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re most bang for 13k
organization lehigh university
lines 32

in article 23056.74.uupcb@cutting.hou.tx.us , david.bonds@cutting.hou.tx.us (da
vid bonds) writes
in rec.autos , cpkjp@vm.cc.latech.edu (kevin parker) writes
i 'd like to get some feedback on a car with most bang for the buck in the
13000 to 16 , 000 price range. i'm looking for a car with enough civility to be
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to fee
l

take a look at a '91 taurus sho they can be found for 13k , and are the
ultimate in 4 door sports cars. performance similar to a mustang , but
quite civil and comfortable... try to get a late model 91 for the better
shifter.




the cutting edge bbs (cutting.hou.tx.us) a pcboard 14.5a system
houston , texas , usa 1.713.466.1525 running uupcb

well , you could always go with a 5.0 mustang lx with a pleasant v8 , but the
diamond star cars (talon eclipse laser) put out 190 hp in the turbo models ,
and 195 hp in the awd turbo models , these cars also have handling to match
the muscle , and are civil in regular driving conditions , rather than having a
harsh , stiff ride....the awd turbo is clearly the better choice of the two
(because of all that torque steer on the front drive model) , but you may have
to go with a leftover or slightly used model for that price range....tough
decision...

rob fusi
rwf2@lehigh.edu



from plkg ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (paul k. gloger)
subject subaru shop manuals for sale
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 40


o subaru service manuals ................................... 10.00
this is not a complete set , but includes sections 4 , 5
6 which cover mechanical components (suspension , wheels
axles , steering , brakes , pedals control cables , heater
ventilator , air conditioning) , body (body exterior ,
doors windows , seats , seat belts , interior , instrument
panel) , and electrical (engine electrical system , body
electrical system , wiring diagram , and trouble shooting).
these are the genuine subaru issue manuals. they are for
model year 1986 , but have plenty of good information that
applies to other years as well.


and , as long as i'm posting (end of car stuff) ,

o miscellaneous darkroom equipment ........................ 75.00
solar enlarger (several objective lenses) with easel and
timer , negative carriers for 35mm and 2 1 4 x 3 1 4 , misc.
printing masks. developing tanks , thermometer , trays ,
constant temperature bath , ground glass , mirrors , darkroom
lamps , glassware , el cheap o tripods..... and (as they say)
much more !


o beautiful antique buffet ............................... 1500.00
solid cherry (no veneer). handmade , with very interesting
dovetail corners in the drawers. built (we think) around
1880. not gaudy or covered with gew gaws a simple , elegant
piece of furniture , but too big (60 long , 37 tall , 24
deep) for our little cape cod house.


will deliver pricier items (ie , over 10) anywhere in the rochester
area. (and will consider delivering the others.) will deliver any
of it on uofr campus between now and graduation.

call or e mail paul or mary
(716) 359 2350 (just south of rochester , ny)
plkg ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu

from tgardner@athena.mit.edu (timothy j gardner)
subject re another taurus sho question
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 13
nntp posting host m2 225 2.mit.edu

in article 1993apr14.064702.26925@reed.edu rseymour@reed.edu writes

the taurus sho (for those who can get it straight , it is s h o as in super
high output , not sho as in show) has a yamaha 3.0l dohc (24 valves) sho v 6.

having spoken to technical staff from ford many times , i can assure you that
internally at ford this car is always called the taurus show or just
the show . as in long o sound. i still refer to it as the s h o ,
however , because it sounds better to me. i assume many purist fans and owners
prefer using the ford lingo.

tim gardner


from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc)
subject re wife wants convertible
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 25

nuet ke@pts.mot.com (keith nuetzman x3153 p7625) writes


help ! ! !
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car.
we live in south fla. , so we are definitely in the right are for one.
my wife has mentioned the miata , but i think it is too small.
i would like to wait for the new mustangs ( dec. '93 i think).
anyone have any opinions on any all convertibles in a reasonable price range.

thanx

the olds supreme convertible got high marks in c d 's recent test , if
you can get by the stupid body moldings and stuff. the saab 900 ragtop may
be out of your range , but its a good choice. is there a new f car convertible \?
the nissan 240sx convertible is a nice car also... those immediately come to
mind...




chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
neil peart , (c)1981
quick to judge , quick to anger , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice
and fear walk hand in hand

from jsmith@cs.dal.ca (jeff smith)
subject header for 89' honda civic si
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 22
nntp posting host cs.dal.ca

hello ,
i am looking to slightly increase the performance of my 89 honda
civic si. i was wondering if anyone could suggest upgrades that were not
too drastic. i thought that one of the easiest upgrades would be a new
header. does anyone know what kind of increase that the header would give
me \? i think i would check with jackson racing for the part. are there
any other comparines would make honda parts.

are there any other small changes that can be easily made and wo n't
screw up the car. things like new injectors \? , new fuel injection chip etc \?
i would welcome any suggestions of small changes that would make a
difference.

i do n't really want to change the cam etc because i have heard that it
would be much harder on the engine.

e mail relpies prefered please and i will post a summary of all the replies.
thanks for any help you may have to offer !


jeff smith jsmith@cs.dal.ca
dalhousie university halifax , ns

from eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re station wagons (was open letter to nissan
organization clearer than blir
lines 30
distribution na
nntp posting host lanmola.engr.washington.edu

in article 1993apr16.052013.23517@leland.stanford.edu tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen) writes
but you 'll
never catch me dead in a minivan !

even a minivan based on viper running gear \?

hmmmm.. not sure , since no such beast exists.. i can tell you another
though.. you wo n't catch me dead in a gmc syclone or typhoon either ,
1000 bhp or not.. not even the fact that clint eastwood has one. just
my taste , no rational reasons for it.

teddy
p.s. i think the audi s4 gets a 4.2 liter v 8 next year.

car just tested the s4 wagon with 5 banger and 6 speed manual. rave
review except for servotronic.. audi is trying to recoup the
development costs for the v8 , and since the v8 is not selling well ,
they are sticking it into the 100 series cars.. neat marketing trick ,
eh \? yeah , a 100 v8 32v would n't be a bad idea as competition for the
upcoming bimmer 530 540i would it \? maybe they can use a 3.6 liter
version to avoid conflicts with the v8 model.. then strip off all the
luxo garbage. let the s4 remain with the flared arches and fat tires
to go fight with the m5.... maybe turn up the boost a wee bit to bump
bhp up to say 450 or so.. ) while keeping the 100 v8 with mercedes
500e style subtlety.

blah blah blah....


eliot

from rll@frieda.mitre.org (roberto l. landrau)
subject re eagle talon tsi lemon \?
nntp posting host frieda.mitre.org
organization research computer facility , mitre corporation , bedford , ma
lines 77

in rec.autos jay lorenzana u40348@uicvm.uic.edu wrote

dear netters

i am looking to buy a used eagle talon '91 or '91 tsi awd.

i would be concerned about how the car was driven and how well it was
maintained. i own a turbocharged one , and i would never buy a
turbocharged vehicle unless i knew the owner and his her
driving maintenance habits.

question is that the '91 tsi awd was mentioned in the
april consumer reports to a car to avoid !

i have been wondering about that myself. the '90 awd models and the
'91s were identical (except for the abs option).

in particular , the manual transmission ,

yes. some owners had problems with the transaxles. using
synthetic lubricants in the transaxles solved the problem in most
cases. the problem was not unique to the awds , however. it was
common to all models. the galant vr4 and gsx had the same transaxle ,
but i did n't see those listed in cr.

electrical system ,

i do n't know of any major complaints in this area , except that the
battery that was installed at the factory had a low current rating.

and brakes were below par (in both models).

the first fwd models (those built before may 1989) were recalled for
brake upgrades. some fwd and awd owners had problems with warped
rotors. those of us who insist on using manual torque wrenches every
time the lug nuts are tightened have never had a problem.

a friend of mine
ownes a '90 tsi awd and he has had 2 brake jobs (pads) ,

i can refer you to someone who has gone through a set of pads in one
day ! it all depends on how you drive. it seems that most owners have
been getting between 40 70k on a set of pads.

one stuck valve ,

first time i hear about a problem with the valve train on these cars ,
other than timing belt failures.

and some clutch transmission problem , something
about sticking grinding into second gear. this does n't seem
too bad if one beats on his car.

if your friend beats on the car , then his unit is not a
representative sample of the car 's reliability.

my suggestion is instead of listening to the useless consumer reports ,
talk to several owners (the mailing list may be the best way to reach
a few of them).

i am willing to suffer reliability for speed and looks. seems
you have to pay big buck if you want all three. anyway can
anyone please let me know how you like your talon , and any
problems you may have had , and if the repairs are worth it.

if (humor impaired) skip to theend
no matter how much you pay , you wo n't get all three. examples

nsx reliability and looks.
ferrari reliability h h h h h h (yeah , right ! ) speed and looks

theend

the opinions stated above are not necessarily my employer 's.

roberto l. landrau kc1yp landrau@mitre.org rll@linus.mitre.org
the mitre corporation bedford , ma 01730 rll@linus.uucp

from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re where can i get a new york taxi \?
distribution na
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 20

in article 15631@ncrcan.canada.ncr.ca tnelson@ncrcan.canada.ncr.ca (tim nelson) writes
the older ny taxis were made by the checker car company , and i would love
to have one.
or , is the checker car company still in business \?

checker motors went out of business in 1982. it 's hard to get
old checkers that are worth restoring , since almost every one was
a fleet vehicle that was driven into the ground. if you can get a
body in decent shape the mechanicals should all be available somewhere
checker used whatever parts were around. for instance , i had a chevy
straight six and a gmc truck radiator and a ford rear in mine.


the model that i am looking for is the checker marathon.

actually , you want a checker special if you can find one.

good luck. i'm sorry i let mine go...



from jcyuhn@crchh574.nosubdomain.nodomain (james yuhn)
subject re sho clutch question (grinding noise \? )
nntp posting host crchh574
organization bnr , inc.
lines 15

in article 5243@unisql.uucp , wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
in article c5h6f8.ldu@news.rich.bnr.ca jcyuhn@crchh574.nosubdomain.nodomain
(james yuhn) writes
that 's not the clutch you 're hearing , its the gearbox. early shos have
a lot of what is referred to as 'gear rollover' noise. you can generally

i have one of the first shos built , and mine does n't make
this noise.


geez wharfie , do you have to be so difficult \? mine was built in december
'88 ,
which qualifies as pretty dang early , and it most certainly grinds away.

jim

from cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun hung wan)
subject nx2000 vs. sentra se r
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 17
reply to cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun hung wan)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


i'm plannig to trade my sentra se r in with a nx2000. my car has 11 , 500
miles on it and is a '92 model. the nx2000 the dealer is selling is a '91
model with 23 , 000miles on it. it has a t bar roof , a c , and an airbag ,
which my sentra does not have. they are asking for 1500. is that a fair
deal \? the only thing i noticed about the nx2000 is that the engine did not
seem to have as much torque as my sentra which has the same identical
engine. i presume that the last lady owner did not really push the engine
to it 's limits occassionaly while i did that on mine , thuis the nx2000 's
engine is a little tight. so , if i buy the nx2000 and excercise it
well , should that slight power problem go away \? any advice on this will be
much appreciated. thanks. please reply via e mail if possible.

a motion picture major at the brooks institute of photography , ca
santa barbara and a foreign student from kuala lumpur , malaysia.

the mind is the forerunner of all states.

from pamuelle@ingr.com ( phil mueller )
subject re used bmw question ..... \? \? \?
organization intergraph
lines 29

in article 1993apr12.230031.160616@ua1ix.ua.edu rpaturi@ho12.eng.ua.edu (ravi) writes

hi ,
i am dying to get the answer for the pricing polocy of a dealer
here in san jose , california (i moved to caal from al)

you moved from alabama to california \? my sympathies.

year model description milage price
1991 318 black , looks good 46k 10.6k
5sp manual , ac ,
cassette , sun roof

1989 318 white same as aboove 50k 9.6k


make sure that they have all maintenance records. oil should be changed
every 3 months. the mileage on the cars is fine.

be sure that these have the 16 valve engine. the 8 valve 318 is a
bmw in name only.

did n't you have a line on a '89 325i for 12k \? jump on it.



phil mueller pamuelle@ingr.com or pamuelle@nc2145.b30.ingr.com
ama 686532 dod 132569 1991 suzuki bandit 1977 bmw r100 7


organization central michigan university
from john foster 32hnbak@cmuvm.csv.cmich.edu
subject re changing oil by self.
1993apr15.112826.25211@colorado.edu
lines 38

from drew@kinglear.cs.colorado.edu (drew eckhardt)
in article pod.734834505@sour.sw.oz.au pod@sour.sw.oz.au (paul o'donnell) wri
in 1qgi8einnhs5@skeena.ucs.ubc.ca yiklam@unixg.ubc.ca (yik chong lam) writes

hello ,

does anyone know how to take out the bolt under the engine
compartment \? should i turn clockwise or counter \? i tried any kind
of lubricants , wd 40 , etc , but i still failed !
do you think i can use a electric drill( change to a suitable
bit ) to turn it out \? if i can succeed , can i re tighten it not too
tight , is it safe without oil leak \?

you should n't need any power tools to undo it , an electric drill
probably wo n't give you much extra torque anyway. wd40 will help
things that are seized due to rust but this is unlikely for a drain
plug. you should be able to undo it with a spanner. when it
loosens , it will probably become very loose and you will bash your
knuckles on the underside of the car this is the price you must
pay for doing you own work.

no , that 's the price you pay for not knowing how to use a
wrench. you want to pull the wrench towards you , away from
painful knuckle splitting hard things. if you ca n't pull it
because things are in the way , push it with an open hand.

i find this method much better myself , too , although i do really
hate it when the bolt finally comes loose and the wrench and my
hand both come crashing into my face. after coming to , which is
about 15 minutes later , i change my clothes (because by this time
all the oil has drained on me) , and ice my entire face and suck
down about 20 tylenol to ease the pain. later in the day i then
proceed with refilling the engine oil.

it 's just crazy how i try and change the oil on my cars in one
weekend i go through about 3 bottles of tylenol and 2 bags of ice.

john

from carl f hoffman@cup.portal.com
subject 1993 infiniti g20
organization the portal system (tm)
lines 26


i am thinking about getting an infiniti g20.
in consumer reports it is ranked high in many
catagories including highest in reliability index for compact cars.
mitsubushi galant was second followed by honda accord).

a couple of things though
1) in looking around i have yet to see anyone driving this
car. i see lots of honda 's and toyota 's.
2) there is a special deal where i can get an infinity g20 , fully
loaded , at dealer cost (i have check this out and the numbers match
up). they are doing this because they are releasing and update mid 1993
version (includes dual air bags) and want to get rid of their old 1993 's.

i guess my question is is this a good deal \?
also , can anyone give me any feedback on infiniti \?

thanks ,

carl hoffman

p.s.

the other cars that i have test driven and which are in the
running are
mitsubishi galant , honda accord , and toyota camary

from rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (ronald.j.deblock..jr)
subject re ultimate awd vehicles
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 14

in article 20726.2bcd8b62@ecs.umass.edu sylveste@ecs.umass.edu writes
before the s4 became the s4 it was called the 200 turbo quattro 20v.
this model did come in a wagon , a very quick wagon. very rare also.

mike sylvester umass


yes , i saw a 200 turbo quattro wagon on i 287 in nj on monday. i thought
audi stopped selling wagons in the us after the 5000. this is exactly the
type of vehicle i would like to own. i bet its price is 4 5 times my
car budget.

ron deblock rdb1@homxb.att.com (that 's a number 1 in rdb1 , not letter l)
at t bell labs somerset , nj usa

from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 25
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan) says

dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left lane fast but when i overtake
cars who are on the right , i slow down a tad bit. if i were to rely on the j udgement of the other car , to recognize the speed differential , i would be the stupid one.

just to satiate my curiosity , why would this make you the stupid one \? it seems
to me , everybody should be aware enough of what is going on. you do not need

i couldnt agree more. that is how it should work. people should also always see motorcycles too.

i constantly scan behind me (i have one of those wink mirrors) and two outside mirrors. i actually spend just as much time checking my six (cops you know).

i still get caught off guard every now and then.


maybe i didnt word it right the first time. what i was trying to say was that if you plan to blow by somebody at a very high speed differential and you assume you are safe because the guy sees you , you are stupid (of course , it depends on the circumstances). i have had some very scary instances when i assumed this and i dont think all of the fault was the other guy (now if he was going 25 in a 55 thats a whole different story)

ok. i can agree to this , because , as we have both proved , what is ideally
supposed to happen , is n't always. and even though i'm rearely the one doing
the passing , i do n't see where it makes you stupid , but i agree , that if you
think you are safe , because the other guy is supposed to have been paying
attention , then yes , you are just as dumb as the other(maybe dumber \? )
hasta
drew

from mps1@cec1.wustl.edu (mihir pramod shah)
subject re saturn puzzled by its pricing
article i.d. wuecl.1993apr6.074352.15514
distribution na
organization washington university , st. louis mo
lines 43
nntp posting host cec1

in article 1993apr1.230642.5207@cbfsb.cb.att.com ykhsu@cbnewsf.cb.att.com (yung kao.hsu) writes

i am the person who started out this subject.

to me , the question really is not about dealer profit but the
amount of money for the type of car. i 've settled with a
new 92 subaru wagon with the similar amount of money a saturn
dealer asked for a sw1. ok , i know it 's a 92 model , but i think
i got a better car (though i have to adjust my initial idea of
why i am getting a new car).

today , during a conversion with a friend , i learned he rejected
a saturn for a ford tarurs as it only costed him a little bit more
than a sl2. i may be wrong , but a loaded tarus beats a saturn sl2.

i agree that a fully loaded sl2 would come close in price to a
lower end ford taurus. a fully loaded taurus , on the other hand , would still
be substantially more expensive than even the most glitzy sl2. a fully loaded
sl2 would run somewhere around 17 , 000 , while a fully loaded taurus lx would be
somewhere around the 22 , 000 23 , 000 range. a base taurus (gl i believe) might
start around 15 , 000. of course there is the taurus sho which can push 30 , 000
if you really try , but this is a totally different car than your mainstream
taurus sedan. your statement was not entirely faulty , just a little
inaccurate.


i ca n't see saturn is of better value and that is why i was puzzled
by its pricings. oh , we did not spend much time getting our deals
being better informed has its advantages.

well , that 's ok. at least you 're not bitching about dealer profits like some
of the other netters are. you seem to have rationally picked out the car that
is best for you. the loyale is an aging design that is about to be replaced by
the impreza wagon , so you probably got a good deal on one of the last ones.


then again , i may be wrong.

yung kao hsu


mihir shah
mps1@cec1.wustl.edu

from jmiller@network.com (jeff j. miller)
subject re need info on porsche 914 's
nntp posting host brew
reply to jmiller@network.com
organization network systems corporation
lines 43

in article 6126@midway.uchicago.edu , buzy@quads.uchicago.edu (len buzyna) writes
hi there ,
i 've recently been toying with the idea of purchasing an old 914. the going
rate seems to be about 4000 for cars with anywhere from 40 80k mi.
my question is this what should i expect at this price \? should i expect to
have extensive body work done \? what about engine transmission should i
likewise expect to have both virtually replaced \? along those lines ,
does anyone have the names addresses of any mail order parts
suppliers for everything from engine to body parts \? i'm completely new
to the area of restoring cars , and as i do n't actually do any work with
cars , most of the work would have to be professionally done what sould
i expect the cost of upgrading a 914 to a rust free , mechanically
sound automobile \?
thanks in advance ,
andre
..


true 914 enthusiasts will be able to give you a better answer then this
but i 'll dump my impressions. i 've wanted to own a 914 for about 10 years
now came close once but i ended up buying a fiero instead (biggest mistake
of my life ! )

anyway , for 4000 you should be able to get a nice car but your also set
in the price range to get taken by a nice looker that is a pile of shit.
the most common total failure for the car would be frame rust between the
engine and passenger compartment. also look for chassis welded together
here. oh yeah , the price range you are talking about must be the 4 banger
a 6 (if you could find one) would be mucho more bucks.

parts for the engine are pretty easy to come by (for an old car) and you
can even locate crude in the jc whitney catalog if you have too.

the machine itself is pretty simple (they use the spare tire for windshild
washer instead of a pump fer chris sake ! ) so getting it fixed by a good
bug porsche mechanic would be easy. since it is mid engine you may spend
more on labor for any mechanical work.


jeff miller network systems corporation
internetwork group 7600 boone avenue north
jmiller@network.com minneapolis mn 55428 (612)424 4888


from dye@lachman.com (ken r. dye )
subject re feedback requested on lowering '66 mustang
nntp posting host london.i88.isc.com
organization lachman technology , inc. , naperville , il
lines 28

in article x3xz2b2w165w@vllyoak.resun.com jp@vllyoak.resun.com (jeff perry) writes
i have found a kit advertised for lowering the front end of an early
mustang. installation envolves moving the upper a arm and installation
of a wedge shaped spacer between the a arm and ball joint. apparently ,
shelby mustangs did a similair modification , but left out the spacer.

i would be interested in feedback , pro or con , on such a modification.

i'm no mustang head , but do n't the early ones have a simple
strut suspension (that is , with no upper a arm) \? just a strut
going down to a lower control arm (single bushing not an a arm) , with a
tension compression rod locating it in the forward backward direction \?

anyway , simple strut suspensions like this can be lowered just by using
shorter springs , cutting the springs , lowering the spring perch or shortening
the strut below the perch. in each of these cases , the suspension geometry
will suffer because the lower control arms will not be at the
intended angle. a spacer placed between control arm and the bottom
of the strut (roughly the height of the reduction) will restore
the suspension geometry. imho , the kit that includes the spacer
is the only way to go...

ken

ken r. dye an optimist is a guy
lachman technology , inc. , chicago that has never had
(708) 505 9555 x341 much experience
dye@lachman.com archy

from lofaso@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (bernie lofaso)
subject re fast idle on 88 ford ranger
nntp posting host zruty
organization applied research labs , university of texas at austin
lines 22

ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com (les bartel) writes

it did it again. this morning , my 88 ford ranger was idling at 10 , 000 rpm.
ok , so i exaggerated a little , but it was idling very fast. it has a 2
liter carburated engine in it , and no blipping of the throttle would
cause the idle to drop back to normal (i do n't think the linkage is stuck).
what can i do to fix this problem \? this has been a problem from time to
time , but has straightened itself out until now. i do n't have a tach ,
but by gauging by the sound of the engine , it is idling about twice as fast
as it should be. this is down from what it was idling at when i pulled up
at a stop light.

sometimes a bad choke pull off diaphram will cause a car to fast idle. the
pull off , which is vacuum actuated , provides a necessary pull in non cold
weather conditions to get the idle off the the fast idle cam. locate the
fast idle cam on your vehicle and see if you can rotate it to produce a
normal idle. if so , locate the diaphram and test it. if you ca n't apply
suction (via a good piece of rubber vacuum hose) with your mouth that will
cause the diaphram to retract , then it 's bad and should be replaced.

bernie lofaso
applied research labs

from gwalker@rtfm.mlb.fl.us (grayson walker)
subject re changing oil by self.
keywords oily to bed
organization a.s.i. , merritt island , florida
distribution usa
lines 9

ah , yes , the big chunks down in the sump. the solution is simple. sort of
like the advice my aunt always gave never scratch your ear with anything
except your elbow.

if you have pieces of ring , con rods , valve heads or stems , just reach into
the sump through the hole in the block that was associated with the creation
of those large bits and pieces. anything you ca n't remove with one hand
through the hole in the block may safely be left in place.


from jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen)
subject re ad said nissan altima best seller \?
reply to jchen@ctt.bellcore.com
organization bell communications research
lines 1
nntp posting host wind.bellcore.com

i guess that makes altima the most generic car in the us.

from johnson@spectra.com (boyd johnson)
subject re automotive crash test , performance and maintenance stats \?
organization spectragraphics corporation
distribution usa
lines 23

i wrote
is there a resource available to the consumer comparing all of the makes
and models of automobiles , trucks , vans , etc. for survivability in a
crash of different severities \?
...
also , i 've found very little objective data comparing different
vehicles for handling , pick up , braking , expected maintenance , etc.
i recall years ago consumer reports annual buyer 's guide was much more
informative in those aspects than it is now.

thanks to a reply from someone i looked a little further and found what
i was looking for. the april cr magazine has most of the above things.
despite recent articles here the ratings looked pretty good for
relative comparison purposes. unfortunately the crash test comparisons
did n't include half of the cars i'm comparing.
anybody know how '93 honda civic hatchbacks and toyota tercels fare in
an accident \?



boyd johnson nosc ! spectra.com ! johnson san diego , california
intermittent newsfeed at best and only to selected groups.
my opinions certainly do n't match those of my employer.

from bhaskar@orion.me.uiuc.edu (bhaskar manda)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 16

gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan) writes
why should a good driver be terrified at 130mph \? the only thing i fear
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left lane without using
either rear view mirror or flashers. doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much faster.

in defense of the drivers , who are in the right lane. here in the states , people simply do not expect when they are driving to be overtaken at a speed differential of 50 mph. i do n't think this is because they are stupid (of course , there are exceptions) , they are just programmed because of the 55mph limit. do you (in the states) when you look in the rear view always calculate future positions of cars based on a 50 speed differential.
dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left lane fast but when i overtake
cars who are on the right , i slow down a tad bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car , to recognize the speed differential , i would be the stupid one.
btw , if no one else is around , then go for it ! .

keep up the good work guys.
afterall the cops need to be occupied with someone so that lesser
mortals like us can be left alone.
bhaskar@orion.me.uiuc.edu


from arm1@cbnewsm.cb.att.com (arlen.r.martin)
subject squeekin' windows
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 11

consumer reports once wrote about the s 10 blazer that it shook and rattled
like a tired taxi cab . there is one noise that is expecially irritating
the back window squeaks. i believe its because the whole tailgate assembly
and window are not solid. anyway , has anyone had the same problem , and have
you found any fixes \?

arlen martin
at t microelectronics
att ! attme ! stcarm
(215)391 2531


from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re opel owners \?
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 45

in article c5t3b2.dg@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes

in article c5sxi4.j9b@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes
i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model \?
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater ,
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition ,
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars \? the engine
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and
i am quite interested in it.
thanks !
darren gibbons
gibbonsa@sfu.ca

this would be the manta , would it not \? \? \? sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader \? \? \? \?

sounds a lot more like an opel gt to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same
chassis as the kadett , rather than the bigger manta but i could easily
be wrong. i think the later kadett 's were sold here as buick opels.

craig

i think the manta is the european name for the gt. i'm pretty sure
well the european manta and us gt have entirely different bodies. there is
little or no chance that they are the same. the manta went through several
generations as the coupe version of the ascona and was ok in its time.

that the only kadett 's sold here were are the pontiac lemans. i think the

not true. the kadett has been in and out of the us market over the years.
the lemans (old kadett) is only the latest version.

craig
gt is just an early '70s to mid '70s manta.

different cars. one looks like a sports car , the other is a coupe.


chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
sig under construction hard hat area



from tmspence@bronze.ucs.indiana.edu (thomas morris spencer)
subject are there any honda groups \?
nntp posting host bronze.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
distribution na
lines 6



are there any honda groups out there \? especially ones that deal with
preludes \?

tom spencer

from james edward burns ddujeb@arco.com
subject re super mega automobile sighting(s) ! ! ! ! ! exotics together !
x xxdate tue , 20 apr 93 00 07 01 gmt
organization arco long beach inc.
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d15
lines 14

in article 1qvgg3innl0r@phantom.gatech.edu
graham e. thomas , grahamt@phantom.gatech.edu
writes alright , beat this automobile
sighting.

i can top that one. friday afternoon 4 16 93 i
look out my window in long beach ca. what do i
see but the new ferrari. i looks like a mix
between the ragtop testarossa (sp \? ) and the batman
car. it seems ferrari had their annual dinner
at the place downstairs. sweet car.


j.b.

from tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen)
subject re ultimate awd vehicles
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution usa
lines 7

in article apr16.215151.28035@engr.washington.edu eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot) writes
the price of parts is a different story though...

you can say that again.
how does 23 for a new thermostat sound \?

teddy

from jburrill@boi.hp.com (jim burrill)
subject re squeekin' windows
distribution usa
organization idaho river country , the salmon , payette , clearwater , boise , selway , priest.
x newsreader tin version 1.1.8 pl6
lines 19

arlen.r.martin (arm1@cbnewsm.cb.att.com) wrote
consumer reports once wrote about the s 10 blazer that it shook and rattled
like a tired taxi cab . there is one noise that is expecially irritating
the back window squeaks. i believe its because the whole tailgate assembly
and window are not solid. anyway , has anyone had the same problem , and have
you found any fixes \?


i can relate to this. i 've tried everything on my 86 , greasing every point ,
wd40 , etc. grease on the two cheap hinges on the tailgate seems to quiet it
down for a time , until the grease works out of the hinges. (hinge pins appear
to be made out of 16 penny nails ! )

another vibration seems to get worse with age , and that is a vibration in the
transmission in 4th gear. my s10 has 59k miles on it. i bought it new , treated
it very easily , no fast off road stuff. ca n't gm build chevies like they used
to \? ford explorers look nice , until you look at the price.

jim burrill

from parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr)
subject dumb options list
nntp posting host acs3.acs.ucalgary.ca
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 16

the idea here is to list pointless options. you know , stuff you
get on a car that has no earthly use \?


1) power windows



add as you wish...

regards , charles

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re did us drive on the left \?
article i.d. hp col.1pqtq1innj5c
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 4
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com

left hand steering wheel placement was not standard until the 20 's in the
us. driving on the right has been standard since standards came into being.
interestingly , chrysler has just begun building right hand drive cars again
for export to japan.

from david@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us (david hwang)
subject re sho and sc
organization d.j. services
lines 21

in article 5214@unisql.uucp wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
in article chrissc587qb.d1b@netcom.com chriss@netcom.com (chris silvester) writes

wagon , which i have heard is somehow slightly faster than the coupe.

wagon has an automatic , it 's slower.

could be due to the rear end ratio also.

usually automatics have different rear ends than manuals , from
my limited experience anyways.

david





david w. hwang , m.d. university of michigan medical school
1050 wall street , suite 10c telephone 313 663 5557
ann arbor , michigan 48105 internet david@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us

from maynard@convex.com (mark maynard)
subject re opel owners \?
nntp posting host trojan.convex.com
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx. , usa
distribution rec.autos
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 22

in article c5sxi4.j9b@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes

i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model \?
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater ,
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking.
gibbonsa@sfu.ca

this would be the manta , would it not \? \? \? sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader \? \? \? \?
chintan amin


sounds more like an opel gt. neat cars , fun to drive. sold through
buick from 196 \? through 1973 (if i remember correctly). i believe it
was in '72 that there were some engine mods made such that parts
were not interchangeable with the older models. parts are thus much
harder to come by for the later models. parts in general are not
too difficult to find. at one time jc whitney carried some stuff
including a brand new (not remfg) long block. either a gt or a
kharman ghia (hmm that spelling looks hosed) will be my next project.

mark

from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 34
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan) says

why should a good driver be terrified at 130mph \? the only thing i fear
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left lane without using
either rear view mirror or flashers. doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much faster.

in defense of the drivers , who are in the right lane. here in the states , people simply do not expect when they are driving to be overtaken at a speed differential of 50 mph. i do n't think this is because they are stupid (of course , there are exceptions) , they are just programmed because of the 55mph limit. do you (in the states) when you look in the rear view always calculate future positions of cars based on a 50 speed differential.
dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left lane fast but when i overtake
cars who are on the right , i slow down a tad bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car , to recognize the speed differential , i would be the stupid one.

just to satiate my curiosity , why would this make you the stupid one \? it seems
to me , everybody should be aware enough of what is going on. you do not need
to calculate the future position. you need to look at your mirrors a little
more. if you glance around , you will be able to tell how much faster than you
the car is going. maybe not precisely , but well enough to know if you should
let him around before you try to pass. i know what you are talking about ,
about the other driver being startled , because i myself have been startled
by drivers cruising by at around 90 100mph when i'm doin 55 65. the problem ,
though , as i saw it , was not their fault for barreling around me , but my fault
for not paying the attention to my task at hand that i should have been.
oddly enough , since the 2nd time(happened 2x in around 4 mo. when i 'd had my
liscence for around 6 mo) , i have n't been startled..and i 've been passed by
cars doing roughly twice the speed of my car. another odd occurance is the
fact that this only seems to happen on long trips...and if i drive along with
them , it does n't happen at all ) even on the long trips ! ) (adrenaline
will do that to you...i 've had bad cop experiences with speeding , so anything
over the limit is adrenalizing for me...scared i 'll get caught ) maybe
they should raise the limit , so we can pay better attention.....

just curious , and my .otwo

drew

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000
organization university of virginia
lines 7


your best bet is the dodge intrepid with the sohc 24 valve 3.4 \? six.
it gets 214 hp , and has a hell of a lot of room , great styling , and
abs , with four wheel disk breaks. the lh cars won automobile
magazines
automobile of the year award , and are quiet impressive.


from dougs@ingres.com (doug schneyman)
subject my two cars chevy nova cl ('87) and dodge 600 se ('87)
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords chevy nova dodge 600se
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 29

as you can see , i have two 1987 cars , both worth about 3000 each.
the problem is that maintenance costs on these two cars is
running about 4000 per year and insurance 3000 per year.

what am i doing wrong \?

within the last two months , the follows costs have occured

dodge 600 se (dodge 's attempt at the american german car ! )

1 , 000 replace head gasket
300 new radiator

chevy nova cl (chevy 's attempt at a japan import ! )

500 tune up , oil change , valve gasket , middle exhaust pipe , misc.

note also that the chevy nova cl (1987) has only 70 horsepwer !
does anyone out there have a chevy nova with enough power
to get up even a small hill without knocking \? is there
something wrong with my car , i even use 93 octane gas !
(i have consider going to 110 octane if i can find it ! )

anyway , what are the best maintenance items to do it yourself ,
and what equipment is needed \?

thanks ,
doug (2 car doug from wayne , nj)


from gough@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (brian.w.gough)
subject 4x4 on off road rally joliet il.
organization at t
distribution chi
keywords april 25th
lines 97





attention all four wheel off road enthusiasts

on off road rally sunday , april 25th
joliet illinois



the event

the joliet mud turtles , a chicago land four wheel drive club , is
sponsoring an on off road rally sunday april 25th.

for those who ask what is an on off road rally \? , well...

an on off road rally consists of the following

1. an on the road rally where participants are given a set of
directions and clues guiding participates around the
joliet plainfield area. the object is to navigate a course
based on a set of directions and clues. participants will
be given a set of questions pertaining to the course which
they must answer along the way. points are awarded for the
number of correct answers given. directions will ultimately
lead to an off road area where a four wheel drive course is
set up. at various locations in the on road course , check points
will be set up where participants will be asked other questions
or requested to perform some activity (e.g. tire roll , truck tow ,
basketball free throw , etc.) for additional points.

2. an optional off road , four wheel drive course where participants
will navigate off road trails , mud bogs and or hill climbs.
points are awarded for successfully navigating off road obstacles
without getting stuck. if you should get stuck (which is half
the fun anyway) , there will be assistance to get your vehicle
unstuck so you can try it again. the off road course will
divided up based on tire size , so stock 4x4s as well as modified
4x4s can run the course.

at the end of the rally , trophies will be awarded to top scoring
participants. door prizes and dash plaques will also be given out.
food and drinks also available at the conclusion.

this is an organized activity sponsored by the joliet mud turtles
so safety and fun is our foremost concern. all 4x4s must be
street legal and have solid tow points for the off road section
of the course we do n't want to have to separate someone 's bumper
from their vehicle ) .

the particulars

rally begins at instant replay , 2409 plainfield road , joliet il.
(815)436 9382 (see map below)
registration is between 9 and 10 30 a.m. first truck out at 10 00 a.m.
rally date is sunday april 25th , rain or shine
there is an entry fee of 10 per truck.
you must have a co driver (passengers allowed)
a valid drivers license is required
suggested equipment
cb radio
compass
tow strap and clevis
clip board and pencil
no alcohol during rally
for more information contact
gary (815)727 3415
tom (815)485 9346
norm jr. (815)741 4853
brian (708)979 6083



instant
replay
1.9mi 1.2 mi north

rt30

exit
257

rt55 canton larkin
farm ave
rd. 3 mi.




rt80 v

exit
130b



from mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee)
subject re chryslers compact lh sedans \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 33

cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (carolinafan@uiuc) writes

shoppa@almach.caltech.edu (tim shoppa) writes

i thought that the v 10 was originally designed for a truck (not necessarily
a pickup ! ) and then just sort of dropped into the viper 's frame because
it fit and was available. a friend of mine and i saw (and heard) a viper ,
and my friend 's first response was that it sounded like a truck ! it sounded
fine to me , but then again , i do n't like the whiny noise that most modern
sports car engines make. btw , the viper we saw was moving at about 10mph ,
just like all of the other cars on the 10 freeway heading east out of la
on a friday afternoon. looked really nice , though.

actually , i was under the impression that the v 10 in the viper was
not the v 10 that dodge was developing for its new kenworths. i have always
thought it was the exhaust system and not the engine that produced the noise
of a car... \?

well , yes , the exhaust is where the majority of the noise comes out , but the
basics (tone , firing cadence , etc.) are determined by the engine configuration.
in the case of the viper , yes , we are discussing a huge multicylinder 90 deg.
engine , which will sound somewhat like a truck. and my understanding , btw , is
that that v 10 engine was designed originally with the intention of being ad
aptible for either the trucks or the viper. and from what i 've heard (no first
hand knowledge ( ) it 's doing a pretty good job at both.

and the best exhaust sound in the world is now and will always be a 60 degree
dohc colombo designed v 12. period.

michael t. chaffee
mchaffee@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu email
mchaffee@sumter.cso.uiuc.edu nextmail
.sig under construction. excuse

from ceng@mdd.comm.mot.com (curtis eng)
subject selling a car through a car hunter
organization motorola , mobile data division seattle , wa
distribution na
lines 16

anybody got any good bad experience with selling their car through one of
those car hunters \? i'm selling a 1991 dodge stealth r t and i was contacted
by this company called the markham group based out of illinois.

they said they have 7 10 buyers in my area interested in my car or they would n't
be talking to me. they talked to me for a good 20 minutes asking everything
about my car and said they could sell it no problem. they guaranteed that if
they did n't sell my car in 75 days , i would get my money back ( 389) and since
i charged it , i'm protected by federal law which states that if i'm not satisfied ,
i would get a refund (which is true). they federal expressed all the paperwork
to me which had a contract stating their policy about the 75 days and such.

i called up the bbb in illinois and they do not have a file on them which is
good news. so they definitely are a legitimate company but so far , it 's been
over week and i have gotten nothing. so how effective are these types of
companies \? anybody care to share their experiences \?

from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re too fast
organization lehigh university
lines 12

in article 3090@shaman.wv.tek.com , andrew@frip.wv.tek.com (andrew klossner) wr
ites


can i ask. have any of you been at the speed of 130 \? it 's a
rush.

so is cocaine. what 's your point \?

andrew klossner (andrew@frip.wv.tek.com)
do n't know about the cocaine , but....


from keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys)
subject re us made m b suv
article i.d. dove.c52ke9.d6n
organization national institute of standards technology
lines 47

in article 93096.101507rsm2@psuvm.psu.edu rsm2@psuvm.psu.edu writes
mercedes benz announced yesterday its plans to begin building sport utility
vehicles in the us by 1997. they are targeted at the jeep grand cherokee
et al. and will reportedly sell for less than 30 , 000.

did anyone see a picture \? is it the g wagon (gelaendewagen) currently


there is a picture in the may 1993 edition of european car (although ,
it may not be on the shelf yet).

some things that the article says

prototype has front wheel drive (first front drive
for mercedes since the beginning of wwii)

wheelbase 3.15m
7 seater
they claim that the price will be about the same as a
renault espace or chrysler voyager (dm 50 , 000)

looking at the picture (slightly disguised) it looks like the ford
aerostar , to me.

available in europe (and in the us by grey market) or is it an entirely new
vehicle \? any details would be appreciated.

dick meyer
applied research laboratory , penn state

.

larry
keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov




oo

1990 2.0 16v


fahrvergnugen forever !
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates
that you probably would n't understand anyway !


from sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin)
subject re changing oil by self.
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 22


in article 1993apr15.193712.25996@news.cs.brandeis.edu andyh@chaos.cs.brandei
s.edu (andrew j. huang) writes
in article 1993apr15.020356.28944@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu sorlin@magnus.ac
s.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin) writes
i take the electrodes of the amp ohm volt meter whatever and connect one
to each earlobe. then , symmetrically insert my fingers in each of the
spark plug boots. no cheating guys ! both hands must be used !

i have just a couple of questions about this technique.

first , what firing order should i use \? do i start with my pointer
finger or my pinky \? left hand or right \?

place your hands flat on a table , and arrange the firing order from left to
right.

and secondly , i have a 12cyl and there are two cylinders unaccounted
for. any suggestions \?

well , you have friends do n't you \? \? \?
12 cylinders might be more excitement than one person can take....

from ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com (les bartel)
subject re aftermarket air conditioners
reply to ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation
lines 30

in article 1qcaueinnmt8@axon.cs.unc.edu andrew brandt writes
i looked into getting a c installed on my 1987 honda crx si.
the unit is 875 plus shipping , installation is like 5 1 2 hours on
top of that. this is a hunk of change.

does anyone know any place that does aftermarket a c installation
(not with a honda a c unit , but some third party unit).

i cannot seem to find anyone who can put a third party a c unit in a
honda. i am in no carolina , so i would prefer some place nearby , but
any references would be handy.

thx , andy (brandt@cs.unc.edu)

sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to
make concerning aftermarket a c units. i have a frost king or frost temp
(forget which) aftermarket unit on my cavalier , and am quite unhappy with
it. the fan is noisy , and does n't put out much air. i will never have
an aftermarket a c installed in any of my vehicles again. i just ca n't
trust the quality and performance after this experience.

les


les bartel i'm going to live forever
intergraph corporation ... or die trying
electronics division
ljbartel@ingr.com
or ljbartel@naomi.b23b.ingr.com
(205) 730 8537

from steve.dunham@uuserv.cc.utah.edu (steve lee dunham)
subject re car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
lines 18
organization the university of utah
distribution usa


while not exactly a service incident , i had a similar experience recently
when i bought a new truck.

i had picked out the vehicle i wanted and after a little haggling we
agreed on a price. i wrote them a check for the down payment plus tax
and license and told them i 'd be back that evening to pick up the truck.
when i returned , i had to wait about an hour before the finance guy could
get to me. when i finally got in there , everything went smoothly until he
started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had
miscalculated the tax license by about 150.

this seems to be a popular scam with dealers. last month my brother bought
a new audi 90 series quatro from a local dealer. they came back with the
final price , tax and all , and he added it up for himself. there happened to
be an extra 300 tagged on under the tax part. he pointed out their error
and asked them to re think their addition. they came back with the right
price the next time.

from tomm@hank.ca.boeing.com (tom mackey)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization bogart graphics development
lines 33

in article neilson.93apr15135919@seoul.mpr.ca neilson@seoul.mpr.ca (robert neilson) writes
sorry for the 0 auto content , but ...

that is why low abiding citizens should have the power to protect themselves
and their property using deadly force if necessary anywhere a threat is
imminent.

steve heracleous

you do have the power steve. you can do it. why do n't you \? why do n't you
go shoot some kids who are tossing rocks onto cars \? make sure you do a good
job though do n't miss 'cause like they have big rocks and take it from
me those kids are mean.

that is absolutely correct. they have a streak of meanness that runs much
deeper and stronger than anything i ever experienced even during the height
of the 60 's racial struggles. i am absolutely convinced that there are
kids out there today that have no concept of right and wrong , but have the
human intelligence which is turning them into the greatest predators that
have ever walked the earth. they will prevail unless the rest of humanity
decides that it is in their best interest to stand up against these feral
humans , and for individuals to start taking some responsibility for their
own protection. in a state in which the individuals turn to the authorities
and police for protection , the police and government is soon composed of
the very feral humans that they originally sought protection from.

gee , i guess you touched my hot button. i 'd better go cool off somewhere.



tom mackey (206) 865 6575 tomm@voodoo.ca.boeing.com
boeing computer services ....uunet ! bcstec ! voodoo ! tomm
m s 7k 20 , p.o. box 24346 , seattle , wa 98124 0346

from nataraja@rtsg.mot.com (kumaravel natarajan)
subject re chryslers compact lh sedans \?
nntp posting host opal12
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group
distribution usa
lines 21

rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen) writes

aas7@po.cwru.edu writes

in a previous article , v064mcqs@ubvmsd.cc.buffalo.edu (adam m. gandler) says


i heard chrysler is planning to design or is in the process
of designing a compact sedan line based on the lh platform.
if these were as thought out as the full sized sedans and
priced competitively , i see no reason why they could not give
the imports and even the saturns a serious challenge.

oh goody ! ! ! we now get to see saturns sold through cryco dealers.....
fab !
why is it this a hole insist on remarks like this. i really am growing
tired of this s drew.

do you have a kill file for your newsreader \? i put the name spencer
in my kill file and that gives me about 10 15 less articles per day that
i have to sift through.

from oprsfnx@gsusgi2.gsu.edu (stephen f. nicholas)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization georgia state university
distribution usa
lines 17

daubendr@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (darren r daubenspeck) writes


they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next
year with all new models.


junk \? they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and
acceleration. they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not
the newest on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight mpg under the class
leader. you can get into a 3.0 l v 6 (141 hp) shadow for 10 11k (the i 4
turbo a bit more) , and a droptop for 14 15k.


as an ex fleet mgr. of 3000 cars , they were amoung the most trouble free of
all models. i bought one for my wife.


from c23reg@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (ron gaskins)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all tim
originator c23reg@koptsw21
keywords dimmer switch location (repost)
organization delco electronics corp.
lines 22


in article 1993apr8.233443.22590@exu.ericsson.se , exulox@exu.ericsson.se (lasse ohlsson , t tdt , 1129) writes
in article 23250@cas.org , sdm24@cas.org () writes
imho , the dumbest thing we ever did in copying the japanese was moving the
dimmer switch from the floor to the lever controlling the turn signal cruise

the federal government has mandated that all passenger cars by model year
'95 return to the floor mounted dimmer switch.

a study by the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) has
found that an unacceptable percentage of after dusk collisions were the
direct result of unskilled drivers getting their left foot stuck in the
steering wheel )


ron gaskins c23reg@koptsw21.delcoelect.com
automotive electronic systems delco electronics
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in 46904

ron gaskins c23reg@koptsw21.delcoelect.com
automotive electronic systems delco electronics
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in 46904

from jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen)
subject re top 10 reasons why i love cr (not for the humor impaired)
article i.d. magnus.1993apr6.194738.20021
distribution na
organization the ohio state university
lines 28
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

in article 1993apr6.185328.24947@news.cs.brandeis.edu andyh@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (andrew j. huang) writes
in article 1993apr6.180456.17573@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
in article 1993apr06.133319.7008@metrics.com tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes
chints@iscs.nus.sg writes
here are another ten reasons why we should all love cr

or the spectacle of macho real men who would never bother to read the
magazine but are more than apt to criticize it.


but that 's the point. we do read it , or at least we did. then we
found that their recommendations were useless and uninformed. then we
write lists. the cr flame war is so easy to start because they are so
wrong and claim to be so right and so thorough.

andy



ok if you are so right , name a few good examples that were brought up.


john

john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder

from music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach)
subject re auto air conditioning without freon
organization triumf tri university meson facility
lines 75
distribution usa
nntp posting host erich.triumf.ca
keywords r12 , r 12 , freon , cfc , greenhouse
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr19.220321.4565@research.nj.nec.com , behanna@syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna) writes...
in article 1993apr16.160825.25622@newsgate.sps.mot.com rapw20@email.sps.mot.com writes
in article 1993apr15.222600.11690@research.nj.nec.com
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna) writes
...
several chemists already have come up with several substitutes for
r12. you do n't hear about them because the mobile air conditioning
society
(macs) , that is , the people who stand to rake in that 300 to 1000 per
retrofit per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to squash
those
r12 substitutes out of existence if not ban them altogether (on very
shaky
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at worst).
...

now , i'm not saying you 're wrong because i know that the r 12 substitutes
exist , but this sounds a lot like the 200mpg carbs that the oil companies
keep us all from getting.

it sounds crazy , but it 's true. one of the best r 12 subsitutes ,
ghg 12 , is currently a commercial product. unfortunately , the sae committee
on mobile air conditioning is comprised almost exclusively of macs members.
such being the case , no papers about any alternative refrigerant other than
r 134a have been accepted for review publication.

yo , john \? you want to provide some more details \? or should i just
repost your voluminous repost \?

later ,

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d fxwg wide glide jubilee 's red lady
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com 1975 cb360t baby bike
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 needs a name
agree with any of this anyway \? i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs.


we here are very interested in info on r12 substitutes (in fact i
think we really need all the info on this we can get).

i would really appreciate technical , supply , and hardware upgrade
details.

also , r12 is a useful solvent reagent in the extraction production of
certain pharmaceuticals. any info on the substitutes' corresponding
usefullness \?

i am currently working with the local engineers who are making sure
we are compliant with the regulations. the trouble with regulations is
that they only tell you what you are no longer permitted to do , not what
you should do instead.

i think the cause of the new regulations is the montreal protocol
which has a definite cfc phase out schedule. (of course the cause of
the montreal protocol was all the research done on the causes of the
ozone depletion problem.)

someone asked earlier about why the governments were working so fast
to ban the ozone depleting (cfc) chemicals and not gasolines and other
greenhouse gas producing compounds. the greenhouse effect (produced by
infrared trapping gasses like co2 and methane) and the ozone hole problem
(produced by long lived , chlorine containing molecules) are not the same
thing. it is a lot easier to do something about not using the cfc 's
(chloro fluorocarbons) than it is to stop producing co2 and methane which
are natural byproducts of combustion and of living (animal) organisms.
planting more trees and not destroying so many existing trees would help
the greenhouse gas problem , but would do nothing for the ozone problem.

fred w. bach , operations group internet music@erich.triumf.ca
triumf (tri university meson facility) voice 604 222 1047 loc 327 278
4004 wesbrook mall , ubc campus fax 604 222 1074
university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada v6t 2a3

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question.
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers.

from jkjec@westminster.ac.uk (shazad barlas)
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions
organization university of westminster
lines 5

i just wanted to know

to wheelspin in an auto , you keep the gear in n gas it then stick the
gear in d... i 've never tried this but am sure it works but does this screw
up the autobox \? we 're having a bit of a debate about it here...

from sekell@bb1t.monsanto.com
subject re necessity of fuel injector cleaning by dealership
article i.d. bb1t.1993apr6.125537.1
organization monsanto company , st. louis , mo
lines 29

in article 1993apr6.131018.12873@acd4.acd.com , jwg@sedv1.acd.com ( jim grey) writes
in article 1993apr2.174850.6289@cbnewsl.cb.att.com prm@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (paul.r.mount) writes

in your experience , how true is it that a fuel injector cleaning
will do much more good than just using detergent gas. while i

a fuel injector cleaning at the dealer is probably little more than
them opening your gas tank , dumping in a bottle of fuel injector cleaner ,
and sending you on your merry way 59 poorer. go to kmart and buy the
cleaner yourself for 1.29.

this should not be the case if they are at all reputable. fuel injector
cleaning is done properly with a can of injector cleaner solvent which is
hooked up to the fuel system under high pressure. the car is actually run on
the solvent during the cleaning process. the equipment to properly do this is
pricey , and generally not something the average home mechanic has. the solvent
itself is not very expensive ( 5 8) and you could probably make up a hose to
fit your system and do it yourself , but i did n't tell you that... )

not many in tank cleaners are worth wasting your money on. there has been a
discussion of these products on here from time to time , and chevron techron
(not pro gard with techron) is generally regarded as the best. it is , however ,
a bit more than 1.29 a bottle. imho , it will not substitute for proper
injector cleaning if they are really crudded up. you 'll have to decide if the
59 price is a better deal than spending your time and or buying equipment to
do it.

scott keller 1 314 537 6317 the agricultural group of monsanto company
sekell@bb1t.monsanto.com ka0wch packet ka0wch@k0pfx.mo.usa.na

from dennisk@cs.uoregon.edu (dennis kennedy)
subject '72 chevelle ss forsale
organization university of oregon
lines 11
distribution usa
nntp posting host fp2 cc 25.uoregon.edu

i do n't want to sell this car , but i need money for college.
1972 chevelle super sport
rebuilt 402 , four speed , 12 bolt positrac
numbers match
110 , 000 original miles
no rust
looks and runs excellent
5995 or best offer.
call dennis at (503)343 3759
or email dennisk@cs.uoregon.edu


from kurt godden godden@gmr.com
subject gm may build toyota badged car
organization gm r d
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host ksg.cs.gmr.com
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d16
x xxmessage id a7f46b03c301085e@ksg.cs.gmr.com
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 13 54 11 gmt

this appeared today in the

the japan economic journal reported gm plans to build a toyota badged car
in the us for sale in japan. bruce macdonald , vp of gm corporate
communications , yesterday confirmed that gm president and ceo jack smith
had a meeting recently with tatsuro toyoda , president of toyota.
this meeting the two discussed business opportunities to increase gm
exports to japan , including further component sales as well as completed
vehicle sales ,
parts sales , the two presidents agreed conceptually to pursue an
arrangement whereby gm would build a toyota badged , right hand drive
vehicle in the us for sale by toyota in japan. a working group has been
formed to finalize model specifications , exact timing and other details.

from cs173sbw@sdcc5.ucsd.edu (cs173sbw)
subject re how is cizeta v16t doing \?
lines 22
nntp posting host sdcc5.ucsd.edu



in article crh.734864478@regent.e technik.tu muenchen.de crh@regent.e technik.tu muenchen.dbp.de (christian huebner) writes
i can remember reading a track competition in some car magazine , which
featured the testarossa , the diablo and the v16t. the result was about
the same i would have expected the cizeta was not only the slowest of
the three , but also dropped out halfway during it 's test laps because
of smoking brakes. for a sportscar it showed ridiculous performance.

hm... i find this hard to believe. v16t weights about the same as
the red head , but it has hell lot more horse power. perhaps it 's
due to pre production glitches \? well , to me , it still got the most
imposing styling among all the sports cars i have seen.

bye...

chris crh@regent.e technik.tu muenchen.de

ferrari f40 best sportscar ever built !
personally , i do n't like cars that rely on turbo power. i guess everyone
has their favorite car.


from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization megatest corporation
lines 21

in article 9833@dirac.physics.purdue.edu lovall@bohr.physics.purdue.edu (daniel l. lovall) writes

it should n't be that hard if you know much about digital electronics. if the
counter is made with standard ttl chips , all you should need to do is find
the chip(s) used for counting , figure out what mileage you want to put in ,
and preset it but wiring the preset pins directly to low high (you 'd also have
to know what the conventions are for low and high). it might be a little more
involved than this , but it should n't be beyond someone with a bsee or bs eet.
all the display does is convert what the counter chips say into digits using
a translation table stored in rom.


nobody is using discrete ic 's to do these functions anymore if at
all. i doubt any of the motor electronics had any to start with.
...much less ttl.

i can almost guarantee that it 'll a fruitless attempt to figure out
how bmw does it without breaking anything and invalidating any
warranty on the car. if you 're lucky , you 'd still be able to
start the car.


from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re options that would be great to have...
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 26
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) says


a list of options that would be useful. they can be existing
options on a car , or things you 'd like to have...

1) tripmeter , great little gadget. lets you keep rough track of
mileage , makes a good second guesser for your gas gauge...

2) full size spare

3) built in mountings and power systems for radar detectors.

4) a fitting that allows you to generate household current with
the engine running , and plug ins in the trunk , engine compartment
and cabin.

feel free to add on...

5) power windows

dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from sjp@hpuerca.atl.hp.com (steve phillips)
subject re super mega automobile sighting(s) ! ! ! ! ! exotics together !
organization hewlett packard narc atlanta
x newsreader tin 1.1.3 pl5
lines 8

give out the address , i 'll drive by and take a look myself , then post.



stephen phillips
atlanta response center
atlanta , ga.
home of the braves !

from dwjz@bnr.ca (doug zolmer)
subject re 80 svx oil change
nntp posting host bcarh28f
reply to dwjz@bnr.ca (doug zolmer)
organization bell northern research ltd.
distribution na
lines 24

in article c518f0.9i7@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca , swdwan@napier.uwaterloo.ca (donald wan) writes
my friend brought a subaru svx recently. i had drove it for couples times and i
think its a great car , esp on snow. however when she took it to a local subaru
dealer for a oil change , the bill came out to be about 80 dollars. the dealer
told us it is because to change the oil filter on a svx it is necessary to
disassemble a metal cover under the engine and that took an hour of labour.
at first , we think we are being ripped off so she phone to a dealer in toronto
but found out the they are charging roughly the same price. so is there any
svx owner out there that has the same problem \? and if the oil change story is
true , then the engineer of subaru looks pretty stubid to me. by the way , the car
looks great.


labour prices for car service are very expensive in toronto compared to other
parts of ontario. for example , there are places in ottawa that still charge
only 40 hour. i 've seen a couple of places charging 60 hour. the cheapest
i 've heard in toronto is 70 hour.

swd wan.



doug zolmer internet dwjz@bnr.ca disclaimer my opinions only
bell northern research ltd. ottawa , ontario , canada conform moooo !

from etjet@levels.unisa.edu.au
subject aussie needs info on car shows
reply to johnt@spri.levels.unisa.edu.au
organization university of south australia
lines 54



hi from australia ,

i am a car enthusiast in australia.

i am particularly interested in american muscle cars of the
1960s and 1970s. all makes amc , ford , chrysler mopar , gm.

i will be in the usa for 6 weeks from may 2nd to june 14 1993.

chicago sun may 2 thursday may 6
denver friday may 7 sunday may 9
austin , texas monday may 10 friday may 21
oklahoma city friday may 21 monday may 24
anaheim , california tuesday may 25 thursday may 27
las vegas , nevada friday may 28 sunday may 30
grand canion , monday may 31 tuesday june 1
las angeles , san diego and vicinity wednesday june 3 sunday june 6 june
south lake tahoe , cal sunday june 6 wednesday june 9
reno thursday june 10
san fransisco thursday june 10 sunday june 13


i was wondering if anyone could send me any information of
car shows , swap meets , drag meets , model car shows etc. during this period.
can anybody tell me when the pomona swap meet is on this year \?

also , any places to visit (eg. car museums , private collections ,
your collection \? etc. any bit of information is appreciated !

i am also interested in finding some model cars (scale models).
i am intersted in 1968 1974 amc cars. of particular interest is
1968 1970 amx
1968 1974 javelin
1969 scrambler
1970 rebel machine
and others

if you have any kits , plastics , diecast etc and are interested in selling them ,
tell me , i will be interested.

i can also send bring you models of australian high performance cars if
you are interested.


please reply by email to johnt@spri.levels.unisa.edu.au


thanks ,

john tsimbinos



from u09579@uicvm.uic.edu
subject 1989 honda crx for sale
article i.d. uicvm.93096.123925u09579
organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
lines 12

my friend , david gordon wants to sell his 1989 honda. some of the details of th
e car are as follows

five speed
a c , am fm cassette stereo
ps pb
rear window defroster
excellent condition

asking 6400.00 obo.

please call him at (708) 257 0518.

from behanna@phoenix.syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna)
subject re car insurance ! ! ! help
article i.d. research.1993apr6.193221.27234
organization nec systems laboratory , inc.
lines 32

in article c4x6yq.5l4@news.claremont.edu ochaine@jarthur.claremont.edu (ollie 'north' chaine) writes

help ! my car insurance has been cancelled for the second time in a row !
i still have n't gotten in touch with my agent from aaa because she 's
out for the week but my mom said that i got a call saying that my insurance
was going to be cancelled because of an accident ( not even a fender bender)
that was never declared or anything. besides the fact that i have no idea how they found out about this , the only
other thing that could bug them is that i have 1 ticket but i told them
about it and they said that it was n't a problem.
if i go to another insurance , i know i will end up paying more (b c i already
shopped around for this one) and i ca n't afford to pay for the insurance
especially since i still have n't gotten the 3000 the two insuance companies
are supposed to refund me. i just got a new saturn sl2 and ca n't afford the
car payments and the insurance , but i bought the car having gotten a quote
from state farm which they later went back on.
please help me ! what legal rights do i have \? can i make state farm who originally
gave me the quote give me that rate (they made a mistake after i signed all
the papers , i did not give any false evidence) \? how can i get my money back
for the car if i ca n't pay for the insurance \? i'm deperate ! ! !
ollie

i just went through this mess in new jersey (i'm still waiting for a
refund as well) , namely , that the original company made a mistake and left me
in the lurch. my recourse was through nj 's insurance dept. office of consumer
protection. you should have a similar office in your state. make use of it.

good luck ,

chris behanna dod 114 1983 h d fxwg wide glide jubilee 's red lady
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com 1975 cb360t baby bike
disclaimer now why would nec 1991 zx 11 pending delivery
agree with any of this anyway \? i was raised by a pack of wild corn dogs.

from ward@cs.uiuc.edu (christ ward)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 49

r1004@vmcms.csuohio.edu writes

in article c5lz30.jus@news.cso.uiuc.edu
cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes

laszlo@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (tyson f nuss) writes

from article 1pq6i2 a1f@news.ysu.edu , by ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)


fake convertible roofs and vinyl roofs.
any gold trim.

these , i will agree , are abominations , right along with the fake
continental spare tire kit it 's sad watching those little old ladies
try to load their groceries into the trunk with that huge tire medallion
in the way.
most pitiful fake convertible top on a cadillac cimarron , with
all the chrome door trim still visible not fooling anyone .
of course , there was that hyundai excel i once saw...

i have seen a cutlass supreme coupe (gm10) with a vinyl roof , ditto
a taurus. shoot the owners , now , before it 's too late.

it gets better. i 've seen them on a 4 door escort , chevy s 10
blazer , and even a chevy astro mini van. a mini van w a fake
convertible top is not something you want to see just after eating !


and better yet..there 's a chevette in town with wire crome wheels ,
vinyl roof , tacky paint job and a continental spare (showing the wire
crome wheel within , of course)...i'm scared to look on the inside and have
only seen it rolling down the road...and i too was glad i had n't just ate.





bob martel lady luck must have been a wonderful girl
bob2@cua3.csuohio.edu she 's never been a friend of mine !
r1004@vmcms.csuohio.edu the alan parsons project
the 3b1 lives !



chris t. ward dod 0710 do n't take life too seriously , you can never come
out of it alive. \?



from grady@world.std.com (dick grady)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 18

in article c5hqj0.57@unix.amherst.edu bhtulin@unix.amherst.edu (barak h. tulin) writes
i just started reading this thread today , so forgive me if it has already been
mentioned. but...what was the deal with renault 's putting the horn on the
left hand turn signal stalk \? it was a button on the end , where the washer
button would be on the wiper washer stalk. could the frenchies not figure
out the wiring through the steering wheel , or what \?

ford tried that also , back in 1983. my 1983 ranger pickup had the horn at
the end of the turn signal stalk , instead of in the center of the wheel where
god intended it to be. ) i drove two different cars then (the other an
1984 camry) , and never did get used to pushing the turn signal stalk to
blow the horn. the only time i got it right was when i was getting the
annual state required safety inspection !
not one of ford 's better ideas.


dick grady salem , nh , usa grady@world.std.com
so many newsgroups , so little time !

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject re impala ss going into production !
organization university of virginia
distribution na
lines 25

qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu writes
from the latest issue of autoweek , the chevy impala ss will arrive in
dealer showrooms in mid 1994. dealers have already been notified. no word
on the changes to be made for the production version. my question to all of
you is would you buy it \? and how much would you pay for it \?

aamir qazi
qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
why should i care \? i 'd rather watch drying paint.



aamir qazi
qazi@csd4.csd.uwm.edu


why should i care \? i 'd rather watch drying paint

alright gm ! ! ! ! finally my wishes have come true , moby dick with a corvette
engine. do n't you think they should maybe spend the money doing something
about the lousy build quality design of their bigger selling cars \? this is
another example of why gm is in so much trouble. if you 're going to stick
the lt 1 or zr 1 engine in a car , at least make it a nice looking one.
sheesh
.

from madman@austin.ibm.com (steve heracleous)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
originator madman@suave.austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
lines 20


this is a two sided problem. unfortunately our culture has been deteriorating over time.
the breeding of these low life 's is getting worse our justice system is at best
extremely weak to handle these problems. that is why low abiding citizens should have
the power to protect themselves and their property using deadly force if necessary
anywhere a threat is imminent.

my camaro (my pride and joy) got stolen right out of my driveway a few years back.
the persons that did that were eventually caught (lucky for me ! ) but not before
having trashed the car.

on another occasion , on my way from texas to florida , i had stopped in a small motel
for the night in a small town somewhere in florida. about 5 youths were disturbing my
car , setting off the alarm and challenging me to come out. when i and another tenant
walked out with a 357 magnum and a 45 automatic respectively , they vanished.
needless to say , i immediately packed up and left.

watch out for car jacking and staged accidents. they can be deadly !

steve heracleous

from thwang@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (tommy hwang)
subject the kuebelwagen \? \? ! !
organization purdue university computing center
lines 12

sorry for the mis spelling , but i forgot how to spell it after
my series of exams and no on hand reference here.

is it still possible to get those cute wwii vw jeep wanna be 's \?
a replica would be great i think.

tkh '93


if i can convert a c 128 to a c128t , i can do anything... not ! !



from mwbg9715@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (mark wayne blunier)
subject re male female mystery re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. news.c52m5t.n55
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 30

bets@chester.ksu.ksu.edu (beth schwindt) writes

this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put
their keys in their pants pockets like men do \? i have two pockets on the
back of each of my pants. i put my keys in one and wallent in another.
many of the pockets even have a botton on them so i can close them securely.
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same \?
is is biological (ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus keys and
a wallet) or is it the way they are raised by the parents \?

i 've found that it has to do with the way women 's clothes are made.
if you put keys in the front pocket of women 's jeans or slacks , you
get a bulge that also tends to make it impossible to sit down because
they stick you constantly. ditto in the back pocket.

also , try looking at the back pockets of women 's jeans and compare
them to the back pockets on men 's jeans. they are usually (if you buy
jeans that you expect to last for any length of time) about half the
size. there flat out is n't room for a wallet or a bunch of keys.

besides which , where would men put all their crap if their wives
did n't carry purses \? )

the same place single men do , wallet in back pocket , comb in other
back pocket , keys in front pocket , knive in other from pocket , pen
in shirt pocket , or front pants pocket. or do married men start
carrying around a bunch of stuff to keep there women happy \?

beth
mark b.

from thatchh@hplsla.hp.com (thatch harvey)
subject re mercury capri restrictions
organization hp lake stevens , wa
lines 24




the restriction could have to do with the car being a convertible.

a lot of paronoid laws were passed concerning convertibles in the 80 's.
these states may require greater rollover protection than the capri affords.

thatch harvey



thatch harvey
uucp (no longer valid) domain thatchh@hplsla.hp.com
hewlett packard lake stevens instrument division
lake stevens , wa
(206) 335 2083 merkur xr4ti , suzuki gsx1100g ,
prince sr3 d sports racer







from wade@nb.rockwell.com (wade guthrie)
subject re curious about the porsche i drove
organization rockwell international
lines 43

ak954@yfn.ysu.edu (albion h. bowers) writes


in a previous article , wade@nb.rockwell.com (wade guthrie) says

takaharu@mail.sas.upenn.edu (taka mizutani) writes

in article 1993apr13.160535.20123@progress.com , damelio@progress.com
(stephen d'amelio) wrote

i wrote
this is consistent with the pre '74 911. the engine before that was a 2.2
litre (or less , depending on how early you go) , and got its power at high
revs (starting slowly at about 3k , and jumping up at around 5k) with a
narrow band. the '74 was a 3 litre and had a lot of smog equipment. if
you got much power at all , it 'd be better distributed through the rev
range.

bzzzt. wrong answer. it really depends on whether you are talking model
year or date of manufacture. for instance , mine was a '67 , but was
manufactured in august of '66. prior to 1970 all 911s were 2.o liter. for
the '70 and '71 model years they were 2.2 liter. for the 1972 and 1973
model years they were 2.4 liter except for the '73 carerra rs which was a
2.7 liter. the '74 and later years were easily identified by the new 5 mph
bumpers. most models in the '74 year were 2.7 lietsr except the carerra
rsr which was a 3.0 liter (us carerras from '74 were 2.7 liter models). in
'78 they went to 3.0 liter and there was only a single model , the sc (think
of it as a cross between the s and the carerra models). note all the above
are based on model year , not date of manufacture.

i stand corrected. this is all from memory , mind you )

as for the rev happy behavior , the earlier cars are even more prone to
this. the 2.4 liter cars used low compression engines , and suffered a bit
in this regard. the early 3.0 liter and 2.7 liter engines also got a good
dose of smog gear as well. the 2.0 and 2.2 liter engines were far and away
the quickest revvers of the lot.

yeah , that 's what i was trying to say. no , really !

wade guthrie trying to program on ms dos is like trying
wade@nb.rockwell.com to shave with a chain saw.
me be not speaking for the rock.

from keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization national institute of standards technology
distribution usa
lines 37

in article 34544@oasys.dt.navy.mil glouie@oasys.dt.navy.mil (george louie) writes
in rec.autos , nancy@hayduke (nancy feagans) writes
ashtrays and cigarette lighters. these should be an option .

why make it an option. you can use the ashtray to store coins and other
small things which come in handy. use the cigarette lighter as an electrical
outlet for all types of handy gadgets (cd players , vacuum cleaners ,
flashlights , etc.) i do n't want to pay extra for these things and if
you do n't use them , they do n't hurt you.

i use the ashtray to keep change and other items in. i converted the
cigarette lighter into a volume control knob for my in trunk subwoofer !




george


.

larry
keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov




oo

1990 2.0 16v


fahrvergnugen forever !
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates
that you probably would n't understand anyway !



from aep@world.std.com (andrew e page)
subject re importing volvo \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 9


there was an article in business week not more the 4 weeks ago
on this very subject. in fact the volvo 850 was one of the cars
they laid out an example for.


andrew e. page (warrior poet) decision and effort the archer and arrow
mac consultant the difference between what we are
macintosh and dsp technology and what we want to be.

from kurt@oddjob.uchicago.edu (kurt henriksen)
subject brake rotors...cross drilling...312 702 8323
organization university of chicago , astronomy and astrophysics
distribution na
lines 1



from music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization triumf tri university meson facility
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host erich.triumf.ca
keywords brick , truck , danger
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article c5joit.e31@bcstec.ca.boeing.com , neil@bcstec.ca.boeing.com
(neil williams) writes...


as long as we 're on the subject... several years ago myself and two others
were riding in the front of a toyota pickup heading south on interstate 5
north of seattle , wa. someone threw a rock of an overpass and hit our
windshield. not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the
overpass quickly to see who did it. we figured it was kids , reported it and
left.
a couple of years ago it happend again and killed a guy at my company. he was
in his mid fourties and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was
a reformatory for juviniles a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old
that did it. they put a cover over the overpass , what else could they do \?
i do n't think i 'll over forget this story.
neil williams , boeing computer services , bellevue wa.
..


neil , what did they do to the 14 year old who they caught \? what did
the man 's insurance company do \? this could be significant and in any case
very interesting.

followups to alt.parents teens.


fred w. bach , operations group internet music@erich.triumf.ca
triumf (tri university meson facility) voice 604 222 1047 loc 327 278
4004 wesbrook mall , ubc campus fax 604 222 1074
university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada v6t 2a3

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question.
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers.

from eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re awd bmw
organization clearer than blir
lines 5
nntp posting host 192.42.145.4


in europe you can buy a 525ix , with computer controlled diffs rather
than the horrid viscous coupled ones of the outgoing 325ix.

eliot

from shantanu@risc.sps.mot.com (shantanu ganguly)
subject re are bmw 's worth the price \?
organization motorola , inc. austin , tx
lines 86
nntp posting host daffy.sps.mot.com

in article 9866@ceylon.gte.com hhd0@harvey.gte.com (horace dediu) writes
in article 1pvjlninnckf@daffy.sps.mot.com , shantanu@risc.sps.mot.com (shantanu ganguly) writes


some comments

a) good performance and mid and high speeds can be obtained by adjusting the
top gear and final drive ratios. contrary to popular misperception , a
number of japanese cars have quite good performance from 70 in top
gear.

no problem with that. the question is do they perform consistently in all
conditions (roads , winds and curves) at that speed and do so for hours on end ,
year after year without giving the driver white knuckles \? from my experience on
the autobahns autostrade , a good touring car can be easily distinguished by its
poise at 100mph. the best stay on cruise control at 155 for hours. i 've
seen the typical boy racer in a fiat try to keep up. sure they hit the century
mark , but if the wind blows the wrong way they change lanes , and if on an
overpass , they may fly right into a guardrail. the buffeting at 125 can be
severe enough to make the hood bend. tires at 155 can melt , and a pothole can
kill. many german cars are designed for this environment , even if they ca n't
seem to get out of their own way from a stop light (mercedes come to mind in
particular.) and another design point is fuel economy at those speeds. the
germans gear the car for very good high speed efficiency (a typical m b 300e turns
1500 at 55 , almost a stall )

good point. i have no idea how either of my hondas will handle at 100 mph ,
nor do they reach 155. however , using `high' to be 70 90 mph

a) they are quite amenable to long high speed drives. i 've done several
1k mile trips in my civic with no problems whatsoever. the last big trip
i made was driving from new york to texas. i remember driving 700 800
miles a day at typically 75 85 mph without any problems. i'm sure i
would have been more comfortable driving a benz , but no white knuckles.
no problems with winds and curves.

then there was the trip back from new orleans after mardi gras where
we were doing 80 all the way to houston. no problems.

b) both my cars have surprising good fuel economy at high speeds. i see
no difference between sustained 60 mph and sustained 80mph. on the trip
back from new orleans , we got about 30 mpg in my integra , quite ok. mind
you , the engine revs to almost 4k at 80. the civic is markedly better
than the integra in fuel economy. 50k miles down the road , i still
get 35 mpg at 70 75 mph driving.


b) i ca n't understand why these high scale european marquees are afraid
to design engines that can be repeatedly revved to near redline in
the low gears. i have been doing that for that last 50k miles with
my lowly civic , with no detriment to either the engine or the clutch ,
and getting excellent mpg to boot. i 'd call this an engineering hack
to cover up design deficiencies.

at 50k miles you 'd still be breaking in a high scale european marquee they
typically are designed to last 300 , 000 miles per engine , 500 , 000 mi. per
chassis. (the record is now over 1 , 500 , 000 miles on a benz diesel , and i 've
read about transmissions lasting 700 , 000 miles.) speaking of

now now , you ca n't compare a diesel with a gasoline engine. i see enough
bmws and gasoline mercs for sale that have 100 150k miles on them and advertise
rebuilt engines. if honda was to build an accord for 30k , i 'd darn well
expect the sucker to last 300k miles.

diesels , they have very good efficiency at the cost of acceleration , and are very
popular in all european cars (diesel is considered the green fuel) from the
smallest econoboxes to the luxo barges. again , we see a difference in mentality.
diesels in the us are considered slightly worse than useless , and extremely
dirty to boot so you ca n't give them away.

ever got caught behind a early 80 's 300sdl at a stop light \? it 's not
pleasant. the newer mb 's are a lot better though. the diesel volvos
and vws are probably the smelliest offenders.

as for economy , why should we care \? gas is cheap ! i personally would n't
buy a diesel car for any reason what does it buy me \?

shantanu ganguly
somerset (motorola)

phone (512) 795 7146 motorola inc , mail drop oe 513
fax (512) 795 7513 6501 william cannon drive w.
austin tx 78735 8598
email shantanu ibmoto.com@oakhill.sps.mot.com



from brandt@cs.unc.edu (andrew brandt)
subject seeking good alfa romeo mechanic.
organization the university of north carolina at chapel hill
lines 14
nntp posting host axon.cs.unc.edu
keywords alfa , romeo , spider , mechanic

i am looking for recommendations for a good (great \? ) alfa romeo
mechanic in south jersey or philadelphia or nearby.

i have a '78 alfa spider that needs some engine , tranny , steering work
done. the body is in quite good shape. the car is awful in cold
weather , wo n't start if below freezing (i know , i know , why drive a
spider if there 's snow on the ground ...). it has bosch mechanical
fuel injection that i am sure needs adjustment.

any opinions are welcome on what to look for or who to call.

email or post (to rec.autos) , i will summarize if people want.

thx , andy (brandt@cs.unc.edu)

from a207706@moe.dseg.ti.com (robert loper)
subject re sho and sc
nntp posting host sun278.dseg.ti.com
organization forest lane design center
lines 42

in article c5l8re.28@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr15.232412.2261@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us david@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us (david hwang) writes
in article 5214@unisql.uucp wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
in article chrissc587qb.d1b@netcom.com chriss@netcom.com (chris silvester) writes


why anyone would order an sho with an automatic transmission is
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a
regular taurus and leave the sho to real drivers. that is not to
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick (eg
disabled persons) , but they are n't in any position to use an
sho anyway.

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic
transmissions from all performance type cars (like the 5.0l
mustangs , camaros , and the like) we 'd cut down on the number of
accidents each year. autos are fine for sedate little sedans ,
but they have no business in performance cars , imho.

james

i have to disagree with this. i have a 92 z28 with a 350 and a 4 speed auto
w overdrive , and it is really better that way. chevy autos are reknowned
for their long life and ability to handle copious amount of power. i live
in the dallas area , and a manual would be much harder to drive in the traffic
here. now if i still lived out in the sticks like i used to , a manual would be
more fun.

safety wise , an auto is less distracting...i would hate to have to be
shifting gears while i was trying to ease into traffic in the freeways here.
performance wise , i can hold my own against any stock 5.0 mustang or 5.0
camaro w a five speed.

all of this imho... )





robert l. loper infinity is a notion best contemplated
robertll@flopn2.dseg.ti.com in a warm bed.
texas instruments , inc. my opinions are my own , not ti 's.

from ae015@freenet.carleton.ca (steve hui)
subject re instead of a saturn sc2 , what \? \? \?
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada
lines 19


one thing that everyone is forgetting in this argument
over the pricing of the sc1 vs. the japanese cars is
the saturns no dicker sticker . this makes the saturn 's
price low in comparison to the inflated base prices of
the japanese competition on paper , but in reality , one
could dicker several hundred dollars off the price of
the japanese cars.

admittedly , though , here in canada , at least , the sc2
is in the same price class as the civic si , not the
sc1.

steve hui

from gwalker@rtfm.mlb.fl.us (grayson walker)
subject re changing oil by self.
organization a.s.i. n
distribution usa
lines 10

why crawl under the car at all \? i have a machine i got for my boat that
pulls the oil out under suction through the dip stick tube. it does an
excellent job and by moving the suction tube around , you can get more
old oil out than by using the drain plug. i think i paid 25 at e b marine.
the oil goes into a steel 3 gal can wait until it cools and decant into
your favorite device. i use soft drink bottles. easy to take them down to
the local oil recycle center.

forza !


from tpickett@auspex.com (tom pickett)
subject re sho and sc
reply to tpickett@auspex.com (tom pickett)
organization auspex systems , inc. engineering
lines 20
nntp posting host 144.48.14.46

in article 1qehi6 ork@armory.centerline.com , jimf@centerline.com (jim
frost) writes
ok , i 'll give you a few reasons

1. neither car was designed to turn at those speeds.
2. neither car was designed to stop quickly from those speeds.
3. safety mechanisms were not designed for impacts at those speeds.
4. an uncontrolled environment leads to unpredictable circumstances
where you might need to turn or stop with no notice.


do you , by any chance own an sho or have access to one , such that you
would have any idea what it is designed for or how it handles \?

just wondering...


tom pickett
tpickett@auspex.com or 74616.2237@compuserve.com
sho goze

from firman@envmsa.eas.asu.edu (b b s)
subject re viper
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
organization arizona state university , tempe , az
lines 10

in article c5jnha.8ib@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen) writes...

last night i had a dream that my dad bought a viper.
i took it out for a test drive , without his knowledge ,
and had to push it all the way home just to avoid a ticket.
wierd dream , i wonder what it means....

you probably should told you dad to buy that car , than your dream might
come true.


from edwards@world.std.com (jonathan edwards)
subject toyota land cruiser worth it \?
organization intranet , inc.
lines 10

in response to a post about suv 's , i got several unsolicited recommendations to
check out the land cruiser , despite its astronomical price.
the toyota dealer told me it 's a cult car .
if a car is good enough to create a passionate and loyal following , there
must be something really extraordinary about it.
so , all you land crusher cultists here is your chance to convert me.


jonathan edwards edwards@intranet.com
intranet , inc 617 527 7020

from stlucas@gdwest.gd.com (joseph st. lucas)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization general dynamics corp.
distribution usa
lines 10

do n't have a list of what 's been said before , so hopefully not repeating.

how about horizontally mounted oil filters (like on my ford) that , no
matter how hard you try , will spill out their half quart on the bottom
of the car when you change them \?


joe st.lucas stlucas@gdwest.gd.com standard disclaimers apply
general dynamics space systems , san diego
work is something to keep me busy between ultimate frisbee games.

from chris1@donner.cc.bellcore.com (ross , christina l)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
distribution usa
keywords bad drivers
lines 44

in article 9595@tekig7.pen.tek.com , jitloke@tekig5.pen.tek.com (jit loke lim) writes
in article 1993apr14.140642.19875@cbnewsd.cb.att.com hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo) writes
anybody is going anywhere. so , i block the would be passers. not only for my own
good , but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it.

ah , we are looking for good people just like you. we are a very concerned
group of citizens who are absolutely disgusted at the way that the majority
of drivers simply disobey traffic rules like going above the speed limit ,
passing on our right , and riding our tails , while all the while we respectfully
abide by the rules of this great country and maintain the mandated speed
limits with our calibrated , certified cruise controls , while keeping the
respectful 1.5 car length distance 10 mph speed. how many times have you been
ticked off by some moron who jumps ahead in the (5.5 1.5)8.25 car lengths
that you have left between you and the vehicle ahead of you while driving
55 mph \? finally you have an option. we are a totally member supported group
that perform functions for our own good , for the good of this great country but most of all for those unfortunate ones that are too stupid to realize it ,
bless their souls. for a paltry 10 , you can join citizens for rationally
advanced piloting(c.r.a.p) , a non profit , members only , society. but , but , but ,
there is a slight hitch , the initiation rite. to be a full fledged member of
this exclusive club , you must proof that you are able to be in the fast lane of
the busiest interstate in your area , keep the correct 1.5 car lenth 10 mph speedand i know this can be difficult with those morons around , not let anybody pass
you , not in the next lane , not in the slow lane , not in the breakdown lane ,
not nowhere. for a complete list of acceptable interstates and times , send 5.
and by the way , over 90 of our members are highly regarded attorneys in the
auto field and they are completely , absolutely positively in the business only
to serve your best interests. as a testament to their virtues , they will give
members 90 off the initial consultation fee. feel free to drop me a line at
your earliest convenience and remember , only speed kills !

jit





of course you are a bunch of arrogant lawyers who know whats best for the
rest of us. you are doing such a wonderful job with our judicial system ,
getting all the criminals off , i bow to your superior intellect. not to
mention the fees you collect from us poor slobs who get tickets from
speeding state police officers , so you can soak is when we go to court.
i just love lawyer jokes ! do n't you \?

c.


from don@bcars194.bnr.ca (don skanes)
subject jeep laredo experiences
keywords jeep , laredo
nntp posting host bcars194
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
lines 10


i have been looking at buying a 1989 jeep laredo and was wondering
if anyone had any bad or good experiences with this model. is it
all that much different than the other yjs \?

it looks , feels and sounds like a nice vehicle even thought the
price is rather steep for an '89 (12k canadian).


don@bnr.ca

from kega@celsiustech.se (kent gabrin)
subject re did us drive on the left \?
organization celsiustech ab
lines 44

in article 1993apr6.060553.22453@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes

...deleted lines...

well sweden and australia , and lord knows wherever else used to drive on
australians still do drive on the wrong side of the road. i believe
sweden changed in 1968. the way i heard it was that they swapped
all the traffic signs around one sunday....

as i live in sweden i remember the day perfectly well. we changed
side 1967 09 03 (or 03 sep 1967). i do n't remeber the exactly time but
it was in the night. (in the 'big' cities like stockholm gothenburg
all trafic was forbidden , exept busses and taxis , during the whole
weekend.) the day was a sunday and everything was prepared in before.

before the day we was told to follow the yellow lines on the road and
after it was the white one that matters. the signs with arrows on was
prepared with a 'left mode' label that was torn off that night to
reveal the new right mode arrow.

the year after iceland also changed.

about cars before the h day (h as in hoegertrafik . hoeger is
swedish and stands for 'right') practically all cars already had their
steering wheels on the left side. even the imported cars from uk had
the wheel on 'the right side'. at last we have cars with the wheels on
the right side. )

more contries that uses the left side is

japan
tanzania (i think)
new zeeland
how about south africa \?

btw. some sais that the left side is the right side because ivanhoe
and other knights meet at the left when they fight in tournaments. )

...deleted lines...

kent gabrin celsiustech systems ! my thinking is not as great as
s 175 88 jaerfaella sweden ! oliver berendinus bumble will try
kega@celsiustech.se ! company sold again. former name was nobeltech


from parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr)
subject re saturn puzzled by its pricing
distribution na
nntp posting host acs3.acs.ucalgary.ca
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 37

in article 1993mar31.181813.24122@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
in article 1pcgv5 oj9@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
because i want to get the lowest price possible , it 's called capitalism.

i have news for you capitalism is the practice of maximizing
profits.

same difference , if you lower your costs you increase your profits.

personally i'm not at all bothered by the saturn pricing scheme. if i
do n't want to pay as much as they 're selling it for , i can go buy a
different car from a different dealer and they get nothing. that 's
competition for you. if the dealer can be competitive charging what
they do and making that kind of profit , that 's capitalism at it 's best
and more power to 'em.


i 'd rather have the consumer dictate what things will cost not the
dealers.

sorry , but neither 'dictates' the cost. it 's a negotiation.
whether it 's up front at a honda dealership in an all out
dickering war , or more removed on a larger economic scale
(ie , if saturn ca n't sell at it 's price , the price drops ,
or the company stops building them) , it remains a negotiated
value controlled by market forces. to think that the consumer
controls price is ludicrous. if the consumer controled
price , then cars would be free ...and no one would build
cars.

regards , charles

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

from keys@starchild.ncsl.nist.gov (lawrence b. keys)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization national institute of standards technology
lines 44

in article 1qk7t5 dg@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi ) writes
what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

you make it sound like this behavior is new. it is n't. a lot of
pedestrian bridges have fencing that curls up over the sidewalk to
make this kind of think a lot harder to do.

i do n't understand the mentality myself , but then again i could n't
figure out move ! (i'm glad they bombed 'em) or the waco wackos either.


i know that this is n't the group for it , but since you brought it up ,
does anyone have any idea why they have n't bombed the waco cult \?

just curious.



(newsgroup list trimmed significantly)

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

.

larry
keys@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov




oo

1990 2.0 16v


fahrvergnugen forever !
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates
that you probably would n't understand anyway !



from thatchh@hplsla.hp.com (thatch harvey)
subject re removing rain x coat on the front windshield , any tips \?
organization hp lake stevens , wa
lines 21



if you want a summer without rain , you 're in the wrong place. you must not
have been here a whole year yet. keep the rain x handy my friend.


thatch


thatch harvey
uucp (no longer valid) domain thatchh@hplsla.hp.com
hewlett packard lake stevens instrument division
lake stevens , wa
(206) 335 2083 merkur xr4ti , suzuki gsx1100g ,
prince sr3 d sports racer







from andrei@namao.uucp (andrei chichak)
subject re bimmer vs beamer
nntp posting host namao.ucs.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
distribution usa
lines 15

mark monninger (markm@latium.) wrote
although not in direct response to the referenced article , just to set the
record straight , beamers are bmw motorcycles. bmw cars are bimmers. please ,
let 's get our terms straight.

actually , some purists would argue that the only true bimmer is a round
tail light 2002 or 1600.

mark
back when i was building round tail light 2002s they were bimmers. it was
only when the (red suspendered , reganomics generated , quiche eating) yuppies
got into the market ( that they became beamers and the hood ornaments started
disappering.

andrei

from parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
nntp posting host acs3.acs.ucalgary.ca
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 23

in article 1327@qa1.wichitaks.ncr.com jhart@qa1.wichitaks.ncr.com (jim hart) writes
in article 1993mar29.161044.1@uncavx.unca.edu bwillard@uncavx.unca.edu
writes
my top 10 list of dumbest automotive concepts ever

10. 1984 dodge colt vista tachometer only avail. with automatic trans.
9. back up lights on corvette they 're on the sides of the car !

sure would be interested to know what year(s) this was !
i do n't seem to recall any car with back up lights on the sides , much
less any corvette. i suppose i could be mis interpreting what you are
trying to say here.....

just a quick comment. backup lights mounted on the side
would actually be extremely useful for people backing out of
parking stalls...

regards , charles

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

from music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization triumf tri university meson facility
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host erich.triumf.ca
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article neilson.93apr15135919@seoul.mpr.ca , neilson@seoul.mpr.ca (robert neilson) writes...
sorry for the 0 auto content , but ...

that is why low abiding citizens should have the power to protect themselves
and their property using deadly force if necessary anywhere a threat is
imminent.

steve heracleous

you do have the power steve. you can do it. why do n't you \? why do n't you
go shoot some kids who are tossing rocks onto cars \? make sure you do a good
job though do n't miss 'cause like they have big rocks and take it from
me those kids are mean.

this last comment was obviously a bit cynical , but a true statement of
the attitude of some drivers (there 's your autos content) , i would say.

what law abiding (not low abiding as above (talk about freudian slips ! ))
citizens have the right and responsibility to do is try to prevent this
type of behaviour in children. a doctor may have to use deadly force
against a part of a body (like amputating it) when an infection disease
has gone too far. but his real desire would have been to prevent the
disease in the first place or at least nip it in the bud.

followups should go to alt.parents teens

fred w. bach , operations group internet music@erich.triumf.ca
triumf (tri university meson facility) voice 604 222 1047 loc 327 278
4004 wesbrook mall , ubc campus fax 604 222 1074
university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada v6t 2a3

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question.
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers.

from sehrlich@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (scott r. ehrlich)
subject help find stolen car
organization northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 , usa
distribution usa
lines 25


i offered to relay this information for a ham friend of mine without
internet access

his name is robert (bob) wondolowski , n1kda , and his car was a
1985 brown cutlas sierra sedan , massachusetts plate 716adl.

his ht (yaesu ft415) and mobile antenna were also included in the car.
it was stolen from lynn , mass. about 10 days ago (being on april 6).

if anyone has any information about the car 's whereabouts , please e mail
me.

thank you for taking the time to read this message.



scott ehrlich internet wy1z@world.std.com
amateur radio wy1z packet radio wy1z@k1ugm.ma.usa.na



scott ehrlich internet wy1z@world.std.com
amateur radio wy1z packet radio wy1z@k1ugm.ma.usa.na


from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization purdue university engineering computer network
distribution usa
lines 10

in article 1qmq7tinn9l@tamsun.tamu.edu dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf) writes
another user recently requested info about the shadow sundance
cars , but i have n't seen any public responses.

what are people 's experiences with these cars \?

daryl

they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next
year with all new models.

from rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (ronald.j.deblock..jr)
subject re changing oil by self.
organization at t
distribution usa
keywords n
lines 19

in article 1993apr14.171718.18852@lmpsbbs.comm.mot.com sheinfel@ssd.comm.mot.com (aviad sheinfeld) writes

do you think i can use a electric drill( change to a suitable
bit ) to turn it out \? if i can succeed , can i re tighten it not too
tight , is it safe without oil leak \?

tighten the bolt to the specified torque in your service manual. that
way it wo n't leak , strip , break , etc. (hopefully ) )

thank you very much in advance winson

aviad

you can avoid these problems entirely by installing an oil drain valve in
place of the bolt. i have one on both of my cars. there have been no
leaks in 210 , 000 miles (combined miles on both cars).

ron deblock rdb1@homxb.att.com (that 's a number 1 in rdb1 , not letter l)
at t bell labs somerset , nj usa

from bobml@mxmsd.msd.measurex.com (bob lagesse)
subject re changing oil by self.
reply to bobml@msd.measurex.com
organization measurex msd
distribution mxmsd
lines 26

in article 1993apr15.193712.25996@news.cs.brandeis.edu , andyh@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (andrew j. huang) writes
in article 1993apr15.020356.28944@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin) writes
i take the electrodes of the amp ohm volt meter whatever and connect one
to each earlobe. then , symmetrically insert my fingers in each of the
spark plug boots. no cheating guys ! both hands must be used !

i have just a couple of questions about this technique.

first , what firing order should i use \? do i start with my pointer
finger or my pinky \? left hand or right \?

and secondly , i have a 12cyl and there are two cylinders unaccounted
for. any suggestions \?

andy


how about your two big toes \? and while you 're at it , why bother with removing
the drain plug when you could remove the dipstick instead and suck it out from
there with your mouth and then spit it out \?


domain bobml@msd.measurex.com bob lagesse , senior software engineer
uucp ... ! uunet ! mxmsd ! bobml measurex management systems division
voice (513) 825 3931 x303 1280 kemper meadow drive
fax (513) 825 5393 cincinnati , ohio 45240 , usa

from jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen)
subject re open letter to nissan (really station wagon)
nntp posting host wind.bellcore.com
reply to jchen@ctt.bellcore.com
organization bell communications research
distribution na
lines 10

with the popularity of minivans , the market room for station wagons is
squeezed out. they are not as comfortable as sedan , and do n't carry as
much as the minivans.

this is not to say nobody wants the wagon anymore. but the demand is certainly
hampered by the minivan , and may not be economical to build a product for.

jason chen

a station wagon owner

from ak954@yfn.ysu.edu (albion h. bowers)
subject re manual shift bigots
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 48
reply to ak954@yfn.ysu.edu (albion h. bowers)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , (eric youngblood) says

in article apr19.195700.19699@engr.washington.edu , eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot) writes

race car stuff deleted

back to the f1 stuff for a second , note that the `auto' tranny in f1
still shifts at the driver 's command , not some preselected schedule. the
driver still controls the shifting , not the transmission.

now , there is no dispute that in production cars , automatics are
inherently more lossy than manuals. that is in theory. my point all
along is that whatever mechanical advantages a manual has over an
automatic can very easily be lost by a driver who is n't skillful or

one thing that gives an automatic an advantage at launch is the fact that
it has a torque converter vs a clutch. i know this sounds strange but ,
a torque converter multiplies the engine output when launching. it functions

as a sort of limited continuously variable transmission. typically you get
a torque multiplication of 2 to 3 times depending on the stall speed.

i have yet to see a torque multiplier installed on a production automobile.
such systems do exist , but none are presently installed in production autos
that i am aware of. these are commonly called viscous drive cvts or
fluidic amplifiers.

contrasted to a clutch which merely slips when feathered (result is no tq mult)

what the convertor does allow is for the engine to be closer to its
torque peak during the launch before a clutched car can fully engage it 's
driveline. chevy proved it many years ago with the '70 camaro (ets and
terminal 1 4 mile times were close enough tpo be identical for 4 speed and
auto cars). note that this is also the major reason that an auto car can
get away with fewer gears than a manual , the slip in the convertor makes up
for the fewer ratios (and before everyone starts yelling about the proposed
5 sspeed autos soon to be out , note that some manufacturers are using 6
speed manulas now).

once past lauch however , the converter begins coupling and the tq multiplication
effect is reduced , but by then you should be on the cam.

correct.

al bowers dod 900 alfa ducati hobie kottke 'blad iaido nasa
well goodness sakes...do n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar \?
mary chapin carpenter

from daniel u. holbrook dh3q @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re did us drive on the left \?
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 50
1ppqkm 93n@usenet.ins.cwru.edu
nntp posting host po3.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 1ppqkm 93n@usenet.ins.cwru.edu


the reason i ask is because i went to a classic car meet here in the uk ,
and saw a very nice old de soto , 1920 's vintage i 'd guess , with wooden
artillery type wheels , etc , but it was right hand drive. i ca n't believe
that desoto produced rhd cars just for the uk....

well sweden and australia , and lord knows wherever else used to drive on
the wrong side of the road , so the export market might have been
larger then than just the uk.

i'm guessing , but i believe in the twenties we probably drove mostly down
cattle trails and in wagon ruts. i am fairly sure that placement of the
steering wheel was pretty much arbitrary to the company at that time.....

by the 1920s , there was a very active good roads movement , which had
its origins actually in the 1890s during the bicycle craze , picked up
steam in the teens (witness the linclon highway association , 1912 or so ,
and the us highway support act (real name something different) in 1916
that first pledged federal aid to states and counties to build decent
roads. also , the experience of widespread use of trucks for domestic
transport during ww 1 convinced the government that good raods were
crucial to our national defense. anyway , by the 20s there were plenty
of good roads , at least around urban areas , and they were rapidly
expanding into the countryside. this was the era , after all , of the
first auto touring fad , the motel , the auto camp ground , etc. two good
books on the subject spring to mind warren belasco america on the
road (title may not be exact author is) and another called the devil
wagon in god 's country author i forget. also , any of john flink 's or
john bell rae 's auto histories.

as to placement of the steering wheel being arbitrary , by the early
teens there were virtually no american cars that did not have the wheel
on the left. in the early days , cars had the wheel on the left , on the
right , and even in the middle , as well as sometimes having a tiller
instead of a wheel. this was standardized fairly early on , though i
do n't know why.


dan
dh3q@andrew.cmu.edu
carnegie mellon university
applied history

world history strides on from catastrophe to catastrophe , whether we
can comprehend and prove it or not.
oswald spengler





from jchen@wind.bellcore.com (jason chen)
subject re no haggle deals...save \? \? \?
nntp posting host wind.bellcore.com
reply to jchen@ctt.bellcore.com
organization bell communications research
distribution usa
lines 2

a local dealer is advertising no negotiation necessary !
make you wonder...

from reid@ucs.indiana.edu (frank reid)
subject re the kuebelwagen \? \? ! !
lines 23
nntp posting host reid.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university

in article c5k5co.f09@mentor.cc.purdue.edu thwang@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (tommy hwang) writes
sorry for the mis spelling , but i forgot how to spell it after
my series of exams and no on hand reference here.

is it still possible to get those cute wwii vw jeep wanna be 's \?
a replica would be great i think.

tkh '93

the vw thing kubelwagen lookalike is still manufactured in mexico and
possibly south america. good luck importing one they probably do n't meet
us safety and pollution requirements. there are mechanics and junkyards
which specialize in vw they might be helpful for finding a thing unless
the wwii re enacters have grabbed them all.

the wwii kubelwagen was the german equivalent of the jeep , but was not 4
wheel drive. one is on display at the patton museum at fort knox , kentucky ,
also the rare schwimwagen (sp \? ) amphibious version , in full scale dioramas.
highly recommended !



frank reid@ucs.indiana.edu

from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 16
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi ) writes
what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

you make it sound like this behavior is new. it is n't. a lot of
pedestrian bridges have fencing that curls up over the sidewalk to
make this kind of think a lot harder to do.

i do n't understand the mentality myself , but then again i could n't
figure out move ! (i'm glad they bombed 'em) or the waco wackos either.

(newsgroup list trimmed significantly)

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

organization penn state university
from lrr105@psuvm.psu.edu
subject re dents on car.
lines 5

all you have to do is turn it in to the police like you would an accident ,
get a report and send it in to your insurance company and they will contact
the other guys insurance company and they will have to pay just as they
would in an accident they caused. thus no need to go to court. a friend of
mine did this and he got the money so it does work.

from srinagesh gavirneni sg48 @andrew.cmu.edu
subject 86 chevy sprint
organization doctoral student , industrial administration , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 15
nntp posting host po2.andrew.cmu.edu

i have a 86 chevy sprint with a c and 4doors. it 's odometer turned 90k
and the sensor light started blinking. i went to the dealer and he said
it was a maintenance light saying i need to change the oxygen sensor. he
said , it is to be changed every 30k , but since i bought the car when it
had 77k , i do n't know if the same thing happened at 30k and 60k. he
quoted 198 for the part and 50 to install it. the part cost 30
outside , but the mechanic i went to could not fix it saying the sensor
is placed too deep in the engine parts. he suggested i wait till it
malfunctions before i do anything. if anyone out there owns a chevy
sprint , i want to know how they got their oxygen sensors changed. also ,
did you face any problem with fixing it without the dealer 's help. also ,
what are the results of the oxygen sensor malfunction.
any help would be greatly apprecisted
thanks
nagesh

from reb@hprnd.rose.hp.com (ralph bean)
subject re saturn pricing blatherings
article i.d. hpchase.1pqkjv 46l
organization hewlett packard roseville site
lines 12
nntp posting host hprnd.rose.hp.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.8

mihir pramod shah (mps1@cec1.wustl.edu) wrote
robert j. wade writes
until...and more saturn retailers are built(like 2 in the same city) ,

...most medium and large cities have...a small handful of saturn dealers now

sacramento has two saturn dealerships.

mihir shah

ralph bean
hprnd.rose.hp.com

from kastle@bernoulli.wpi.edu (jacques w brouillette)
subject re arctic wheels auto show
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 5
nntp posting host bernoulli.wpi.edu


i want only two things from this world , a 58 plymouth and a small
opec nation with which to fuel it. this would be a good and just
thing. car smashers can just go home and sulk.
jacques brouillette manufacturing engineering

from ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate)
subject re was re safety from how far can you see a car \?
organization cdac , wa
distribution na
lines 95

in article c4rvkm.367@plato.ds.boeing.com simnet@plato.ds.boeing.com (mark r poulson) writes
ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate) writes
you will be surprised at the number of people who forget their glasses
while driving. and then there are the people who just plain do n't get
their eyes checked once a year.

as someone who has lousy vision , i can see objects at a distance without
my glasses. however , they are quite fuzzy and i may not be able to make
out the details. but i can certainly tell that something is there.


i wo n't argue too much about anything. i am probably one of those that
think that we ca n't have enough safety on the roads. i would gladly
sacrifice distractions (as you call it) , than someone having trouble seeing
danger earlier. one saved life justifies more than my lifetime of distractions
for me.


and then there is dawn and dusk. when your eyes have not yet adjusted
to the poor light. and there are those who drive black grey cars. and
then there is the case where you are driving down a two way one lane
road , and someone is overtaking cars , and coming the opposite direction
does n't see you because your lights are not on. or vice versa. at 60mph ,
that is quite a small reaction time. but of course , we are too macho to
think we are invincible and can react faster than that.... only the poor
sod who you did n't see might not have a normal life ever...

i worked out the reaction time in a previous post and its plenty , even for
an 80 year old grandma , as long as speeds are in the 60 mph range or less.
if you or some other driver is going way faster than that , then be careful.

as always , you are responsible for your driving actions. if you pull out to
pass and crash into someone (for whatever reason) its your fault. if you ca n't


problem is that , i may just kill the guy. i agree that i would be at fault ,
and i will have my license revoked , why , i might even go to the gas chamber.
but the fact still remains that the guy is dead. someone died because i
was too stingy to put on my lights.


see a damn thing , then you should n't be driving lights fail , fallen trees
or rocks do n't have lights , etc.... i maintain that headlight strength


the ratio of the probability of fallen trees rocks on the roads to
oncoming traffic is too low to even be considered. the difference is also
working on what we know could happen , to what might happen.


running lights are not necessary for motorists who drive around 60mph. it may
be a good idea to force the running or headlights on when you turn your
windshield wipers on , but only because some people are too stupid to do so.
if you crash into one of those idiots , you have to fight it out in court to
show his neglegence (if you can even prove it).


just out of curiosity , how much gas milage do you loose when you put
your lights on \? and how much do you reduce the life of your head lamps \?
and what is the cost of your headlamps anyway \?

mileage is certainly reduced , but by a very very small amount (probably
about 110 watts for head and running lights). this is an extra 1 7 horsepower
that must be made by the engine. it may be that this will cost you around two
gallons a year. but times 200 million cars , that 's a lot of gas.

compared to the number of gallons of gas consumed by those 200 million cars ,
it is miniscule !

whatever..... 'tis a pity i have to share the same roads with a person
not concerned with safety.

s
ssave@ole.cdac.com


lamp life is measured in hours. so if you normally drive in half daylight and
half night , your lamps will have to be replaced twice as often. headlamps
only cost about 10us for most halogen lamps.

the cost to the individual is trivial and to me is not the issue. what i
do n't like is the distractions all these cars with headlights cause. i do n't
need to constantly see the headlights of the vehicle behind me. i do n't need
to see the headlights of every gosh darn car for a mile down the road. these
lit up cars make non illuminated things less visible (like pedistrians and
bikes). hopefully we 're not going to mandate drl 's for people and bikes
too.

a stream of taillights is tolerable as are the orange front running lights.
this is certainly sufficient for other people to see you (if they look) and
does n't distract me nearly as much as full power headlights.

mark



from mobasser@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu (bijan mobasseri)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. vu vlsi.c52g2h.8uc
organization villanova university
lines 6

not exactly dumb , but who remebers the tachometer on the 69 or 70 firebird
bulging out of the hood right in front of the driver. neat place but i love
to know what the elemnts did to its internals after a few years. also , does
the speedomete pointer on many us cars have to be 3 feet long \? .

bijan

from (eric youngblood)
subject re old corvettes low insurance \?
reply to peon w o email (eric youngblood)
nntp posting host crchh435
organization bnr , inc.
lines 47

in article 1993apr15.011805.28485@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu , swr2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (scott warren rosander) writes
in article c5csux.fn1@news.cso.uiuc.edu , gdhg8823@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (george hei
nz) writes
after too many years of school i'm finally graduating and getting a real
job. of course i am trying to make plans of how to spend all this extra
money. right now i have an 89 accord , a good car , but not real sporty
i was thinking of selling it in about two years and dropping around
20k on a sports car of some kind. after thinking about it , i may have a
better idea i 'll keep the accord until it drops and buy the car i 've
always wanted a corvette stingray. my reasoning is that 8000 (accord)
8000 (corvette) 16000 is less than what i would spend anyway.

basically , i'm thinking of a late 70 's , early 80 's for around 7 10k.
my question is , what are good years to consider (for reliability , looks ,
horsepower in that order , believe it or not , horsepower is not a main
concern , if i want to go fast , i get on my motorcycle) and what are
good prices \?

also , what would insurance look like \? i'm male , single , 23 (i might
wait until i'm 25 to get the car lower insurance). would the fact that
i mainly drive the other car lower it \? is there some type of classic
car or rarely driven insurance class for driving it under 10k miles
per year \?

my dad has a 66 vette and its on what you say 'classic insurance'.
basically what that means is that it has restricted amount of driving
time , which basically means it cant be used as an every day car and would
probably suit your needs for limited mileage.



in addition to restricted mileage , many classic insurance carriers also require
that the vehicle be garaged when not in use.

0.02

ericy



eric youngblood
bell northern research
richardson , texas 75082
,
(
peon w o email privs


from silver@xrtll.uucp (hi ho silver)
subject re who was or what is miata , as used in the mazda miata \?
organization what you wo n't find on my desk.
lines 20

sayeth sjwyrick@lbl.gov (steve wyrick)
anybody keeping track of how many of these there are \? so far i have
miata , tredia , previa , sentra , maxima , altima , camry , and justy , not to
mention lexus , acura and infiniti !

you 're apparently including names that are , or appear to be ,
derivatives of real words in english or some other language (e.g.
acura , infiniti , maxima , altima) , in which case you missed ones such
as integra , supra , allante' , capri and calibra. in canada , add serenia and
precidia. if you count misspellings , add protege and (in canada)
vigor. how about the forthcoming mondeo , if it is given that name
in north america \?

others might include celica , corolla , paseo , and tercel. in canada ,
add asu na.

i know that sometimes my jaw clicks when i eat. void where prohibited.
have you seen this boy \? lust never sleeps. i say hurl. honey , i'm
home.
silver@bokonon.uucp ... ! uunet becker xrtll ! bokonon ! silver

from buck@granite.ma30.bull.com (ken buck)
subject re do trains have radar \?
organization bull information systems inc.
lines 16

hhtra@usho72.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes
i came upon a
train parked on a trestle with its locomotive sitting directly over
the northbound lanes. ... just as i passed from underneath the trestle ,
my radar detector went into full alert all lights lit and all chirps ,
beeps , and buzzes going strong.
could this have been caused by the train 's radio or what \?

recently manufactured locomotives have wheel slip detection systems
that use frequencies shared with police radar (i forget which band).
these will set off your radar detector if you get close enough , though
i believe the range is pretty short.

btw , railroad police sometimes use radar to check for speeding trains
(just like regular police check for speeding cars) , although the
intent here is for safety , not revenue collection (unlike with cars).

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
article i.d. cactus.1993apr17.065015.3554
distribution usa
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 13

in article oprsfnx.735015349@gsusgi1.gsu.edu oprsfnx@gsusgi2.gsu.edu (stephen f. nicholas) writes
stuff about dodge shadow deleted

as an ex fleet mgr. of 3000 cars , they were amoung the most trouble free of
all models. i bought one for my wife.

what do you mean by all models , all models of cars , all chrysler models ,
all models that the fleet manager had bought \? because there is no way in
hell that the shadow is the most reliable car of all models sold , not
even chrysler 's dept. of lies , damned lies and statistics would claim that.

craig


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jay lorenzana u40348@uicvm.uic.edu
subject eagle talon tsi lemon \?
lines 22


dear netters

i am looking to buy a used eagle talon '91 or '91 tsi awd.
question is that the '91 tsi awd was mentioned in the
april consumer reports to a car to avoid !

in particular , the manual transmission , electrical system ,
and brakes were below par (in both models). a friend of mine
ownes a '90 tsi awd and he has had 2 brake jobs (pads) , one
stuck valve , and some clutch transmission problem , something
about sticking grinding into second gear. this does n't seem
too bad if one beats on his car.

i am willing to suffer reliability for speed and looks. seems
you have to pay big buck if you want all three. anyway can
anyone please let me know how you like your talon , and any
problems you may have had , and if the repairs are worth it.

thanks for any responses !

jay

from michal @cs.cmu.edu (michal prussak)
subject illegal tint windows
nntp posting host gs58.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 38

i know it 's a long shot , but maybe someone went through this and will have
some comments to share.

the story is this i bought a car out of state , and i'm trying to get
the safety inspection in pennsylvania. the problem is that the car has
aftermarket tint on all windows except the windshield. the tint is rather
weak , and you can clearly see the inside of the car through the tint.

the inspection garage said that they wo n't pass it unless i get a
waiver from the state police. so i went to the state police the
officer told me that aftermarket tint is illegal , and i can get a
waiver only for a pre 84 car or for a medical reason. i asked him to
show me the section of the vehicle code that says it 's illegal. he
showed it to me and the paraghaph said that you ca n't have tint , if
you ca n't see the inside of the car because of the tint. when i told
him that you can in fact see the inside very well , he shut the book
and said it 's just illegal , and in fact we can have someone give you
a ticket for it right now. well , wo n't argue with that...

since the vehicle code says it 's ok as long as you can see through the
tint , i 'd like to keep it (i 'll re read the vehicle code in the
library). i 'd also like to get some sort of paper from the police
that says it 's ok , so i can get the inspection , and so that i wo n't
get in trouble for the tint later on. i also would n't mind registering
a complaint against that officer he really pissed me off.

so does anyone have any experience getting that sort of a paper from
the police , especially in pennsylvania \? does anyone have any experience
registering a complaint against an officer \? i called the station
later on today , but they basically said there is no place where i
could register a complaint against an officer... and if i do decide
to keep the tint and get a ticket anyway , how much of a chance do
i stand to succesfully appeal the ticket in court \?

any comments about it will be welcome !

michal


from tszeto@sneezy.ts.stratus.com (tommy szeto)
subject water in trunk of 89 probe \? \?
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host sneezy.ts.stratus.com

water gradually builds up in the trunk of my friend 's 89 ford probe. every
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and scoop out the water
under the plywood carpet cover on the trunk. i would guess this usually happens
after a good thunder storm. a few qs

1) is this a common problem \?
2) where are the drain holes located for the hatch \?

thanks for any info.
tom


tom szeto no ! not those peanuts ! the ones on the
tszeto@sneezy.ts.stratus.com bottom....ggnuuaahuuhh
include disclaimer.h homer simpson

from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re '93 grand am (4 cyl)
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 16

in article holcomb.93apr19073907@wgermany.ctron.com holcomb@ctron.com (edgar w. ii holcomb) writes
in article apr.18.12.24.26.1993.19337@remus.rutgers.edu wilmott@remus.rutgers.edu (ray wilmott) writes

hi all. a while back i was asking for info about a few different
models , the grand am being one of them. response was generally
favorable one thing often repeated was go for the v6 for some
real power . point well taken , but...does anybody have any input
on the 4 cylinders (both the standard ohc , and the quad 4 ) \?
ray ,

the high output quad 4 delivers 175 hp (185 for the wf41 quad 4) , whereas
the 3.1l v6 offered in the grand am delivers 140 hp. i own a beretta gtz

ooppss...the v6 in the grand am is the 3.3. litre , not the 3.1. the 3.3 is
a downsized version of buicks 3.8 litre v6. the 3.1 v6 goes in the beretta
and corsica.

from scott@psy.uwa.oz.au (scott fisher)
subject re mgbs and the real world
organization the university of western australia
lines 28
nntp posting host wapsy.psy.uwa.oz.au

derek@nezsdc.icl.co.nz (derek tearne) writes

people who bought mgb`s bought them because they were an open topped sportscar
and embodied what people thought they should for an old fashioned traditional
brit. sportscar not because they were great at anything.

pretty much like the people who buy the mazda mx 5 (miata) today. small
fun and you can fool yourself (and a lot of other people) that you have the
performance of many far superior (and much more expensive) performnace cars.

i have been for a fairly hard run in an mx5 , what they lack in power they
surely make up for in handling. great for back streets with heaps of corners.
they are a fairly light car with a low center of gravity and a quite free
revving dohc engine , a fun car. have you driven a turbo converted
mx5 \? now they are starting to perform ! i 've often thought a mazda rotary
would go well in the xm5 too....anyone done it \?

regards scott.

scott fisher scott@psy.uwa.oz.au ph aus 61 perth (09) local (380 3272).
n
department of psychology w e
university of western australia. perth 32s , 116e . . s
nedlands , 6009. perth , w.a. v

joy is a jaguar xj6 with a flat battery , a blown oil seal and an unsympathetic
wife , 9km outside of a small remote town , 3 15am on a cold wet winters morning.


from matmcinn@nuscc.nus.sg (matthew macintyre at the national university of senegal)
subject re opel owners \?
organization national university of singapore
lines 1
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4

by the way , what do people think about the opel calibra \?

from tommy@boole.att.com (tommy reingold)
subject re improvements in automatic transmissions
reply to tommy@boole.att.com
organization at t bell labs , holmdel , nj , usa
originator tommy@hoodlum
keywords saturn , subaru , manual , automatic
nntp posting host hoodlum.l1135.att.com
lines 24

hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen) writes


the biggest hurdle for automatics (imho) is not shifting speed
per se , but rather the transmission 's reaction speed when you
try to force it to shift manually.
...

i rented an oldsmobile achieva (is that a yuppie name or what \? ) and a
nissan stanza. they both had automatics. i'm a manual transmission
bigot but i have to admit that the transmissions on these cars were
better shifters than i am. and yes , they responded very quickly to
kickdown requests. the nissan had a tachometer so i was able to figure
out which gear i was in. (the olds may have also , but i do n't
remember.) i believe it shifted all the way down to second at about 50
mph when my foot told it , no i really want to accelerate quickly.

i would still prefer a manual , but i wo n't delude myself into thinking
that i can out accelerate a modern automatic. and i'm very smooth at
shifting but certainly not as good as an automatic.

tommy reingold
at t bell labs , holmdel , nj
tommy@boole.att.com or att ! boole ! tommy

from silver@xrtll.uucp (hi ho silver)
subject re wax residue on black molding
organization what you wo n't find on my desk.
lines 17

sayeth joseph d. mazza mazz @andrew.cmu.edu
i waxed my car a few months ago with a liquid wax and now have whiteish
smears where i inadvertantly got some wax on the black plastic molding.
i 've tried repeatedly to remove the smears with no luck. i'm on the
verge of replacing the molding altogether (it 's a nice car).

armor all removes raindance wax on my mazda protege 's black
plastic bumpers. your mileage may vary.

given this observation , one would be well advised to take care not to
get any of this (or , probably , similar protectants such as son of a gun)
on one 's paint ...

i know that sometimes my jaw clicks when i eat. void where prohibited.
have you seen this boy \? lust never sleeps. i say hurl. honey , i'm
home.
silver@bokonon.uucp ... ! uunet becker xrtll ! bokonon ! silver

from jimd@pequod.gvg.tek.com (jim delwiche)
subject re vw passat advice sought
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 32

in article apr.19.12.13.52.1993.387@remus.rutgers.edu hong@remus.rutgers.edu (hyunki hong) writes

i am currently in the car market and would like opinions on a vw
passat glx. how does it compare to a toyota camry \? i thought the car
looked very solid , stable and european. only disappointment so far is
that that it does n't offer an airbao my next question is , why is n't vw
offering automobiles with airbags \? should i pay the extra three
thousand for a bmw 318 is even though it is smaller and less powerful
than than the passat \?

i think vw got caught out on the airbag thing. it 's only been in the last
year or two that airbags have become a significant selling feature.
vw assumed that automatic belts would satisfy govt. requirements for
passive restraint , but did n't guess that the 'merican consumer would
actually make buy decisions based on the presence of an airbag.

vw is really hurting right now in the us market. check out the
article in last week 's autoweek about the crisis at vw. golfs and
jettas will be coming from the plant in mexico , but they do n't have
the quality at that facility. as per normal vw practice , the us
launch of the jetta iii is delayed again and again , until a good chunk
of the useful life of the design is spent.

i think that passats come from germany , so there is not the same
quality and availability issue. it 's a nice car with a nice engine.
whether vw will be a player in the us market in two year 's time is a
different question...

i 'll leave the passat camry flamewar for someone else.




from parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr)
subject re truck tailgates mileage
nntp posting host acs3.acs.ucalgary.ca
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 36

in article 1993mar30.203846.85644@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu jh03@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (jun he) writes
in article 1993mar26.221840.1204@nosc.mil , koziarz@halibut.nosc.mil (walter a.
koziarz) writes
in article 51300059@hpscit.sc.hp.com chrisw@hpscit.sc.hp.com (chris wiles) wr
ites


consumers report did a study i think and found that most
trucks got worse mileage with the tailgate off. the tailgates on the
newer trucks actually help.

oh , sure they do... and replacing the front bumper and grille with a closet
door helps mileage and cooling. if cr actually said that , then they have
bigger fools working for them than the fools that believe their drivel... but ,
who am i to argue this \? just someone that 's been a pickup driver for 20
years , that 's all. forget the 'net' , just take off the tailgate on hiway trips
since the nets are n't designed to nor capable of restraining a load in the bed
anyway. around town , the tailgate will have a negligable effect on mileage
anyway.

walt k.

they may help to improve mileage in some cases , i believe. with the tailgate
on the flow structure behind the cab may differ and the vortex drag may be
reduced during high speed driving.

how about those toneau covers \? i 've been thinking of building one
from chipboard for roadtrips. any comment on how they affect
mileage in highway travel \?

charles

within the span of the last few weeks i have heard elements of
separate threads which , in that they have been conjoined in time ,
struck together to form a new chord within my hollow and echoing
gourd. unknown net.person

from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (carolinafan@uiuc)
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000
article i.d. news.c51s16.acz
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 17

rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen) writes


your best bet is the dodge intrepid with the sohc 24 valve 3.4 \? six.
it gets 214 hp , and has a hell of a lot of room , great styling , and
abs , with four wheel disk breaks. the lh cars won automobile
magazines
automobile of the year award , and are quiet impressive.

is the 24v lh under 16k , though \?



chintan amin the university of illinois urbana champaign mail llama@uiuc.edu

because he was human because he had goodness because he was moral
they called him insane... peart cinderella man

from hanguyen@megatest.com (ha nguyen)
subject re changing oil by self.
organization megatest corporation
lines 22

in article 1993apr14.203800.12566@progress.com damelio@progress.com (stephen d'amelio) writes
bmoss@grinch.sim.es.com (brent woody moss) writes

you could take a screw driver and hammer and start punching holes in
various locations and when some black slippery stuff starts pouring
out then you would know that the oil drain plug is nearby (within a foot
or two anyway). close the holes with toilet paper before refileing with oil
though.

you have to refill the engine with oil ! wow , no wonder i ca n't get
an engine to last more than my first oil change. do n't forget to
punch holes in the radiator too , it will spray nice refreshing water

on the engine and keep it nice cool. )

steve

gee , you really make me confused. what is radiator \? where is it located \?
what does it look like \? will it release any radiation (since it sounds
like radia tion genera tor) when you punch holes \?

hanguyen

from cs012055@cs.brown.edu (hok chung tsang)
subject re saturn 's pricing policy
article i.d. cs.1993apr5.230808.581
organization brown computer science dept.
lines 51

in article c4vir5.l3r@shuksan.ds.boeing.com , fredd@shuksan (fred dickey) writes
carolinafan@uiuc (cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu) wrote
i have been active in defending saturn lately on the net and would
like to state my full opinion on the subject , rather than just reply to others'
points.

the biggest problem some people seem to be having is that saturn
dealers make 2k on a car. i think most will agree with me that the car is
comparably priced with its competitors , that is , they are n't overpriced
compared to most cars in their class. i do n't understand the point of
arguing over whether the dealer makes the 2k or not \?

i have never understood what the big deal over dealer profits is either.
the only thing that i can figure out is that people believe that if
they minimize the dealer profit they will minimize their total out of pocket
expenses for the car. while this may be true in some cases , i do not
believe that it is generally true. i bought a saturn sl in january of '92.
at that time , based on studying car prices , i decided that there was
no comparable car that was priced as cheaply as the saturn. sure , maybe i
could have talked the price for some other car to the saturn price , but
my out of pocket expenses would n't have been any different. what 's important
to me is how much money i have left after i buy the car. reducing dealer profit
is not the same thing as saving money ! show me how reducing dealer profit
saves me money , and i 'll believe that it 's important. my experience has
been that reducing dealer profit does not necessarily save me money.

fred


say , you bought your saturn at 13k , with a dealer profit of 2k.
if the dealer profit is 1000 , then you would only be paying 12k for
the same car. so is n't that saving money \?

moreover , if saturn really does reduce the dealer profit margin by 1000 ,
then their cars will be even better deals. say , if the price of a saturn was
already 1000 below market average for the class of cars , then after they
reduce the dealer profit , it would be 2000 below market average. it will

1) attract even more people to buy saturns because it would save them money.

2) force the competitors to lower their prices to survive.

now , not only will saturn owners benefit from a lower dealer profit , even
the buyers for other cars will pay less.

is n't that saving money \?



0.02 ,
doug.

from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re where can i get a new york taxi \?
distribution na
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 7

in article c5r66a.6rb@srgenprp.sr.hp.com almanb@sr.hp.com (bob alman) writes
hose h o s e

dork. d o r k.




from netops@tekgen.bv.tek.com (randy king)
subject re headlights problem
keywords headlights
article i.d. tekgen.2407
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 6

thanks to all of you who responded to my posting.

the problem with my truck's headlights low beam problem was a loose wire
connection . it was not the fuse as a minority of you suggested.

thanks again.

from etjet@levels.unisa.edu.au
subject aussie needs info on usa car shows swap meets
reply to johnt@spri.levels.unisa.edu.au
organization university of south australia
lines 54



hi from australia ,

i am a car enthusiast in australia.

i am particularly interested in american muscle cars of the
1960s and 1970s. all makes amc , ford , chrysler mopar , gm.

i will be in the usa for 6 weeks from may 2nd to june 14 1993.

chicago sun may 2 thursday may 6
denver friday may 7 sunday may 9
austin , texas monday may 10 friday may 21
oklahoma city friday may 21 monday may 24
anaheim , california tuesday may 25 thursday may 27
las vegas , nevada friday may 28 sunday may 30
grand canion , monday may 31 tuesday june 1
las angeles , san diego and vicinity wednesday june 3 sunday june 6 june
south lake tahoe , cal sunday june 6 wednesday june 9
reno thursday june 10
san fransisco thursday june 10 sunday june 13


i was wondering if anyone could send me any information of
car shows , swap meets , drag meets , model car shows etc. during this period.
can anybody tell me when the pomona swap meet is on this year \?

also , any places to visit (eg. car museums , private collections ,
your collection \? etc. any bit of information is appreciated !

i am also interested in finding some model cars (scale models).
i am intersted in 1968 1974 amc cars. of particular interest is
1968 1970 amx
1968 1974 javelin
1969 scrambler
1970 rebel machine
and others

if you have any kits , plastics , diecast etc and are interested in selling them ,
tell me , i will be interested.

i can also send bring you models of australian high performance cars if
you are interested.


please reply by email to johnt@spri.levels.unisa.edu.au


thanks ,

john tsimbinos



from eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re ultimate awd vehicles
organization clearer than blir
lines 27
distribution usa
nntp posting host 192.42.145.4

in article c5l86z.e73@cbnewsj.cb.att.com rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (ronald.j.deblock..jr) writes
yes , i saw a 200 turbo quattro wagon on i 287 in nj on monday. i thought
audi stopped selling wagons in the us after the 5000. this is exactly the
type of vehicle i would like to own. i bet its price is 4 5 times my
car budget.

think again ! ! thanks to 60 minutes (tick tick tick) , used 200
quattros are bargains.. '89s go for about 15k , '90s go for perhaps 1
or 2k more , the 20 valve 91 's are quite a bit more because of an
enormous hp and torque gain.. i think they go for about 23 to 25k if
you can find one. i have seen quite a lot of '89 '90 200 quattros (not
that many wagons though) at the dealer lot.. they use very high
quality paint and the entire car is zinc galvanized , so it will never
rust.

in short , typically a 4 yr old 200 looks no more older than a 1 year
old and the 5 bangers are bullet proof engines. 200k out of one is
not rare , even for a turbo , which is watercooled for the 200s. then
there are aftermarket chips that you can buy to bump up turbo boost...

if you are into luxo gizmos.. the cars are loaded with just about
everything too..

the price of parts is a different story though...


eliot

from tomm@hank.ca.boeing.com (tom mackey)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
keywords brick , truck , danger
organization bogart graphics development
lines 27

in article c5joit.e31@bcstec.ca.boeing.com neil@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (neil williams) writes
as long as we 're on the subject... several years ago myself and two others
were riding in the front of a toyota pickup heading south on interstate 5
north of seattle , wa. someone threw a rock of an overpass and hit our
windshield. not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the
overpass quickly to see who did it. we figured it was kids , reported it and
left.
a couple of years ago it happend again and killed a guy at my company. he was
in his mid fourties and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was
a reformatory for juviniles a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old
that did it. they put a cover over the overpass , what else could they do \?

execute the juvi on the grounds of the reformatory , required attendendence
by the rest of the inmates , as soon as possible after the incident and a
quick sure trial. i am quite serious. cause and effect. nothing else
will ever make a dent.

i do n't think i 'll over forget this story.
neil williams , boeing computer services , bellevue wa.

me neither.



tom mackey (206) 865 6575 tomm@voodoo.ca.boeing.com
boeing computer services ....uunet ! bcstec ! voodoo ! tomm
m s 7k 20 , p.o. box 24346 , seattle , wa 98124 0346

from wiggs@stsci.edu (michael s. wiggs)
subject ignition kill
organization space telescope science institute
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 8


i just wanted to thank all the netters out there who either
posted a response or sent e mail regarding my ignition kill
question. now that i know how simple a procedure it is , it
looks like i 'll be paying my local pep boys a visit this
weekend....

mik

from chuck@eos.ncsu.edu (chuck kesler)
subject re ford probe opinions \? (centered around the gt)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 143

in article 1993apr20.002651.20797@sco.com nathanp@sco.com (nathan) writes

jeremy g. mereness zonker @cmu.edu says

can anyone offer any opinions of the ford probe... ala how they do in
the long run , repair records , reliability , mileage , etc \?

i am fixing to buy a car in the next few months aiming toward something
a little bigger than a typical small car and with a little more power. i
am considering the mx 6 , probe , accord , corolla , and the 240sx.
...
i bought a '93 probe gt with the pep 263a last july (now at 9500 miles)
after debating over the sentra se r nx2000 , mx6 , mr 2 , stealth , prelude ,
and celica.
...
the car design is different than earlier years , so it 's too early to see its
reliability so far. for what it 's worth , my comments

my dislikes
shutting door with windows up from inside rarely makes good wind seal.

some other owners on the ford probe@world.std.com mailing list have commented
about this problem , but i have n't seen it happen on my 3 month old
'93 probe gt. i think this may be something that ford has corrected since
the initial batch of cars. also , someone said that ford has issued a
service bulletin to inform dealers about how to correct this problem , so you
may be able to get your dealer to fix it.

headlights have stuck up a few times (weather \? )
air conditioning broke 4000 miles (pressure cycling switch)
condensation around rear washer fluid container does n't drain completely.

have n't seen any of these problems , nor have i seen these mentioned on the
mailing list , so these might just be having bad luck with these.

crammed engine little hope for do it yourselfers (typical)

definitely !

parts somewhat more expensive than normal ford parts
underside plastic does n't like sharp driveways and speedbumps (typical).
assembly gripes tape on radiator , screw fell out of dash , seat seams not
stitched properly. hopefully just a fluke.

no problems like these either. i have n't been able to find any obvious
places where they screwed up.

ford only gives 1 key with the car. c'mon ford , spend an extra few pennies !

hmmm ! i got two keys with my car. something tells me you got stiffed by
your dealer on this. (actually , if you count the credit card key that
came in the owner 's binder , i got 3 keys , but since the credit card key
does n't have any teeth cut in it yet , i guess i wo n't count it. ))

rear hatch has no padding on corners when up. i'm waiting for the day when
i bash my head on the corner.
horn buttons behind air bag in spokes and not in center (personal preference)

the latter is probably because of the air bag. it 's pretty much takes up
all the space where you 'd expect to find the horn.

speaking of the horn , i was surprised to find that the probe comes with one
of those nice 'merican sounding horns instead of the japanese sounding kind.
the previous probes had japanese horns.

tires fling dirt mud onto side of car

yeah , not very badly , but enough to be annoying sometimes.

my likes
engine (design valves sounds smoothness power mileage torque) definitely 1
handling (very good for fwd understeer only at limits)
transmission (the 5 speed is a must)
usable instrumentation (lovely readable analog everywhere)
very little torque steer at full power (much better than the '90 sho i drive)
stability at 100 mph (high gearing though)
low cowl (good visibility in front)
heated outside mirrors (nice in fog , never tested in freezing weather)
abs air bag (see above)
rear seats fold down (i have few rear seat passengers so a trunk not important)
no shake rattle noises when going over bumps potholes (still ! )
tires 225 55vr16 goodyear eagles (70 left hoping for 30k )

i agree strongly with all of the above , especially about the engine. the
interior is very , very nice too. very pleasing to the eye , and ergonomically
sound.

...
i drive it to and from work
each day on relatively smooth roads , and most noticable thing is that the
probe 's suspension does n't like potholes. when you test drive one , find a
potholed road somewhere around town and see if the jarring you get is
tolerable.

yes , this car 's stiff suspension is n't for everyone. i personally like it ,
but if you find it a little harsh but otherwise like the car , i 'd strongly
suggest looking into the mx 6.

if you have 3 passengers , by all means bring them along too. they 'll find
that they have no room in the back and you 'll find that the car rides
differently (if that 's better is up to you).

the problem with the back seat is that there 's no leg room. plenty of
head room , though. shorter people fit back there without any complaints ,
so long as the seat they are sitting behind is pulled forward a bit to
give them a place to put their feet.

also , there 's a lot of glass
around you which i was n't expecting the temperature inside the car gets pretty
hot in the summer. my back seat passengers (now very few) complain about
the lack of ventilation you may want to consider that when combined with
the heat.

the power moonroof can greatly improve the ventilation throughout the car. )
i really enjoy the moonroof , by the way , but then i 've always been a sucker
for open air driving. no leakage problems or anything like that...yet !

i 've heard that the exhaust system has trouble , but mine works fine.

i have n't heard about this one. i know that some of the very early probes
('89 and maybe '90) had problems with prematurely rusting mufflers (which
ford will replace at no charge) , but i have n't heard about anything like
this concerning the '93 probes.

i have n't had any real trouble with this car outside of a cv joint boot
that was leaking , but the dealer took care of that promptly , and even
gave me a free rental car for the day and a half that i was without my
car. i was quite happy with the way they handled...especially considering
that i was expecting the worst from them !

from what i 've heard , it sounds like ford mazda had some qc problems with
the probe (and probably mx 6) when they first went into production , but
i think these problems have mostly been corrected at this point. that 's
almost always to be expected with a completely new car like this , though.

hope this helps ,

chuck

chuck kesler internet chuck@eos.ncsu.edu
unix systems programmer us mail box 7901 , ncsu campus
engineering computer operations raleigh , nc 27695 usa
north carolina state university phone 1 919 515 2458

from cracker@tc.fluke.com (don graham)
subject re jeep wrangler opini
organization john fluke mfg. co. , inc. , everett , wa
lines 44

in article 1qht5einnjdf@hp col.col.hp.com , tvervaek@col.hp.com (tom vervaeke) writes
i have had two wranglers , and still have the second right now. it 's a
1991 wrangler base model with the big i 6 4.0l engine , hard top , no
power steering or air conditioning. runs like a top. has about 37k on
it. has never been in the shop. i can change my own oil (nice tall
vehicle). i can lube it myself (11 fittings). i occasionally take it to
jiffy lube to check the differentials and do the oil change there.

my previous wrangler had nary a problem either. here in colorado there'
more jeeps than bmw 's , mercedes , volvos , and the like together ! in fact
jeep has been called the colorado car for a while. they hold their value
well , and are very easy to resell. mine cost right around 14.2k new. of
course , i did n't blow money on an islander , sahara , or renegade which

i have a 92 wrangler sahara and paid 14.1 new (including the rebate).

are just wranglers with fancy inside stuff.

after driving a cj 5 for 6 years , that fancy stuff is pretty nice.


the cars are primitive , ride like a dump truck , etc.. but if you live in
an area that gets around 140 of snow per winter , you 'd have one too.
they 'll go anywhere (with a winch) and are easy to get parts for. the

i like my wrangler , but when doing some serious off roading , it ca n't
keep up with a cj 5 because of ground clearance and limited suspension
travel. i do have a winch and would like to get an arb air locker in the
future.

4.0l engine puts out 180 190 hp and gets around 20mpg. not bad.

i love the 4.0.


just my experience. i'm sure there are bad ones out there , but that goes
for any make and model.



don graham




from nuet ke@pts.mot.com (keith nuetzman x3153 p7625)
subject wife wants convertible
nntp posting host 145.4.54.110
reply to nuet ke@pts.mot.com
organization paging and wireless data group
lines 9


help ! ! !
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car.
we live in south fla. , so we are definitely in the right are for one.
my wife has mentioned the miata , but i think it is too small.
i would like to wait for the new mustangs ( dec. '93 i think).
anyone have any opinions on any all convertibles in a reasonable price range.

thanx

from jwg@sedv1.acd.com ( jim grey)
subject re necessity of fuel injector cleaning by dealership
organization hell
lines 19

in article 1993apr2.174850.6289@cbnewsl.cb.att.com prm@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (paul.r.mount) writes

in your experience , how true is it that a fuel injector cleaning
will do much more good than just using detergent gas. while i
agree that a clogged fuel injector would darken my day , how clogged
do they get , and is 59 a good price (or can i do it myself by buying
a can of (what \? ) and doing what \?


a fuel injector cleaning at the dealer is probably little more than
them opening your gas tank , dumping in a bottle of fuel injector cleaner ,
and sending you on your merry way 59 poorer. go to kmart and buy the
cleaner yourself for 1.29.

just because you dealer sez you need it , do n't mean it 's necessarily so.
be suspicious.

jim grey
jwg@acd4.acd.com

from ajg1678@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
subject re buick heater controls
nntp posting host vaxa.isc.rit.edu
reply to ajg1678@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
organization rochester institute of technology
distribution usa
lines 1

i had the exactly same problem with my '70 lesabre. it was also from cal. what i did was go to the local junkyard and pick up a diaphragm from a '68 lesabre with the same heater set up. it worked for me , but a little bit slow to change from vents to defogger. better than nothing !

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization corporation for open systems
distribution na
lines 37

in 24485@drutx.att.com klf@druwa.att.com (franklinkl) writes

in article c5hhgm.1rm@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu , callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr13.215605.26252@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
in article 1q4466innb85@ctron news.ctron.com smith@ctron.com writes

it 's a big aftermarket business. almost no cars come from the factory with
vynal any more , and any fake convertible job definitely came from some
aftermarket place. what amazes me is how much people are willing to pay for
bad taste

how about those really ugly fake wheel compartments stuck onto the
trunk or side (or both sides ! ) of some tacky luxury cars \?

some of 'em are n't fake (if you 're talking about the continental kit ,
named after the lincoln continental , the first car to sport one). i
personally would love to have a '56 t bird with a continental kit
(and the supercharged v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful
cars ever built , imho.

james


the continental may have been the first modern era auto to mount the
spare on the rear of the car but it was hardly the first car to sport one.
various mounting techniques for rear mounting the spare were quite common
in early automobiles , both us and foreign.

right. in the thirties both buick and packard had two spares mounted in
wells in the front fenders. of course that was back when the front
fenders were long enough to provide room. there were a couple of other
marques that did this as well , but memory fades.

ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait
ama and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't
gwrra i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints
dod 0126 the sinners are lots more fun , y'know only the good die young

from rseymour@reed.edu (robert seymour)
subject re what car is this ! \?
article i.d. reed.1993apr21.032905.29286
reply to rseymour@reed.edu
organization reed college , portland , or
lines 26

in article 1993apr20.174246.14375@wam.umd.edu lerxst@wam.umd.edu (where 's my
thing) writes

i was wondering if anyone out there could enlighten me on this car i saw
the other day. it was a 2 door sports car , looked to be from the late 60s
early 70s. it was called a bricklin. the doors were really small. in
addition ,
the front bumper was separate from the rest of the body. this is
all i know. if anyone can tellme a model name , engine specs , years
of production , where this car is made , history , or whatever info you
have on this funky looking car , please e mail.

bricklins were manufactured in the 70s with engines from ford. they are rather
odd looking with the encased front bumper. there are n't a lot of them around ,
but hemmings (motor news) ususally has ten or so listed. basically , they are a
performance ford with new styling slapped on top.

brought to you by your neighborhood lerxst

rush fan \?


robert seymour rseymour@reed.edu
physics and philosophy , reed college (nextmail accepted)
artificial life project reed college
reed solar energy project (soltrain) portland , or

organization penn state university
from rsm2@psuvm.psu.edu
subject us made m b suv
lines 10

mercedes benz announced yesterday its plans to begin building sport utility
vehicles in the us by 1997. they are targeted at the jeep grand cherokee
et al. and will reportedly sell for less than 30 , 000.

did anyone see a picture \? is it the g wagon (gelaendewagen) currently
available in europe (and in the us by grey market) or is it an entirely new
vehicle \? any details would be appreciated.

dick meyer
applied research laboratory , penn state

from mart@csri.toronto.edu (mart molle)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
lines 36

parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) writes

my top 10 list of dumbest automotive concepts ever

9. back up lights on corvette they 're on the sides of the car !

sure would be interested to know what year(s) this was !
i do n't seem to recall any car with back up lights on the sides , much
less any corvette. i suppose i could be mis interpreting what you are
trying to say here.....

just a quick comment. backup lights mounted on the side
would actually be extremely useful for people backing out of
parking stalls...

while i ca n't think of any corvettes with side mounted backup lights ,
i know that saab started using them about 15 years ago. my 1975 saab 99
did n't have them , but a friend 's 1978 saab 99 certainly did. in addition
to the confentional tail light mounted backup lights , they had another
set integrated into the front turn signal assembly. for those of you who
do n't remember , saabs of that vintage had an enormous multicoloured plastic
growth , about the size of a national geographic magazine , sticking out
of the front fender , which incorporated amber parking lights , amber side
marker lights reflectors , white cornering lamps (like american luxury
cars) aimed towards the side of the road when you have your turn indicators
on , and white backup lights aimed towards the back of the car when you
have selected reverse gear. the glossy brochure showed how these front
mounted backup lights were useful for illuminating hazards (pot holes , kid 's
toys , etc) that would be run over by the front of the car if you had the
wheels turned while backing up.

mart l. molle
computer systems research institute
university of toronto
toronto , canada m5s 1a4
(416)978 4928

from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject toyota wagons
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 9
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


has anybody noticed that toyota has an uncanny knack for designing horrible
ugly station wagons \? tercels , corollas , camrys. have their designers no
aesthetic sense at all \?

dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject rec.autos the rec.autos archive server
keywords monthly posting
reply to welty@balltown.cma.com
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
lines 10

archive name rec autos part3

the automotive articles archive server

the automotive archive server is in the process of being rehosted ,
and is presently not available.

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil (malcolm g. costello)
subject re sprayed on bedliner info wanted
reply to mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil (malcolm g. costello)
distribution usa
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 28

in rec.autos , dennis@hpcvra.cv.hp.com (dennis schloeman) writes
xsorry to repost this again so soon , but
xthe information from my earlier post was
xdeleted from our system.

xi am looking for information concerning
x sprayed on bedliners for pickup trucks.
xa company here does it using polyurethene
xbut they 've only been around for 9 months
xso there 's not much of a track record here.
xis the sprayed on bedliner any good \? how
xwell do they hold up over the years \? any
xinfo would be appreciated.
x
xthanks.
x
xdennis
do you have a ziebart dealer in your area \? they 've offered spray
on bed liners around here for several years. if you do , see what
kind of a warranty they have. ( unfortunately , i do n't know anyone
who has gotten one so i ca n't help you there.) also ask if they
can give you a list of references.

mack costello mcostell@oasys.dt.navy.mil code 65.1 (formerly 1720.1)
david taylor model basin , carderock division hq. nswc
bethesda , md 20084 5000 phone (301) 227 2431 (



from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re too fast
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 9

in article 1993apr14.152328.15997@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
there may be a case where a speed limit sign is not necessary. but take
them away entirely \?

yeah , you 're right. doing away with speed limits would just
mean huge tax increases as municipalities tried to make up for the
revenue they used to gouge from passing motorists.



from kastle@wpi.wpi.edu (jacques w brouillette)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 8
distribution world
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu
keywords brick , truck , danger

could we plase cease this discussion. i fail to see why people feel the need
to expound upon this issue for days and days on end. these areas are not meant for this type of discussion. if you feel the need to do such things , please
take your thought elsewhere. thanks.

i want only two things from this world , a 58 plymouth and a small
opec nation with which to fuel it. this would be a good and just
thing. car smashers can just go home and sulk.
jacques brouillette manufacturing engineering

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re integra gsr
article i.d. cactus.1993apr6.035020.16730
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 57

in article 1993apr5.234729.100387@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu daz1@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (demosthenis a. zeppos) writes
in article 3mwf2b1w165w@njcc.wisdom.bubble.org , jonc@njcc.wisdom.bubble.org (j
on cochran) writes
i 'd like to add the beretta gtz as a car which will kick gs r butt
anyday , and it 's a lot cheaper to boot

comparing the gtz and gsr is apples to oranges , somewhat like a mustang 5.0
and a crx , both have very different ways of doing things and ought to
appeal to different buyers , i.e. , i do n't think an acura owner would
be seen dead in a chevy dealership or vice versa.

stuff deleted

are all weather xgtv4 , not to mention that the integra rides alot better than

no integra i have seen comes with all season tires.
the gtz does come with much bigger 16 wheels.

along with the integra , and the car does that with small 14 inch tires that
your acceleartion times also vary , magazine to magazine
road track and car driver have the gs r at 6.8 to 8.0 for road and track.

the c d figures are almost certainly bogus and based on a hot prototype
supplied by acura. the mt figures are more plausible.

also quarter mile times vary from 15.4 to 16.1
16.1 sounds reasonable , probably faster than regular integras.

so , the beretta can out handle the integra and it can certainly keep
up with it in acceleration. and the beretta probably has a higher top
speed due to the horsepower advantage (160 117 (hp torque) for the
integra vs. 180 160 for the beretta).
you always believe those exact numbers , why do n't you drive a gs r , and see
for your self , while the gs r has a low 117 torqye , its high gearing over a 8000

the gsr gearing is horrible for day to day driving. it needs a 6 speed
box more than any other modern car. essentially 5th in a regualr integra
equals 4th in the gsr , and the regular integras are very buzzy at speed.

rpm make up for the difference (still would n't call it a torque moster though ! )

considering you save almost 3 , 000 dollars for the beretta , and the quad4
is a reliable engine , it does n't make sense to get the integra as a

the only person i knew with a gtz had it bought back by gm as a lemon. it
was a piecve of junk , but very quick for fwd.

quad 4 reliable , yeah , what 's your definition of reliable if that 's reliable ,
then its safe to say that integra engines in general are near perfect

the only gsr owner i know had the engine throw a rod with less than 5k
miles , a rare screw up by honda.
both the gtz and gsr are flawed cars. the performance enthusiasts would take
the gtz and the cr purchase would be the gsr.


craig

from tobias@convex.com (allen tobias)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host hydra.convex.com
organization convex computer corporation , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 24

in article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi ) writes
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly
a small girl sitting in the front seat of one of them was struck
in the head by one of the larger rocks. i do n't recall if she
made it , but i think she was comatose for a month or so and
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live.

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

erik velapold

society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the seams ! the basic reason
is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on murderous acts on tv , we can abort
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised
when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. they do n't care because the
message they hear is life is cheap !

at

from conradie@firga.sun.ac.za (gerrit conradie)
subject re is car saftey important \?
organization university of stellenbosch , sa
lines 25

in article 1993apr20.163527.12773@bnr.ca tcorkum@bnr.ca (trevor corkum) writes
subject is car saftey important \?
i was recently thumbing through the 1993 lemon aid new
car guide. what i found was a car would be given a 'recommended'
under the picture while a few sentences later noting how a
driver and passenger were virtually guaranteed to be killed
in a front end collision. the most highly recommended small
car (the civic) has the worst crash rating of all of the small
cars listed. there were many such cases of 'great' vehicles
where you would n't survive an accident. is it only me , or is
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car \?


definitely !

safety is an important criterium for me when buying a car. i wo n't buy a
small car like a civic or whatever.

great safety handling speed for me

seems to me that you would be more dead in a small car than a large car
after an accident.

gerrit


from vinlai@cbnewsb.cb.att.com (vincent.lai)
subject third party car antennas ...
organization at t
distribution na
lines 32


since this posting , i 've received no replies or followups , so i'm posting
here hoping for the feedback i did n't get in rec.audio.car

article number 9855
newsgroups rec.audio.car
path cbfsb ! cbnewsb.cb.att.com ! vinlai
from vinlai@cbnewsb.cb.att.com (vincent.lai)
subject third party car antennas ...
message id 1993apr13.202333.28657@cbfsb.cb.att.com
sender news@cbfsb.cb.att.com
organization at t
distribution na
date tue , 13 apr 1993 20 23 33 gmt

i recently saw a particular third party antenna on a new camry (not mine ,
but it caught my interest) and a new 626. it seems to replace the
factory power antenna and is about a foot long made of plastic tubing. i
have seen them on quite a few cars , but i ca n't find anything more about
them in previous r.a.c articles nor in r.a articles.

i 'd like to know all i can , so any feedback is greatly appreciated.


mom , we 're hungry ! bud bundy why tell me \? peg bundy

vincent lai

vinlai@cbnewsb.att.com forwards mail to
vlai@attmail.com which eventually winds up in
wcmnja ! lai@somerset.att.com


from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re too fast
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 53
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) says

in article 1qn4ev 3g2@usenet.ins.cwru.edu aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer) writes

in a previous article , wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) says

in article 1qkon8 3re@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
larger engine. that 's what the sho is a slightly modified family
sedan with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the
brakes.

that shows how much you know about anything. the brakes on the
sho are very different 9 inch (or 9.5 \? i forget) discs all around ,
vented in front. the normal taurus setup is (smaller) discs front ,
drums rear.

one i saw had vented rears too...it was on a lot.
of course , the sales man was a fool... titanium wheels ..yeah , right..
then later told me they were magnesium ..more believable , but still
crap , since al is so m uch cheaper , and just as good....

i tend to agree , tho that this still does n't take the sho up to standard
for running 130 on a regular basis. the brakes should be bigger , like
11 or so...take a look at the ones on the corrados.(where they have
braking regulations).

well , let 's see...my t bird sc has a computer controlled adjustable
suspension , 4 wheel abs disks (11 vented front , 10 ( \? ) rear) , 3 point
belts , sturdy passenger compartment , aerodynamics good enough for
nascar without too much change , 210 hp 310 ft lb supercharged 3.8l v6 ,
4 wheel independent suspension (plus limited slip differential) , with
a top speed in excess of 130mph , and rides on v rated tires (i have yet
to find 225 60 r16s in any other speed rating).

is that up to standard \? if not , why not \?

james

james , i really hate to do this , but try reading the damn posts !
never was a t'bird mentioned. the discussion was about sho 's and
'stangs not being up to spec. i do not know about t'birds. i
only know that the specs quoted for the sho by previous poster sounded
a little anemic for me to say that it was up to snuff. this does not
in any way disencourage me from wishing to own one , nor does it make it
a bad car. it merely means that i think ford could have added that extra
bit of safety and tossed in larger brakes , as the wheels are plenty large
enough for them to fit (if memory serves right , which it may very well not)
and the motor plenty powerful enough to need it.


c ya
drew

from lerxst@wam.umd.edu (where 's my thing)
subject what car is this ! \?
nntp posting host rac3.wam.umd.edu
organization university of maryland , college park
lines 15

i was wondering if anyone out there could enlighten me on this car i saw
the other day. it was a 2 door sports car , looked to be from the late 60s
early 70s. it was called a bricklin. the doors were really small. in addition ,
the front bumper was separate from the rest of the body. this is
all i know. if anyone can tellme a model name , engine specs , years
of production , where this car is made , history , or whatever info you
have on this funky looking car , please e mail.

thanks ,
il
brought to you by your neighborhood lerxst





from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 40

in article 1993apr15.173951.20173@icf.hrb.com jek@icf.hrb.com (joe karolchik) writes
(i deleted your name because i do n't want to sound accusative in my remark)

on another occasion , on my way from texas to florida , i had stopped in
a small motel
for the night in a small town somewhere in florida. about 5 youths were
disturbing my
car , setting off the alarm and challenging me to come out. when i and
another tenant
walked out with a 357 magnum and a 45 automatic respectively , they vanished.
needless to say , i immediately packed up and left.

watch out for car jacking and staged accidents. they can be deadly !

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your
alarm \? i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun.

if i hear someone screwing with my car (ie , setting off the alarm) and
taunting me to come out , you can be damn sure that my colt delta elite
will also be coming with me. it 's not the screwing with the car that 'd
get them shot , it 's the potential physical danger. if they 're
taunting like that , it 's very possible that they also intend to rob
me and or do other physically harmful things.

if they 're just screwing around , no harm done. if they 're bent on
mayhem , they will receive the cure for their lead deficiency a
180gr. injection @1200 fps...there 's no telling what today 's violent
criminals will do. death may be the most pleasant outcome...

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
distribution usa
organization unisql , inc. , austin , texas , usa
lines 12

in article c5r43y.f0d@mentor.cc.purdue.edu marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu (zauberer) writes
i guess i was n't clear enough here. i said the roads were designed for
speeds of 80 or so and still be safe. the current 55 65 will add a saftey
margin.

they were designed for speeds of upwards of 80 i forget the
exact spec but for military vehicles. that 's 80 in a 1958 dodge
powerwagon. not 80 in a 1993 ford taurus.





from dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf)
subject re lh workmanship
organization texas a m university , college station
lines 19
nntp posting host tamuts.tamu.edu

in article 1993apr15.203750.25764@walter.bellcore.com jchen@ctt.bellcore.com writes
i just visited the ny auto show , and saw two lh cars on the floor eagle
vision and dodge intrepid.
at a competitive price. ...

unfortunately , the workmanship is quite disappointing. on both cars ,
the rubber seals around the window and door fell off. it turns out
the seals are just big grooved rubber band. it goes on just by pressing


through a single data point , you can draw any line you want.
dr. s. bart childs , professor , texas a m dept. of computer science


both my pastor 's late model corolla and my father 's 1987 stanza
have demonstrated the falling door seals problem.

daryl biberdorf n5gjm d biberdorf@tamu.edu
sola gratia sola fide sola scriptura

from tbigham@shearson.com (tim bigham)
subject re advice on bmws and winter driving
reply to tbigham@shearson.com
organization lehman brothers , inc.
lines 26

this past winter i drove from nyc to killington , vt 6 or 7 times in my
1990 325i convertible (talk about poor reputation in the snow ! ! )
with an excellent set of snow tires. i put 4 noika nr10s on in dec. and have been
sure footed in some pretty severe weather conditions ever since. i 've plowed through
4 5 inch snow covered roads effortlessly , while other cars have been paralyzed
(front wheel drive included).

concentrate more on where the rubber meets the road rather than driveability of cars
in snowy conditions. drive carefully , buy good snow tires , and most cars will perform
adequately in less than ideal conditions.

an aside
i ca n't praise noika nr10 snows enough. absolutely the best snow tires i have ever
driven on. if you live in the snow belt , do yourself a favor and get a set of these
next winter.


tim



timothy j. bigham all opinions expressed above are my own
lehman brothers , inc. and should not be construed as those of
amex tower , world financial center my employer.
new york , n.y.


from mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee)
subject re manual shift bigots
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 21

eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot) writes

in article c5liw2.cax@news.rich.bnr.ca peon w o email (eric youngblood) writes
in article 1qn2lo c9s@vela.acs.oakland.edu , mje@pookie.pass.wayne.edu (michael j. edelman) writes
the big disadvantage of automatics is the 10 hp they consume that never
gets to the wheels. in this respect they are at a disadvantage to a manual.

only when the torque converter is not locked up. there are autos out there
with converter lock up in 2nd , 3rd and 4th gears.

w r t performance , converter lockup is purely irrelevant. the lockup only
occurs at light throttle settings and serves only to improve mpg. mind you ,
a converter clutch does a lovely job of improving mpg , but the additional
mechanical advantage of the converter gives you more acceleration (vs. locked
converter clutch) than its inherent losses take away.


michael t. chaffee
mchaffee@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu email
mchaffee@sumter.cso.uiuc.edu nextmail
.sig under construction. excuse

from chrisb@lynx.ps.uci.edu (chris barrus)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host lynx.ps.uci.edu
in reply to ejv2j@virginia.edu 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 02 42 46 gmt
organization dept. of physics , univ. of california , irvine
lines 15


unfortunately , i 've got another story to add to this. my girlfriend
and i were driving through west l.a. , and got pelted by a rock just as
we were pulling away from a stoplight. the scary thing was that the
rock was heavy enough to put a decent sized dent in the door of my '72
riviera which is pretty much solid detriot iron. couple of inches
higher and it would have gone through the window.

chris


chris barrus chrisb@lynx.ps.uci.edu kallista@aol.com
1972 buick riviera boattail , peace through superior automotive power !
sacred cows make the best hamburger abbie hoffman


from mcrosbie@batman.bmd.trw.com
subject any syclone or typhoon owners out there \?
lines 4

i want to start of list for syclone and typhoon owners. if you are interested
in participating , please contact me via e mail.

merrill

from ciarlett@mizar.usc.edu (joni ciarletta)
subject master cylinder
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 10
distribution world
nntp posting host mizar.usc.edu


thanks to everyone who responded to my honda accord break question.
it does seem that the master cylinder is bad. i will have my
mechanic double check and be sure it is n't something simpler
and cheaper first , but from your responses it sounds like it
is very likely to be the master cylinder.

thanks everyone ! !

joni

from mark@ve6mgs.ampr.org (mark g. salyzyn)
subject re do it yourself front end alignment possible \?
article i.d. ve6mgs.1993apr6.200818.10500
distribution na
organization adec systems inc.
lines 44

davidd@lonestar.utsa.edu (david . de leon) writes

in article 113364@bu.edu selick@csa.bu.edu (steven selick) writes
i 've got an 86 plymouth colt that i 'd like to do a front end alignment
on. is it possible to do without all of the fancy schmancy gadgets the
pros have \? how \?
steve
no.no.no.no.
if you do so , you are putting the lives of others on the road at consider
able risk. why do you think mechanics are ase certified \? \? anyway you put
it , you need those fancy scmancy gadgets...

awww , right , you want all the home mechanics lined up against a wall and
shot eh \?

bull pucky you chicken ! read the service manual and get your head out of the
sand ! certainly there are tools for the job that are cheaper than an alignment
rack , that do the job as competently (albeit , not as swiftly) , if not
more accurate , due to the natural pride an owner mechanic places on his work.
you can do an `acceptable' job of aligning a car using simple tools and
some imaginative work that would never have the effect of endangering
anyones life. the worst that happens is that your tires wear oddly (well ,
you could have the wheels aiming totally pigeon toed and not be able
to steer the car , raise your hands those that think their vision is
so poor that they would screw up this badly ! )

i bet you are one of those people that feels that honing a cylinder wall
with sand paper will kill millions of people. it aint magic. go take the
certification course , and look at the people that have never learned to add
in their whole life that are taking the certification !

btw , i am disgusted at the colt (and some of the other chrysler offerings)
because they go out of alignment if you sneaze at them. my '84 chrysler
laser (similar to the daytona , a reskinned colt) needed a realignment every
3 months ... bolt a good grade 12' 2x4 to each wheel , using a carefully welded
spacer jig. measure toe in , adjust to manufacturer specs. camber a bit more
difficult to adjust and measure ... i used a micrometer to measure the
space between the rim and a funky bent up pipe that could be placed on
upper and lower portions of the rim on the inside of wheel (hard to explain).
this same tool could be used instead of the 2x4s. i had made these tools up
right after the last alignment done professionally so i had a reference that
the original poster might not ...

ciao mark

from eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re manual shift bigots
organization clearer than blir
lines 20
nntp posting host lanmola.engr.washington.edu

in article c5o4nh.3su@news.cso.uiuc.edu mchaffee@dcl nxt07 (michael t chaffee) writes
w r t performance , converter lockup is purely irrelevant. the lockup only
occurs at light throttle settings and serves only to improve mpg. mind you ,
a converter clutch does a lovely job of improving mpg , but the additional
mechanical advantage of the converter gives you more acceleration (vs. locked
converter clutch) than its inherent losses take away.

the transmission in my car contradicts both your assertions.. i get much
stronger acceleration if i let the convertor lockup.. which i can induce
by briefly lifting off , then quickly (but not too quickly to trigger
a kickdown) applying throttle. above 3000 rpms , the convertor will never
unlock it would kickdown first.

who says there 's no skill involved in driving an automatic \? i think
of it as the throttle and shifter combined into a single pedal. with
my car i can pretty much influence its shifting patterns with my
right foot , while having both hands to steer.


eliot

subject curious about you
from maria alice ruth mao111@psuvm.psu.edu
organization penn state university
lines 20

please satisfy my curiosity. i'm interested in finding out who is using the
e mail system. please do not flood me with mail after april 21st. thanks !
maria alice ruth mao111@psuvm.bitnet or @psuvm.psu.edu

1. are you male or female \?

2. how long have you been using the e mail system \?

3. how do you have access (at work , at school , etc) \?

4. who taught you how to use the system \? is that person male or female \?

5. have you helped anyone to learn the system \? was that person(s) male or
female \?

6. which net did you find my questions on \?

7. which other nets are you interested in \?

8. how often do you read post to the system \?

from c23st@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (spiros triantafyllopoulos)
subject re top 10 reasons why i love cr (not for the humor impaired)
distribution na
organization delco electronics corp.
lines 21

in article c4wjgq.a40@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
no. at six years , you are nearing the end of the design life of the
vehicle , when everything should be breaking. at that point , the
driving habits make more difference than the actual reliability
of the vehicle , so the data becomes unreliable for drawing conclusions ,

bad driving habits can damage a car in a couple of months , not 6 years.

if that were not the case , everyone would be driving fleet rental re solds...

and while you are considering things (factors in stat terms) , how about
city vs. highway driving ratios , owner vs. dealer service , extreme weather
or environment , adherence (sp \? ) to maintenance schedules , whether the car
has ever been in an accident , number of different drivers of the same car
in a family , whether the car is garaged , warmed up , ...

spiros

spiros triantafyllopoulos c23st@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com
software technology , delco electronics (317) 451 0815
gm hughes electronics , kokomo , in 46904 a different kind of disclaimer

from mad9a@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (michael a. davis)
subject slick 50 , any good \?
organization university of virginia
lines 9


chances are that this has been discussed to death already , and
if so could someone who has kept the discussion mail me or direct me
to an archive site. basically ,
i am just wondering if slick 50 really does all it says that it does.
and also , is there any data to support the claim. thanks for any info.

mike davis
mad9a@fermi.clas.virginia.edu

from rhorwell@crab.atc.boeing.com (roland faragher horwell , crab)
subject re what is volvo \?
reply to rhorwell@atc.boeing.com
organization boeing computer services
lines 46

in article 21071@sernews.raleigh.ibm.com , mperry@vnet.ibm.com (mark perry) writes
hardly a good reason , most us cars do too and plenty of people
buy them (in the us anyway ). i think the 850 is quite a good
looking car unlike the us influenced 740 !

kevinh@hasler.ascom.ch

i do n't think it 's so easy to tell the 850 from any other 7 or 9 series unless
you look real close. i really do think volvo 's are all dogs though beacuse they
are 1.agricultural

while previous volvos have been essentially very fast tractors , the 3 , 4 and 8 series
are far from 'agricultural' in design or execution (how many fwd tractors have you
seen \? ).

2.have godlier than thou advertising.

you state this like it is a bad thing. ) (remember , car companies use
ad agencies they do n't do their own ads ! )

3.are part of renault.

is this true \? i know that they had done joint ventures with renault , but i have n't
heard about their subsumption into renault does this mean that the french government
now owns volvo \? anyway , renault makes some very nice cars , they just do n't sell
'em in n. america !


however... one thing that i do think is in their favour is that they are
immediately recognisable as a volvo and that is not something you can say
about most japanese manufacturers and ford. saab also have a strong corparate
look which like it or not is what i thing all car makers could aim for to
make life a little more varied.

here ! here !



mperry@vnet.ibm.com

roland
rhorwell@atc.boeing.com





from dchamber@b15news.b15.ingr.com (doug chamberlain)
subject re cherokee v. explorer
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville , al
lines 42

jcksnste@acf1.nyu.edu writes

hi all ,
brand new to the group , so please , no flames !

honest opinions on jeep cherokee country (not sport) v. ford explorer.

my stepfather , who ponders every major decision up to four months after
making it , is looking at one of the two. also , please comment on the
importance , if any , between 4wd and 2wd. we live in princeton , nj and
will barely ever take it off road. we learned with this last winter that
we could really use something with a little more confidence in 20 inches of
snow than an olds cutlass eighty eight ! !

all replies appreciated.. he 'll be pondering this for a while. he 's already
decided on 6 cyl. over 4 , so do n't worry about that one..

thanks !

steve

i own a new ford explorer , i really love it !
i drove the jeep and besides the power i just did n't see
spending the money for it ! the jeep was great but i just
love the explorer ! i have a 2wd and i got through the blizzard
of 93 just fine ! i drove about 400 miles in the worst part of
storm and it never faulterd ! my own opinion
doug i













(jcksnste@acf1.nyu.edu)

from charlesw@sail.labs.tek.com (charles wilson)
subject re experience opinions sought , diesel engines
article i.d. sail.13600
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 42

in article 91321@hydra.gatech.edu jkg@jmp.com writes
apologies if this is a faq (is there a faq posting for this group \? i
am an infrequent reader of rec.autos , so i ca n't remember).

i am in the market for a used chevy suburban , and have observed that
prices for models with diesel engines run about 1000 2000 less than
comparable models with a gas engine.

there has to be a reason for this.

yes , there is consumer confusion. in the early 80 's with the
fuel crisis , etc. , everyone wanted better fuel mileage. diesel fuel
was the cheapest fuel available and usually provides better mileage
than comparable gasoline engines. so , gm decided to conver their
350 gas engine into a diesel engine (i think was a 5.7 liter). big
mistake. the engine was not redesigned , but converted. the engine
could not handle the higher compression , etc. lots of problems with
these cars. this thew up a big red flag to the casual observer
don t buy a diesel. they are bad. this was a gross generalization.

ask yourself this question if your livelihood depended on driving ,
lots of it , would you use a dependable or undependable (but cheaper
in the short run) vehicle \? what do greyhound busses have in them \?
trailer trucks \? even train locomotives \? are these gasoline engines \?
no , they are diesel. tractor trailer truck manufacturers provide a
500 , 000 mile warrantee with they vehicles.

i own an `82 diesel suburban. the 6.2l diesel is a great engine.
just keeps going. it was more expensive (when new) than the gasoline
engine vehicle was. the only problem with diesel engines is that
when they need to be rebuilt , they are expensive. in a gas 350
engine , you will pay about 1000 for a rebuild. diesel 6.2l is about
2000. but then again , the diesel engine lasts about twice as long
and gets about 50 better mileage. a carburator for a gasoline engine
costs about 100 to rebuild (or less). a rebuild of the fuel injection
pump on a diesel will cost about 500 (or more). but then again ,
you never need a tune up.

if you 're looking at a rebuilt 6.2l , i 'd say you got a great deal.
check to see if the fuel injection pump was rebuilt also.

good luck.

from harv@cup.portal.com (harv r laser)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization the portal system (tm)
93apr15.165432.44598@acs.ucalgary.ca c5jnk3.jkt@news.cso.uiuc.edu
1993apr15.223029.23340@cactus.org
lines 25


no. reverse lights are to warn others that you are backing up. they
are n't bright enough to (typically) see by without the brake and tail
lights.


craig

perhaps instead of this silly argument about what backup lights
are for , could n't we agree that they serve the dual purpose of
letting people behind your car know that you have it in reverse
and that they can also light up the area behind your car while
you 're backing up so you can see \?

backup lamps on current models are much brighter than they used
to be on older cars. those on my taurus wagon are quite bright
enough to illuminate a good area behind the car , and they 're
much brighter than those on my earlier cars from the 60s and 70s.

insofar as vettes having side backup lights , look at a '92 or '93
model (or perhaps a year or two earlier too) and you 'll see
red side marker lamps and white side marker lamps both near the
car 's hindquarters. those are n't just white reflectors.

harv

from dspalme@mke.ab.com (diane palme x2617)
subject re wife wants convertible
organization allen bradley co.
lines 24
nntp posting host tinman.mke.ab.com
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4

nuet ke@pts.mot.com (keith nuetzman x3153 p7625) writes


help ! ! !
my wife has informed me that she wants a convertible for her next car.

jp@vllyoak.resun.com (jeff perry) writes

fyi , just last week the pbs show motor week gave the results of what they
thought were the best cars for '93. in the convertible category , the
honda civic del sol achieved this honor.

the one down side i see with the car is its interior , it looks
inexpensive and dull.

i own a del sol and i must vouch for the interior. i really looks snazzy when
the top is off. i looks a lot better in person than on the television. (i saw
that motorweek as well. needless to say i was smiling a bit by the time it
was over ...) )

watch out for that darned convertible tan tho...

diane
dspalme@mke.ab.comm

from daubendr@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (darren r daubenspeck)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization computer science department at rose hulman
lines 12
distribution usa
reply to daubendr@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (darren r daubenspeck)
nntp posting host l130b7.nextwork.rose hulman.edu


they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next
year with all new models.


junk \? they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and
acceleration. they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not
the newest on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight mpg under the class
leader. you can get into a 3.0 l v 6 (141 hp) shadow for 10 11k (the i 4
turbo a bit more) , and a droptop for 14 15k.



from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re too fast
organization lehigh university
lines 13

in article 3090@shaman.wv.tek.com , andrew@frip.wv.tek.com (andrew klossner) wr
ites


can i ask. have any of you been at the speed of 130 \? it 's a
rush.

so is cocaine. what 's your point \?

andrew klossner (andrew@frip.wv.tek.com)

yeah , and the cop could n't catch me.....


from jdmooney@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (john d. mooney)
subject re anti theft devices
organization delco electronics corp.
lines 36
originator jdmooney@koinsv02


in article 99948@rphroy.ph.gmr.com , rhaar@gmr.com (bob haar) writes
in article 3056@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com , jdmooney@kocrsv01.delcoelect.com (john d. mooney) writes

someone writes

btw , somebody stole the front grille off my beat up 1983 nissan sentra
a few weeks ago ! i could n't believe it. i'm just driving around
without it now.

years ago , my brother lived in a rough area.... he left his nova
parked on the street in front of his house for a few days.....
one day he went to move it back into the driveway , it would n't start....

seems some industrious fool needed a nova gas tank..... the fool found
one under my brothers car.


the engines in vw beatles are quite easy to remove without entering the car
or even opening the engine compartment. how would you like to find that
your car would n't start because the engine was stolen \?


i would probobly feel a hell of a lot poorer... a gas tank is about
50 in a junkyard. an engine... more !

seriously though , my other brother , darrell , left his vw on the same
street... someone stole the radiator out of it.... try finding a vw
radiator in a junkyard ) i dare you !

jd


john d mooney delco electronics general motors
jdmooney@kocrsv01@delcoelect.com
opinions expressed are mine... not necessarily de 's or gm 's

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization corporation for open systems
distribution na
lines 21

in 1993apr15.040118.29272@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes

in article c5hhgm.1rm@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr13.215605.26252@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes

how about those really ugly fake wheel compartments stuck onto the
trunk or side (or both sides ! ) of some tacky luxury cars \?

some of 'em are n't fake (if you 're talking about the continental kit ,
named after the lincoln continental , the first car to sport one). i
personally would love to have a '56 t bird with a continental kit
(and the supercharged v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful
cars ever built , imho.

i 'd go for a '39 lincoln continental if i could find one. sad part is
that edsel ford designed it , and look at the abortion they named after
him. ai n't no justice.


okay , i 'll admit it looks nice on the t bird (as a previous owner
of 1967 and 1968 thunderbirds , i'm biased anyway).

from hacker@cco.caltech.edu (jonathan bruce hacker)
subject re auto air conditioning without freon
article i.d. gap.1qnb5rinn281
distribution usa
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 39
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com (mark monninger) writes

in article 1993apr15.222600.11690@research.nj.nec.com
behanna@syl.nj.nec.com (chris behanna) writes
...
several chemists already have come up with several substitutes for
r12. you do n't hear about them because the mobile air conditioning
society
(macs) , that is , the people who stand to rake in that 300 to 1000 per
retrofit per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to squash
those
r12 substitutes out of existence if not ban them altogether (on very
shaky
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at worst).
...

now , i'm not saying you 're wrong because i know that the r 12 substitutes
exist , but this sounds a lot like the 200mpg carbs that the oil companies
keep us all from getting.

these substitutes exist , and at this time are available. its the future
availability that is in doubt.

1) ghg 12

get it from people 's welding supply 800 382 9006


2) butane propane

you can mix this yourself so no one can ever regulate it away.
just make sure you use good quality (dry) gases.


i do n't know of any 200mpg carb distributors )

jon hacker get the os 2 2.1 march beta cd rom
caltech , pasadena ca for 20 call 1 800 3 ibm os2
hacker@tumbler ridge.caltech.edu read about it in comp.os.os2.beta

from barnesm@sun.com (mark barnes sunsoft)
subject re lh workmanship
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 6
distribution world
reply to barnesm@sun.com
nntp posting host vavau.corp.sun.com


i was following an example of the lh the other day , and noticed the fit
between the tunk lid and the rear bumper. the gap was quite small on
the left side , but much larger on the right. blech ! ! !

mark

from dilmore@cray.com (robert j. dilmore)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
lines 27
nntp posting host techops.cray.com
organization cray research , inc.

in article c5hqj0.57@unix.amherst.edu bhtulin@unix.amherst.edu (barak h. tulin) writes
i just started reading this thread today , so forgive me if it has already been
mentioned. but...what was the deal with renault 's putting the horn on the
left hand turn signal stalk \? it was a button on the end , where the washer
button would be on the wiper washer stalk. could the frenchies not figure
out the wiring through the steering wheel , or what \?

well , before we start calling the engineering folks in france a bunch of
braindeads for this...
my 1979 mercury capri had this lovely feature. this was not the earlier
german variant but the newer one that was identical to the mustang of
current fame. i ca n't tell you how many times this feature pissed me off.
come to think of it my brothers zepher had this as well.

robert dilmore
dilmore@cray.com


going back to an earlier thread , imagine having to turn left , shift gears ,
flash a stray driver in the intersection with your left hand high beam on
the headlight stalk , and , after the driver would n't move , having to honk the
horn on the left hand stalk ! gives me the heebie jeebies.

barak




from williac@govonca.gov.on.ca (chris williams)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization government of ontario
lines 71

in smn42b1w165w@cybernet.cse.fau.edu vlasis@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (vlasis theodore) writes

tobias@convex.com (allen tobias) writes

in article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik vel
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly
a small girl sitting in the front seat of one of them was struck
in the head by one of the larger rocks. i do n't recall if she
made it , but i think she was comatose for a month or so and
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live.

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

erik velapold

society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the seams ! the basic reason
is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on murderous acts on tv , we can abort
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised
when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. they do n't care because the
message they hear is life is cheap !

at

well people fortunatly or unfortunatly ,
only the us is experiencing the devaluation of human life (among
developed nations).

i am an american but i was raised in europe , where the worst thing that
can happen to somebody is get his car broken into , or have his pocket
picked by slaves or russian refugees.

of cource there will be some nutcases , but thats extremely rare.

i.e. in greece you can walk through any neighborhood at any time during
the night without even worrying.

in germany , you can walk the sidewalks at 4.00 am and not even look
behind your back , at the sanitation crews that clean the streets to a
sparkling cleen.

whoever of you have been there you know what i am saying.

i dont have any easy answers but if we as a nation do some selfcritisism
we might get somewhere.

of course these postings sould be in soc.culture.us but if we reduce
crime here it 'll mean less car insurance rates , thus we could spend
more money on modifing our cars. (now my posting is rec.autos.tech
revelant).

vlasis theodore


software engineer
idb mobile communications.

sig under development ...

i remember this happening on the i 75 through michigan and ohio several
years back. a group of guys in an old beater would rear end a car ,
usually out of state or canadians. you stop and they smack you with a bb
bat. at least they did n't kill you for the sake of a car.
i think the cops put out decoys and this calmed down for a while.

vlasis , are you safe walking through germany if you are a refugee \?

from music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization triumf tri university meson facility
lines 71
distribution world
nntp posting host erich.triumf.ca
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr15.173851.25846@convex.com , tobias@convex.com (allen tobias) writes...
in article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi ) writes
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly
a small girl sitting in the front seat of one of them was struck
in the head by one of the larger rocks. i do n't recall if she
made it , but i think she was comatose for a month or so and
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live.

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours \? i
can see boyhood pranks of peeing off of bridges and such , but
20 pound rocks \? \? ! has our society really stooped this low \? \?

yes. nobody is watching them. if they get caught , there is no punishment
at all. in the old days such behaviour would be rewarded with a whipping
with a good sized belt , and then taken into some hospital to see first hand
what kind of damage such accidents cause. of course this does n't happen
any more. that whipping would probably save the kid 's life by teaching
him some respect for others. a person with that little respect would
inevitably wind up dead early anyway.

the problem is creeping gradualism. if you put a frog into hot water ,
he just jumps out. but if you put him into cold water and then ever so
gradually heat it , the frog will cook. this is what the entertainment
industry and lack of religious , moral , and educational standards in our
modern north american society have done to us over the years. now that
we are about to be 'cooked' , we may have woken up too late.


erik velapold

society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the seams ! the basic reason
is that human life has been devalued to the point were killing someone is
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on murderous acts on tv , we can abort
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised
when some kids drop 20 lbs rocks and kill people. they do n't care because the
message they hear is life is cheap !

and the education system and the religious leaders are n't doing much
about it , either. with both parents working in this society , where is
the stabilizing influence at home \? latchkey children are everywhere !
and these latchkey kids can watch whatever rotten videos and listen to
whatever violent hate promoting music and videos they like because no
one is home to stop it.

this day and age , when there is about 100 times more things to learn
than when i went to school , our answer to this increased knowledge is
shorter school hours and more leisure time ! i say keep the kids in
school longer , feed them good food and teach them something , and when
they get home , have a parent there to interact and monitor them. there
is a very old and now forgotten proverb a child left on his own will
bring a parent to grief. daycare systems are not the answer. this is
just shifting the parents' own responsibilities off on someone else to
whom it 's not a life long committment , but rather just a job.



at

followups should go to alt.parents teens


fred w. bach , operations group internet music@erich.triumf.ca
triumf (tri university meson facility) voice 604 222 1047 loc 327 278
4004 wesbrook mall , ubc campus fax 604 222 1074
university of british columbia , vancouver , b.c. , canada v6t 2a3

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question.
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers.

from boyle@bbsls23.bnr (ian boyle)
subject re what is volvo \?
organization bnr europe ltd.
lines 20
distribution world
reply to boyle@bbsls23.bnr
nntp posting host bbsls23.bnr.co.uk

and all of these cars are driven fairly hard. none of them are at the head of
a line of cars going 30 mph....the first two spend a lot of their operating
life with the speedometer pegged...and the only reason the 84 does n't is it has
a 120 mph speedo...
what i want to know is....have all you people who hate volvos been traumatized
by someone in a 745 turbo wagon blowing you away on the road , or what \?

740 turbo in uk was good for 124mph. useful for blowing away vw beetles , though i
believe the beetle corners better.

i can say without any doubt that i have never been blown away by any volvo , ever.
i 've been blocked into a few car parks though by shit head volvo owners who 'only thought they 'd be a few minutes'. this does not happen with the owners of any other makes of car.

not sure how long the small shit box volvos last too damn long. the worst car i ever drove was a hired 340. in power , handling and ride it was reminiscent of something
from the 50s , without the character. the 340 only ceased production a couple of years back. i 've only been a passenger in the big volvos , but that was enough. i ought to go
for a test drive because they offer some neat gifts.





from n8846069@henson.cc.wwu.edu (barryb)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
article i.d. henson.1993apr18.083715.21366
distribution usa
organization western washington university
lines 25

daubendr@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (darren r daubenspeck) writes

they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next
year with all new models.

junk \? they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and
acceleration.they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not
the newest on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight mpg under the class
leader. you can get into a 3.0 l v 6 (141 hp) shadow for 10 11k (the i 4
turbo a bit more) , and a droptop for 14 15k.

how can car be any good that has

s n a c
u d n e

written on the back with crooked letters as if a 2 year old had
written it \? hehhehehehahaha !

(about as silly as crysler 's attemps to make the label on the back
of some of their other cars appear like they are mercedes.)

sorry , i could n't resist...

barryb

from marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu (zauberer)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization purdue university

can we please stick to automotive topics . thank you.
lines 1



from lxrosser@cco.caltech.edu (alex rosser)
subject re what is volvo \?
article i.d. gap.1pl86tinnfv7
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 27
nntp posting host blacker.caltech.edu

wolfson@regatta.sps.mot.com (stephen wolfson) writes

in article 1993mar31.193406.29625@ugle.unit.no oep@colargol.edb.tih.no
(oep) writes
which turns into a teenagers car when it gets old. the average
lifelength of
a volvo in norway is 18 years , and in sweden 20 years)

of course someone pointed out when saab or volvo was running their
at least 10 years ads , that the average milage was significantly
less than than the us average.

that my be , but every volvo i 've ever owned has lasted far longer than most
other cars.....
1981 volvo 245....125 , 000 miles , still on the road.
1983 volvo 242....195 , 000 miles , still on the road.
1984 volvo 244....175 , 000 miles , still on the road.
and i 'll admit , the dealer repair cost is high. but with some mechanical
aptitude of your own , and finding a good indi mechanic , you can avoid most
breakdowns , and make the rest cheap(the sum total of the repairs on the car with
195 , 000 miles has been 2 mufflers and a radiator. whoa. bad repair record).
and all of these cars are driven fairly hard. none of them are at the head of
a line of cars going 30 mph....the first two spend a lot of their operating
life with the speedometer pegged...and the only reason the 84 does n't is it has
a 120 mph speedo...
what i want to know is....have all you people who hate volvos been traumatized
by someone in a 745 turbo wagon blowing you away on the road , or what \?

from nataraja@rtsg.mot.com (kumaravel natarajan)
subject re water in trunk of 89 probe \? \?
nntp posting host opal12
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group
lines 39

jlong@emcnext2.tamu.edu (james long) writes

in article 1r1crn 27g@transfer.stratus.com tszeto@sneezy.ts.stratus.com
(tommy szeto) writes
water gradually builds up in the trunk of my friend 's 89 ford probe. every
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and scoop out the water
under the plywood carpet cover on the trunk. i would guess this usually
happens
after a good thunder storm. a few qs

1) is this a common problem \?
2) where are the drain holes located for the hatch \?

i noticed this is my '89 probe also , when recently cleaning out the back. i
think the water is coming up through some rubber stoppered holes beneath the
spare. mine looked slightly worn , and there was no water or water damage above
the level of the spare area.

this has taken a low priority since i just found out (while rotating my tires)
that i have a torn cv boot ugh ! !

i 've got an 89 gt. it has the smoked taillight assembly. i think this is where
the water is getting in. when i first got it (had it for a month) , one of the rear
taillights fogged up with moisture. i took it in to the dealer and they replaced
the entire assembly. it happened to the other one about 3 months later. this time
i happened to look in the spare tire well and noticed water standing in there. the
dealer was more reluctant this time to replace it. but i convinced them to
fix it. (they must have had to deal with a number of other probes with the same
problem.) i have n't noticed water in the taillamps (or the trunk) for the last 2.5
years , but just last month , the taillamp just fogged up again. i'm going to try
to take it back to get them to fix it again. i'm real tempted to drill some vent
and drain holes in the tops and bottoms of the assembly and forget about it. this is
getting very annoying. (almost every other `89 gt i 've seen has had this problem.)

vel


vel natarajan nataraja@rtsg.mot.com motorola cellular , arlington hts il


from wchutt@alex.monsanto.com (bill c hutton)
subject mr2 car cover for sale
organization monsanto company
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 19




for sale

fitted car cover specifically for '91' , 92 , '93 mr 2.

top of the line evolution 3 tm fabric. used for less than 6 months.
the cover is in excellent condition no rips , cuts , stains or other
blemishes. it has grommets for a locking cable. the color is silver.

price 90 f.o.b. will ship collect


please contact wchutt@monsanto.com

or phone at

314 576 3798 after 6 pm cdt

from marshatt@feserve.cc.purdue.edu (zauberer)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization purdue university
distribution usa
lines 5

sorry about that last post , my server neglected to send the message

can we please keep this group to automotive topics. thank you.



from jwg@sedv1.acd4.acd.com (jwg)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
in reply to bh@anarres.cs.berkeley.edu 's message of 20 apr 93 17 50 58 gmt
organization u jwg .organization
rfelixc5sjpe.bq8@netcom.com 1r1d62 d6s@agate.berkeley.edu
lines 21

in article 1r1d62 d6s@agate.berkeley.edu bh@anarres.cs.berkeley.edu (brian harvey) writes

rfelix@netcom.com (robbie felix) writes
how about the thousands of kind teenagers who volunteer at local
agencies to help children , seniors , the homeless \?

hear , hear ! thanks , robbie.

you also do n't read that much about violence against teenagers , such as
george bush burying alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year olds ,
who were trying to surrender , with bulldozers.


i did n't know george bush could drive a bulldozer.



kee ripe.

jim grey
jwg@acd4.acd.com

from klf@druwa.att.com (franklinkl)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
summary continental the first do n't think so !
distribution na
lines 30

in article c5hhgm.1rm@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu , callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr13.215605.26252@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
in article 1q4466innb85@ctron news.ctron.com smith@ctron.com writes

it 's a big aftermarket business. almost no cars come from the factory with
vynal any more , and any fake convertible job definitely came from some
aftermarket place. what amazes me is how much people are willing to pay for
bad taste

how about those really ugly fake wheel compartments stuck onto the
trunk or side (or both sides ! ) of some tacky luxury cars \?

some of 'em are n't fake (if you 're talking about the continental kit ,
named after the lincoln continental , the first car to sport one). i
personally would love to have a '56 t bird with a continental kit
(and the supercharged v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful
cars ever built , imho.

james


the continental may have been the first modern era auto to mount the
spare on the rear of the car but it was hardly the first car to sport one.
various mounting techniques for rear mounting the spare were quite common
in early automobiles , both us and foreign.

ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait
ama and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't
gwrra i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints
dod 0126 the sinners are lots more fun , y'know only the good die young

from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re too fast
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 36
distribution world
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
the quality of autobahns is something of a myth. the road surface
is n't much different to a typical tx freeway. they are better
in terms of lighting , safety , signs , roadmarkings etc.

they light the highways in texas \? funny , everywhere else i 've been
they only light 'em at junctions.

i wo n't even get into how much road markings vary between states and
localities except to say that there are some areas where markings are
essentially nonexistant.

than most of the roads here. a dip in the asphalt that you test your
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130. do n't get me wrong , i love to

it would have to be quite severe. i do n't recall any us freeway ,
without road damage warnings , that i would regard as unsafe
at 130 in any decent , well damped car.

i suspect you have very limited experience us freeways vary
dramatically , particularly between states. i can name a number of
interstate highways in various parts of the country where 130 would be
very optimistic in any car.

i'm not sure what you call quite severe in terms of road deviations
but i suspect every single bridge junction on i84 through ct would be
considered so. they 're hard to take at 85mph. that 's not the only
interstate i 've seen with such deviations , but it 's one i drive
frequently.

texas is pretty much an edge case you ca n't assume that everywhere
has roads in such good condition , such flat terrain , and such
wide open spaces. it just ai n't so.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

from vlasis@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (vlasis theodore)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
organization cybernet bbs , boca raton , florida
lines 20

neilson@seoul.mpr.ca (robert neilson) writes

sorry for the 0 auto content , but ...

that is why low abiding citizens should have the power to protect themselve
and their property using deadly force if necessary anywhere a threat is
imminent.

steve heracleous

you do have the power steve. you can do it. why do n't you \? why do n't you
go shoot some kids who are tossing rocks onto cars \? make sure you do a good
job though do n't miss 'cause like they have big rocks and take it from
me those kids are mean.

ditto ,

i you dont do it yourself nobody , will.
unless i am behind you , so both of us can shoot them bastards.


from rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade)
subject re integra gsr
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 21


quad 4 reliable , yeah , what 's your definition of reliable if that 's reliable ,
then its safe to say that integra engines in general are near perfect
(not to mention , a hell of alot smoother and quieter balance shafts.the acura has the engine
wins the reliablity contest hands down. you can rev that car all day , everyday ,
and you 'll never blow a hose , or crack the block , or anything else. (i speak
from expierence ! )
i'm not saying the quad 4 is a bad engine , but do n't highlight reliability when you
comparing it to a acura engine. and while the integra costs alot more , it is a

a couple of things blowing a hose does n't speak of engine reliability , and
while it is true that quad4 's have a problem with head gasket leaks , that was
a design flaw in the gasket and has been corrected. also i know pontiac is
replacing head gaskets that leak for free for 6year 60k miles. other than
that i have found my quad4 to be completely solid and the direct ignition
system means no wires rotor rotor cap to ever deal with. also hydrolic lifters
mean no valve adjustments ever. i'm not badmouthing the integra engine , i just
think you are going overboard on slamming the quad4. you are quite correct
that the integra engine is quieter , although i would not say smoother , my
quad4 loves to rev , especially at the high end. do you have any evidence
of blocks cracking on quad4s \? i have not heard of this.

from larry@boris.webo.dg.com (larry rogers)
subject re saturn 91 92 manual transmission problem
in reply to cimjfg@sn370.utica.ge.com 's message of tue , 13 apr 1993 20 50 21 gmt
organization data general , westboro , mass.
lines 34


i had exactly the same problem with a 1981 horizon. third gear would
just disengage. engine would rev up. kind of disconcerting.

i sold that car quite a few years back but the memory of that tranny
sticks with me. it also had a clutch chatter in first that the dealer
could not fix. if the lemon law had been in place then , that car
would have been covered.

i have had several jap cars since then (figuring the horizon was my
contribution to the american auto companies) , and have never seen any
bad behavior with the exception of a toyota tercel with a bit of
clutch chatter that they did fix on the first try.

anyway , from that day forward , i have sworn that i would never
purchase another american car with a standard. american manufacturers
do n't have a clue on how to manufacture five speed transmissions and
have been doing the automatics much longer and on many more cars.
however , i hate automatics , so i am still buying jap cars.

not sure this is any help , but other cars do this too.

cheers , larry

@@ larry rogers
@@@ larry rogers@dg.com big brother
@@@ larry@boris.webo.dg.com is watching
@@ data general 508 870 8441

the opinions contained herein are my own , and do not reflect the
opinions of data general or anyone else , but they should.

sometimes we are the windshield , sometimes we are the bug
dire straits

from ems@michael.apple.com (e. michael smith)
subject re how hard to change springs on f350 truck \?
organization circle 'c' shellfish ranch , shores of the pacific , california
lines 88

bottom line i did it and it worked.

some 'tips and techniques' are included here

in article c4zzpn.ax7@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr3.005245.10615@michael.apple.com ems@michael.apple.com (e. michael smith) writes
does it take any peculiar tools to remove the rear springs from a ford
f350 truck \? this is a 4x4 with leaf springs front and rear.

so , with a big socket and an air wrench and a floor jack (and a
hydrolic bottle jack ...) can i do this at home \?

i found that i needed some smaller sockets to undo the shocks.
and a can of wd40 helped...

the sockets needed were metric (exact fit) but i was able to use
some sae sockets... 13 16 and 15 16 are rather close to 21 and 24mm...
it can be fun having a canadian ford ...

i'm pictureing this undo u bolts. put a bottle jack on the axle
and raise the bed frame to take stress off of the leaf spring. undo
the end bolts bushings. drop the spring. turn the bottom leaf.
re connect the spring bolts...

sounds about right.

did n't have to undo the end bolts bushings. just the 2 u bolts on
each side and the shock absorber. jacking up the frame some more
(had to put the spare tire on the garage floor and put a wooden
platform on top of that to get the 'floor jack' high enough to
raise the frame ... i't one talll truck...) lifted the spring
free of the axel. taking out the block gave me enough room to
undo the pin holding the spring pack together.

the spring pack was held together with a nut on top and a round head
on the other end.... no wrench head... vice grips worked fine...
i soaked the nut with wd40 and it came right off.

flipped the bottom spring and then...

is this a nightmare waiting to happen , or an easy , though physically
demanding , thing to do \?

well , it 's easier than doing a decent trigger job on a 1911a1 )
(ok , well , maybe it 's not that easy , but it 's not terribly
difficult.)

i donno ... i'm a little more sore today than after working on a
1911a1 ...

a 1.5 foot pipe cheater was a real help. torque spec for the u bolt
nuts is 150 to 200 ft lbs ( ! ). a 1911 a1 does n't have that kind of
torque spec ...

it was a 'challenge' to get the 'pack bolt' back in the spring pack.
squeeze pack with two hands , hold bolt with third , put nut on
with fourth while picking up wrench and vice grips with fifth
and sixth hands ... i used some string to tie the pack together
while holding the pin in for alignment... then i could let go
to get the nut , wrench , vice grips... .

getting the pin back lined up with the lift block was a challenge too...
until i discovered that the axel had 1) tilted and or 2) rolled forward.

one the drivers side , a bottle jack under the front of the differential
tilted it back in line enough for the pin head to drop into the right
hole. on the passenger side , i had to wrestle the wheel into rolling
forward about 1 2 inch to get things to line up. spent more than an
hour working on getting the pin head into the hole in the lift block
with levers and ropes and impliments of distruction before i took a
break and thought about why it was n't lined up anymore (since it had
been lined up before , and i did n't move it , something else must
have ... hmmm , axle no longer constrained not to move ... hmmm , move
it back... hmmm...).

after that , it was all much easier to 'close up'.

btw , the ride is now softer , but not quite as soft as i was hoping for.
at least it now sits level..



e. michael smith ems@apple.com

'whatever you can do , or dream you can , begin it. boldness has
genius , power and magic in it.' goethe

i am not responsible nor is anyone else. everything is disclaimed.

from aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
subject re too fast
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 25
reply to aas7@po.cwru.edu (andrew a. spencer)
nntp posting host slc5.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) says

in article 1qkon8 3re@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
larger engine. that 's what the sho is a slightly modified family
sedan with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the
brakes.

that shows how much you know about anything. the brakes on the
sho are very different 9 inch (or 9.5 \? i forget) discs all around ,
vented in front. the normal taurus setup is (smaller) discs front ,
drums rear.

one i saw had vented rears too...it was on a lot.
of course , the sales man was a fool... titanium wheels ..yeah , right..
then later told me they were magnesium ..more believable , but still
crap , since al is so m uch cheaper , and just as good....


i tend to agree , tho that this still does n't take the sho up to standard
for running 130 on a regular basis. the brakes should be bigger , like
11 or so...take a look at the ones on the corrados.(where they have
braking regulations).

drew

from hm002b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (hasit mehta)
subject new '94 talon \? \? \? \? \?
keywords regal fiberglass parts \? \?
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester (rochester , ny)
lines 12

in article

is there such a thing as the new '94 eagle talon \? i heard from a freind that
the new '94 talons have been released \? is this true and if so what are the
differences between the '93 and '94 \? any opinions \? i would appreciate any
replies and i would also prefer e mail , thanks !


hasit s. mehta
university of rochester primus sucks !
hm002b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu
i do believe in captain crunch , for i am the frizzle fry

from n8643084@henson.cc.wwu.edu (owings matthew)
subject re ranger vs. s 10 opinions
article i.d. henson.1993apr15.203313.24290
organization western washington university
lines 16

if your buying a compact pickup do yourself a favor and wait a few months
for the 1994 gmc sonoma. magazines are saying it is day and night over the
current truck. it 's georgeous , solid , and fast (200hp vortec 4.3 v 6).
should whip the ranger in every area too (accept maybe payload). and always
pick a gmc over a chevy. gmc 's are always so much better looking. man , i
miss the comanche.

marty and matt owings
'87 250 ninja type rider dudes

it 's a feeling that we all wanna know
and it 's an obsession to some
to keep the world in you rearview mirror
while you try to run down the sun

wheels by rhestless heart.

from netops@tekgen.bv.tek.com (randy king)
subject left turn signal wo n't stop automaticaly
article i.d. tekgen.2408
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 5

the subject says it all. my 1984 chev s10 pickup 's left turn signal does
not stop after turning. what cause this to stop automaticaly \? . is this
a mechanical problem by the steering wheel \? .

note this truck has an after market steering wheel (gt grant) installed.

from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re waxing a new car
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 5
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com

i just had my 41 chrysler painted. i was told to refrain from waxing it and
to leave it out in the sun ! ! supposedly this let 's the volatiles escape from
the paint over a month or so (i can smell it 15 feet away on a hot day) and
lets any slight irregularites in the surface flow out , as the paint remains
a little soft for a while.

from hkon@mit.edu (henry kon)
subject sunroof leaks i'm all wet
organization mit
lines 8
nntp posting host msiegel.mit.edu

my sunroof leaks. i 've always thought those things were a royal pain.

can anyone provide any insight \?

i know the seal is n't great. maybe i could weld the stupid thing shut.

hk


from chriss@netcom.com (chris silvester)
subject re sho and sc
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 39

in article 1993apr16.193553.27118@mksol.dseg.ti.com a207706@moe.dseg.ti.com (robert loper) writes
in article c5l8re.28@constellation.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison) writes
in article 1993apr15.232412.2261@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us david@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us (david hwang) writes

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic
transmissions from all performance type cars (like the 5.0l
mustangs , camaros , and the like) we 'd cut down on the number of
accidents each year. autos are fine for sedate little sedans ,
but they have no business in performance cars , imho.

james

i have to disagree with this. i have a 92 z28 with a 350 and a 4 speed auto
w overdrive , and it is really better that way. chevy autos are reknowned
for their long life and ability to handle copious amount of power. i live
in the dallas area , and a manual would be much harder to drive in the traffic
here. now if i still lived out in the sticks like i used to , a manual would be
more fun.

i do n't know if it 's as much an issue of their ablility to handle the
power as it is the power they lose (in the torque converter , etc).

safety wise , an auto is less distracting...i would hate to have to be
shifting gears while i was trying to ease into traffic in the freeways here.
performance wise , i can hold my own against any stock 5.0 mustang or 5.0
camaro w a five speed.

however , if you encounter a '93 formula with 5.7l 6 speed manual ,
you 'll be sol , i'm afraid. ) btw , i know of what i speak as a former
owner of a 5.7l auto iroc (1989) and current owner of the
aforementioned car...

chris s.


chris silvester any man capable of getting himself elected president
chriss@sam.amgen.com should by no means be allowed to do the job
chriss@netcom.com douglas adams , the hitchhiker 's guide to the galaxy


from ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha)
subject 300zx or sc300 \? \? \?
organization lehigh university
lines 15

hi everyone ,

i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to 300zx and sc300.
which might be a better choice \?

thanks for your opnion ,
danny



hey ! you programmers out there ! danny phornprapha
please consider this ip02@lehigh.edu

bugs are another endangered earth lucc student konsultant
species needing your protection. work (215) 758 4141

from ravi@merlin.dev.cdx.mot.com (ravi puvvala)
subject 13 , 500 mazda 626 dx (with air , am fm) good deal \?
nntp posting host elvis.dev.cdx.mot.com
reply to ravi@merlin.dev.cdx.mot.com (ravi puvvala)
organization motorola codex
lines 12

hi netters
i want to know if 13500 (w o tax) is a good deal for 1993 mazda 626 dx
how is the performance review so far on mazda 626. is it a good buy \?
please reply to me as i do n't read this group often.

thanks in advance
ravi

ravi kiran puvvala the purpose of education is not merely ,
ravi@merlin.dev.cdx.mot.com the assimilation of facts but blow all
motorola codex , boston ma the money ravi puvvala


from jkjec@westminster.ac.uk (shazad barlas)
subject re manual shift bigots wanted
organization university of westminster
lines 7

the best auto shifters on the street (and not the track) are those from
porsche... they wont change if you floor the gas during a turn.... a few
years back a was in a 200sx auto (you guys call it a 240sx without turbo )
and was going round a corner.... i floored it and next thing i know i was
pointing backwards ! the other drivers seemed quite amused )

....shaz....

from joes@telxon.mis.telxon.com (joe staudt)
subject re renting from alamo
organization telxon corporation
lines 45

in article 1993apr20.142818.14969@ericsson.se etxmst@sta.ericsson.se writes
hello netters !

i'm visiting the us (i'm from sweden) in august. i will probably rent a chevy
beretta from alamo. i 've been quoted 225 for a week 54 for additional days.
this would include free driving distance , but not local taxes (baltimore).
they also told me all insurance thats necessary is included , but i doubt that ,
'cause a friend rented a car last year and it turned out he needed a lot more
insurance than what 's included in the base price. but on the other hand he
did n't rent it from alamo.

does anyone have some info on this \?

is 225 a rip off \?
no , that sounds pretty reasonable for that car and that city.

probability that i 'll be needing more insurance \?
unless you have an accident , you wo n't need more. if you plan on
paying for the car with a credit card , check and see if your card
automatically covers rental cars. also , your own auto insurance may
cover rental cars also.

most rental companies here offer extra insurance when you rent , and
require you to initial in several spots if you do n't want it. the
credit cards and personal auto insurance provide the same sort of
coverage that the rental agency is trying to sell.

i have never rented from alamo , so i do n't know if they follow this
same practice.

is the beretta a good rental car \?
yes. it is a compact 2 door , probably a bit dull performance and
acceleration wise , but very adequate. it will have an automatic
transmission , am fm stereo , air conditioning , and possibly power
windows and door locks.

joe




joseph staudt , telxon corp. joes@telxon.com
p.o. box 5582 usenet is like tetris for people who still
akron , oh 44334 0582 remember how to read.
(216) 867 3700 x3522 j. heller

from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 34

in article 1993apr19.145238.9561@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu bqueiser@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (brian j queiser) writes
anything if he had n't emptied his gun into the asshole. texas it 's
whole other country.

that reminds me of one of texas 's ads...you hear a guy speaking in
french (like it 's a letter home) , then the french moves to the
background , and a french accented voice come to the foreground , talking
about how he went walking on the beach , and it felt so much like
home that he decided to take his shoes off...and the rest of his
clothes. it ended with please send bail. )

on an rec.autos note , does anyone carry a gun on them or keep one in
their car (which is bad idea , is n't it \? ) if you work in a bad part of
town (or regularly go through one) \? is this a loaded question \? )

i normally have an unloaded colt delta in my glove box with a loaded
magazine handy (which is perfectly legal in oklahoma). for those
times that i'm travelling inter state , i keep an unloaded
s w .44 magnum revolver in the glove box , with a speed loader
in my pocket (which is legal everywhere , under federal law , illinois
state police be hanged).

as i 've said before , this is stricly for defense my insurance
will pay to replace my car , but i only have one life...

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from ernie@.cray.com (ernest smith)
subject re aftermarket a c units
originator ernie@ferris
lines 34
nntp posting host ferris.cray.com
organization cray research , inc.
distribution usa


in article 1qcaueinnmt8@axon.cs.unc.edu andrew brandt writes
i looked into getting a c installed on my 1987 honda crx si.
the unit is 875 plus shipping , installation is like 5 1 2 hours on
top of that. this is a hunk of change.

does anyone know any place that does aftermarket a c installation
(not with a honda a c unit , but some third party unit).

i cannot seem to find anyone who can put a third party a c unit in a
honda. i am in no carolina , so i would prefer some place nearby , but
any references would be handy.

thx , andy (brandt@cs.unc.edu)

les bartel 's comments
sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to
make concerning aftermarket a c units. i have a frost king or frost temp
(forget which) aftermarket unit on my cavalier , and am quite unhappy with
it. the fan is noisy , and does n't put out much air. i will never have
an aftermarket a c installed in any of my vehicles again. i just ca n't
trust the quality and performance after this experience.

les


les bartel i'm going to live forever

let me add my .02 in. i had a a c installed by the ford garage and it did not
work as well as the a c that was installed by the factory in pickups
identical to mine. i have talked to other people that have had the same
result. do n't know if this is just a problem with ford or what \? \?

ernie smith

from grahamt@phantom.gatech.edu (graham e. thomas)
subject super mega automobile sighting(s) ! ! ! ! ! exotics together !
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 36
nntp posting host oit.gatech.edu

alright , beat this automobile sighting.

driving along just a hair north of atlanta , i noticed an old , run down
former car dealership which appeared to deal with , and repair , older
rare or exotic foreign sports cars. i saw

ford gt 40 ( ! ) , the famous model from ford , that seemed to win most of
its races in the late 60s , including le mans 4 or 6 times.

two jensen interceptors , one a convertable , one a hatchback \?

porsche 911 (boring compared to the rest)

three ferarries , a mondial , a 308 prepared for racing , and a red 60s model
that i could n't identify.

and at the bottom , a late 70s mg convertable.

outside there was a rotting rover 3500 saloon , which was never regularly
sold in the u.s.

and in the showroom , there was a small italian body , either an alpha romeo
or a lancia. it was about the size of an austin mini.
the trunklid was missing , exposing a boot with a voltage regulator
in the upper left corner of the wall , and a chunk of metal removed from
the floor on the right hand side as if something would leave the trunk
and go to the outside from here.
the taillights looked like they
would be the round type (if they were there). does anyone know what the
make of this one is \?

certainly made my day...

graham e. thomas blah blah blah blah blah
georgia institute of technology blah blah blah blah blah
internet grahamt@oit.gatech.edu blah blah blah blah blah

from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re taurus sable rotor recall
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 4
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com


we get about 20 taurus sables for fleet cars at our site every year , then the
company sells them a year later to employees. the folks i know who drive buy
them have no complaints. the cars seem to drive real nice too.

from markm@latium. (mark monninger)
subject bimmer vs beamer
nntp posting host 223.250.10.8
reply to markm@latium (mark monninger)
organization motorola sps , tempe , az
distribution usa
lines 8

although not in direct response to the referenced article , just to set the
record straight , beamers are bmw motorcycles. bmw cars are bimmers. please ,
let 's get our terms straight.

actually , some purists would argue that the only true bimmer is a round
tail light 2002 or 1600.

mark

from jackw@boi.hp.com (jack wood)
subject bbb autoline arbitration
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
keywords bbb arbitration lemon
lines 46


my bbb autoline arbitration experience is over.
the outcome was decidedly mixed. i won the battle but
lost the war. the arbitrator found that the car was
defective , but decided to offer a repurchase well below
market value (. at the time of the hearing , average
retail on my truck in the nada book was 21 , 025 , but
the decision was for 17 , 665. i wrote a letter to the
council of better business bureaus pointing out the
fact that if you have an automobile that does not
depreciate rapidly , the manufacturer has no incentive
to deal with you. there is no way that the
manufacturer can loose because they can turn around and
sell the vehicle at a profit if the consumer is awarded
a repurchase. the attitude of chevrolet 's
representative at the hearing tends to support this
point of view he was totally unprepared and did not
seem to take the proceeding very seriously.

i decided to take the repurchase , even though i am
getting totally screwed on the price. i will not have
to deal with continuing repairs or selling a lemon
myself , and i have no case for a civil suit based on
the idaho lemon law. i am planning to send a letter to
my elected representatives telling them how utterly
ridiculous the idaho lemon law is. the law allows for
a use deduction equal to the irs mileage allowance.
as if chevrolet were buying my gas and paying
for my insurance.

summary of the case in may 1992 i bought a new 3 4 ton
hd chevrolet pickup. between may 1992 and december 1992
this vehicle required repair after repair. systems
that required attention included the transmission ,
heater fan , paint , suspension , and motor. the main
problem was the five speed manual transmission. they
could not install a non defective transmission in at
least four attempts.

so , in summary , it is possible to get a repurchase , but
you are going to get screwed on the price , unless you
paid too much in the first place , or if your car
happens to be a model that depreciates rapidly.

jackw@hpdmd48.boi.hp.com


from hkon@athena.mit.edu (henry kon)
subject 83 tercel sunroof leaks arrggh
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host e40 008 11.mit.edu

is there a simple way tooput these sunroofs out of their misery
do leaks tend to be from old gaskets \?
or from inadequate mechanical seals
or all of the above \? \?

is there any way to halt the rain \?

thanks
hk

henry bruno kon
office 617 253 2781 (with machine)
home 617 625 3972 (with machine)


from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re slick 50 , any good \?
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 16

hmmm....i was listening to the local radio expert (who is , amazingly
enough , an honest to god expert(tm) it 's amazing what he knows...) ,
and he said that , based on his conversations with the inventor of
slick50 (who is no longer with the comapny , due to some kind of
conflict) , he avoids it like the plague. he does recommend other
teflon based type oil additives , though.

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be)
subject re legal car buying problems
organization university of oregon
lines 41
distribution ca
nntp posting host oregon.uoregon.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr20.143930.13144@chpc.org ,
rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie) writes...
in article 9285.27317@stratus.swdc.stratus.com
bob@runway.swdc.stratus.com (bob hutson) writes
after agreeing to terms i signed the contract and drove home in my new
car. later that same night i noticed that the terms in the were
different from the terms i had agreed to. (i made the stupid mistake
of not checking everything on the contract). this all happened last
saturday.

i have heard that there is a cooling off law allowing me three days
to reconsider the contract. is this true \? can anyone point me to the
law \? the transaction happened at the dealership , if it matters.

this cooling off period applies only in certain situations lik ewhen
you are solicited at home. i also think the cooling off period ends
if you actually accept the merchandise.

if this were not the case , any car buyer would have the right to return
a slightly used , highly devalued , car 2 days after buying it. yeah
that 's the trick if i want to buy a new car , i 'd have a firend buy
return one , then go in and negotiate a better deal on a pre owned
used car.

for discussion purposes only

on the other hand , if it can be proven , it 's possible the changed
terms could be thrown out. the question will be whether the
agreement contains a merger clause. see ucc @ 2 202 (parol
evidence). if we 're talking about warranties , then , of course ,
ucc @ 2 316 should be looked at.

but we have so little information that none of us can say anything
conclusive.

daniel reitman

the uniform commercial code protects the innocent purchaser , but it is not a
shield for the sly conniver , the blindly naive , or the hopelessly gullible.
atlas auto rental corp. v. weisberg , 54 misc. 2d 168 , 172 , 281 n.y.s.2d 400 ,
405 (n.y. city civ. ct. 1967).

from sang yoon oh so0z @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re jeep grand vs. toyota 4 runner
organization junior , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 29
c51hn0.2ji@world.std.com
nntp posting host po2.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to c51hn0.2ji@world.std.com

in article 1pq29p 29p@seven up.east.sun.com
jfox@hooksett.east.sun.com writes

any reason you are limited to the two mentioned \? they are n't really at
the same point along the suv spectrum not to mention price range.
how about the explorer , trooper , blazer , montero , and if the budget
allows , the land cruiser \?

any advice on how to buy a land cruiser \? my local toyota dealer says they
get two a year , and if i want one i can just get on the waiting list.
forget about a test drive or even kicking the tires.
and if they are that rare , i doubt there is much of a parts inventory on
hand.

land crusier is just simply nice with shit load of power and room.
fully stocked , it cost 40 , 000. i think it is worth the money.
only problem is when you get into accident(it does n't usually break down
unless you forget to get a oil change for 30000 miles or something
stupid like this) , body parts and other parts are very hard to locate.
parts are over priced also. one of my friend had accident in past snow
storm and he is still waiting for front bumper and passenger side fender.

well , if you test drive land cruiser , all other suv look like toys.
one of magazine writer called it land bruiser .

if you have 40 , 000 to spare for suv , get land cruiser and forget lange rover.

sang


from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 26

in article 1993apr15.223029.23340@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
in article c5jnk3.jkt@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
was n't the original intent of the reverse lights for the driver , so he
could see where he was backing up \? \? \? although reverse lights on the sides

no. reverse lights are to warn others that you are backing up. they
are n't bright enough to (typically) see by without the brake and tail
lights.

i do n't know where you live , but i could n't get out of my driveway
at night without reverse lights. as someone said , out in the country
you notice neat little things like stars and the difference between
day and night. at night around my house (which is amongst a forest of
rather tall oaks) it is dark , except for nights with full moons.
reverse lights illuminate my path very well when backing up i greatly
prefer cars with them to cars without operational reverse lights.

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven

from colombo@bronco.fnal.gov (rick 'open vms 4ever' colombo)
subject re do trains busses have radar \?
nntp posting host bronco.fnal.gov
organization fermilab computing division
lines 27

in article c5fqfy.fpq@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu , mliggett@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (matthew liggett) writes
in 1993apr13.111652@usho72.hou281.chevron.com hhtra@usho72.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes


while taking an extended easter vacation , i was going north on i 45
somewhere between centerville , tx and dallas , tx and i came upon a
train parked on a trestle with its locomotive sitting directly over
the northbound lanes. there appeared to be movement within the cab
and out of curiosity i slowed to 85 to get a better look. just as i
passed from underneath the trestle , my radar detector went into full
alert all lights lit and all chirps , beeps , and buzzes going strong.
i thought i had been nailed good but no police materialized.

could this have been caused by the train 's radio or what \?



i do n't know about trains , but i 've saw a sign on the back of a
greyhound bus that warns you that your radar detector may be set off.
it does n't explain why , but it does set off my radar detector.


from the e net desk of rick colombo cd dcd dsg
fermi nat'l acc'l lab 708 840 8225 fermilab
p.o. box 500 ms 369 feynman computer center
batavia , ill. usa 60510 colombo@fnal.fnal.gov
of course i speak for fermilab , congress and the president... not ! ! !

from ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha)
subject i'm getting a car , i need opinions.
organization lehigh university
lines 14

i have 30 , 000 as my budget. i'm looking for a sports or gt car.

what do you think would be the best buy \? (i'm looking for specific models)

thanks ,
danny



hey ! you programmers out there ! danny phornprapha
please consider this ip02@lehigh.edu

bugs are another endangered earth lucc student konsultant
species needing your protection. work (215) 758 4141

from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject rec.autos automotive mailing lists how to set up your own
keywords monthly posting
reply to welty@balltown.cma.com
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
lines 116

archive name rec autos part6

new article as of 4 february 1993 rpw


many people want to set up mailing lists for their favorite
automotive topics rather fewer know how to do it. this article
will provide the essential information for doing so on standard
unix systems. a shell script and examples of alias file setups
are included which presently run on a sparc 2 here at balltown.cma.com
for a number of mailing lists. note that if you do set up an automotive
mailing list , please let me know of the request address so that i can
list it in the montly rec.autos posting. also inform the keeper of the
usenet list of lists (check news.answers for this monthly posting.)

first of all , to get anywhere , you need to either 1) be a sysadmin ,
or 2) have some measure of assistance from your sysadmin. it is also
important that you have reasonably good network connectivity if it seems
like you get everything several days after anyone else , or that you
have trouble getting email through , then your network connectivity is
probably not good enough.

listserv

there is a handy automated mailing list package named listserv , which
is available from several ftp servers on the network. details of
the installation and operation of listserv are beyond the scope of this
article , but anyone who is considering running a large mailing list should
probably look at listserv carefully.

the alias file

on a typical unix system there is a file named usr lib aliases on
whichever file server is your mail host it contains lines such as

foo bar , baz , bletch


which means that any email sent the name `foo' on that host is
redistributed to users bar , baz , and bletch. thus , the simplest
possible email list is

my favorite car member1 , member2 , member3 , my address
my favorite car request my address

this has a couple of problems the most noticeable one being that
you have to be superuser to edit the alias file. however , you can
do the following , with the connivance of your sysadmin

my favorite car include home mydir misc autos my favorite car list
my favorite car request my address

where the file specified is a list of comma and newline separated
addresses. this file can be in the list admin 's home directory ,
owned by the list admin.

bounced mail

this still has a problem bounced mail usually gets distributed to all the
members of the list , which is generally considered somewhat irritating.
therefore , the way that the driving school mailing list is set up
is instructive (thanks to harpal chohan of the bmw list for this setup ,
by the way. i'm not sure where he got it from.)


school request welty
school rebroadcast include home newwelty misc autos school list
school usr local adm bin explscript school
owner school school request
owner school out school request


here 's what is going on here

the owner and request addresses are intended as traps for bounced mail
coming from the network. the request address also serves as the point
of contact for administrative duties.

school is what people send mail to instead of pointing at addresses ,
it points at a shell script which rewrites headers before resending
the email. school broadcast (of which nobody except me knows the name
the name has been changed here to protect my own sanity) points at the
actual list members.

the shell script i use is as follows


! bin sh
cd tmp
sed e ' reply to d' e ' sender d' e ' from d'
(echo reply to 1 @balltown.cma.com
echo errors to 1 request@balltown.cma.com
echo sender 1 request@balltown.cma.com
cat )
usr lib sendmail om f 1 request@balltown.cma.com
f the 1 mailing list 1 rebroadcast
exit 0


note that this script does not know the name of the list the name
is passed in from outside , so that the script may be used for multiple
lists (i run several out of this site.)
the script excises reply to , sender , and from lines from the incoming
message , substitutes for sender and reply to , and adds errors to
99.9 of all email bounce messages end up being sent to the request
or owner addresses if this header rewrite is done.

for digested lists , there is some digestification software around.
hopefully i 'll be able to provide more information in a future version
of this posting.

richard welty (welty@balltown.cma.com)

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from markm@bigfoot.sps.mot.com (mark monninger)
subject car buying story , was christ , another dealer service scam...
nntp posting host 223.250.10.7
reply to rapw20@email.sps.mot.com
organization sps
distribution usa
lines 57

in article 1qhs7dinnj2b@hp col.col.hp.com tvervaek@col.hp.com (tom
vervaeke) writes
... experience with jeep service dept ...

while not exactly a service incident , i had a similar experience recently
when i bought a new truck.

i had picked out the vehicle i wanted and after a little haggling we
agreed on a price. i wrote them a check for the down payment plus tax
and license and told them i 'd be back that evening to pick up the truck.
when i returned , i had to wait about an hour before the finance guy could
get to me. when i finally got in there , everything went smoothly until he
started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had
miscalculated the tax license by about 150. he then said he needed
another 150 from me. i said we had already agreed on a price and it was
their problem , i was n't giving them any more money. the finance guy then
brought in the manager on duty who proceeded to give me a hard time. i
reminded him that i was the customer and i did n't think i should be
treated like that and that if he did n't back off he could forget the whole
deal. he made some smart remark so i told him where he could stick it ,
snatched back my check and left. needless to say , they were not pleased by
the turn of events.

early the next morning i got a call from the general sales manager wanting
to know what happened. i related the story and he apologised profusely and
asked if there was anything they could do to change my mind. i told him
that if they gave me the truck for free i probably still would n't take it ,
that there were other dealers in town , i was a repeat customer of theirs
and that they should learn how to treat customers , etc , etc...i was still
pretty steamed about the whole affair. he gave me the line about hating to
lose a customer and they would try to find a solution , etc , etc. i told
him not to bother , thanks , i 'd go somewhere else.

a couple hours later , the owner of the dealership called me , all
apologetic , etc , etc , etc , and said that they would cover the 150 plus
knock another 400 off the price of the truck. i told him i 'd think about
it and he gave me his private , direct phone number , his secretary 's name ,
and assured me that they valued me as a customer , etc etc etc....

i thought about it for a few hours and discussed it with my wife and we
decided , what the hell...that was a pretty decent deal , so i called him
back and accepted his offer. when i went back the next day to pick up the
truck , i received the royal treatment. everyone seemed to know about the
incident , even the lot boy. everything went smoothly and i was out of
there in my new truck in about 30 mins.

so , i guess i'm a reasonably satisfied customer. however , it should not
have happened in the first place. i was a bit shocked to have a sales
person talk to me like that. i do n't expect them to bow and grovel , but i
sure do n't expect to be given a hard time either , esp. when it 's their
mistake.

anyway , i'm happy with the truck and it turned out to be a couple hundred
dollars under invoice and they paid most of the first year 's license fee.
i'm not sure whether i 'll go back to that dealer , tho.

mark

from storrs@eos.ncsu.edu (jerry storrs)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
originator storrs@c20002 121rd.che.ncsu.edu
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers
reply to storrs@eos.ncsu.edu (jerry storrs)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 97


in article 19apr199316162857@erich.triumf.ca , music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach) writes
xref taco alt.parents teens 1937 rec.autos 101669
path taco ! gatech ! howland.reston.ans.net ! zaphod.mps.ohio state.edu ! saimiri.primate.wisc.edu ! caen ! destroyer ! cs.ubc.ca ! unixg.ubc.ca ! erich.triumf.ca ! music
from music@erich.triumf.ca (fred w. bach)
newsgroups alt.parents teens , rec.autos
subject re warning.....(please read)...
date 19 apr 1993 16 16 pst
organization triumf tri university meson facility
lines 52
distribution world
message id 19apr199316162857@erich.triumf.ca
references c5joit.e31@bcstec.ca.boeing.com 18apr199309481599@erich.triumf.ca 1qs4a9 f87@bigboote.wpi.edu c5r1iy.8v0@ssd.intel.com
nntp posting host erich.triumf.ca
summary violent teenagers and victims need help.
keywords brick , rock , danger , gun , violent , teenagers
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article c5r1iy.8v0@ssd.intel.com , jrowell@ssd.intel.com (janet rowell)
writes...
could we plase cease this discussion. i fail to see why people feel the need
to expound upon this issue for days and days on end. these areas are not
meant for this type of discussion. if you feel the need to do such things ,
please take your thought elsewhere. thanks.

i just want to second this request. i value this net group as one where people
focus on solving problems and go out of their way to be respectful of
differences. the hostility expressed in the original posting feels like an
assault.

thanks ,
jan


exactly my point. there is a lot of hostility to , and from , teenagers.

look , i sent these posts here to alt.parents teens (with a copy to
rec.autos) since you people in this group may have the best advice for
and experience with troubled teenagers.

if you follow the news for the northwest usa , you will have heard that a
group of 20 year old boys (barely out of the teens , certainly their outlook
was developed during their teens) just shot and killed an innocent little
girl riding in a car in the seattle area when her mother (who was driving)
honked her horn at the car with the boys in it. this is really upsetting
and makes my stomach turn as it would any parent 's. does n't your heart
just go out to that poor mother \?


yes , fred , my heart and prayers go out to the mother and others who have
been victims of these and other senseless crimes.

you folks in this group have a responsibility to offer any good advice
that you may have. i suspect lots of people all over the world will read
and appreciate your comments.


however , i feel that you have missed the point of the previous postings (see
top). your statement of 'responsibility' is felt as an attack towards the
members of this group. you are attempting to make the members of this group
be required to answer. the only people who should make a statement are people
who have experienced the problem and found a workable solution.

teenagers both drive cars and are involved in automotive vandalism and
crime. maybe someone on this newsgroup has had specific experience in
dealing with violent teenage offenders like these kids are. at the same
time , maybe you would have some good advice for those hostile people who
sense that are now the potential victims. maybe you would have some good
advice for them on how not to pay back and or not make the situation worse.
maybe you have some good advice for local authorities or schools where
this problem is prevalent. but then again , maybe you 're not interested. (

many people are interested , but have no input. i will restate that your last
sentence here is seen as an attack on the members of this group. if people have
input , they will give it. if they do not , you should not make them feel
compelled (sp \? ) to respond.

if you wish to continue this conversation , please send e mail. do not repost or
attempt to bait me , i will not make another post (and may i make the same a
suggestion to other group members) on this matter.



thanks in advance for your help , if we get any.


btw , your welcome.



jerry l. storrs , system network manager ... why do you look for the living
dept of chemical engineering , ncsu among the dead \? he is not here ,
storrs@che.ncsu.edu (preferred) he is risen !
storrs@eos.ncsu.edu luke 24 5 6
the lord is risen indeed ! !

any statement made is the explicit belief of the writer and not the employer.

from pminocha@frx400.intel.com (punit minocha qre)
subject saab mailing list
organization intel corporation
lines 9
distribution usa
nntp posting host frx400.intel.com
keywords saab

could someone out there please tell me how i could get onto
the saab mailing list. specifically i need the address and
instructions on what to do.

thanks in advance

pete



from jtchew@csa3.lbl.gov (ad absurdum per aspera)
subject re sport utility vehical comparisons \? any opinions \?
organization lawrence berkeley laboratory berkeley , ca , usa
lines 21
distribution na
nntp posting host 128.3.254.198
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

i just read articals on this in road and track and car and driver
(is that one mag or two \? b ) , and i was wondering if people out
there have any opinions that differed from what these mags have to say...

depending on how you plan to use your suv , i might recommend also
browsing trailer boats and one or more of those pickup , shotgun ,
and 4wd magazines. the car rags mostly seem to consider recently
graded pea gravel to be offroading and ten sacks of redwood chips
to be a bedload. considering that most of these suvs seem to be
used mostly as robust station wagons , that 's probably not a bad
approach , but if your applications are more demanding , pick your
information sources accordingly.

of the three vehicles on your short list (explorer , 4runner ,
pathfinder) , i 'd recommend the 4runner as being closely based
on a rather robust pickup and the explorer for being comfortably
carlike. do n't know much about the pathfinder.

good luck ,
joe
just another personal opinion from the people 's republic of berkeley

from cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun hung wan)
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions.
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 32
reply to cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun hung wan)
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha) says

i have 30 , 000 as my budget. i'm looking for a sports or gt car.

what do you think would be the best buy \? (i'm looking for specific models)

thanks ,
danny



hey ! you programmers out there ! danny phornprapha
please consider this ip02@lehigh.edu

bugs are another endangered earth lucc student konsultant
species needing your protection. work (215) 758 4141


for an all out sports car , i 'd go for the rx 7 without the sports
suspension (which is too stiff.) for a little more practicality and more
comfort , the nissan 300zx turbo is a good buy. and for a good dose of
luxury , the lexus sc300 is perfect (with a manual transmission of course.)
however , the toyota supra is coming out soon and if you like it 's looks ,
the performance is supposed to be great , almost race car like. i do n't
particulary like the mitsubishi 3000gt 's or the dodge stealths as they are
too heavy and are n't very nimble handlers for a sports car.

a motion picture major at the brooks institute of photography , ca
santa barbara and a foreign student from kuala lumpur , malaysia.

the mind is the forerunner of all states.

from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re ad said nissan altima best seller \?
organization sun microsystems
lines 9
distribution world
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com

i too was puzzled by this obvious untruth. what i think is going on is that
nissan claims that the altima is the best selling new car namelplate in
the us (i think i have this near verbatim). lee iaccoca 's statistics
dept. would have been proud of that sentence.


note that the corolla prism are also new designs... but hey are not new
nameplates. i guess nissan does n't even sell as many altimas as
toyota does corollas , or there would be no nameplate qualifier.

from neil@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (neil williams)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
keywords brick , truck , danger
organization boeing computer services
lines 51

larose@austin.cs.utk.edu (brian larose) writes

this just a warning to everybody on the net. watch out for
folks standing next to the road or on overpasses. they can
cause serious harm to you and your car.

(just a cliff notes version of my story follows)

10pm last night , i was travelling on the interstate here in
knoxville , i was taking an offramp exit to another interstate
and my wife suddenly screamed and something large hit the side
of my truck. we slowed down , but after looking back to see the
vandals standing there , we drove on to the police station.

she did get a good look at the guy and saw him cock his arm with
something the size of a cinderblock , but i never saw him. we are
very lucky the truck sits up high on the road if it would have hit
her window , it would have killed her.

the police are looking for the guy , but in all likelyhood he is gone.

i am a very good driver (knock on wood) , but it was night time and
i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us ,
and take the truck.

please be aware of folks. and for your own good , please don't stop ! ! ! !

peace.




brian larose larose@cs.utk.edu 12 , 3103 essary rd. knoxville , tn 37918.



as long as we 're on the subject... several years ago myself and two others
were riding in the front of a toyota pickup heading south on interstate 5
north of seattle , wa. someone threw a rock of an overpass and hit our
windshield. not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the
overpass quickly to see who did it. we figured it was kids , reported it and
left.
a couple of years ago it happend again and killed a guy at my company. he was
in his mid fourties and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was
a reformatory for juviniles a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old
that did it. they put a cover over the overpass , what else could they do \?
i do n't think i 'll over forget this story.
neil williams , boeing computer services , bellevue wa.
.


from mutrh@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (todd r. haverstock)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
organization educational computing network
lines 10
distribution world
nntp posting host uxa.ecn.bgu.edu

well , you young fellers wo n't remember , but we used to have side vent
front windows until some damn bean counter scrapped them. these were
separate triangular windows at the leading edge of the front doors
that pivoted outward at the rear edge. worked like a charm.

yeah , i loved the vent windows on my 82 escort (hell , the only thing i liked
about the car). one of the things i 'd like to see brought back. does
anyone know if they 're an option on the new escorts \?

trh

from tobias@oasys.dt.navy.mil (steve tobias)
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000
reply to tobias@oasys.dt.navy.mil (steve tobias)
distribution na
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 14

in rec.autos , cpkjp@vm.cc.latech.edu (kevin parker) writes
i 'd like to get some feedback on a car with most bang for the buck in the
13000 to 16 , 000 price range. i'm looking for a car with enough civility to be
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to feel
some acceleration. handling is important also , as are reliability and pretty
low maintenance costs. a stylish appearance is nice , but i do n't want a car
that is all show and not much go. even though many of the imports are fast , i
do n't really want a turbo , and i never have cared for the song sung by a four
clyinder. i 'd prefer a v6 or v8 for the engine. if you have any suggestions ,
kevin parker

there 's only one car that really fits your needs. it 's spelled

5.0 liter mustang

from cpkjp@vm.cc.latech.edu (kevin parker)
subject insurance rates on performance cars summary
organization louisiana tech university
lines 244
nntp posting host vm.cc.latech.edu
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2

i recently posted an article asking what kind of rates single , male
drivers under 25 yrs old were paying on performance cars. here 's a summary of
the replies i received.






i'm not under 25 anymore (but is 27 close enough).

1992 dodge stealth rt twin turbo (300hp model).
no tickets , no accidents , own a house , have taken defensive driving 1 ,
airbag , abs , security alarm , single.

1500 year 500 decut. state farm insurance (this includes the additional 100
for the 1 , 000 , 000 umbrella policy over my car and house) the base
policy is the standard 100 , 000 100 , 000 300 , 000 policy required in de.

after 2nd defensive driving course it will be 5 less.

i bought the car in september 1992. the company i was with (never had
and accident or ticket in 11 years) quoted me 2 , 500.

hope this helps.

steve flynn
university of delaware
45

kevin

(hope i remembered your name correctly)...

you asked about insurance for performance cars. well , last year
i was in a similar situation before i bought my car , and made the
same inquiry as you.

age 24 (then and now)
car 1992 eagle talon tsi awd
driving record clean
state illinois
cost 820 6 mos.

i turn 25 in may and the insurance goes down to 520 6 mos.
also , i'm single and that incurs a higher rate with my company.

i 've got a couple other friends w awds and they pay more
than i do (different ins. companies also) , so maybe i'm just lucky.

hope the info helps.

dan
dans@jdc.gss.mot.com
motorola cellular subscriber group

38
usa
cc

i'm 23 live in norman , oklahoma drive an '89 thunderbird sc have
never made a claim against my insurance (though i have been hit
several times by negligent drivers who could n't see stop signs or
were fiddling with their radios) and i have had three moving violations
in the last 18 months (one for going 85 in a 55 one for failure to
clear an intersection (i still say the damn light was yellow) and
one for going 35 in a 25 (which did n't go on my record)). my rates
from state farm (with a passive restraint deduction) on liability ,
500 deductible comprehensive , and 500 deductible collision are
roughly 1300 year. (i was paying just over 1100 year for a '92 escort lx.)

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven
61

i am beyond the under 25 age group , but i have an experience a few
years ago that might be interesting to you. i owned a 1985 toyota celica
gt. i decided to buy myself a gift a more exotic car. front runners
included the toyota supra turbo and the porsche 924 (1987 model years).
i narrowed it down to those two. i liked the simplicity and handling
(and snob appeal , too) of driving a porsche. the supra turbo was less
money and had more features and performance almost a personal luxury
car. it had better acceleration and a higher top speed than the 924.
i was almost ready to give in to a buying impulse for the 924 , but i
decided to stop by my insurance agent 's office on the way. i asked
about what would happen to my rate with either car.

if you buy the supra , your rate classification will be the same as
the celica (the '85 celica was considered a subcompact and for that
year was rated as one of the safest cars) , with a slight increase because
the car will be 2 years newer. our lower risk division will continue
to handle your account.

if you buy the porsche 924 , we 'll have to change you to the standard
higher rate company and your rate will double. and if you go with
a 944 , it 's another story again we 'll cover the rest of this year ,
but cancel you after that.

but the supra is much faster than the 924 , and the 924 is actually
faster than the standard 944. that doens't make sense.

that 's what the book says. we do n't insure corvettes , either. for
some reason , the underwriters consider supras and their drivers
as very traditional and conservative.

i eventually went with the supra for a number of reasons. the porsche
dealer had a nice salesman to get me interested , but a tough high pressure
guy in the back room. at equal monthly payments , it would have taken
a year longer to pay for the porsche , plus its higher insurance. i
concluded that the high insurance was related to probability of auto
theft.

) ) ) everyone 's entitled to my opinion.
) goldberg@oasys.dt.navy.mil
imagination is more important than knowledge. albert einstein





32

i live in idaho. when i was 26 many years ago (10 years) i bought a trans
am (new). insurance was about 1300 year. when i turned 26 , it immediately
dropped to 460 year. i had not had any accidents before or after , this was
strictly an age change. that same rate stayed pretty much the same until i
sold the car 2 years ago. my f 150 pickup is about 80 year less.

the real amazing thing is that when i woke up at age 25 , i felt so much more
responsible than i was before... )

wes

21


for your information
california
male , single , under 25 , no moving violation
alfa spider
2000 year

what a bargain ! ! !
28

let 's see , i'm 24 , single , male , clean driving record. i have a 92 vw corrado
vr6. i live in san jose , california. i pay 1500 a year through allstate. a
good deal if you ask me.

i was thinking about getting a talon , but i think the insurance is higher
for a turbo sports car vs a v6

w

27

1986 honda crx si , clean record , in a small new mexico town was around 800
per year , age 24.

nearby city rates were 1.5x 2x higher than where i 've got mine insured.

..robert

robert stack institute of transportation studies , univ of california irvine
stack@translab.its.uci.edu '92 mazda protege lx
37
1300 per year , 1992 saturn sc , 21 years old , state new mexico ,
insurance state farm.


64


here is my info

car '89 toyota celica st
insurance co farmer 's insurance
yearly insurance 2028
age 24
date of license oct 14 , 1992
residence mountain view , california
no moving violations (for now atleast )

hope this helps. please post a summary if possible.

vijay

vijay anisetti
email anisetti@informix.com apt (415)962 0320 off (415)926 6547
38
single , 24 years old , eagle talon turbo awd , 1200 (full cover , reasonable
liability)
no tickets , no violations , no accidents... (knock on wood...)
mass ,

one thing that makes a huge difference in mass is the town you live in.
i'm personally in one of the best towns within reasonable distance
of boston. if i moved to the absolute best it would go down to about
1150 , if i moved to the worst it would be 2000 ..

also one accident and a couple of tickets , would probably add another 600...


rv


43
i have a 1990 mitsubishi eclipse turbo awd , am 23 years old and have no
tickets that went on my record. i live in illinois just outside of chicago
and pay 1560 a year with full coverage at state farm. i did get a small
discount because of my alarm system( 30 a year). i only live 15 miles from
chicago but if i actually lived in the city the price would be about 2000
a year.
41
i'm over 25 , but in case you 're interested anyway , i'm insuring a 93 sho
for 287 6 month. thats 100k personal 300k total 100k property with
250 deductible , glass and towing , state farm.

39

unless you are under 20 or have been driving for less than 5
years , i think you are being seriously ripped off. i do n't have
one of the performance cars you listed , but if your record is
clean , then you should not be paying over 2k.

did you try calling all the insurance dealers you could find \?
although rates are supposed to be standardized , i 've found that
most places i initially call , give me some ridiculously high
quote and finaly , i hit one that is much lower.

also , i have changed insurance companies when the rate went up at
renewal (no accidents , tickets , car gets older \? \? ) to maintain a low
rate. you always have to be careful when it comes to insurance
companies 8 ).

good luck ,
serge

from swdwan@napier.uwaterloo.ca (donald wan)
subject 80 svx oil change

organization university of waterloo
lines 17





my friend brought a subaru svx recently. i had drove it for couples times and i
think its a great car , esp on snow. however when she took it to a local subaru
dealer for a oil change , the bill came out to be about 80 dollars. the dealer
told us it is because to change the oil filter on a svx it is necessary to
disassemble a metal cover under the engine and that took an hour of labour.
at first , we think we are being ripped off so she phone to a dealer in toronto
but found out the they are charging roughly the same price. so is there any
svx owner out there that has the same problem \? and if the oil change story is
true , then the engineer of subaru looks pretty stubid to me. by the way , the car
looks great.

swd wan.


from welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty)
subject re saturn 's pricing policy
organization new york state institute for sebastian cabot studies
lines 20

in article 1993apr5.230808.581@cs.brown.edu cs012055@cs.brown.edu (hok chung tsang) writes
moreover , if saturn really does reduce the dealer profit margin by 1000 ,
then their cars will be even better deals. say , if the price of a saturn was
already 1000 below market average for the class of cars , then after they
reduce the dealer profit , it would be 2000 below market average. it will

1) attract even more people to buy saturns because it would save them money.

2) force the competitors to lower their prices to survive.

but what is saturn 's motivation here \? they 're already selling every
car they make , with multiple shifts in the plant. given this , what
possible motivation could they have to lower prices \?

cheers ,
richard

richard welty 518 393 7228 welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
a race car about either its pitch or roll axis'' carroll smith

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re mgbs and the real world
article i.d. cactus.1993apr6.035544.16865
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 24

in article 1993apr5.181056.29411@mks.com mike@mks.com (mike brookbank) writes
my sister has an mgb. she has one from the last year they were produced
(1978 \? 1979 \? ). its in very good shape. i 've been bugging her for years
about selling it. i 've said over and over that she should sell it
before the car is worthless while she maintains that the car may
actually be increasing in value as a result of its limited availability.


grass roots motorsport 3 93 has a long article about mg b 's this month.
as far as collectivity speculation is concerned they think it is a
waste of time , especially the later rubber bumpered models are the least
desirable , a 1962 original model the most. the reasons for its low
value are easy availability and the fact that it just was not a very good
car.

craig
which one of us is right \? are there mgb affectionados out there who are
still willing to pay 6k to 8k for an old mg \? are there a lot out in the
market \?


mike brookbank , mks 35 king st. north mike@mks.com
director , interopen sales , mkt waterloo , ontario (519)884 2251
mortice kern systems inc. mks canada , n2j 2w9 fax (519)884 8861

from andyh@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (andrew j. huang)
subject re changing oil by self.
organization brandeis university
lines 16

in article 1993apr15.020356.28944@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin) writes
i take the electrodes of the amp ohm volt meter whatever and connect one
to each earlobe. then , symmetrically insert my fingers in each of the
spark plug boots. no cheating guys ! both hands must be used !

i have just a couple of questions about this technique.

first , what firing order should i use \? do i start with my pointer
finger or my pinky \? left hand or right \?

and secondly , i have a 12cyl and there are two cylinders unaccounted
for. any suggestions \?

andy



from ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
subject re isuzu amigo opinions sought
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 16
reply to ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


in a previous article , sdexter@shl.com (scott dexter) says


i like the amigo i would like some feedback...

any and all feedback appreciated


yet another jeep wannabe designed for yuppies who will never take it off road but want
to look outdoorsey .

dod 650 darkman
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein
the eternal champion

from finnegan@invader.navo.navy.mil (kenneth finnegan)
subject re top 10 reasons why i love cr (not for the humor impaired)
article i.d. cs.1993apr6.195710.24227
reply to finnegan@navo.navy.mil
distribution na
organization grumman data systems
lines 28
nntp posting host nntpd 19510 invader.navo.navy.mil

in article 1993apr6.180456.17573@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu , jnielsen@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john f nielsen) writes
in article 1993apr06.133319.7008@metrics.com tomh@metrics.com (tom haapanen) writes
chints@iscs.nus.sg writes
here are another ten reasons why we should all love cr
10. car salesmen love their new car buying service
2. and later on buying a cr idealized family sedan

and my number 1

1. the spectacle of the religious fervour of the cr true believers .

or the spectacle of macho real men who would never bother to read the
magazine but are more than apt to criticize it.

hey , i'm a macho real man and i do read it. so i can criticize
it all i want , especially since i pay for the publication. (they
accept no outside advertising , do n't you know....)

john nielsen magnus consultant
to you baldrick , the renaissance was just
something that happened to other people ,
was n't it \? the black adder

relying on consumer reports to pick your automobiles is like
letting field stream select your living room furniture.

kenneth
finnegan@navo.navy.mil

from ciarlett@mizar.usc.edu (joni ciarletta)
subject honda accord brake problem
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 26
distribution world
nntp posting host mizar.usc.edu

my honda accord just hit the magic 100 , 000 mile mark and now
all sorts of things are beginning to go bad. the latest problem
i am experiencing is with my brakes. they still stop the
car fine , but once i am stopped completely , my brake pedal
will sink another 2 or 3 inches all by itself. if feels really
strange , and i am worried my brakes will quit working one of
these days.

i checked my brake fluid , and the reservoir was full , but the
fluid itself looked really dirty (like dirty oil). i called
my mechanic and he told me i need a new brake master cylinder ,
which will cost me a whopping 250 300.

i was just wondering if anyone out there has experienced this
sort of thing. if so , is my mechanic being honest \? or do i
simply need to have my brakes bled and new fluid put in \?

any help you could provide would be appreciated. please send
replies directly to me , as i rarely have a chance to read this
list. i will post the responses if there is any interest.

thanks ,

joni
ciarlett@mizar.usc.edu


from celeste express@freedom.msfc.nasa.gov (celeste)
subject re male female mystery re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
nntp posting host 128.158.16.248
organization aegis
lines 56

in article 1pima2inn180@gap.caltech.edu , wen king@cs.caltech.edu
(wen king su) wrote

in article 1993apr1.191826.28921@iscnvx.lmsc.lockheed.com sharen@iscnvx.lmsc.lockheed.com (sharen a. rund) writes

apparently you 're not a woman my husband hates the auto door locks
features , but forgets that besides families with children , a woman
feels safer in a car that locks easily (in addition to watching around
checking out if anyone 's near me when i get to my car never park
in a secluded spot , etc have my keys ready to open the door so i'm
not fumbling in my purse looking for them ....

this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put
their keys in their pants pockets like men do \? i have two pockets on the
back of each of my pants. i put my keys in one and wallent in another.
many of the pockets even have a botton on them so i can close them securely.
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same \?
is is biological (ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus keys and
a wallet) or is it the way they are raised by the parents \?

women 's pants rarely have pockets and most , when they do , are too
shallow to use !

i is very important for a woman to have her keys in her hand when
she goes from building to a car. it is protect herself from
would be assilants by broadcasting that this is someone who
as a definite place of safty (ie a locked car ! ).

puting keys and walet looks ugly ! it breaks the lines and makes
you rear look wide as a cows !

also , to have the habits that
work for any clothing situation , the pruse functions no mater
what you are wearing ! (even nude or a bikni)

a women 's suit coat is lucky to have 2 pockets (2 on the outside ,
none on the inside). i have men 's coats that have as much as 6
pockets ! this is definitally not fair ! ! !

as one that wears both men 's and women 's clothes , i can tell you ,
women 's clothes have few if any funtional pockets !

when dressed as a man , i put my wallet on my inside coat pocket and
my keys in a coat outside pocket. it is much more covenent
than the pants pockets and looks better.

having a car that unlocks quickly and locks back fast is
paramout to a woman 's safty. men do n't see this as a problem.
a woman is aware of this every time she goes out ! (i.e.
image some red necks yelling at you we are going to fuck you !
and the out weight you by 20 lbs and have 3 inches in hight
on you ! )

if you want to find out why a women does something , live as one !

celeste

from callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu (james p. callison)
subject re sho and sc
nntp posting host uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization engineering computer network , university of oklahoma , norman , ok , usa
lines 42

in article 1993apr15.232412.2261@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us david@ganglion.ann arbor.mi.us (david hwang) writes
in article 5214@unisql.uucp wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes
in article chrissc587qb.d1b@netcom.com chriss@netcom.com (chris silvester) writes

wagon , which i have heard is somehow slightly faster than the coupe.

wagon has an automatic , it 's slower.

could be due to the rear end ratio also.

usually automatics have different rear ends than manuals , from
my limited experience anyways.

you 'll have fun looking for the rear end gears on an sho the taurus
is a front wheel drive vehicle...

i went back and checked the article again the sho wagon is quicker
than the sho automatic , but significantly slower than the real sho.

why anyone would order an sho with an automatic transmission is
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a
regular taurus and leave the sho to real drivers. that is not to
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick (eg
disabled persons) , but they are n't in any position to use an
sho anyway.

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic
transmissions from all performance type cars (like the 5.0l
mustangs , camaros , and the like) we 'd cut down on the number of
accidents each year. autos are fine for sedate little sedans ,
but they have no business in performance cars , imho.

james

james p. callison microcomputer coordinator , u of oklahoma law center
callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu
disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work...
the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t bird sc
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has
and all he 's ever gonna have.
will munny , unforgiven


from hhtra@usho0b.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock)
subject re looking to buy dodge stealth , have questions
keywords questions
organization chevron
lines 66

in article 1993apr2.030031.15691@cactus.org , boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes
in article 1993apr1.104746@usho72.hou281.chevron.com hhtra@usho72.hou281.chevron.com (t.m.haddock) writes

i found a mopar spec sheet this weekend

model wgt hp
stealth 3086 164
stealth es 3186 222
stealth rt 3373 222
stealth rt tt 3803 300

okay , i 'll take their word for it.


i am giving every chance to retract figures widely known. the mustang is
rated at 205. 222 205 is 17. you have a 17hp advantage over a mustang

seems that the 1993 mustang 5.0 is rated at 205 hp only because ford
changed its testing procedures. under the older procedures , it still
rates closer to 225 hp. that means that the mustang has 3 hp more.

and you still have n't posted any weight figures for the mustang.


big threat. you are ko 'd by a civic , acording to c d

yeah , sure , in your wet dreams. and that 's probably where you got
that 11.2 second 0 60 for the stealth.


i 'll check c d 's 5 91 issue. strange that you claim to have that

go ahead and check asshole , you 'll realize what an idiot you are for not
checking data beforeposting. car drive , may 91. stealth es , 222hp ,
automatic.

for 3 posts now you 've been harping on this may 1991 issue of car driver
without posting any numbers. why not \? because they prove me right and you
ai n't got the guts to admit it \? yeah , thought so.


the sentra se r really is alot quicker than the 222hp fwd sports car.
you are close to the 9k sentra e. go look up the numbers in c d and
report please.

no , i'm going to play your game

no way , sentra 's are slow ! i took a test drive and it took
21.7 to go 0 50 ! why , even the hyundai excel blows it doors
off. any 12 yr old knows that ! i race and i 'll kick your butt !
blah , blah , blah...

let 's see ... yep , that sounds just like you.
oh man , i just got it ! beavis butthead that 's you !


who would buy a fwd automatic , that costs 20k that is capable of only
a 15.8 and would plainly be dusted by a se r \?

i dunno , why did you \?

but why would someone pick the dodge stealth rt over the nissan sentra \?
all it takes is one look.


travis

from schrader@pi.eai.iastate.edu (dave schrader)
subject 400 big block
keywords 400 big block
article i.d. news.c5mf3f.lnb
organization engineering animation , inc.
lines 9

as the subject says. it has 70k and my brother in law wants 250. please do n't
reply to me as i am posting this for him. here 's his numbers
5pm 10pm 712 676 3669
daytime 712 269 1261



dave schrader
schrader@eai.iastate.edu

from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. armory.1prve9 1aa
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 14
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

dunnjj@ucsu.colorado.edu (dunn jonathan james) writes
ak296@yfn.ysu.edu (john r. daker) writes
cup holders (driving is an importantant enough undertaking)

this is a good idea so you can carry your (non alcoholic) drinks without
spilling or having someone hold on to them.

i agree. six hour long stretches behind the wheel really make me
thirsty , especially for something with caffeine. i consider it a
failing of my car that it has no cup holder nor anywhere to put a cup
holder.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

from jtchew@csa3.lbl.gov (ad absurdum per aspera)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization lawrence berkeley laboratory berkeley , ca , usa
lines 40
distribution usa
nntp posting host 128.3.254.198
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

wharf wrat rites

they were designed for speeds of upwards of 80 i forget the
exact spec but for military vehicles. that 's 80 in a 1958 dodge
powerwagon. not 80 in a 1993 ford taurus.

ever' once in a while , you still see a reference to the super
slab system as interstate and defense highways. but whether
the military has much of anything that goes 80 on the road is
another matter. a few of their most whomped up diesel trucks ,
maybe , load permitting. the military surplus stuff i 've
driven jeep classic (willys kaiser amc , pre independent
suspension) and power wagons (slant 6 in a crew cab pickup)
were n't exactly congenial at highway speeds , and i would n't
swear any of them would do 80 except as a bedload on a semi.

you just gotta love the standard military tire , too , or at
least the one they used to use. designed circa ww ii as a
compromise between traction in icky sticky goo and longevity
on sharp rocks and so forth , it 's quite ill adapted to high
speeds on civilian roadways. for those who ca n't remember
what they look like , imagine a mountain bike tire with a
road rib in the middle , scaled up to car size. oh , yeah , and
narrow too. one of the standard mods for civilizing a surplus
jeep was to install tires and wheels that reflected some of
the advancements made in ride and handling since d day.

but the point made by wharfie and others still stands if
you 're going to do 80 in a mil spec '58 power wagon (or a
jeep or a tank transporter or other unwieldy rubber tired
vehicle) anywhere , i 'd suggest the american interstate.
your safe speed there tends to be limited more by your car
and skills , road maintenance , and the swarms of fools around
you the roads were designed for going like the devil.

naturally , neither i nor my employer advocates unsafe or
unlawful driving.

joe
just another personal opinion from the people 's republic of berkeley

from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re too fast
article i.d. cactus.1993apr15.222638.22817
distribution world
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 51

in article bob1.734909414@cos bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw) writes
in 1993apr14.045526.21945@cactus.org boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes

in article 1qg19v 5ju@umcc.umcc.umich.edu mhartman@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (mark hartman) writes
driving 130 in a straight line is fine , you very soon become aclimated
to it. it 's only a rush when there are corners that you do n't
think you can make.

on a clear autobahn , 130 is nothing. in the u.s. 99 of people and
all judges would label you insane and it is difficult to persuade
people otherwise.

sure , but the surface condition of most good autobahns is far better

the quality of autobahns is something of a myth. the road surface
is n't much different to a typical tx freeway. they are better
in terms of lighting , safety , signs , roadmarkings etc. i 'd have
no problem driving 130 on most us freeways , as it is , i save it
for the backroads , which really are more likely to be dangerous.

than most of the roads here. a dip in the asphalt that you test your
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130. do n't get me wrong , i love to

it would have to be quite severe. i do n't recall any us freeway ,
without road damage warnings , that i would regard as unsafe
at 130 in any decent , well damped car. note that my definition
of decent , well damped , would exclude most typical american sedans.

drive quickly and they say my probe will do 130 , but that 's 30 more
than i 've ever tried in it cause there is n't a decent enough piece
of road hereabouts.

i do n't know where you live , but i would be much more worried
about cops , other traffic etc. than the road surface at 130.
it just is n't that fast or that dangerous. if you have a probe
gt , no problem. the 4cyl models i have driven would be
likely to be unpredictable at higher speeds.

craig

craig


mark hartman mhartman@umcc.umcc.umich.edu
kalamazoo , mi bk405@cleveland.freenet.edu
i'm naked in the school ! sleepyhead


bob



from dbak@elm.lle.rochester.edu (douglas baker)
subject performance of new mustangs ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
article i.d. galileo.1993apr6.170901.7684
organization university of rochester , rochester ny
lines 9
nntp posting host elm.lle.rochester.edu


does anyone know the performance ratings for a 1992 or 1993
5.0 l ho mustang lx like the 0 60 time 1 4 mile and top end \? \? \?
also can you tell me which magazine where these 's come from so i
can look them up if possable \? \? \? \? if you could the year and month and
eveen page if you have it.

thanks ,
doug

from rwf2@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (robert william fusi)
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions.
organization lehigh university
lines 47

in article 1qqp2o 5ba@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun h
ung wan) writes

in a previous article , ip02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (danny phornprapha) says

i have 30 , 000 as my budget. i'm looking for a sports or gt car.

what do you think would be the best buy \? (i'm looking for specific models)

thanks ,
danny




hey ! you programmers out there ! danny phornprapha

please consider this ip02@lehigh.edu



bugs are another endangered earth lucc student konsultant

species needing your protection. work (215) 758 4141



for an all out sports car , i 'd go for the rx 7 without the sports
suspension (which is too stiff.) for a little more practicality and more
comfort , the nissan 300zx turbo is a good buy. and for a good dose of
luxury , the lexus sc300 is perfect (with a manual transmission of course.)
however , the toyota supra is coming out soon and if you like it 's looks ,
the performance is supposed to be great , almost race car like. i do n't
particulary like the mitsubishi 3000gt 's or the dodge stealths as they are
too heavy and are n't very nimble handlers for a sports car.

a motion picture major at the brooks institute of photography , ca
santa barbara and a foreign student from kuala lumpur , malaysia.

the mind is the forerunner of all states.

the only thing about the 300zx turbo and new supra is they 're about 10k or
more over his budget...

be good ,
and you will be lonely
mark twain

from sorlin@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (steven j orlin)
subject re changing oil by self.
keywords n
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution usa
lines 18


in article 1993apr15.135514.29579@cbnewsj.cb.att.com rdb1@cbnewsj.cb.att.com
(ronald.j.deblock..jr) writes

you can avoid these problems entirely by installing an oil drain valve in
place of the bolt. i have one on both of my cars. there have been no
leaks in 210 , 000 miles (combined miles on both cars).

yes , but then someone would have no problem draining your oil in a parking lot.

all they have to do is reach underneath , turn a valve , and forget the trip
home.
but there is less likelyhood they have a wrench with them.

i personally recommend , installing a 'special' locking drain plug to keep
vandals away. )

steve

from smith@ctron.com (lawrence c smith)
subject re mr2 noisy engine.
organization cabletron systems , inc.
lines 16
distribution world
reply to smith@ctron.com
nntp posting host glinda.ctron.com

in article apr21.053718.19765@engr.washington.edu , eliot@lanmola.engr.washington.edu (eliot) writes

if the noise really bugs you , there is nothing else that you can do
except to sell it and get a v6.

perhaps a nice used '88 pontiac fiero gt \? 2.8 liters.

does anyone know if the motor mounts for the 2.8 and the twin dual cam 3.4
liter match \? the 3.4 is supposedly derived from the pushrod 3.1 , which was
a punched out 2.8 liter. should be a drop in replacement , eh \? 205 horses in
a mid engine the size of a fiero \?

larry smith (smith@ctron.com) no , i do n't speak for cabletron. need you ask \?

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want ,
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able.

from dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day)
subject re warning.....(please read)...
nntp posting host mudd.se.houston.geoquest.slb.com
organization geoquest system , inc. houston
lines 13

in article 1qke5b mc4@spool.mu.edu jason@studsys.mscs.mu.edu (jason hanson) writes
from article 1993apr15.024246.8076@virginia.edu , by ejv2j@virginia.edu ( erik velapoldi )
this happened about a year ago on the washington dc beltway.
snot nosed drunken kids decided it would be really cool to
throw huge rocks down on cars from an overpass. four or five
cars were hit. there were several serious injuries , and sadly

about a year ago , some kids tossed a rock off an overpass on i 94 near eau
claire , wisconsin and it killed the driver below. (i believe he was a
schoolteacher from minnesota.)

here in houston a couple years ago a young pregnant woman was killed
in a similar manner.

from cm@cci632.cci.com (carl mercer)
subject 1986 mazda forsale
keywords 1986 , 323 , pioneer dx 680
organization northern telecom , inc. network application systems
distribution wny
lines 34




for sale mazda 323

1986 mazda 323
white exterior , grey interior.
75 , 000 miles
interior in very good condition.
exterior in good condition

pioneer dx 680 car stereo.
cd player
18 fm presets , 6 am
removable faceplate
seperate component speakers professionally mounted
in the doors.

the car has been well maintained. i wax it often and keep the interior
clean. its a good running car with a solid body (no rust thru , tiny
spots of surface rust. when i see a spot i touch it up.) the stereo
makes the car. i have had no mechanical problems with it.

i'm looking for 900.00 firm. the car has an average wholesale value of
about 900.00 without the stereo. the stereo cost me 500.00 last july.

if you are interested , call or email me at

carl mercer
cm@cci.com
(716) 654 2652
(716) 359 0895 evening



from gaia@carson.u.washington.edu (i we are gaia)
subject re plymouth sundance dodge shadow experiences \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 115
distribution usa
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article oprsfnx.735015349@gsusgi1.gsu.edu oprsfnx@gsusgi2.gsu.edu (stephen f. nicholas) writes
daubendr@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (darren r daubenspeck) writes


they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next
year with all new models.


junk \? they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and
acceleration. they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not
the newest on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight mpg under the class
leader. you can get into a 3.0 l v 6 (141 hp) shadow for 10 11k (the i 4
turbo a bit more) , and a droptop for 14 15k.


as an ex fleet mgr. of 3000 cars , they were amoung the most trouble free of
all models. i bought one for my wife.



nnnnnnnng thank you for playing , i cannot agree with this. i believed
this and to put it nicely , it was a piece of junk !

i loved this car , i babied it , i pampered it , and after 2 years , it just
could n't stay together , i would say that not everyone will have the
problems that i had , but know this , it 's not just the car , it is the
ability to get the car fixed , which will not happen at any
chrysler dodge take your pick dealer. i do n't care if there are going to
reform their dealers service with the intro of the lh cars , i will believe
it when i see it. case and point , the local dodge dealer. you drive up ,
just looking , you do n't even get out of your door , when about 10 (yes 10)
salesman all eye you like their next meal , and literally pounce on you ,
and try to get you to make a deal , on everything your eye wanders towards.
service is about 2 times worse than that. i had an alignment problem , but
they tried to tell me that the k frame was bent , and about 2000 dollars of
work parts to fix it. let me tell you the problems i had , and i took care
of this car , i put alot of miles on it in the first couple years , but took
it to every checkup it needed , and many that should n't have been.

1988 dodge shadow es

these were replaced within the 4 years that i owned the car.

engine
4 alternators
rear suspension torsion bar
2 water pumps
5 thermostats
hall effect sensor
main computer
4 batteries

these were rebuilt repaired

radiator
automatic transmission
power steering


those are just the things i can remember off the top of my head. for
about a year before i sold the car , i said to myself , it 's a good car , i
just ca n't find anybody competent enough the fix it. in the end , before i
traded it in for a saturn , the power steering started acting up again. i
just stopped putting money into it. i must have put at least 5000 7000
worth of repairs over it 's lifetime. i am sorry but lee iacocca can bite
me. bullshit , whoever backs em best , is just afraid the stupid things are
going to fall apart , and no one will buy them without assurance , why the
hell do you think that lh has been nicknamed last hope.

you can do better , and i know people will disagree with me here , but
japanese , like honda , or toyota , or the only american car company that i
feel is a quality product , saturn. i will not touch another chrysler
product again , no way. i do n't care how good the lh cars look good , and i
will admit they look promising , but not with the support that you get. gm
is n't much better , thank god , they do n't control saturn , like they do
their divisions , or it would be just another marketing ploy.

do n't get me wrong , i will be watching my car (which i do like) like a
hawk for the next 4 years. i am much more hesitant to say it (or any) car
is really good , until it has proved itself to me.

but since someone else pointed out c d as a source. i will note , because
i used to read these magazines , that car and driver has never had a good
thing to say about most chrysler products (shadow for one) , always were
they moaning about the reguritated k car , and engine. whereas motor trend
always thought they were great cars. no car magazine is really objective.

and although there are alot of people who do n't like consumers reports , i
will use them to reinforce my argument (i already know about the big stink
with the saturn crash tests , time will tell how good a car they are) , the
shadow sundance rate much worse than average , in fact none of the
chrysler 's rate a better than average , i think the best one is just
average. excluding the diamond star mitsubishi stuff and the lh 's. you
can find bad stuff about the shadow. try as i might , when i researched
the saturn , i could not find anything bad about it. there is a great deal
of information about this company , just because it is a new american
company and it has created quite a stir in the automotive community , for
good reason. much more than the introduction of any new model lines of
any established company. i read an article , which had a sub column , an i
think this imprinted on me more than anything else. some big wig in
toyota said and i quote , we are watching them very closely. come on ,
everybody grow up , the foreign cars , especially the japanese have been
kicking our butts , for good reason , the american car companies could not make
a good product or support the customer the way they want these days , to
set in their ways , which is one of the reasons saturn was created. they
are still struggling because they have n't learned yet. they have the
ability , the workers are not inferior , the technology is not out of date ,
but their attitude is , and they are just finding this out. it 's called
competition gentleman women if you do n't satisfy the demand of the
consumer , well your out..

asbestos suit on

gaia


from boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all time
article i.d. cactus.1993apr15.223029.23340
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 29

in article c5jnk3.jkt@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
was n't the original intent of the reverse lights for the driver , so he
could see where he was backing up \? \? \? although reverse lights on the sides

no. reverse lights are to warn others that you are backing up. they
are n't bright enough to (typically) see by without the brake and tail
lights.

are useful for telling whether cars are backing up out perpendicular to the
path of the car , i do n't think warnings were their original intents , since they
are colored white.

well , red and orange were already taken. maybe white defines the direction
that the car is moving in.


if you really want to be able to see behind you , get some fog lamps for
the back of the car. these work very well and are a good way to get
rid of tailgaters if you get that rush of testosterone.

craig




chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
neil peart , (c)1981
quick to judge , quick to anger , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice
and fear walk hand in hand

from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc)
subject re opel owners \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 30

boyle@cactus.org (craig boyle) writes

in article c5sxi4.j9b@news.cso.uiuc.edu cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (oriolefan@uiuc) writes
gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes
i'm looking for information on opel cars. now you ask , which model \?
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two seater ,
with roll over headlights , hard top , and really sporty looking. my
friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition ,
body wise , but he transmission has seized up on him , so it has n't run
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars \? the engine
compartment looks really tight to work on , but it is in fine shape and
i am quite interested in it.
thanks !
darren gibbons
gibbonsa@sfu.ca

this would be the manta , would it not \? \? \? sold through buick dealers in the mid '70 's as the price leader \? \? \? \?

sounds a lot more like an opel gt to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same
chassis as the kadett , rather than the bigger manta but i could easily
be wrong. i think the later kadett 's were sold here as buick opels.

craig

i think the manta is the european name for the gt. i'm pretty sure
that the only kadett 's sold here were are the pontiac lemans. i think the
gt is just an early '70s to mid '70s manta.

chintan amin the university of illinois urbanachampaign mail llama@uiuc.edu
sig under construction hard hat area

from toml@miles.ca.boeing.com (tom locke)
subject 22600 subaru svx good deal \?
organization bogart graphics development
lines 20

hi netters ,

my friend is seriously thinking of getting the subaru svx. there is
a local dealer here in seattle selling them for 22600 , with
touring package , that 's 7400 off from msrp. he thinks it 's a
very good deal (and i think so too). since he knows i have access to
the net , he would like to get anyone 's opinion about this car , especially
in the area of reliability and maintenanability.
please send e mail to me as my friend does n't have access to the net.

my opinion about this car is , you get a lot for 22600
auto everything (tranny , climate control , windows , locks , folddow rear seet) ,
full wheel drive , 2 2 , fast (143 top spped) , heavy (3580lb) )

thanks in advacne !

tom locke work (206) 865 6568
boeing computer services e mail toml@voodoo.boeing.com
p.o. box 24346 m s 7k 20 or uunet ! bcstec ! voodoo ! toml
seattle , wa 98124 0346

from lovall@bohr.physics.purdue.edu (daniel l. lovall)
subject buick heater controls
summary my air vents do n't work on my 71 skylark
distribution usa
organization purdue university physics department
lines 31

i have a '71 buick skylark with 148k on it. i bought it in california , and if
it 'll let me , i 'd like to keep it for another year. the only problem is these
indiana winters my heater controls do n't work.

the car has vacuum operated control switches for the vents. right now it is
stuck in the vent mode. it will blow warm air , but i ca n't switch the air
flow to either the floor (i can live without this) or the defrost (i ca n't
live without this). i probably could just jam the air deflector to the
defrost position , but this blows a lot of air in my face and is , well ,
kind of like putting a vacuum cleaner in reverse.

i have taken parts of the dash off and looked at the vacuum system and i think
the problem (or part of it) is with the two diaphragms which control up down
and outside inside air flow. the diaphragm which controls outside(vent) in
side(no vent) air is cracked most of the way around , and the other one is
probably damaged too , considering the advanced age of the car.

two questions

1) is there anything i should be aware of about this (other than
the fact that i should move from indiana) \?

2) in the event that replacement diaphragms are n't available , is there
a way to fix this \?

thanks for any advice info

selah ,

dan
lovall@physics.purdue.edu

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject (w)rec.autos
organization university of virginia
lines 3


there is just something disconcerting about the name of this group. )


from jmh@hopper.virginia.edu (jeffrey hoffmeister)
subject re dumbest automotive concepts of all tim
organization itc uva community access unix internet project
lines 41

in article 1ppg8b fvq@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost) writes
joes@telxon.mis.telxon.com (joe staudt) writes
in article 1phoi3 s95@armory.centerline.com jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
writes
stuff deleted...

the silly thing about this whole argument is that most of the trunk
releases (i'm tempted to say all , but there 's bound to be a
counterexample) only operate if the car is on (acc or running). thus
you ca n't easily pop the trunk without starting the car.

most cars \? the only cars i 've ever seen with this feature have been
gm cars. my `88 mazda , '80 honda , and (coming soon) '93 probe all have
cable operated releases ... . my '84
camaro had an electric hatch release that was (thankfully) independent of
the key in the ignition (the exception to the rule mentioned in my first
sentence).

i should probably have said glovebox trunk releases. i have n't
encountered any glovebox releases that are cable operated. numerous
gm and several ford mercury cars that i 've encountered have electrical
releases in the glovebox , and all of the ones i 've seen needed the
ignition on to some degree to operate. your camaro example is noted ,
but since it 's a hardtop it 's not a big deal. i 've never run into a
convertible with a cable operated trunk release i 'd agree 100 that
in such an environment a cable or always active electrical release
would be rather stupid.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

my honda has a cable release that can be locked out with the ignition key.
the valet key can be left with someone and will not unlock the trunk
or enable the cable release.

i remember my mothers '86 corvette that had an electronic hatch release
located on the drivers door , which was always active. the fact that the
car had no real trunk makes the security measure of beign able to
dis able the hatch release unnecessary.



from dunnjj@ucsu.colorado.edu (dunn jonathan james)
subject re photo radar (was re rec.autos frequently asked questions)
keywords monthly posting
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 18

photo radar and mailed tickets make no sense at all. speeding is a moving
violation , committed by the operator , not the owner. the owner may be a
rental agency , a dealer , a private party , or a government agency. as long
as the owner has no reason to expect the operator will be driving illegally
or unsafely , the owner cannot be held responsible for what the operator does.
the car may even have been driven without the owner 's knowledge or consent.
i ca n't believe a mailed ticket , where the driver is not identified , would
stand up in court. this is obviously a lazy , cynical , boneheaded , fascist
way to extort revenue , and has nothing to do with public safety.

bk

what do photo radar units look like \? also , what major u.s. cities use it \?

jon dunn




from awelker@watarts.uwaterloo.ca (a welker)
subject aftermarket exhausts for bmw 320i
organization university of waterloo
lines 14

i am in the process of looking for a half decent aftermarket sport exhaust
for my 1981 bmw 320i. so far , i have found a pacesetter exhaust for 219
and an ansa exhaust for 190 (canadian funds). i was wondering if anyone
could tell me anyhting about either of these exhausts or any other possible
exhausts that i may be interested in. my main priorities are a decent horse
power increase (5 30 ) and a nice low note to go along with that added power.
i was also thinking of looking into both remus and leistritz exhausts.has
anyone got anything to say about these \? i am mainly looking for the muffler
only but if anyone can find a good deal on a whole kit i would be willing to
go after that. i also would like to know how much these would cost me in the
states.please mail me back if you have any information.

mike welker


from etxmst@sta.ericsson.se (markus strobl 98121)
subject re photo radar (was re rec.autos frequently
nntp posting host st83.ericsson.se
reply to etxmst@sta.ericsson.se
organization ericsson telecom ab
lines 50

in article 2211@viewlogic.com , brad@buck.viewlogic.com (bradford kellogg) writes

in article 1993mar20.050303.8401@cabot.balltown.cma.com , welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com (richard welty) writes

q what is ka band radar \? where is it used \? should a radar detector be
able to handle it \?

a ka band has recently been made available by the fcc for use in the us
in so called photo radar installations. in these installations , a
low powered beam is aimed across the road at a 45 degree angle to the
direction of traffic , and a picture is taken of vehicles which the
radar unit determines to have been in violation of the speed limit.
tickets are mailed to the owner of the vehicle. because of the low
power and the 45 degree angle , many people believe that a radar
detector cannot give reasonable warning of a ka band radar unit ,
although some manufacturers of radar detectors have added such
capability anyway. the number of locales where photo radar is in use
is limited , and some question the legality of such units. best advice
learn what photo radar units look like , and keep track of where they
are used (or else , do n't speed.)

photo radar and mailed tickets make no sense at all. speeding is a moving
violation , committed by the operator , not the owner. the owner may be a
rental agency , a dealer , a private party , or a government agency. as long
as the owner has no reason to expect the operator will be driving illegally
or unsafely , the owner cannot be held responsible for what the operator does.
the car may even have been driven without the owner 's knowledge or consent.
i ca n't believe a mailed ticket , where the driver is not identified , would
stand up in court. this is obviously a lazy , cynical , boneheaded , fascist
way to extort revenue , and has nothing to do with public safety.

bk



we had those f g photo radar things here in sweden a while ago.
there was a lot of fuzz about them , and a lot of sabotage too (a spray can
with touch up paint can do a lot of good...).

eventually they had to drop the idea as there were a lot of court cases
where the owner of the car could prove he did n't drive it at the time
of speeding.

i especially recall a case where it eventually proved to be a car thief that
had stolen a car and made false plates. he , ofcourse , chose a license number
of a identical car , so the photo seemed correct...

in conclosion photo radar sucks , every way you look at it !

markus

from andyh@chaos.cs.brandeis.edu (andrew j. huang)
subject re quick question
keywords removing panels.
organization brandeis university
lines 12

in article 1993apr5.211457.12789@ole.cdac.com ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate) writes
how do you take off the driver side door panel from the inside
on an '87 honda prelude \? the speaker went scratchy , and i want
to access its pins.


there is something going on here. it seems that once a month , the vw
group must have get a specific detailed question about hondas. i
would like to ask that next month we get one about hyundai instead of
honda. thank you.

andy

from bpita@ctp.com (bob pitas)
subject re braindead drivers who do n't look ahead
keywords bad drivers
nntp posting host earth.ctp.com
organization cambridge technology partners
distribution usa
lines 56

in article 1993apr14.140642.19875@cbnewsd.cb.att.com hhm@cbnewsd.cb.att.com (herschel.h.mayo) writes

well , i guess i know for sure what i meant , and it is this i do n't know where
you drive , but around here freeways are often clogged solid with large packs
of semis , trucks , and cars of all descriptions. when i close on one of these
rolling clusterf s on the highway , i have no desire to add my vehicle to this
rolling accident looking for a place to happen. if there were any way to pass it
i would be passing myself , however i ca n't. as i posted before , all it
takes is a blown tire , or some moron tramping on the brakes to turn this pack
into a cloud of shredded metal , flying glass , and burning vehicles. i want to
maintain enough free space between myself and this mess to at least have a
minimal chance to avoid a mass crash. that means maintaining a clear space
between me and it.
however , there is no end of shortdriving morons who are dying to pass so they
can add themselves and their car to the bodycount. that would n't bother me so
much except that after letting enough of these morons pass me and glue themselves
to the pack ahead , my interval is filled up. trying to back off further does not
work because the road behind me has filled up , trapping my car right into an ever
increasing pack. now , if there was any slight possibility that there was a lane
open ahead , i 'd be glad to move over. but , there usually is no way in hell that
anybody is going anywhere. so , i block the would be passers. not only for my own
good , but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it.


just an comment i do n't like it when people decide what 's good for me...
if you think you 're going to decide anything for me , you 'd better be
carrying a badge and a gun. who made you capable of determining if there
is no way in hell that anybody is going anywhere \? why do you find
it necessary to add to the problem instead of just minding your own
business \? if someone is minding their own business , i will give them
all the room they want , and i 'll try to make things easy for them , even
letting them in in front of me if they ask politely (with a directional).
on the other hand , if someone like you decides they want to block me and
be a general asshole , you can bet your ass that i 'll make life as
miserable as possible for you , as long as it does n't affect anyone else
who 's minding their own business.
they have a phrase to describe someone like you
self appointed traffic police.
just mind your own business and stay in the right lane where you belong.

as a rule of philosophy , i do n't feel particularly sorry when somebody gets
offed by his own stupidity , but it does worry me when some idiot is in a position
to cash in my chips , too.

h.h. mayo




'85 mustang gt bob pitas
ush 14.13 @ 99.8 bpita@ctp.com
up at ned , epping , nh (cambridge , ma)

geddy lee (in yyz)
disclaimer these opinions are mine , obviously , since they end with my .sig !


from grady@world.std.com (dick grady)
subject re seating ergonomics headroom
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 14

in article 930411.153152.amiller@almaden.ibm.com amiller@almaden.ibm.com (alex miller) writes
my physical therapist has suggested that a good driving position
for me is to have my back nearly vertical and for my knees not
to be much higher than my hips.
...
are there any cars that are particularly good in respect to
having both headroom and a well designed seat height \?

take a look at mini vans. i sat in a dodge caravan , which had a high seat
and plenty of headroom.


dick grady salem , nh , usa grady@world.std.com
so many newsgroups , so little time !

from ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate)
subject quick question
keywords removing panels.
organization cdac , wa
lines 9

how do you take off the driver side door panel from the inside
on an '87 honda prelude \? the speaker went scratchy , and i want
to access its pins.

i see only one press button and the rest is snug fit.


s
ssave@ole.cdac.com

from jimf@centerline.com (jim frost)
subject re best radar detector valentine 1 \?
organization centerline software , inc.
lines 26
nntp posting host 140.239.3.202

troy@sequent.com (troy wecker) writes
there is no question that the valentine 1 ( 299) has good range but
not significant enough to be 2 or 3 times as expensive as some of the
others.

the big win with the v 1 is not its range but rather its
directionality and multiple transmitter tracking (which you later
called a gimmick a conclusion i disagree with). since the
detector incorporates multiple receivers it 's not surprising that it 's
significantly more expensive. while the added capabilities may not
help you , there is added value for those of us who live in areas where
there are a lot of false alarms.

summary valentine 1 way too expensive and not a significantly better
performer !

i certainly call it interesting but i'm another person who thinks
that the added value might be coming at too high a cost. very
adequate radar detectors are available for less than half the cost and
one of them has suited me rather well. if i did more long distance
travelling in areas i'm not familiar with i 'd probably consider
getting the v 1 because it 's additional information would be useful in
discriminating false alarms.

jim frost
jimf@centerline.com

from etxmst@sta.ericsson.se (markus strobl 98121)
subject renting from alamo
nntp posting host st83.ericsson.se
reply to etxmst@sta.ericsson.se
organization ericsson telecom ab
lines 20

hello netters !

i'm visiting the us (i'm from sweden) in august. i will probably rent a chevy
beretta from alamo. i 've been quoted 225 for a week 54 for additional days.
this would include free driving distance , but not local taxes (baltimore).
they also told me all insurance thats necessary is included , but i doubt that ,
'cause a friend rented a car last year and it turned out he needed a lot more
insurance than what 's included in the base price. but on the other hand he did n't
rent it from alamo.

does anyone have some info on this \?

is 225 a rip off \?
probability that i 'll be needing more insurance \?
is the beretta a good rental car \?

thanx

markus


from eliot@stalfos.engr.washington.edu (eliot)
subject re open letter to nissan (really station wagon)
organization clearer than blir
lines 7
distribution na
nntp posting host 192.42.145.4


this week 's autoweek talks about how wagons are getting back in vogue.
i would n't mind an audi s4 wagon (great stealth value) but you 'll
never catch me dead in a minivan !


eliot

subject insurance question
from libemc@byuvm.bitnet
organization brigham young university
lines 18

i'm about to buy a new car and finance some of it. since i paid
cash for the last car i bought i did not have to worry about
whether or not i had a good amount of insurance on it because
of a bank loan. i just put the amount that i wanted (not what
a bank would have wanted). friends are telling me that banks
require some kind of insurance on the car to protect it since it
is collateral on loans. is this true \? can that insurance be
gotten as part of my other insurance \? i assume i do n't have to
pay a dealer for extra insurance over my regular car insurance.
am i correct \? i hear about accident health type insurance at
the dealers and i am pretty sure these are just money makers
for them. i just want to verify that i do n't have to buy
these at all. or any other types of extras.

what do i have to pay for \? car , tax , license. anything else \?

ellen


from skukreti@chemical.watstar.uwaterloo.ca (sanjai kukreti)
subject advice on used car \?
lines 11
organization university of waterloo

hi , i was looking for some helpful advice.
i'm a university student with about 7000 to spend , and i'm looking for a
used car. does anyone have any useful advice they could offer to a first
time buyer \? i'm not looking for anything sporty , just something functional
and reliable (less maintenance costs). anybody have any ideas on what models
might suit me \?

thanks

sanjai


from cka52397@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (carolinafan@uiuc)
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000
article i.d. news.c5345n.dgf
distribution na
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 36

jmh@hopper.virginia.edu (jeffrey hoffmeister) writes

in article 1993apr6.200200.29965@progress.com damelio@progress.com (stephen d'amelio) writes

rjwade@rainbow.ecn.purdue.edu (robert j. wade) writes

there 's only one car that really fits your needs. it 's spelled

5.0 liter mustang

sports car , butm my mothers '88 gt was considered a sports car.
i still ca n't quite figure that out , since when do plastic add ons
make a car a sports car \?

jeff

we 're talking about insurance agents from bumf k illinois (st.farm is
hq'ed in bloomington). what the hell do they know about cars... both are
sports cars... )













chintan amin the university of illinois urbana champaign mail llama@uiuc.edu

because he was human because he had goodness because he was moral
they called him insane... peart cinderella man

from nathanp@sco.com (nathan)
subject re ford probe opinions \? (centered around the gt)
organization the santa cruz operation
lines 127


jeremy g. mereness zonker @cmu.edu says

can anyone offer any opinions of the ford probe... ala how they do in
the long run , repair records , reliability , mileage , etc \?

i am fixing to buy a car in the next few months aiming toward something
a little bigger than a typical small car and with a little more power. i
am considering the mx 6 , probe , accord , corolla , and the 240sx.

the probe is the youngest of the bunch , thus my interest in opinions.
but every magazine and ratings book places it as an excellent value.
btw , the 240sx is rear wheel drive and is due for a re design for 1994.

thanks in advance !

while i do n't read normally read this group , i was looking for valentine radar
information (sigh , maybe in the faq) and came across your posting..

i bought a '93 probe gt with the pep 263a last july (now at 9500 miles)
after debating over the sentra se r nx2000 , mx6 , mr 2 , stealth , prelude ,
and celica.

check this month 's consumer reports for previous probe records.

my criteria a fun car with abs , airbag , over 130hp , and less than 25k.
i thought about a turbo , but checking with insurance people ruled that out.
the tri star cars (eclipse talon etc) were out since they do n't have an air bag.
ditto for the mustang(also no abs).
the se r nx2000 m20 fell into the pocket rocket category. a good used car buy.
the mx 6 was almost there but rolled more than i liked.
i did n't like the prelude dash instrumentation at all. too weird for me.
the mr2 has a much smaller non passenger space than i needed , so out that went.
the celica was ok but underpowered when loaded with options (and somewhat
overpriced too) in non turbo form.
i never considered the 240sx since it did n't have an airbag. i did look at it
for its rwd virtues but that 's it. the corolla never entered my mind.
i should have looked at the mitsubishi vr4 dodge stealth more.
since my list was exhausted , i bought the probe. )

the car design is different than earlier years , so it 's too early to see its
reliability so far. for what it 's worth , my comments

my dislikes
shutting door with windows up from inside rarely makes good wind seal.
headlights have stuck up a few times (weather \? )
air conditioning broke 4000 miles (pressure cycling switch)
condensation around rear washer fluid container does n't drain completely.
crammed engine little hope for do it yourselfers (typical)
parts somewhat more expensive than normal ford parts
underside plastic does n't like sharp driveways and speedbumps (typical).
assembly gripes tape on radiator , screw fell out of dash , seat seams not
stitched properly. hopefully just a fluke.
ford only gives 1 key with the car. c'mon ford , spend an extra few pennies !
rear hatch has no padding on corners when up. i'm waiting for the day when
i bash my head on the corner.
horn buttons behind air bag in spokes and not in center (personal preference)
tires fling dirt mud onto side of car

my likes
engine (design valves sounds smoothness power mileage torque) definitely 1
handling (very good for fwd understeer only at limits)
transmission (the 5 speed is a must)
usable instrumentation (lovely readable analog everywhere)
very little torque steer at full power (much better than the '90 sho i drive)
stability at 100 mph (high gearing though)
low cowl (good visibility in front)
heated outside mirrors (nice in fog , never tested in freezing weather)
abs air bag (see above)
rear seats fold down (i have few rear seat passengers so a trunk not important)
no shake rattle noises when going over bumps potholes (still ! )
tires 225 55vr16 goodyear eagles (70 left hoping for 30k )

as you can see , i'm primarily interested in the engine. while it does n't
have the uummmph of a big liter car or the turbo rush , the big selling
point for me was the all aluminum 24 value 2.5 liter engine.

the overall car is a good buy for the money. that market segment has n't changed
much since july (prelude vtec , honda del sol \? \? ). i drive it to and from work
each day on relatively smooth roads , and most noticable thing is that the
probe 's suspension does n't like potholes. when you test drive one , find a
potholed road somewhere around town and see if the jarring you get is tolerable.
if you have 3 passengers , by all means bring them along too. they 'll find
that they have no room in the back and you 'll find that the car rides
differently (if that 's better is up to you). also , there 's a lot of glass
around you which i was n't expecting the temperature inside the car gets pretty
hot in the summer. my back seat passengers (now very few) complain about
the lack of ventilation you may want to consider that when combined with
the heat. i 've heard that the exhaust system has trouble , but mine works fine.
leather and the keyless entry system were n't available when i got the car so
i ca n't comment on them (i got the car before it was officially announced).
i prefer cloth to leather anyway.

i would n't want this car in the snow the suspension is too rough for the
inevitable surprise potholes , tires are n't meant for snow , and the seats assume
that you 're not wearing lots of thick clothing. rain is much better water
generally beads off the windshield at freeway speed , the windshield wiper
controls are easy and understandable , and i barely hydroplaned once with the
eagles (and i was really trying).
there is also a definite lack of cup holder small storage places. the gt
has map holders below the speakers in the door , but they 're rigid plastic
that could fit two cassettes or cd 's max. the center console storage bin arm
rest has 1 cup holder and the back of the front seats have a cloth pouch
but that 's it. no change holders. quite a let down from the sho.
and the probe is definitely not a people mover car or an econo box car !

lastly , do n't store wet car covers in the back. the foam will soak the
water up and the result will not smell pleasant (.

nathan
nathan@sco.com



jeremy mereness support ye olde disclaimer
zonker @cmu.edu (internet) free the above represent my
fast project , cmu gsia software opinions , alone.
b.s. mechanical engineering , cmu ya gotta love it.
every silver lining 's got a touch of grey

this year marks the 200th anniversary of the bill of rights




mx nathan@sco.com
no comment they 're coming to take me away , ha ha ! napolean xiv

from davec@ece.concordia.ca (dave chu)
subject wanted opinions on 75 mg
nntp posting host dreams.ece.concordia.ca
organization ece concordia university
lines 14

i was wondering if anyone out in net land have any opinions on mgs
in general. i know they are not the most reliable cars around but
summer is approaching and they are convertibles `8 ). i'm interested
in a 75 mg but any opinions on mgs would be appreciated. thanks.

dave


dave kai chui chu
dept. of elec. comp. eng.
concordia university voice (514)848 3115
1455 de maisonneuve w. h915 fax (514)848 2802
montreal , quebec , canada h3g 1m8 email davec@ece.concordia.ca


from awds ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (adam edwards)
subject re 86 chevy sprint
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 34

in wfnmbjg00wboe3l2c0@andrew.cmu.edu srinagesh gavirneni sg48 @andrew.cmu.edu writes

i have a 86 chevy sprint with a c and 4doors. it 's odometer turned 90k
and the sensor light started blinking. i went to the dealer and he said
it was a maintenance light saying i need to change the oxygen sensor. he
said , it is to be changed every 30k , but since i bought the car when it
had 77k , i do n't know if the same thing happened at 30k and 60k. he
quoted 198 for the part and 50 to install it. the part cost 30
outside , but the mechanic i went to could not fix it saying the sensor
is placed too deep in the engine parts. he suggested i wait till it
malfunctions before i do anything. if anyone out there owns a chevy
sprint , i want to know how they got their oxygen sensors changed. also ,
did you face any problem with fixing it without the dealer 's help. also ,
what are the results of the oxygen sensor malfunction.
any help would be greatly apprecisted
thanks




i sold my '86 sprint last april with 95k on it. i 'd driven it since
the previous july , putting 20k miles on it. the sensor light used to
light up regularly , starting about 5k miles after i bought it.
my brother and i rebuilt the engine but used all of the original equipment ,
so i suppose the sensor could have used replacement. performance (hah ,
if you could call it that) did not change. perhaps emissions increased ,
but how much emissions could a ca registered 3 cylinder engine produce \?
that was a neat car , i held the engine block easily in one hand ! has
anyone ever driven the 'turbo' variant \? just curious...

adam edwards
awds ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu



from brother@mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu (jesse mccabe)
subject there 's rust on my beamer ! help !
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 16

actually i was n't too surprised , since i bought it with the rust. any of you
got some ideas of getting rid of this cheaply (key word) \? \? it has eaten all
the
way through on the door panels. can i use bondo \?

also , is there a good paint that will bond to aluminum rims \? the paint thati
was on my rims has peeled off , actually , there 's some rust looking 'stuff' on
the rims themselves... but it comes off pretty easily.

one more thing...
have any of you done self painting to a car \? how do you start \? what do i need
to do this \?

please help me !
jesse


from gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan)
subject re it 's a rush... (was re too fast)
organization loral software productivity laboratory
lines 14

dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left lane fast but when i overtake
cars who are on the right , i slow down a tad bit. if i were to rely on the j udgement of the other car , to recognize the speed differential , i would be the stupid one.

just to satiate my curiosity , why would this make you the stupid one \? it seems
to me , everybody should be aware enough of what is going on. you do not need

i couldnt agree more. that is how it should work. people should also always see motorcycles too.

i constantly scan behind me (i have one of those wink mirrors) and two outside mirrors. i actually spend just as much time checking my six (cops you know).

i still get caught off guard every now and then.


maybe i didnt word it right the first time. what i was trying to say was that if you plan to blow by somebody at a very high speed differential and you assume you are safe because the guy sees you , you are stupid (of course , it depends on the circumstances). i have had some very scary instances when i assumed this and i dont think all of the fault was the other guy (now if he was going 25 in a 55 thats a whole different story)

from rmt6r@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (roy matthew thigpen)
subject re chrysler new yorker lhs (was re chryslers compact lh sedans \? )
organization university of virginia
lines 7


warren brown , the washington post 's auto writer was the first journalist
to get his hands on the new yorker. if you 'd like his impressions of it
his review appeared in friday 's paper , in the weekend section.
he is not your traditional auto writer...
enjoy.





