from langley@dirac.scri.fsu.edu (randolph langley)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
organization fsu supercomputer computations research institute
lines 8
in reply to clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 's message of 16 apr 93 15 19 06 gmt


gee , i guess they should also have such a repository for house keys ,
car keys , safety deposit keys , ... (

rdl




from bear@kestrel.fsl.noaa.gov (bear giles)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization forecast systems labs , noaa , boulder , co usa
lines 29

in article 1993apr20.000359.20098@bernina.ethz.ch caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni) writes

just a question.
as a provider of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to gurantee
intelligble access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes
with sufficent authorisation \? i guessed this would be a basic condition
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland)

that sounds like an old dragnet episode.

joe and i went to the apartment of prime suspect. nobody answered the
door , but his landlord gave us permission to search the apartment.

perhaps that worked in california in the 60 's , but as i understand the
law landlords do not have authority to grant permission to search space
rented by a third party , provided the lease is not in default , etc.
(i'm not even sure if they can provide the master key , when shown a search
warrant , since the subject of the search is supposed to be notified).

at this point the question becomes did the user rent the disk space
her encrypted file occupies \? if she did , it should fall under the same
body of case law that applies to apartments , storage lockers , etc. (as
to whether any court would recognize this fact....) if she did not (i.e. ,
no compensation exchanged) , i do n't know how it would be treated there
does n't seem to be a non cyberspace equivalent.


bear giles
bear@fsl.noaa.gov

from schneier@chinet.chi.il.us (bruce schneier)
subject issa '93 conference
organization chinet public access unix
distribution usa
lines 4

if there is anyone attending the issa conference in arlington , va next
week , i would appreciate them getting in touch with me.

bruce

from kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie)
subject eff initial eff analysis of clinton privacy and security proposal
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 107

an article from comp.org.eff.news , effector online 5.06 carl

april 16 , 1993

initial eff analysis of clinton privacy and security
proposal

the clinton administration today made a major announcement
on cryptography policy which will effect the privacy and security of
millions of americans. the first part of the plan is to begin a
comprehensive inquiry into major communications privacy issues
such as export controls which have effectively denied most people
easy access to robust encryption as well as law enforcement issues
posed by new technology.

however , eff is very concerned that the administration has
already reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry , before
any public comment or discussion has been allowed. apparently , the
administration is going to use its leverage to get all telephone
equipment vendors to adopt a voice encryption standard developed
by the national security agency. the so called clipper chip is an
80 bit , split key escrowed encryption scheme which will be built into
chips manufactured by a military contractor. two separate escrow
agents would store users' keys , and be required to turn them over
law enforcement upon presentation of a valid warrant. the
encryption scheme used is to be classified , but they chips will be
available to any manufacturer for incorporation into their
communications products.

this proposal raises a number of serious concerns .

first , the administration appears to be adopting a solution
before conducting an inquiry. the nsa developed clipper chip may
not be the most secure product. other vendors or developers may
have better schemes. furthermore , we should not rely on the
government as the sole source for clipper or any other chips. rather ,
independent chip manufacturers should be able to produce chipsets
based on open standards.

second , an algorithm can not be trusted unless it can be tested.
yet the administration proposes to keep the chip algorithm
classified. eff believes that any standard adopted ought to be public
and open. the public will only have confidence in the security of a
standard that is open to independent , expert scrutiny.

third , while the use of the split key , dual escrowed
system may prove to be a reasonable balance between privacy and
law enforcement needs , the details of this scheme must be explored
publicly before it is adopted. what will give people confidence in the
safety of their keys \? does disclosure of keys to a third party waive
individual 's fifth amendment rights in subsequent criminal
inquiries \?

in sum , the administration has shown great sensitivity to the
importance of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into
digital privacy and security. however , the clipper chip solution
ought to be considered as part of the inquiry , not be adopted before
the discussion even begins.

details of the proposal

escrow

the 80 bit key will be divided between two escrow agents , each of
whom hold 40 bits of each key. upon presentation of a valid
warrant , the two escrow agents would have to turn the key parts
over to law enforcement agents. most likely the attorney general
will be asked to identify appropriate escrow agents. some in the
administration have suggested one non law enforcement federal
agency , perhaps the federal reserve , and one non governmental
organization. but , there is no agreement on the identity of the agents
yet.

key registration would be done by the manufacturer of the
communications device. a key is tied to the device , not to the person
using it.

classified algorithm and the possibility of back doors

the administration claims that there are no back door means by
which the government or others could break the code without
securing keys from the escrow agents and that the president will
be told there are no back doors to this classified algorithm. in order
to prove this , administration sources are interested in arranging for
an all star crypto cracker team to come in , under a security
arrangement , and examine the algorithm for trap doors. the results
of the investigation would then be made public.

government as market driver

in order to get a market moving , and to show that the government
believes in the security of this system , the feds will be the first big
customers for this product. users will include the fbi , secret service ,
vp al gore , and maybe even the president.

from more information contact

jerry berman , executive director
daniel j. weitzner , senior staff counsel






carl kadie i do not represent any organization this is just me.
kadie@cs.uiuc.edu

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
lines 14

actually , many of us have noted this. we have noted that the program
started at least 4 years ago , that the contracts with vlsi technology
and microtoxin were let at least 14 months ago , that production of the
chips is well underway , and so forth.

nobody i know has claimed clinton intitiated the program. but he chose
to go ahead with it.

perhaps the nsa realised that no one would even contemplate falling for
the dual escrow bluff while under the bush administration and had to
wait for a democrat govt to con into promoting this because people might
just believe they were honest. (did n't work , did it \? ) )

g

from ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu (l. detweiler)
subject privacy anonymity on the internet faq (3 of 3)
supersedes net privacy part3 733153240@gza.com
organization tmp enterprises
lines 1201
expires 21 may 1993 04 00 06 gmt
reply to ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary notes on the use , history , and value of anonymous usenet
posting and email remailing services
x last updated 1993 03 04

archive name net privacy part3
last modified 1993 3 3
version 2.1


notes on anonymity on the internet


compiled by l. detweiler ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu .


8.1 what are some known anonymous remailing and posting sites \?
8.2 what are the responsibilities associated with anonymity \?
8.3 how do i `kill' anonymous postings \?
8.4 what is the history behind anonymous posting servers \?
8.5 what is the value of anonymity \?
8.6 should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed \?
8.7 what should system operators do with anonymous postings \?
8.8 what is going on with anon.penet.fi maintained by j. helsingius \?





8.1 what are some known anonymous remailing and posting sites \?

currently the most stable of anonymous remailing and posting sites
is anon.penet.fi operated by julf@penet.fi for several months , who
has system adminstrator privileges and owns the equipment.
including anonymized mail , usenet posting , and return addresses
(no encryption). send mail to help@penet.fi for information.

hal finney has contributed an instruction manual for the cypherpunk
remailers on the ftp site soda.berkeley.edu (128.32.149.19)
pub cypherpunks hal 's.instructions. see also scripts.tar.z (unix
scripts to aid remailer use) and anonmail.arj (msdos batch files to
aid remailer use).

ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu

anonymized mail. request information from above address.

elee7h5@rosebud.ee.uh.edu

experimental anonymous remailer run karl barrus
elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu , with encryption to the server. request
information from that address.

hal@alumni.caltech.edu

experimental remailer with encryption to server and return
addresses. request information from above address.

hh@soda.berkeley.edu
hh@cicada.berkeley.edu
hh@pmantis.berkeley.edu

experimental remailer. include header `request remailing to'.

nowhere@bsu cs.bsu.edu

experimental remailer allowing one level of chaining. run by
chael hall. request information from above address.

phantom@mead.u.washington.edu

experimental remailer with encryption to server. `finger' site
address for information.

notes


cypherpunk remailers tend to be unstable because they are often
running without site administrator knowledge. liability issues
are wholly unresolved.

so far , all encryption is based on public key cryptography and pgp
software (see the question on cryptography).

encryption aspects (message text , destination address , replies)
vary between sites.

multiple chaining , alias unlinking , and address encryption are
mostly untested , problematic , or unsupported at this time.


8.2 what are the responsibilities associated with anonymity \?


users


use anonymity only if you have to. frivolous uses weaken the
seriousness and usefulness of the capability for others.
do not use anonymity to provoke , harass , or threaten others.
do not hide behind anonymity to evade established conventions on
usenet , such as posting binary pictures to regular newsgroups.
if posting large files , be attentive to bandwidth considerations.
remember , simply sending the posting to the service increases
network traffic.
avoid posting anonymously to the regular hierarchy of usenet this
is the mostly likely place to alienate readers. the `alt'
hierarchy is preferred.
give as much information as possible in the posting (i.e.
references , etc.) remember that content is the only means for
readers to judge the truth of the message , and that any
inaccuracies will tend to discredit the entire message and even
future ones under the same handle.
be careful not to include information that will reveal your
identity or enable someone to deduce it. test the system by
sending anonymized mail to yourself.
be aware of the policies of the anonymous site and respect them.
be prepared to forfeit your anonymity if you abuse the privilege.
be considerate and respectful of other 's objections to anonymity.
``hit and run'' anonymity should be used with utmost reservation.
use services that provide anonymous return addresses instead.
be courteous to the system operator , who may have invested large
amounts of time , be personally risking his account , or dedicating
his hardware , all for your convenience.

operators


document thoroughly acceptable and unacceptable uses in an
introductory file that is sent to new users. have a coherent and
consistent policy and stick to it. state clearly what logging and
monitoring is occurring. describe your background , interest , and
security measures. will the general approach be totalitarian or
lassaiz faire \?
formulate a plan for problematic ethical situations and anticipate
potentially intense moral quandaries and dilemmas. what if a user
is blackmailing someone through your service \? what if a user
posts suicidal messages through your service \? remember , your
users trust you to protect them.
in the site introductory note , give clear examples of situations
where you will take action and what these actions will be (e.g.
warn the user , limit anonymity to email or posting only , revoke
the account , 'out' the user , contact local administrator , etc.)
describe exactly the limitations of the software and hardware.
address the bandwidth limitations of your site. report candidly
and thoroughly all bugs that have occurred. work closely with
users to isolate and fix bugs. address all bugs noted below under
``(in)stability of anonymity''.
document the stability of the site how long has it been running \?
what compromises have occured \? why are you running it \? what is
your commitment to it \?
include a disclaimer in outgoing mail and messages. include an
address for complaints , ideally appended to every outgoing item.
consult a lawyer about your liability.
be committed to the long term stability of the site. be prepared
to deal with complaints and `hate mail' addressed to you. if you
do not own the hardware the system runs on or are not the system
adminstrator , consult those who do and are.
be considerate of providing anonymity to various groups. if
possible , query group readers.
keep a uniformity and simplicity of style in outgoing message
format that can be screened effectively by kill files. ensure
the key text `anon' is somewhere in every header.
take precautions to ensure the security of the server from
physical and network based attacks and infiltrations.

readers


do not complain , attack , or discredit a poster for the sole reason
that he is posting anonymously , make blanket condemnations that
equate anonymity with cowardice and criminality , or assail
anonymous traffic in general for mostly neutral reasons (e.g. its
volume is heavy or increasing).
react to the anonymous information unemotionally. abusive posters
will be encouraged further if they get irrationally irate
responses. sometimes the most effective response is silence.
notify operators if very severe abuses occur , such as piracy ,
harassment , extortion , etc.
do not complain about postings being inappropriate because they
offend you personally.
use kill files to screen anonymous postings if you object to the
idea of anonymity itself.
avoid the temptation to proclaim that all anonymous postings
should be barred from particular groups because no `possible' or
`conceivable' need exists.

references


see e.g. ftp.eff.org pub academic anonymity

this article is an excerpt from an issue of fidonews on individual
privacy and the use of handles. it accepts the need of a system
operator to know the name of a user but suggests that the use of
a handle is analogous to a request to withhold the name in a
letter to the editor. the article concludes with a set of
guidelines for preserving the right to be anonymous.


8.3 how do i `kill' anonymous postings \?

james thomas green jgreen@zeus.calpoly.edu

try putting this in your kill file

anon h j
anonymous h j

this will search the headers of the messages and kill any that
contain `anon' or `anonymous' in them. not perfect and wo n't
kill followups.

note that anonymous server operators have the capability to mask
anonymous postings under which the above method will not work so
far this practice is not widespread , but it may become more common
as a countermeasure to widespread anonymous filtering.


8.4 what is the history behind anonymous posting servers \?

originally anonymous posting services were introduced for
individual , particularly volatile newsgroups , where anonymity is
almost the preferred method of communication , such as talk.abortion
and alt.sex.bondage. one of the first was one by dave mack
started in 1988 for alt.sex.bondage. another early one was
wizvax.methuen.ma.us run by stephanie gilgut (gilgut enterprises)
but was disbanded due to lack of funds. the system provided
anonymous return addresses. n7kbt.rain.com (john opalko) took up
the functions of this server , including reinstating the anonymous
alias file. the group ``alt.personals has been chewing through
servers like there 's no tomorrow.''

spurred by the disappearance of `wizvax' and interested in
researching the idea , karl kleinpaste
karl kleinpaste@godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu developed his own system
from scratch in six hours. by this time the idea of extending the
server to new , more `mainstream' groups was starting to emerge ,
and he explored the possibility partly at the specific request by
multiple users for anonymity in other groups. ``the intended
advantage of my system was specifically to allow multiple group
support , with a single anon identifier across all. this was
arguably the single biggest deficiency of previous anon systems.''
k. kleinpaste posted a message on rec.nude asking users whether an
anonymous service would be welcome there , and judged a consensus
against it.

k. kleinpaste introduced what he calls a ``fire extinguisher'' to
`squelch' or `plonk' abusive users in response to complaints , and
used this in three cases. nevertheless , after a few months of
intense traffic he was eventually overwhelmed by the abuses of his
server. ``even as restricted as it was , my system was subjected to
abuses to the point where it was ordered dismantled by the
facilities staff here. such abuses started right after it was
created.''

in nov 1992 , johan helsingius (julf@penet.fi) set up the most
controversial anonymous site to date. anon.penet.fi is based on
scripts and c code written by k. kleinpaste and supports anonymized
mail , posting , and return addresses. he initially wanted to confine
the service to scandinavian users but expanded it to worldwide
accessability in response to 'lots' of international requests.

j. helsingius policy of allowing anonymous posting to every usenet
newsgroup has been met with strong and serious ideological
opposition (e.g. by news adminstrators in news.admin.policy).
because of the relative newness and recent emergence of the medium ,
abuses by anonymous posters tend to have higher visibility than
``routine'' abuses. his total commitment to preservation of
anonymity is also controversial.

for example , in a highly controversial and publicized case in feb
1993 , an anonymous user posted a supposed transcript of desperate
crew dialogue during the challenger shuttle disaster via
anon.penet.fi to sci.astro. despite that the transcript had been
posted in the same place up to a year earlier (then
non anonymously) and actually originated not with the poster but a
new york news tabloid , subsequent responses consisted largely of
vociferous outrage at the poster 's use of anonymity , reverberating
through many newsgroups.

the original poster , using the same anonymous handle , later conceded
that the story ``seemed likely to have been fabricated , ''
suggesting the plausible possibility that the original intent was
not to provoke outrage but gauge reactions on the authenticity of
the story (albeit crudely) , free of personal risk from perceived
association with the item. the ensuing commotion generated queries
for the original article by late entering readers. the anonymous
user later posted deliberately offensive comments at his
detractors.

despite piercingly irate and outraged complaints , and even the vocal
opposition and verbal abuse of k. kleinpaste and eminent news
operators , j. helsingius has largely avoided use of the ``fire
extingisher'' and the ``group bouncer'' mechanisms that limit the
scope of the service. as of march 1993 the anon.penet.fi site is
best described as `inundated' it has registered over 13 , 000 users
in its initial three months of operation , forwards 3000 messages a
day , and approximately 5 of all usenet postings are anonymized
through the site. the immense popularity is probably largely due
to the capability for `global' anonymity which has allowed users to
find creative uses in diverse areas not previously envisioned.

johan helsingius has been subject to extraordinary pressure to
dismantle his server in feb 1993. at one point k. kleinpaste
threatened publicly to organize a sort of vigilante group of irate
news operators to send out revocation commands on all messages
originating from the site. j. helsingius has also alluded to
threats of flooding the server. the server has crashed several
times , at least once due to a saturation `mailbombing' through it
by an anonymous user. mr. helsingius reports spending up to 5
hours per day answering email requests alone associated with the
service 's administration. in response to the serious threats he
disabled global group access temporarily for one week and
encouraged his users to defend the service publicly.

based on fast moving dialogue and creative suggestions by
``cypherpunks , '' j. helsingius has identified many security
weaknesses and valuable new features for the service , and is
currently in the process of code development and testing. he is
planning on upgrading the ibm compatible 386 machine to a 486 soon
to handle the voluminous load and is considering integrating a new
system with very sophisticated functionality , including multiple
email aliases , alias allocation control , public key encryption ,
etc.

a very sophisticated anonymous posting system was set up in dec.
1992 by d. clunie dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au that used cryptography
in both directions (to from) the server for the highest degree of
confidentiality seen so far. however , it was running on a public
access account , and he had to shut it down after only several
weeks , upon receiving requests and conditions apparently ultimately
originating from nsf representatives. d. clunie has released the
software to the public domain.

recently the idea of a newsgroup devoted to `whistleblowing' on
government abuses has received wide and focused attention , and
group formation is currently underway. in the basic scenario the
group would allow people to post pseudonymously using remailers ,
and even establish reputations based on their authentifiable
digital signatures. the traffic may eventually reach reporters in
the mainstream news media. deltorto@aol.com has volunteered to
attack multiple aspects of this project , including distributing
easy to read documentation on posting , anonymization , and
encryption.

see also sections on ``views on anonymous posting'' below and ``what
is going on with anon.penet.fi \? '' in this document.

(thanks to carl kleinpaste
karl kleinpaste@godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu , david clunie
dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au and johan helsingius julf@penet.fi for
contributions here.)



8.5 what is the value of anonymity \?

kondared@purccvm.bitnet

i think anonymous posts do help in focusing our attention on the
content of one 's message. sure lot of anonymous posts are abusive
or frivolous but in most cases these are by users who find the
anon facility novel. once the novelty wears off they are stopping
their pranks...

morgan@engr.uky.edu (wes morgan)

i do n't mind seeing the miscellaneous hatred prejudice racism
those things are part of our nature. however , the notion of
providing anonymity 's shield for these ideas repulses me. if
they have such strong feelings , why ca n't they put their name(s)
on their postings \? ... quite frankly , i loathe communication
with people who refuse to use their names.

dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au (david clunie)

many seem to question the value of anonymity. but who are they to
say what risks another individual should take \? there is no
question that in this rather conservative society that we live
in , holding certain views , making certain statements , adopting a
certain lifestyle , are likely to result in public censure ,
ridicule , loss of status , employment , or even legal action. given
the heterogeneity of the legal jurisdictions from where the many
contributors to usenet post , who knows what is legal and what is
not ! some say that anonymous posters are cowards and should
stand up and be counted. perhaps that is one point of view but
what right do these detractors have to exercise such censorship \?

from doug@cc.ysu.edu (doug sewell)

why is it censorship to not expect someone to speak for
themselves , without the cloak of anonymity. this is at best a
lame argument.

you tell me why what you have to say requires anonymity. and you
tell me why the wishes of a majority of non anonymous users of a
newsgroup should be disregarded when they do n't want anonymous
posts.

anonymous users have less rights than any others. they are not
legitimate usenet participants. i would not honor rfds , cfvs ,
control messages , or votes from one.

brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)

i can think of no disadvantage caused by anon posting sites that
does n't already exist , other than the fact that they do make more
naive net users who do n't know how to post anonymously the old
way more prone to do it.

from mandel@netcom.com (tom mandel)

i cannot speak for others but i regard anonymous postings in a
serious discussion as pretty much worthless. ... views that hide
behind the veil of anon are hardly worth the trouble of reading.

n8729@anon.penet.fi (hank pankey)

since i began posting anonymously (to show support for general
principles of personal privacy) i have been subject to far more
abuse and attack than i ever received before. people seem to
find it easier to flame and insult someone whose name they do n't
know. perhaps it 's easier to pretend that there is no person
behind the email address who feels the sting of abusive comments.

anonymity does hinder some methods of controlling other posters'
actions. people who seek such control will naturally oppose it.

from 00acearl@leo.bsuvc.bsu.edu

instead of making this a free er medium by allowing posters to
protect themselves with anonymity , simply require that all
posters be prepared to discuss their sources of information and
take the heat for unsubstantiated dribble. this seems to be the
way things are currently done

xtkmg@trentu.ca (kate gregory)

in misc.kids there are three threads going on started by anonymous
posters. one was about changing jobs so as to work less hours ,
job sharing and so on , from a woman who did n't want anyone at her
current place of work to know she was thinking of looking for
work elsewhere. the next was from a woman who is thinking of
having a baby sometime soon and does n't want coworkers , friends ,
family etc etc to know all about it , but who wants advice. the
third is about sex after parenthood actually this was started
by people posting in the usual way but then it was pointed out
that the anonymous posting service might let more people
participate.

misc.kids does n't seem to be suffering any harm from the presence
of anonymous posters in fact it seems to have been helped by it.

hoey@zogwarg.etl.army.mil (dan hoey)

while there has never been any real security against anonymous or
forged postings on usenet , the process has until now been
sufficiently inconvenient , error prone , and undocumented to limit
its use by persons who have not learned the culture of the net.

on the other hand , a recent use of the anonymous posting service
on sci.math seemed seemed to be a student asking help on a
homework problem. it has now been attributed to a teacher ,
asking for an explanation of a dubious answer in his teaching
guide. he says his news posting is broken , so he is using the
anonymous service as a mail to news gateway.

karl barrus elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu

some argue that the opinions of the people who hide behind a veil
of anonymity are worthless , and that people should own up to
their thoughts. i agree with the latter point in an ideal
world we would all be sitting around engaging in socratic
dialogues , freely exchanging our opinions in an effort to
learn. but in an ideal world nobody will threaten you for your
thoughts , or ridicule you.

but we live in a world where the people who do n't agree with you
may try to harm you. let 's face it , some people are n't going to
agree with your opinion no matter how logically you try to
present it , or how reasoned out it may be. this is sad since it
does restrict people from voicing their opinions.

red@redpoll.neoucom.edu (richard e. depew)

the consensus seems to be that a general anonymous posting service
such as that at anon.penet.fi seems sufficiently corrosive of the
trust and civility of the net that this particular experiment
should be ended. perhaps the next time the question comes up we
can say we tried it we learned it does more harm than good
and we stopped it.

from c96@vm.urz.uni heidelberg.de (alexander eichener)

anonymous posting has not created major problems aside from
angering irate people (like you \? ) who would rather ban
anonymous pseudonymous posting altogether because real men can
stand up for what they said or comparable puerile arguments as
others have brought up.

dave@elxr.jpl.nasa.gov (dave hayes)

what a primal example of human nature. i have three questions for
you folks.

do people really say different things to each other based upon
whether their identity is or is n't known \?

are people really so affected by what other people say that the
verbage is labeled abuse \?

most importantly , on a forum that prizes itself on the freedom of
communication that it enjoys , is there really such a thing as
freedom of communication \?

from terry@geovision.gvc.com (terry mcgonigal)

sigh ... just how many anon services are needed \? will
everybody start running one soon \? what 's the purpose \? who
stands to benefit when there are n anon services , then 2 n , then
n 2 , out there. where has this sudden fasination with anon
services come from \?

for better or (imho) worse , it looks like we'er gonna get stuck
with these things , and as much as i do n't like the idea (of
services like this becoming the norm) i do n't really think
there 's much to be done since it 's obvious that anyone who wants
to can set one up with a bit of work.

karl kleinpaste@cs.cmu.edu (karl kleinpaste)

weak reasoning.
with freedom comes responsibility.

dave@elxr.jpl.nasa.gov (dave hayes)

responsibility is n't real if it is enforced. true responsibilty
comes with no coercion.


8.6 should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed \?

morgan@engr.uky.edu (wes morgan)

i will be the first to admit that i hold some controversial
opinions indeed , i'm sure that none of us are completely
orthodox in our opinions. however , i 've received hundreds of
anonymous email messages over the last few years fewer than 20
of them were reasonable posts made with good motives. it 's
getting more and more difficult to remember why we need anonymity
at all the abusers are (once again) lousing things up for those
who truly need the service (or those who would put it to good
use).

i'm not suggesting that we should ban anonymous servers as i 've
said , there are several situations in which anonymity is a good
thing (tm).

however , the notion that anonymity 's shield should be
automatically extended to every usenet discussion is ridiculous
it opens the door to further abuse.

twpierce@unix.amherst.edu (tim pierce)

of course , how does one determine whether a group requests the
service \? a flat majority of posters voting in favor \? a positive
margin of 100 votes \? or what \? no one speaks for a newsgroup.

i'm not convinced by the arguments that an anonymous posting
service for all newsgroups is inherently a bad idea , simply
because it 's a diversion from the status quo. since the status
quo previously permitted anonymous posting to no newsgroups ,
any anonymous posting service would reject the status quo.

hartman@ulogic.uucp (richard m. hartman) writes

it is facist to suggest that a newsgroup is best able to decide
whether it wants to allow anonymous postings instead of having
them forced upon them by an service administrator \?

ogil@quads.uchicago.edu (brian w. ogilvie)

the service provides a mechanism for forwarding mail to the
original poster. since most usenet readers do n't know john smith
from jane doe except by their opinions and their address , the
effect of having an anonymous posting to which mail replies can
be directed is minimal , except for those who personally know the
poster and ... the lack of anonymity could be serious. any
mechanism like this is liable to abuse , but the benefits as well
as the costs must be weighed. limiting the service to alt groups ,
or specific groups , would not help those who want advice on
sensitive issues in more 'professional' newsgroups.

from tarl@sw.stratus.com (tarl neustaedter)

an additional point is that some of us find anonimity in technical
matters to be profoundly offensive anonimity in different forums
has different meanings. if i get a phone call from someone who
wo n't identify himself , i hang up. if i get u.s. mail with no
return address , it goes into the garbage unopened. if someone
accosts me in the street while wearing a mask , i back away
carefully , and expecting violence. in a technical discussion ,
anonimity means that the individual is n't willing to associate
himself with the matter being discussed , which discredits his
utterances and makes listening to them a waste of time.

anonimity leads to fun psych experiments the literature is filled
with all the various things that people will do anonymously that
they wo n't otherwise. including one notorious study involving
torture that would not have passed today 's ethical standards. fun
stuff , in any case.

fine. leave us out of it.

from jbuck@forney.berkeley.edu (joe buck)

you obviously have never submitted an article to a refereed
journal , where you will receive anonymous reviews through a server
(the editor) that behaves much like the one in finland (e.g. you
may reply and the editor will maintain the anonymity). ... your
comparison of someone who wants to express him herself on a
technical issue anonymously with a person who approaches you on a
dark street with a ski mask is just emotionally overwrought
nonsense such posters pose no physical threat to you.

jik@mit.edu (j. kamens)

it seems obvious to me that the default should be not to allow
anonymous postings in a newsgroup. the usenet has always
operated on the principle that the status quo should be kept
unless there 's a large number of people who want to change it.

if someone really needs to post a message anonymous in a newsgroup
in which this usually is n't done , they can usually find someone
on the net to do this for them. they do n't need an automated
service to do it , and the automated service is by its nature
incapable of making the judgment call necessary to decide whether
a particular posting really needs to be anonymous.

from twpierce@unix.amherst.edu (tim pierce)

for any newsgroup you name , i bet i can envision a scenario
involving a need for secrecy. if an accurate content based
filter of each anonymous posting could be devised to screen out
those that do n't require secrecy , wonderful. but it ca n't be
done.

from lhp@daimi.aau.dk (lasse hiller e petersen)

if a newsgroup wants to be noise and nuisance free , then it
should call for moderation. this should happen on a per newsgroup
basis , and not as a general usenet ban on anonymous postings. of
course one principle of moderation might be to keep out all
anonymous postings , and could be achieved automatically. it would
still be moderation . personally i would prefer moderation
criteria being based on actual content.

david a. clunie (dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au)

if a group does n't want to receive certain posts it should
become moderated there are clearly defined mechanisms on
non alt groups for this to take place. an automated moderator
excluding posts from certain (eg. anonymous) sites or individuals
could easily be established. if anyone wants to take such a
draconian approach then they are welcome to do so and good luck
to them. i doubt if i will be reading their group !

from dave@frackit.uucp (dave ratcliffe)

what possible need would someone have for posting anonymously to a
sci. group \?

sure most adults are willing to post under their own names. why
would they want to hide behind an anonymous posting service \?
ashamed of what they have to say or just trying to rile people
without fear of being identified \?

anonymous posting have their place in certain groups. if i or
anyone else needs to tell you what those groups are then you 've
been on another planet breathing exotic gases for too long.

from karl kleinpaste@cs.cmu.edu

it 's bloody fascinating that (all \? ) the proponents of unimpeded
universal anon posting access ca n't seem to find any middle
ground at all. why is there such a perception of
absolutism \? where does this instant gratification syndrome come
from , i want anon access and i want it now \? who are the
control freaks here \?

from 00acearl@leo.bsuvc.bsu.edu

remember , this is a newsgroup for posters writing about scientific
issues. anonymous discussion of scientific issues leads to bad
science.

from noring@netcom.com (jon noring)

though many have personal philosophical arguments against
anonymous posters , their arguments have not been compelling
enough to convince me that omni newsgroup anonymous posting
should be banned or severely restricted. though i cannot prove
it , it seems to me that those who do not like anonymous posting
(in principle) do so for reasons that are personal (read ,
psychological discomfort) rather than for reasons related to
maintaining the integrity of usenet.

remember , it is impossible to be able to ascertain all the
conceivable and legitimate motives for anonymous posting to
newsgroups one normally would not deem to be sensitive . ... in
general , i fear even letting newsgroup readers vote on either
allowing or not allowing anonymous posting , since a priori they
cannot know all the motives of legitimate posters , and i do
not believe that any system should ever be instituted that would
inhibit the posting of legitimate and informative posts.

lestat@wixer.cactus.org (lyle j. mackey) writes

i personally do n't believe that pseudonymous postings are
appropriate in a serious discussion area. if there is a
legitimate reason for concealing the posters' identity , perhaps ,
but simply because they 're not so sure if they want their name
attached does n't qualify as legitimate in my book. (oh , and if
you can come up with a legitimate purpose for anonymous postings ,
please , enlighten me.)

sderby@crick.ssctr.bcm.tmc.edu (stuart p. derby)

three of our (the u.s. 's) founding fathers , madison , hamilton , and
jay , seemed to think anonymous posting was ok. the federalist
papers were originally printed in new york newspapers with
authorship attributed to publius . i wonder if you would find
their purpose legitimate \?



8.7 what should system operators do with anonymous postings \?

from emcguire@intellection.com (ed mcguire)

i would like to know how to junk all articles posted by the
anonymous service currently being discussed. ideally i would
actually tell my feed site not to feed me articles posted by the
anonymous service. assuming the c news performance release , what
is a simple way to accomplish this \? or where should i look to
learn how to do it myself \?

from dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au (david clunie)

that 's a bit draconian is n't it \? have your users unanimously
decided that they would like you to do this or have you decided
for them \?

from emcguire@intellection.com (ed mcguire)

good question. nobody has decided. i have no definite plan to do
this , just wanted the technical data.

carl kleinpaste (karl kleinpaste@godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu)

...were i to be in the position of offering such a service again ,
my promises of protection of anonymity would be limited. not on
the basis of personal opinion of what gets posted , but on the
basis of postings which disrupt the smooth operation of the
usenet. the most obvious and direct recourse would be to `out'
the abusive individual. less drastic possibilities exist the
software supports a fire extinguisher by which individuals can
be prevented from posting.

john@iastate.edu (john hascall)

since when is usenet a democracy \? if someone wants to run an
anonymous service , that 's their business. if you want to put
that host in your killfile , that 's your business. if a newsadmin
wants to blanket drop all postings from that site , that 's between
them and the other people at that site. if everyone ignores a
service , the service effectively does n't exist.

from jik@athena.mit.edu (jonathan i. kamens)

nntp servers that allow posting from anyone are not a service to
the net. they do the net a disservice.

terminal servers have the same problems as open nntp servers
they allow people who want to do illegal immoral unethical things
on the internet to do so without accountability.

there are , by now , public access sites all over this country , if
not all over the world , that allow very inexpensive access to the
usenet and the internet. there is no reason for nntp servers to
allow anyone to post messages through them , and there is no
reason for terminal servers to allow anyone to connect to them
and then make outbound connections through them. perhaps when it
was harder to get to the internet or the usenet , open servers
could be justified , but not now.

jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz)

i think that what ... these points show clearly is that an
anonymous posting service has a great deal of responsibility ,
both towards its clients and towards the net as a whole. such a
service should (imho) have a set of well defined rules and a
contract that its clients should sign , under the terms of which
they are assured anonymity.

from an8785@anon.penet.fi

is the problem that some are used to punishing posters who are
upsetting in some vague way by complaining to the (usually
acquiescent) sysadmin or organizations that the poster belongs
to \? that surely is the most gutless approach to solving
problems , but my experience on the net shows that the same users
who vilify anonymous postings are the first to write obsessively
detailed grievances to the poster 's supervisor when his or her
tranquility is disturbed by some intrusive or subversive post
or another.

anonymous postings prevent just this kind of intimidation.

from gandalf@cyberspace.org (eric schilling)

the main point i would like to make here is that while we can go
through and revise the news sw to reject anon posts to technical
newsgroups or some such thing , i think the attempt will prove
futile. each attempt to modify news can result in a changed
approach by anon service providers to thwart the change. i think
this would be pointless.

from julf@penet.fi (johan helsingius)

i have tried to stay out of this discussion , and see where the
discussion leads. but now i rally feel like i have to speak up.
... i have repeatedly made clear ... that i do block users if
they continue their abuse after having been warned. in many cases
the users have taken heed of the warning and stopped , and in some
cases even apologized in public. and when the warning has not had
the desired effect , i have blocked a number of users. i have also
blocked access to groups where the readership has taken a vote to
ban anonymous postings , although i feel changing the newsgroup
status to moderated is the only permanent solution for newsgroups
that want to formalize discussion.

red@redpoll.neoucom.edu (richard e. depew)

does this ... mean that you are volunteering to issue a request
for discussion to ban anonymous postings or to moderate each of
the 4000 newsgroups that your server can reach \? i do n't think
so , but this illustrates the trouble that your server is causing !

please listen to the consensus of the news administrators in this
group any newsgroup should be consulted before letting your
server post messages to that group.

from c96@vm.urz.uni heidelberg.de (alexander eichener)

there is no pompous consensus of the news administrators
here maybe you would like to invent one. there is a sizeable
number of people who are concerned about the possible (and , to a
minor extent , about the actual abuse of the server as it is
configured now). these concerns are respectable johan is dealing
with them. ... there are some (few) who rage with foam before
their mouth and condemn the service altogether. and a number who
defend it , pointing out , like kate gregory , that even a group
like misc.kids. can benefit from pseudonymous postings.

from julf@penet.fi (johan helsingius)

i have answered a lot of personal mail related to server abuse ,
and as a result of that , blocked a number of abusive users. i
have also withdrawn the service from several newsgroups where the
users have taken a vote on the issue. i have not made any
comments on news.admin.policy , partly because the
newly implemented password feature (as a emergency measure
against a security hole) has kept me really busy answering user
queries the last two weeks , and partly because i feel it is not
for me to justify the service , but for the users. the problem
with news.admin.policy is that the readership is rather elective ,
representing people whith a strong interest in centralised
control.

from hartman@ulogic.uucp (richard m. hartman)

this seems to be a rather bigoted attitude. i would consider that
this group is for anyone who wishes to discuss how the net should
be controlled. saying that we only have an interest in
centralized control is a clear indication of bias. you are
perfectly welcome to join in the discussions here to promote your
views on control.

jbuck@ohm.berkeley.edu

this whole debate is a lot of sound and fury signifying nothing
because , even if you all decide to ban anonymous posting servers ,
it is not enforceable. the only people who conceivably could
enforce retrictions are those that control the international
links.

policy changes should be made by cooperation , not by attempting
to dictate. ...you need to persuade those who run the services
to act like this through friendly persuasion , not by trying to
beat them over the head with a stick (especially a stick you
do n't even have).

spp@zabriskie.berkeley.edu (steve pope)

i am finding this bias against pseudonymity boring. our friend
posting through penet has a point. the old guard would like to
keep their network the way it always has been... and this new
thing , these pseudonymous servers , cuts into their turf. so they
whine and bitch about it , and every time there 's the slightest
abuse (such as somebody 's .sig being too long) , they try to
parlay that into an argument against pseudonymity.

i 'll go on record as saying three cheers for the admins at anon
servers like penet , pax , and n7kbt... and for all the access
service providers who are willing to preserve their clients
privacy.

and a pox on those who try to defeat and restrict pseudonymity.

mimir@stein.u.washington.edu (al billings)

i would n't help people get rid of anon postings as a group. if you
do n't like what someone says , then you put that anon address in
your kill file , not all of them. of course , if and when i get an
anon site going , i'm just going to assign fake names like
jsmith instead of anon5564 to avoid most of the hassles.
you 'll never know it is anonymous will you \?

from anne@alcor.concordia.ca (anne bennett)

i must admit to some astonishment at this argument. i see the
value of anonymous postings under some circumstances , yet believe
strongly that these should be identified as such , so that people
who do not wish to read material from people who wo n't identify
themselves , do n't have to.

i fail to see what good you would be accomplishing , and indeed
surmise that you will cause many people inconvenience and
annoyance , by hiding the anonymity of postings from your
anonymous site. would you care to justify where the hell you get
the gall to try to prevent people from effectively filtering
their news as they see fit \?

from dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au (david clunie)

i thought i was out of reach here in australia too. unfortunately
one of the us sites involved in the us aus feed complained to the
australian academic reasearch network through whom my site is
connected , not about anything in particular , just the concept of
anonymous mail having no redeeming features and consuming a
narrow bandwidth link (with which i ca n't argue) and that was
that ... stop the service or face disconnection.

i consider the demise of my service to have been rather
unfortunate , and i wish the finnish remailer luck ! it is a pity
that there are very few if any similar services provided with in
the us. i guess that 's the benefit of having a constitution that
guarantees one freedom of speech and a legal and political system
that conspires to subvert it in the name of the public good.



8.8 what is going on with anon.penet.fi run by j. helsingius \?


from karl kleinpaste@cs.cmu.edu

funny , how beating the rest of the usenet over the head with a
stick is ok if it 's anon.penet.fi and universal anon access. but
somehow people on the other side of the same equation (not even
arguing to shut it off entirely , but rather just to have some
control applied to the abuses that manifest themselves) are n't
allowed to do that.

i have written to johan several times in the last couple of
weeks. he used to reply to me quite readily. after all , i was
the source of the software as originally delivered to him he
used to be downright prompt about replying to me. funny , now
he 's being an impolite bastard who does n't answer mail at all ,
even when it consists of really very civil queries.

from julf@penet.fi (johan helsingius)

in your mail you told me you sent me one or more messages on feb.
8th. feb 7th and 8th the server was down , and the flood of mail
that resulted from the server coming up again crashed my own mail
host. the problem was aggregated by an abusive user sending
thousands of messages to another user , filling up that users
mailbox. the bounce messages ended up in my mailbox , overflowing
my local disk as well.

i can only suppose that your message got lost in that hassle , as
i have tried to answer as much as possible of the anon related
messages i get , from routine mis addessed messages to complaints
about the service. on the average i spend 4 5 hours per day
answering anon related messages.

from karl kleinpaste@cs.cmu.edu

why is it that everybody else has to put up with the impoliteness
and insensitivity of the misuse of anon.penet.fi \? whose
definitions of polite and sense apply , and why \? why is
universal anon access considered to be within the realm of this
fuzzy concept of politeness in the first place \?

i think johan has long since crossed the line into being a rude
bastard , and i told him so in private mail a little while ago.

at this point , i deeply regret a having created an anonymous
system supporting 1 newsgroup and b having given the code to
johan. i did n't copyright it , but i thought that some concept of
politeness and good sense might follow it to new
homes. interesting that johan 's ideas of politeness and good
sense seem to have nearly no interesection with mine. i could
even cope with universal anon access if johan would be willing
to engage in abuse control , but somehow that seems to be outside
the range of reality...

from julf@penet.fi (johan helsingius)

there is no way for me to convey how sad and upset your message
made me. i do , to some extent , understand your feelings , but it
still feels really bad. running the server requires getting used
to a lot of flames , but mindlessly abusive hate mail is so much
easier to deal with than something like this , as i do respect and
value your views and opinions to a high degree. no , i'm not
asking for sympathy , i just wanted you to know that i am really
giving your views quite a lot of weight.

when i asked for the software , i was actually only going to
provide the service to scandinavian users. but a lot of people
requested that i keep the service open to the international
community. i now realize that i ought to have contacted you at
that point to ask how you feel about me using your stuff in such
a context. again , i really want to apologise. and i will replace
the remaining few pieces of code thet still stem from your
system. unfortunately there is no way to remove the ideas and
structure i got from you.

again , i am really sorry that the results of your work ended up
being used in a way that you do n't approve of. and i will be
giving a lot of hard thought to the possibility of shutting down
the server alltogether.

from karl kleinpaste@cs.cmu.edu

i think i'm feeling especially rude and impolite. if it 's good
for johan , it 's good for me. after all , he did n't ask the
greater usenet whether universal anon access was a good idea he
just did it. ... yes , i'm a seriously rude pain in the ass now ,
and i think i 'll arm the usenet death penalty , slightly modified ,
not for strategic whole site attack , but tactical assault , just
an 0 9 @anon.penet.fi destruction. only outside alt. , too ,
let 's say.

to parrot this line...people have been doing things like the udp
(that is , cancelling others' postings) for years , no one could
ever stop them , and it 's only politeness and good sense that has
prevented them up to now.

in fact , i have 8 people who have expressed privately the desire
and ability to arm the udp.

...

ps no , in fact there are not 8 newsadmins ready to arm the
udp. it would be amusing to know how many people gulped hard
when they read that , though. i do n't see it as any different
from johan 's configuration.

pps now that i 've calmed some fears by the above ps... there
are 2 newsadmins ready to arm the udp. they 've asked for my
code. i have n't sent it yet. only one site would be necessary
to bring anon.penet.fi to a screeching halt. anyone can
implement the udp on their own , if they care to. politeness and
good sense prevents them from doing so. i wonder how long before
one form of impoliteness brings on another form.

from julf@penet.fi (johan helsingius)

it would be trivially easy to bring anon.penet.fi to a screeching
halt. in fact it has happened a couple of times already. but as
we are talking threats here , let me make one as well. a very
simple one. if somebody uses something like the udp or
maliciously brings down anon.penet.fi by some other means , it
will stay down. but i will let the users know why. and name the
person who did it. ok \? as somebody said on this thread you have
to take personal responsibility for your actions , right \?

from avs20@ccc.amdahl.com ( 134 atul v salgaonkar)

i am very grateful and appreciative of this service , courtesey of
penet.fi. some important questions about my personal
life career job were resolved due to kind help of other people
who had been thru similar situations. in return , i have also
replied to anon postings where i thought i could make a positive
contribution.

in general , anon service is a great , in my opinion , although like
any tool some people will not use it responsibly. i suggest that
it should be kept alive. wasting bandwidth is less important than
saving lives , i think.

from us273532@mmm.serc.3m.com (elisa j. collins)

i have been informed that the anonymous posting service to many
newsgroups has been turned off as a result of discussions in this
newsgroup over people abusing it.

i had been posting to a nontechnical misc newsgroup about an
intimate topic for which i felt i required privacy. i have
received immeasurable help from the people in that newsgroup , and
i have never used anonymity to behave in an abusive , immature , or
unethical fashion toward anyone.

please , folks , believe me , i need this service. please
consider my point of view and permit admin@anon.penet.fi to turn
the service back on...

thank you.



see also


part 1 (first file)


1.1 what is `identity' on the internet \?
1.2 why is identity (un)important on the internet \?
1.3 how does my email address (not) identify me and my background \?
1.4 how can i find out more about somebody from their email address \?
1.5 why is identification (un)stable on the internet \?
1.6 what is the future of identification on the internet \?

2.1 what is `privacy' on the internet \?
2.2 why is privacy (un)important on the internet \?
2.3 how (in)secure are internet networks \?
2.4 how (in)secure is my account \?
2.5 how (in)secure are my files and directories \?
2.6 how (in)secure is x windows \?
2.7 how (in)secure is my email \?
2.8 how am i (not) liable for my email and postings \?
2.9 how do i provide more less information to others on my identity \?
2.10 who is my sysadmin \? what does s he know about me \?
2.11 why is privacy (un)stable on the internet \?
2.12 what is the future of privacy on the internet \?

3.1 what is `anonymity' on the internet \?
3.2 why is `anonymity' (un)important on the internet \?
3.3 how can anonymity be protected on the internet \?
3.4 what is `anonymous mail' \?
3.5 what is `anonymous posting' \?
3.6 why is anonymity (un)stable on the internet \?
3.7 what is the future of anonymity on the internet \?

part 2 (previous file)


4.1 what unix programs are related to privacy \?
4.2 how can i learn about or use cryptography \?
4.3 what is the cypherpunks mailing list \?
4.4 what are some privacy related newsgroups \? faqs \?
4.5 what is internet privacy enhanced mail (pem) \?
4.6 what are other request for comments (rfcs) related to privacy \?
4.7 how can i run an anonymous remailer \?
4.8 what are references on privacy in email \?
4.9 what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies \?
4.10 what is the mit ``crosslink'' anonymous message tv program \?

5.1 what is ``digital cash'' \?
5.2 what is a ``hacker'' or ``cracker'' \?
5.3 what is a ``cypherpunk'' \?
5.4 what is `steganography' and anonymous pools \?
5.5 what is `security through obscurity' \?
5.6 what are `identity daemons' \?
5.7 what standards are needed to guard electronic privacy \?

6.1 what is the electronic frontier foundation (eff) \?
6.2 who are computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr) \?
6.3 what was `operation sun devil' and the steve jackson game case \?
6.4 what is integrated services digital network (isdn) \?
6.5 what is the national research and education network (nren) \?
6.6 what is the fbi 's proposed digital telephony act \?
6.7 what other u.s. legislation is related to privacy on networks \?
6.8 what are references on rights in cyberspace \?
6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom (caf) archive \?

7.1 what is the background behind the internet \?
7.2 how is internet `anarchy' like the english language \?
7.3 most wanted list
7.4 change history




this is part 3 of the privacy anonymity faq , obtained via anonymous
ftp to pit manager@mit.edu pub usenet news.answers net privacy or
newsgroups news.answers , sci.answers , alt.answers every 21 days.
written by l. detweiler ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu .
all rights reserved.



from ethridge@crchh403 (allen ethridge)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host crchh403
organization bnr , inc.
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 19

amanda walker (amanda@intercon.com) wrote
uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt) writes
deletions

how can you reconcile the administrations self proclaimed purpose of
providing law enforcement with access to encrypted data without making
the clipper system the only crypto available in the u.s... \?

the second and fourth amendments do come to mind.


i think i heard someplace (misc.legal \? , comp.org.eff.talk \? ) that the courts
have pretty much eliminated the fourth amendment already.


allen@well.sf.ca.us words got me the wound
ethridge@bnr.ca and will get me well ,
my opinions are my own if you believe it.
jim morrison

from ray@ole.cdac.com (ray berry)
subject clipper business as usual \?
article i.d. ole.1993apr20.173039.4722
organization cascade design automation
lines 17


notwithstanding all the legitimate fuss about this proposal , how much
of a change is it \? att 's last product in this area (a) was priced over
1000 , as i suspect 'clipper' phones will be (b) came to the customer
with the key automatically preregistered with government authorities. thus ,
aside from attempting to further legitimize and solidify the fed 's posture ,
clipper seems to be more of the same , rather than a new direction.
yes , technology will eventually drive the cost down and thereby promote
more widespread use but at present , the man on the street is not going
to purchase a 1000 crypto telephone , especially when the guy on the other
end probably does n't have one anyway. am i missing something \?
the real question is what the gov will do in a year or two when air
tight voice privacy on a phone line is as close as your nearest pc. that
has got to a problematic scenario for them , even if the extent of usage
never surpasses the 'underground' stature of pgp.

ray berry kb7ht ray@ole.cdac.com rjberry@eskimo.com 73407.3152@compuserve.com

from mjr@tis.com (marcus j ranum)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization trusted information systems , inc.
lines 21
distribution na
nntp posting host sol.tis.com

brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
and this means that the fbi will want to track the customer lists of
better encryption phones , because the only reason a person would want
one is to evade the police.

then they 'll probably also want to start tracking the customer
lists of people purchasing soundblaster and similar boards , which can
be configured with the use of some code and a modem , to act as a pretty
decent digital encrypting telephone. it 's expensive , though , and kind
of awkward. i do n't know any drug lords , but i'm sure they 'd favor
something tappable over something secure as long as the user interface
is nice.

when you 've got hrh prince of wales saying stupid things over
cordless phones , it 's not hard to imagine that drug dealers , child
pornographers , commies , lisp programmers , and other threats to the
civilized world might transact incriminating business over encrypting
cellular phones.


mjr.

from bell@mars.dev.promis.com (mike bell)
subject clipper proposal key length \?
organization promis systems corp.
lines 32

danny weitzner djw@eff.org writes





april 16 , 1993

initial eff analysis of clinton privacy and security proposal

details of the proposal

escrow

the 80 bit key will be divided between two escrow agents , each of whom
hold 40 bits of each key. the manufacturer of the communications device
would be required to register all keys with the two independent escrow
agents. a key is tied to the device , however , not the person using it.

so if we subvert one of the two escrow agents , we only have a 40 bit
space to search through...

2 40 does n't sound that big is digital telephony subject to a known
plaintext attack \?

in which case half the key seems to be all that is needed , and the two
agent escrow arrangement is pointless.

of course , the unknown algorithm might turn gaps in speech into
pseudo random sequences , or there might be some magic involved , or...

mike bell@promis.com

from tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra)
subject political point of attack clipper infrastructure
reply to tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 37
nntp posting host signal.ece.clarkson.edu

my earlier argument that clipper will encourage state and local cops
to commit criminal acts is largely moot , now that we 've learned that
the fbi will perform the actual tap. it will encourage the fbi to
commit (even more) criminal acts , but that 's not the point here.

but this gives another avenue of attack on the clipper proposal. when
the eff aclu cpsr foia requests are made , they should ask for details
on the bureaucratic and equipment infrastructure that is proposed (or
even already budgeted) for the fbi to service tapping requests for now
and the projected future.

from these figures , estimate the number of clipper tap requests the fbi
is expecting. publish this figure. compare it on a per capita basis
with the amount of tapping now known or suspected.

also estimate how expensive it would be for the fbi to install more
clipper tapping stations , and how rapidly they could be built and
installed ... ie , get the plus or minus epsilon for the near future.

might be a mite disturbing for j. q. public to know these things.

and despite all the technical details btw , thanks to those who 've been
providing them ! , we still do n't know

1) how the tapping requests will be transmitted and authenticated (though
it is n't too hard to guess a good scheme).

2) how the results will be securely transmitted (fed ex the audio tapes \? )

3) how privacy will be re established when an investigation is complete.


dwight tuinstra best tuinstra@sandman.ece.clarkson.edu
tolerable tuinstrd@craft.camp.clarkson.edu

homo sapiens planetary cancer \? \? ... news at six


from ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu (l. detweiler)
subject privacy anonymity on the internet faq (1 of 3)
supersedes net privacy part1 733153240@gza.com
organization tmp enterprises
lines 1220
expires 21 may 1993 04 00 06 gmt
reply to ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary email and account privacy , anonymous mailing and posting ,
encryption , and other privacy and rights issues associated with use
of the internet and global networks in general.
x last updated 1993 03 04

archive name net privacy part1
last modified 1993 3 3
version 2.1


identity , privacy , and anonymity on the internet


(c) 1993 l. detweiler. not for commercial use except by permission
from author , otherwise may be freely copied. not to be altered.
please credit if quoted.

summary


information on email and account privacy , anonymous mailing and
posting , encryption , and other privacy and rights issues associated
with use of the internet and global networks in general.

(search for . for exact section. search for ' ' (underline) for
next section.)

part 1
(this file)

identity

1.1 what is `identity' on the internet \?
1.2 why is identity (un)important on the internet \?
1.3 how does my email address (not) identify me and my background \?
1.4 how can i find out more about somebody from their email address \?
1.5 why is identification (un)stable on the internet \?
1.6 what is the future of identification on the internet \?

privacy

2.1 what is `privacy' on the internet \?
2.2 why is privacy (un)important on the internet \?
2.3 how (in)secure are internet networks \?
2.4 how (in)secure is my account \?
2.5 how (in)secure are my files and directories \?
2.6 how (in)secure is x windows \?
2.7 how (in)secure is my email \?
2.8 how am i (not) liable for my email and postings \?
2.9 how do i provide more less information to others on my identity \?
2.10 who is my sysadmin \? what does s he know about me \?
2.11 why is privacy (un)stable on the internet \?
2.12 what is the future of privacy on the internet \?

anonymity

3.1 what is `anonymity' on the internet \?
3.2 why is `anonymity' (un)important on the internet \?
3.3 how can anonymity be protected on the internet \?
3.4 what is `anonymous mail' \?
3.5 what is `anonymous posting' \?
3.6 why is anonymity (un)stable on the internet \?
3.7 what is the future of anonymity on the internet \?


part 2
(next file)

resources


4.1 what unix programs are related to privacy \?
4.2 how can i learn about or use cryptography \?
4.3 what is the cypherpunks mailing list \?
4.4 what are some privacy related newsgroups \? faqs \?
4.5 what is internet privacy enhanced mail (pem) \?
4.6 what are other request for comments (rfcs) related to privacy \?
4.7 how can i run an anonymous remailer \?
4.8 what are references on privacy in email \?
4.9 what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies \?
4.10 what is the mit ``crosslink'' anonymous message tv program \?

miscellaneous


5.1 what is ``digital cash'' \?
5.2 what is a ``hacker'' or ``cracker'' \?
5.3 what is a ``cypherpunk'' \?
5.4 what is `steganography' and anonymous pools \?
5.5 what is `security through obscurity' \?
5.6 what are `identity daemons' \?
5.7 what standards are needed to guard electronic privacy \?

issues


6.1 what is the electronic frontier foundation (eff) \?
6.2 who are computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr) \?
6.3 what was `operation sun devil' and the steve jackson game case \?
6.4 what is integrated services digital network (isdn) \?
6.5 what is the national research and education network (nren) \?
6.6 what is the fbi 's proposed digital telephony act \?
6.7 what other u.s. legislation is related to privacy on networks \?
6.8 what are references on rights in cyberspace \?
6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom (caf) archive \?

footnotes


7.1 what is the background behind the internet \?
7.2 how is internet `anarchy' like the english language \?
7.3 most wanted list
7.4 change history


part 3
(last file)

anonymizing


8.1 what are some known anonymous remailing and posting sites \?
8.2 what are the responsibilities associated with anonymity \?
8.3 how do i `kill' anonymous postings \?
8.4 what is the history behind anonymous posting servers \?
8.5 what is the value of anonymity \?
8.6 should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed \?
8.7 what should system operators do with anonymous postings \?
8.8 what is going on with anon.penet.fi maintained by j. helsingius \?





identity



1.1 what is `identity' on the internet \?

generally , today people 's `identity' on the internet is primarily
determined by their email address in the sense that this is their
most unchanging 'face' in the electronic realm. this is your
login name qualified by the complete address domain information ,
for example ``ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu''. people see
this address when receiving mail or reading usenet posts from you
and in other situations where programs record usage. some obsolete
forms of addresses (such as bitnet) still persist.

in email messages , additional information on the path that a message
takes is prepended to the message received by the recipient. this
information identifies the chain of hosts involved in the
transmission and is a very accurate trace of its origination. this
type of identify and forward protocol is also used in the usenet
protocol to a lesser extent. forging these fields requires
corrupted mailing software at sites involved in the forwarding and
is very uncommon. not so uncommon is forging the chain at the
origination point , so that all initial sites in the list are faked
at the time the message is created. tracing these messages can be
difficult or impossible when the initial faked fields are names of
real machines and represent real transfer routes.


1.2 why is identity (un)important on the internet \?

the concept of identity is closely intertwined with communication ,
privacy , and security , which in turn are all critical aspects of
computer networks. for example , the convenience of communication
afforded by email would be impossible without conventions for
identification. but there are many potential abuses of identity
possible that can have very severe consequences , with massive
computer networks at the forefront of the issue , which can
potentially either exacerbate or solve these problems.

verifying that an identity is correct is called `authentication' ,
and one classic example of the problems associated with it is
h.g.well 's ``war of the worlds'' radio broadcast that fooled
segments of the population into thinking that an alien invasion was
in progress. hoaxes of this order are not uncommon on usenet and
forged identities makes them more insidious. people and their
reputations can be assaulted by forgery.

however , the fluidity of identity on the internet is for some one of
its most attractive features. identity is just as useful as it is
harmful. a professor might carefully explain a topic until he
finds he is talking to an undergraduate. a person of a particular
occupation may be able to converse with others who might normally
shun him. some prejudices are erased , but , on the other hand , many
prejudices are useful ! a scientist might argue he can better
evaluate the findings of a paper as a reviewer if he knows more
about the authors. likewise , he may be more likely to reject it
based on unfair or irrelevant criteria. on the other side of the
connection , the author may find identities of reviewers useful in
exerting pressure for acceptance.

identity is especially crucial in establishing and regulating
`credit' (not necessarily financial) and `ownership' and `usage'.
many functions in society demand reliable and accurate techniques
for identification. heavy reliance will be placed on digital
authentication as global economies become increasingly electronic.
many government functions and services are based on identification ,
and law enforcement frequently hinges on it. hence , employees of
many government organizations push toward stronger identification
structures. but when does identification invade privacy \?

the growth of the internet is provoking social forces of massive
proportions. decisions made now on issues of identity will affect
many future users , especially as the network becomes increasingly
global , universal , widespread , and entrenched and the positive or
adverse affects of these actions , intended and inadvertent , will
literally be magnified exponentially.


1.3 how does my email address (not) identify me and my background \?

your email address may contain information that influences people 's
perceptions of your background. the address may `identify' you as
from a department at a particular university , an employee at a
company , or a government worker. it may contain your last name ,
initials , or cryptic identification codes independent of both. in
the us some are based on parts of social security numbers. others
are in the form 'u2338' where the number is incremented in the
order that new users are added to the system.

standard internet addresses also can contain information on your
broad geographical location or nationhood. however , none of this
information is guaranteed to be correct or be there at all. the
fields in the domain qualification of the username are based on
rather arbitrary organization , such as (mostly invisible) network
cabling distributions. the only point to make is that early fields
in the address are more specific (such as specific computer names
or local networks) and the later ones the most general (such as
continental domains). typically the first field is the name of the
computer receiving mail.

gleaning information from the email address alone is sometimes an
inspired art or an inconsistent and futile exercise. (for more
information , see the faqs on email addresses and known
geographical distributions below.) however , unix utilities exist
to aid in the quest (see the question on this).

common suffixes


.us united states
.uk united kingdom
.ca canada
.fi finland
.au australia

.edu university or college
.com commercial organization
.org 'other' (e.g. nonprofit organization)
.gov government
.mil military site


1.4 how can i find out more about somebody with a given email address \?

one simple way is to send email to that address , asking. another
way is to send mail to the postmaster at that address (i.e.
postmaster@address) , although the postmaster 's job is more to help
find user id 's of particular people given their real name and solve
mail routing problems. the sysadmin (i.e. `root@address') may also
be able to supply information. users with related email address
may have information. however , all of these methods rely on the
time and patience of others so use them minimally.

one of the most basic tools for determining identity over the
internet is the unix utility 'finger'. the basic syntax is

finger user@here.there.everywhere

this utility uses communication protocols to query the computer
named in the address for information on the user named. the
response is generated completely by the receiving computer and may
be in any format. possible responses are as follows

a message `unknown host' meaning some aspect of the address is
incorrect , two lines with no information and ' \? \? \? '.

a message 'in real life \? \? \? ' in which case the receiving computer
could not find any kind of a match on the username. the finger
utility may return this response in other situations.

a listing of information associated with multiple users. some
computers will search only for matching user ids , others will
attempt to find the username you specified as a substring of all
actual full names of users kept in a local database.

at some sites 'finger' can be used to get a list of all users on the
system with a `finger @address'. in general this is often
considered weak security , however , because `attackers' know valid
user id 's to `crack' passwords.

more information on the fields returned by `finger' is given below.
more information on `finger' and locating people 's email addresses
is given in the email faq (such as the whois lookup utility). just
as you can use these means to find out about others , they can use
them to find out about you. you can `finger' yourself to find out
what is publicly reported by your unix system about you. be
careful when modifying `finger' data virtually anyone with
internet access worldwide can query this information. in one
amazing case , the new york times writer j. markoff uncovered the
identity of r. morris , author of the internet worm , through
the use of an anonymous tip and 'finger'. see the book cyberspace
by k. hafner and j. markoff.


1.5 why is identification (un)stable on the internet \?

generally , identity is an amorphous and almost nonexistent concept
on the internet for a variety of reasons. one is the inherent
fluidity of `cyberspace' where people emerge and submerge
frequently , and absences are not readily noted in the `community'.
most people remember faces and voices , the primary means of casual
identification in the 'real world'. the arbitary and cryptic
sequences of letters and digits comprising most email addresses are
not particularly noticeable or memorable and far from a unique
identification of an individual , who may use multiple accounts on
multiple machines anywhere in the world.

currently internet users do not really have any great assurances
that the messages in email and usenet are from who they appear to
be. a person 's mailing address is far from an identification of an
individual.

anyone with access to the account , e.g. they know the password ,
either legitimately or otherwise , can send mail with that address
in the from line.

email addresses for an individual tend to change frequently as
they switch jobs or make moves inside their organizations.

as part of current mailing protocol standards , forging the from
line in mail messages is a fairly trivial operation for many
hackers.

the status and path information prepended to messages by
intermediate hosts is generally unforgeable. in general , while
possible , forgeries are fairly rare on most newsgroups and in
email. besides these pathological cases abve there are many basic
problems with today 's internet protocols affecting identification
on the internet

internet mail standards , described in rfc 822 , are still evolving
rapidly and not entirely orderly. for example , standards for
mail address `munging' or `parsing' tend to vary slightly between
sites and frequently mean the difference between finding
addresses and bouncing mail.

domain names and computer names are frequently changed at sites ,
and there are delays in the propagation of this data.

addresses cannot be resolved when certain critical computers
crash , such as the receiving computer or other computers involved
in resolving names into addresses called `nameservers'.

a whole slew of problems is associated with `nameservers' if
they are not updated they will not find name addresses , and even
the operation of what constitutes `updating' has different
interpretations at different sites.

the current internet mailing and addressing protocols are slightly
anachronistic in that they were created when the network was
somewhat obscure and not widespread , with only a fraction of the
traffic it now sees. today a large proportion of internet traffic
is email , comprising millions of messages.


1.6 what is the future of identification on the internet \?

some new technologies and standards are introducing facial images
and voice messages into mail and these will improve the sense of
community that comes from the familiarity of identification.
however , they are not currently widespread , require large amounts
of data transfer , standardized software , and make some compromises
in privacy.

promising new cryptographic techniques may make 'digital signatures'
and 'digital authentication' common (see below). also , the trend
in usenet standards is toward greater authentication of posted
information. on the other hand , advances in ensuring anonymity
(such as remailers) are forthcoming. see below.


privacy



2.1 what is `privacy' on the internet \?

generally , while `privacy' has multiple connotations in society and
perhaps even more on the internet , in cyberspace most take it to
mean that you have exclusive use and access to your account and the
data stored on and and directed to it (such as email) , and you do
not encounter arbitrary restrictions or searches. in other words ,
others may obtain data associated with your account , but not
without your permission. these ideas are probably both fairly
limiting and liberal in their scope in what most internet users
consider their private domains. some users do n't expect or want
any privacy , some expect and demand it.


2.2 why is privacy (un)important on the internet \?

this is a somewhat debatable and inflammatory topic , arousing
passionate opinions. on the internet , some take privacy for
granted and are rudely surprised to find it tenuous or nonexistent.
most governments have rules that protect privacy (such as the
illegal search and seizure clause of the u.s. constitution , adopted
by others) but have many that are antithetical to it (such as laws
prohibiting secret communications or allowing wiretapping). these
rules generally carry over to the internet with few specific rules
governing it. however , the legal repercussions of the global
internet are still largely unknown and untested (i.e. no strong
legal precedents and court cases). the fact that internet traffic
frequently passes past international boundaries , and is not
centrally managed , significantly complicates and strongly
discourages its regulation.


2.3 how (in)secure are internet networks \?

`theoretically' people at any site in the chain of sites with
access to hardware and network media that transmits data over the
internet could potentially monitor or archive it. however , the
sheer volume and general 'noise' inherent to this data makes
these scenarios highly improbable , even by government agencies
with supposedly vast funding and resources.

technologies exist to `tap' magnetic fields given off by
electrical wires without detection. less obscurely , any machine
with a network connection is a potential station for traffic
detection , but this scenario requires knowledge and access to
very low level hardware (the network card) to pursue , if even
possible.

a company network general inc. is one of many that manufactures
and markets sophisticated network monitoring tools that can
'filter' and read packets by arbitrary criteria for
troubleshooting purposes , but the cost of this type of device is
prohibitive for casual use.

known instances of the above types of security breaches at a major
scale (such as at network hubs) are very rare. the greatest risks
tend to emerge locally. note that all these approaches are almost
completely defused with the use of cryptography.


2.4 how (in)secure is my account \?

by default , not very. there are a multitude of factors that may
reinforce or compromise aspects of your privacy on the internet.
first , your account must be secure from other users. the universal
system is to use a password , but if it is `weak' (i.e. easy to
guess) this security is significantly diminished. somewhat
surprisingly and frighteningly to some , certain users of the
system , particularly the administrator , generally have unlimited
access regardless of passwords , and may grant that access to
others. this means that they may read any file in your account
without detection.

furthermore , not universally known , most unix systems keep fairly
extensive accounting records of when and where you logged in , what
commands you execute , and when they are executed (in fact , login
information is usually public). most features of this `auditing' or
`process accounting' information are enabled by default after the
initial installation and the system administrator may customize it
to strengthen or weaken it to satisfy performance or privacy aims.
this information is frequently consulted for troubleshooting
purposes and may otherwise be ignored. this data tracks
unsuccessful login attempts and other 'suspicious' activities on
the system. a traditional part of the unix system that tracks user
commands is easily circumvented by the user with the use of
symbolic links (described in 'man ln').

unix implementations vary widely particularly in tracking features
and new sophisticated mechanisms are introduced by companies
regularly. typically system adminstrators augment the basic unix
functionality with public domain programs and locally developed
tools for monitoring , and use them only to isolate `suspicious'
activity as it arises (e.g. remote accesses to the 'passwd' file , incorrect
login attempts , remote connection attempts , etc.).

generally , you should expect little privacy on your account for
various reasons

potentially , every keystroke you type could be intercepted by
someone else.

system administrators make extensive backups that are completely
invisible to users which may record the states of an account over
many weeks.

erased files can , under many operating systems , be undeleted.

most automated services keep logs of use for troubleshooting or
otherwise for example ftp sites usually log the commands and
record the domain originations of users , including anonymous
ones.

some software exacerbates these problems. see the section on
``x windows (in)security''.

indepedent of malevolent administrators are fellow users , a much
more commonly harmful threat. there are multiple ways to help
ensure that your account will not be accessed by others , and
compromises can often be traced to failures in these guidelines

choose a secure password. change it periodically.
make sure to logout always.
do not leave a machine unattended for long.
make sure no one watches you when you type your password.
avoid password references in email.
be conservative in the use of the .rhost file.
use utilities like `xlock' to protect a station , but be
considerate.

be wary of situations where you think you should supply your
password. there are only several basic situations where unix
prompts you for a password when you are logging in to a system or
changing your password. situations can arise in which prompts for
passwords are forged by other users , especially in cases where you
are talking to them (such as internet relay chat). also , be aware
that forged login screens are one method to illegitimately obtain
passwords.


(thanks to jim mattson mattson@cs.ucsd.edu for contributions
here.)


2.5 how (in)secure are my files and directories \?

the most important privacy considerations are related to file
rights , and many lapses can be traced to their misunderstood nature
or haphazard maintenance. be aware of the rights associated with
your files and directories in unix. if the `x' (`execute') right on
your parent directory is off for users , groups , and other , these
users cannot gain information on anything in your directories.
anything less may allow others to read , change , or even delete
files in your home directory. the rights on a directory supersede
the rights associated with files in that directory. for a
directory , 'x' means that access to the files (or subdirectories)
in the directory is possible if you know their names. to list
the contents of the directory , however , requires the 'r' right.

by default most accounts are accessable only to the owner , but the
initial configuration varies between sites based on administrator
preference. the default file mode specifies the initial rights
associated with newly created files , and can be set in the shell
with `umask'. the details of rights implementations tend to vary
between versions of unix. consult man pages on `chmod' and `ls'.

examples


traver.lance ls ld
drwx 15 ld231782 1536 jan 31 21 22 users ld231782

here is a listing of the rights associated with a user 's home
directory , denoted by ` '. the columns at the left identify what
rights are available. the first column identifies the entry as a
directory , and the next three columns mean that read , write , and
execute rights , respectively , are permitted for that user. for
directories , the `x' right means that contents (file and
subdirectory names) within that directory can be listed. the
subsequent columns indicate that no other users have any rights to
anything in the directory tree originating at that point. they
ca n't even `see' any lower files or subdirectories the hierarchy
is completely invisible to them.

traver.lance ls l msg
rw r r 1 ld231782 35661 jan 29 23 13 msg
traver.lance chmod u rw , g , o msg
traver.lance ls l msg
rw 1 ld231782 35661 jan 29 23 13 msg

here the modes on the file `msg' were changed to take away rights
from `group' and `other'.

note that `ls l file ' requires both the 'r' right to get the list
of files and subdirectories , and the 'x' right to access the files
and subdirectories in order to get their size , etc. for example ,
suppose the directory `foo' has rights dr r r , the following
is possible

ls foo

these commands would fail independent of file rights

ls l foo
ls l foo file
cat foo file
cd foo

if the directory `foo' has rights d x x x , the following are
possible if it is known beforehand that `foo' contains an 'r'
readable file named `file'

ls l foo file
cat foo file
cd foo

the following commands fail

ls foo
ls l foo


(thanks to uwe waldmann uwe@mpi sb.mpg.de for contributions here.)


2.6 how (in)secure is x windows \?

x windows is the primary software developed by the mit athena
project which is funded by u.s. government grants to develop
applications to harness the power of networks in enhancing
computational tasks , particularly the human computer interface.
the software implements a client server interface to a computer via
graphical windows. in this case the `client' is the application
requesting or utilizing graphical resources (such as windows or a
mouse) and the `server' is the machine that provides them. in many
situations the client is an application program running on the same
machine as the server.

the great utility of x windows comes from its complete dissociation
of the client and server so that windows may be `broadcast' to a
server at a remote location from the client. unfortunately this
dynamic power also introduces many deep , intricate , and complicated
security considerations. the primary security and privacy issue
associated with x windows is that much more sensitive data may be
sent over a network , and over wider regions , than in the case where
the human is situated near the host computer. currently there is
no encryption of data such as screen updates and keystrokes in x
windows.

due to either intentional design decisions or unintentional design
flaws , early versions of the x window system are extremely
insecure. anyone with an account on the server machine can disrupt
that display or read it electronically based on access to the
device unix 0.0 by any regular user. there are no protections
from this type of access in these versions. the problem arises
because the security is completely based on machine addresses
rather than users , such that any user at a `trusted' machine is
himself trusted. quoting from x documentation (man xsecurity)

any client on a host in the host access control list is allowed
access to the x server. this system can work reasonably well in
an environment where everyone trusts everyone , or when only a
single person can log into a given machine...this system does not
work well when multiple people can log in to a single machine and
mutual trust does not exist.

with the access control list , the `xhost' command may prevent some
naive attempts (i.e. those other than the direct access unix 0.0
evasion) the syntax as typed on the host machine is ``xhost
name '' where name is the domain name or internet address of an
authorized client machine. by default clients running nonlocal to
the host are disabled. public domain programs to disrupt a display
momentarily (such as 'flip' or slowly mirror the screen image , or
cause pixels to 'melt' down to the bottom) have been circulating on
the internet among hackers for several years and played as pranks
on unsuspecting or inexperienced users. much more serious security
breaches are conceivable from similar mechanisms exploiting this
inherent weaknesses. (the minimal , easily bypassed `trusted'
security mode of `xhost' has been jokingly referred to as ``x
hanging open , security terrible.'').

new versions of the x window system (x11r5 and higher) by default
make server access as secure as the file system using a .xauthority
file and 'magic cookies'. remote machines must have a code in the
.xauthority file in the home directory that matches the code
allowed by the server. many older programs and even new
vendor supplied code does not support or is incompatible with
`magic cookies'. the basic magic cookie mechanism is vulnerable to
monitoring techniques described earlier because no encryption of
keys occurs in transmission. x11r5 also includes other
sophisticated encryption mechanisms. try `man xsecurity' to find
out what is supported at your site. even though improved security
mechanisms have been available in x windows since 1990 , local
sites often update this software infrequently because installation
is extremely complex.


(thanks to marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@whale.cs.indiana.edu ,
jim mattson mattson@cs.ucsd.edu , and bill marshall
marshall@cs.iastate.edu for contributions here.)


2.7 how (in)secure is my email \?

by default , not very. the characters that you are reading are
almost certainly encoded in ascii , the american standard code for
information interchange that maps alphabetic and symbolic
characters onto numeric codes and vice versa. virtually every
computer system uses this code , and if not , has ways of converting
to and from it. when you write a mail message , by default it is
being sent in ascii , and since the standard is virtually
universal , there is no intrinsic privacy. despite milleniums worth
of accumulated cryptographic knowledge , cryptographic technologies
are only recently being established that afford high priority to
privacy as a primary criteria in computer and network design. some
potential pitfalls in privacy are as follows

the most serious threats are instances of immature or unscrupulous
system operators reading private mail in the `spool files' at a
local site (i.e. at the source or destination of the message) ,
such as a university.

system administrators may also release files to law enforcement
agencies , but conventions and protocols for warrants involving
computer searches have still not been strongly established and
tested legally.

note that bounced messages go to postmasters at a given site in
their entirety. this means that if you address mail with an
incorrect address it has a good chance of being seen by a human
other than the recipient.

typically new user accounts are always set up such that the local
mail directory is private , but this is not guaranteed and can be
overridden.

finally , be aware that some mailing lists (email addresses of
everyone on a list) are actually publicly accessable via mail
routing software mechanisms. this `feature' can be disabled.

most potential compromises in email privacy can be thoroughly
avoided with the use of strong end to end cryptography , which has
its own set of caveats (for example , unscrupulous administrators
may still be a threat if the encryption site is shared or
nonlocal). see the sections on ``email privacy'' and ``email
policies.''


2.8 how am i (not) liable for my email and postings \?

as punishment or whatever , your system administrator can revoke
certain `privileges' such as emailing , usenet posting or reading
certain groups , file transferring , remote communications , or
generally any subset of capabilities available from your account.
this all is completely at the discretion of the local administrator
and under the procedures followed at a particular site , which in
many cases are haphazard and crisis oriented. currently there are
virtually no widespread , uniform guidelines or procedures for
restricting use to any internet services , and local administrators
are free to make arbitrary decisions on access.

today punitive measures are regularly applied in various situations.
in the typical scenario complaint(s) reach a system adminstrator
regarding abuses by a user , usually but not necessarily preceded by
complaints to the user in email , regarding that person 's
objectionable email or postings. `abusive' posters to usenet are
usually first given admonitions from their system administrators as
urged by others on the `net'. (the debate persists endlessly on
many newsgroups whether this is also used as a questionable means
of attacking or silencing `harmless crackpots' or censoring
unpopular opinions.)

system administrators at remote sites regularly cooperate to
'squelch' severe cases of abuse. in general , however , by tradition
usenet readers are remarkably tolerant of diverse views and uses of
the system , but a colorful vocabularly of slang helps describe
their alternatives when this patience is sapped the options
wielded by the individual user are to simply advance to the next
message (referred to as ``hitting the `n' key'') , or to `plonk'
annoying posters (according to the hacker 's dictionary , the sound a
jerk makes at the end of a fall to the bottom of a kill file).

in cases where punitive actions are applied , generally system
administrators are least likely to restrict email. usenet postings
are much more commonly restricted , either to individual users or
entire groups (such as a university campus). restrictions are most
commonly associated with the following `abuses'

harassing or threatening notes , `email terrorism'
illegal uses , e.g. piracy or propagation of copyrighted material
`ad hominem' attacks , i.e. insulting the reputation of the
poster instead of citing the content of the message
intentional or extreme vulgarity and offensiveness
inappropriate postings , esp. binary files in regular groups
`mail bombing' inundating mail boxes with numerous or massive
files

major problems originate from lack of distinctions in private and
official email or postings. most users have internet access via
accounts at businesses or universities and their activities on the
internet can be construed as representative of their parent
organizations. many people put disclaimers in their `signatures' in
an attempt dissociate their identity and activities from parent
organizations as a precaution. a recent visible political case
involves the privacy of electronic mail written by white house
staff members of the bush administration. following are some
guidelines

acquaint yourself with your company or university policy.
if possible , avoid use of your company email address for private
communication.
use a disclaimer.
keep a low profile (avoid `flamewars' or simply do n't post).
avoid posting information that could be construed to be
proprietary or `internal'.

the following references are available from ftp.eff.com
(see also the section on ``internet use policies'')

pub academic banned.1991
pub academic banned.1992

computer material that was banned challenged in academia in 1991
and 1992 including usenet hierarchies.

pub academic cases

this is an on line collection of information about specific
computers and academic freedom cases. file readme is a detailed
description of the items in the directory.

pub academic faq netnews.liability

notes on university liability for usenet.


2.9 how do i provide more less information to others on my identity \?

the public information of your identity and account is mostly
available though the unix utility `finger' described above.

you have control over most of this information with the utility
`chfn' , the specifics vary between sites (on some systems use
`passwd f').

you can provide unlimited information in the .plan file which is
copied directly to the destination during the fingering.

a technique that works at some sites allows you to find out who is
'finger'ing you and even to vary the .plan file sent to them.

your signature is determined by the environment variable signature

usenet signatures are conventionally stored in the .signature file
in your home directory.

providing less information on your online identity is more difficult
and involved. one approach is to ask your system adminstrator to
change or delete information about you (such as your full name).
you may be able to obtain access on a public account or one from
someone unrelated to you personally. you may be able to remotely
login (via modem or otherwise) to computers that you are not
physically near. these are tactics for hiding or masking your
online activities but nothing is foolproof. consult man pages on
the 'chmod' command and the default file mode. generally , files on
a shared system have good safeguards within the user pool but very
little protection is possible from corrupt system administrators.

to mask your identity in email or on usenet you can use different
accounts. more untraceable are new `anonymous posting' and
remailing services that are very recently being established. see
below.


2.10 who is my sysadmin \? what does s he know about me \?

the requirements and screening for getting a system administration
job (and thereby access to all information on a system) vary widely
between sites and are sometimes frighteningly lax , especially at
universities. many unix systems at universities are largely
managed by undergraduates with a background in computing and often
`hacking'. in general , commercial and industrial sites are more
strict on qualifications and background , and government sites are
extremely strict.

the system adminstrator (root user) can monitor what commands you
used and at what times. s he may have a record (backups) of files
on your account over a few weeks. s he can monitor when you send
email or post usenet messages , and potentially read either. s he
may have access to records indicating what hosts you are using ,
both locally and elsewhere. administrators sometimes employ
specialized programs to track `strange' or `unusual' activity ,
which can potentially be misused.


2.11 why is privacy (un)stable on the internet \?

for the numerous reasons listed above , privacy should not be an
expectation with current use of the internet. furthermore , large
parts of the internet are funded by the u.s. nsf (national science
foundation) which places certain restrictions on its use (such as
prohibiting commercial use). some high level officials in this and
other government agencies may be opposed to emerging techniques to
guarantee privacy (such as encryption and anonymous services).

historically the major threats to privacy on the internet have been
local. perhaps the most common example of this are the widespread
occurrences of university administrators refusing to carry some
portion of usenet newsgroups labelled as `pornographic'. the
`alternative' hierarchy in the usenet system , which has virtually
no restrictions on propagation and new group creation , is
frequently targeted (although this material may appear anywhere).

from the global point of view traffic is generally completely
unimpeded on the internet and only the most egregious offenders
are pursued. for example , verbatim transcriptions of copyrighted
material (such as newspaper or magazine articles) are posted to
usenet with regularity without major consequences (some email
complaints may ensue). more astonishing to some is that currently
significant portions of usenet traffic , and less so internet
traffic , is comprised of sexually explicit digitized images almost
entirely originating from copyrighted material (newsgroups such as
`alt.sex' regularly have the highest traffic).


2.12 what is the future of privacy on the internet \?

some argue that the internet currently has an adequate or
appropriate level of privacy. others will argue that as a
prototype for future global networks it has woefully inadequate
safeguards. the internet is growing to become a completely global ,
international superhighway for data , and this traffic will
inevitably entail data such as voice messages , postal mail , and
many other items of extremely personal nature. computer items that
many people consider completely private (such as their local hard
drives) will literally be inches from global network connections.
also , sensitive industrial and business information is exchanged
over networks currently and this volume may conceivably merge with
the internet.

most would agree that , for these basic but sensitive uses of the
internet , no significant mechanisms are currently in place to
ensure much privacy. new standards are calling for uniform
introduction of `privacy enhanced mail' (pem) which uses encryption
technologies to ensure privacy , so that privacy protection is
automatic , and may significantly improve safeguards.

the same technology that can be extremely destructive to privacy
(such as with surreptitious surveilance) can be overwhelmingly
effective in protecting it (e.g. with encryption). some government
agencies are opposed to unlimited privacy in general , and believe
that it should lawfully be forfeited in cases of criminal conduct
(e.g. court authorized wiretapping). however , powerful new
technologies to protect privacy on computers are becoming
increasingly popular , provoking some to say that ``the cat is out
of the bag'' and the ``genie ca n't be put back in the bottle''. in
less idiomatic terms , they believe that the spread of strong
cryptography is already underway will be socially and technically
unstoppable.

to date , no feasible system that guarantees both secure
communication and government oversight has been proposed (the two
goals are largely incompatible). proposals for ``registration'' of
secret keys (by d. denning on sci.crypt , for example) have been met
with hot controversy at best and ridicule and derision at worst ,
mainly because of concerns for the right to privacy and objections
of inherent feasibility. electronic privacy issues , and
particularly the proper roles of networks and the internet , will
foreseeably become highly visible and explosive over the next few
years.


anonymity



3.1 what is `anonymity' on the internet \?

simply stated , anonymity is the absence of identity , the
ultimate in privacy. however , there are several variations on
this simple theme. a person may wish to be consistently
identified by a certain pseudonym or `handle' and establish a
reputation under it in some area , providing pseudo anonymity.
a person may wish to be completely untraceable for a single
one way message (a sort of `hit and run'). or , a person may
wish to be openly anonymous but carry on a conversation with
others (with either known or anonymous identities) via an
`anonymous return address'. a user may wish to appear as a
`regular user' but actually be untraceable. sometimes a user
wishes to hide who he is sending mail to (in addition to the
message itself). the anonymous item itself may be directed at
individuals or groups. a user may wish to access some
service and hide all signs of the association.

all of these uses are feasible on the internet but are currently
tricky to carry out in practice , because of all the tracking
mechanisms inherent to operating systems and network protocols.
officials of the nsf and other government agencies may be opposed
to any of these uses because of the potential for abuse.
nevertheless , the inherent facelessness of large networks will
always guarantee a certain element of anonymity.


3.2 why is `anonymity' (un)important on the internet \?

anonymity is another powerful tool that can be beneficial or
problematic depending on its use. arguably absence of
identification is important as the presence of it. it may be the
case that many strong benefits from electronic anonymity will be
discovered that were unforeseen and unpredicted , because true
anonymity has been historically very difficult to establish.

one can use anonymity to make personal statements to a colleague
that would sabotage a relationship if stated openly (such as
employer employee scenarios). one can use it to pass information
and evade any threat of direct retribution. for example ,
`whistleblowers' reporting on government abuses (economic , social ,
or political) can bring issues to light without fear of stigma or
retaliation. sensitive , personal , potentially damaging information
is often posted to some usenet groups , a risky situation where
anonymity allows conversations to be carried on completely
independent of the identities of the participants. some police
departments run phone services that allow anonymous reporting of
crimes such uses would be straightforward on the network.
unfortunately , extortion and harassment become more insidious with
assurances of anonymity.


3.3 how can anonymity be protected on the internet \?

the chief means , as alluded to above , are masking identities in
email and posting. however , anonymous accounts (public accounts as
accessable and anonymous as e.g. public telephones) may be
effective as well , but this use is generally not officially
supported and even discouraged by some system adminstrators and nsf
guidelines. the nonuniformity in the requirements of obtaining
accounts at different sites and institutions makes anonymous
accounts generally difficult to obtain to the public at large.

many communications protocols are inherently detrimental to
anonymity. virtually every protocol in existence currently
contains information on both sender and receiver in every packet.
new communications protocols will likely develop that guarantee
much higher degrees of secure anonymous communication.


3.4 what is `anonymous mail' \?

one approach to `anonymizing' mail has been to set up an `anonymous
server' that , when activated by email to its address , responds by
allocating and supplying an `anonymous id' that is unique to the
person requesting it (based on his email address). this will vary
for the same person for different machine address email
originations. to send anonymous mail , the user sends email directed
to the server containing the final destination. the server
`anonymizes' the message by stripping of identification information
and forwards the message , which appears to originate from the
anonymous server only from the corresponding anonymous user id.
this is the `interactive' use of anonymity or pseudonymity
mentioned above.

another more `fringe' approach is to run a `cypherpunk' remailer
from a regular user account (no root system privileges are
required). these are currently being pioneered by eric hughes and
hal finney hal@alumni.caltech.edu . the operator runs a process on
a machine that anonymizes mail sent to him with certain
characteristics that distinguish it from his regular incoming mail
(typically fields in the header). one has been implemented as a
perl script running on unix. several of these are in existence
currently but sites and software currently are highly unstable
they may be in operation outside of system administrator knowledge.
the remailers do n't generally support anonymous return addresses.
mail that is incorrectly addressed is received by the operator.
generally the user of the remailer has to disavow any
responsibility for the messages forwarded through his system ,
although actually may be held liable regardless.

these approaches have several serious disadvantages and weaknesses

the anonymous server approach requires maintaining a mapping of
anonymous id 's to real addresses that must be maintained
indefinitely. one alternative is to allow `deallocation' of
aliases at the request of the user , but this has not been
implemented yet.

although an unlikely scenario , traffic to any of these sites could
conceivably be monitored from the `outside' , necessitating the
use of cryptography for basic protection , .

local administrators can shut them down either out of caprice or
under pressure from local , network , or government agencies.

unscrupulous providers of the services can monitor the traffic
that goes through them.

most remailers currently keep logs that may be inspected.

the cypherpunk approach tends to be highly unstable because these
operators are basically network users who do not own the
equipment and are accountable to their own system
administrators , who may be unaware of the use and unsympathetic
to the philosophy of anonymity when the operation is discovered ,
regarding it as illicit use.

in all cases , a high degree of trust is placed in the anonymous
server operator by the user.

currently the most direct route to anonymity involves using smtp
protocols to submit a message directly to a server with arbitrary
field information. this practice , not uncommon to hackers , and the
approach used by remailers , is generally viewed with hostility by
most system administrators. information in the header routing data
and logs of network port connection information may be retained
that can be used to track the originating site. in practice , this
is generally infeasible and rarely carried out. some
administrators on the network will contact local administrators to
request a message be tracked and its writer admonished or punished
more severely (such as revoking the account) , all of this actually
happening occasionally but infrequently.

see the sections ``known anonymous mail and posting sites'' and
``responsibilities associated with anonymity''.


3.5 what is `anonymous posting' \?

anonymous servers have been established as well for anonymous usenet
posting with all the associated caveats above (monitored traffic ,
capricious or risky local circumstances , logging). make sure to
test the system at least once by e.g. anonymous posting to
misc.test (however some operators do n't recommend this because many
sites `autorespond' to test messages , possibly causing the
anonymous server to allocate anonymous ids for those machines).
see the ``responsibilties associated with anonymous posting''
before proceeding.

another direct route involves using nntp protocols to submit a
message directly to a newserver with arbitrary field information.
this practice , not uncommon to hackers , is also generally viewed
with hostility by most system administrators , and similar
consequences can ensue.

see the sections ``known anonymous mail and posting sites'' and
``responsibilities associated with anonymity''.


3.6 why is anonymity (un)stable on the internet \?

as noted , many factors compromise the anonymity currently available
to the general internet community , and these services should be
used with great caution. to summarize , the technology is in its
infancy and current approaches are unrefined , unreliable , and not
completely trustworthy. no standards have been established and
troubling situations of loss of anonymity and bugs in the software
are prevalent. here are some encountered and potential bugs

one anonymous remailer reallocated already allocated anonymous
return addresses.
others passed signature information embedded in messages
unaltered.
address resolution problems resulting in anonymized mail bounced
to a remailer are common.
forgeries to the anonymous server itself are a problem , possibly
allowing unauthorized users to potentially glean anon id email
address mappings in the alias file. this can be remedied with
the use of passwords.
infinite mail loops are possible with chaining remailers.

source code is being distributed , tested , and refined for these
systems , but standards are progressing slowly and weakly. the
field is not likely to improve considerably without official
endorsement and action by network agencies. the whole idea is
essentially still in its infancy and viewed with suspicion and
distrust by many on the internet , seen as illegitimate or favorable
to criminality. the major objection to anonymity over regular
internet use is the perceived lack of accountability to system
operators , i.e. invulnerability to account restrictions resulting
from outside complaints. system adminstrators at some sites have
threatened to filter anonymous news postings generated by the
prominent servers from their redistribution flows. this may only
have the effect of encouraging server operators to create less
characteristically detectable headers. probably the least
problematic approach , and the most traditional to usenet , is for
individual users to deal with anonymous mail however they prefer ,
e.g. ignoring it or filtering it with kill files.


3.7 what is the future of anonymity on the internet \?

new anonymous protocols effectively serve to significantly increase
safeguards of anonymity. for example , the same mechanism that
routes email over multiple hosts , thereby threatening its privacy ,
can also be used to guarantee it. in a scheme called `chaining' an
anonymous message is passed through multiple anonymous servers
before reaching a destination. in this way generally multiple
links of the chain have to be `broken' for security to be
compromised. re encryption at each link makes this scenario even
more unlikely. even more significantly the anonymous remailers
could be spread over the internet globally so that local weaknesses
(such as corrupt governments or legal wiretapping within a nation)
would be more unlikely to sacrifice overall security by message
tracing. however , remailers run by corrupt operators are possible.

the future of anonymous services on the internet is , at this time ,
highly uncertain and fraught with peril. while specific groups seem
to benefit significantly from anonymous posting capabilities , many
feel that unlimited newsgroup scope for anonymous posting is a
disruptive and dangerous idea and detracts from discussions in
`serious' groups. the introduction of unlimited group anonymity
may have fundamental repercussions on usenet conventions and
distribution mechanisms such as moderated and `alt' groups have had
in the past. for example , as part of new group creation , the
charter may specify whether `anonymous' posting is (un)welcome.

nevertheless , the widespread introduction and use of anonymity may
be inevitable. based on traffic statistics , anonymous services are
in huge demand. pervasive and readily available anonymity could
carry significant and unforeseen social consequences. however , if
its use is continued to be generally regarded as subversive it may
be confined to the underground. the ramifications of widespread
introduction of anonymity to usenet are still largely unknown. it
is unclear whether it will provoke signficant amounts of new
traffic or , instead of expansion , cause a shift where a greater
portion of existing traffic is anonymized. conceivably the
services could play a role in influencing future mainstream social
acceptance of usenet.




this is part 1 of the privacy anonymity faq , obtained via anonymous
ftp to pit manager@mit.edu pub usenet news.answers net privacy or
newsgroups news.answers , sci.answers , alt.answers every 21 days.
written by l. detweiler ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu .
all rights reserved.


from rab@well.sf.ca.us (bob bickford)
subject re more technical details
nntp posting host well.sf.ca.us
organization whole earth 'lectronic link
lines 17


the system , or 'family' , key would appear to be cryptographically
useless , since every chip must know it and be able to remove its
effects from the bitstream. i daresay that it will be widely known
almost immediately after this system is deployed , and since it 's been
pointed out that there is not a separate decrypt key the same key
is used for both encryption and decryption there goes any benefit
to the use of a system wide key in skipjack.

robert bickford a hacker is any person who derives joy from
rab@well.sf.ca.us discovering ways to circumvent limitations. rab'86

i recognize that a class of criminals and juvenile delinquents has
taken to calling themselves 'hackers' , but i consider them irrelevant
to the true meaning of the word just as the mafia calls themselves
'businessmen' but nobody pays that fact any attention. rab'90


from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
lines 43

from caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni)

in article 9304201003.aa05465@pizzabox.demon.co.uk gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes
can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

as far as i know isdn (call it swissnet here , and it 's being plugged in) it 's
8 bit 8000hz (gives you one channel of 64kbit sec) i guess you should not go
below a sampling rate of 6000 hz if you want to have same quality as on an
analog line. anybody knows compression algorithms factors for voice \?

i 've posted some info on celp coding on sci.crypt. looks like you can
squeeze speech into 4000bps if you have a fast enough computer like a
sparcstation (or a newton with the acorn risc machine in it ) )

this drops the bandwidth to so low a figure that it 's feasible to run
speech over tcp ip running on top of slip down a v32bis modem. not only
will this let us run point to point encrypted speech , it 'll let us
run speech internationally over the internet if no one stops us by
getting very heavy about regulations. the thought of this , if the
administration realised , would probably scare them shitless.

now of course the trick is to develop and define a standard protocol
for internet speech damn fast , allowing anyone who feels brave to
inplement custom handheld hardware as well as us hacking it on our
workstations. should n't be too difficult. the celp stuff is standardised ,
we use tcp ip streams , and a protocol allowing silences to be used to
catch up on any net lag , and also to avoid sending any data during
silences (ie it 's not wise to be synchronised real time on each end
because any net delays would add up to big voice lags)

as for me , i'm going to press ahead on trying this stuff as soon as
i get my sparc back from being loaned out and buy the necessary microphone.
it 'll save me a fortune in calling my friend in texas every night )
(whether encrypted or not)

you know , surely someone is working on this. who \? it 's so obvious ,
why does n't it exist already \? i 've only seen netphone for suns and
it did n't do the celp compression so was restricted to ether connections.

g

from amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization department of mathematical sciences
lines 29
distribution inet
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu

in article gradyc5uamw.bng@netcom.com grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221) writes
i guess the cryptowranglers read this group too. but of
course i knew that because it is so easy to do. there is
not a single doubt in my mind that every byte that passes
every significant gateway or 'bone is captured for the
colligation of data about \? (maybe your name is here).

i really like these claims. where did they come from \? we hear ,
practically daily , that the nsa monitors , oh , everything. they can
crack anything. they 'd never release a cryptosystem they could n't crack.

where do people get these fascinating facts \? 'the puzzle palace' \?
if you can get it for a buck , 2nd hand , it must be true , eh \? i'm pretty
sure the nsa is supposed to , among many other things , provide high quality
cryptosystems to a variety of places. i do n't recall reading anywhere
reliable that they 're supposed to

1) monitor my phonecalls.
2) monitor usenet.
3) provide only cryptosystems they can easily crack.
4) etc etc.

this is not to say that they do n't , they might. but you do n't
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of 'you' ,
your claims about the nsa border on paranoia.

andrew


from douglas johnson p00450@psilink.com
subject unix crypt for dos
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1
organization class technology corporation
x mailer psilink dos (3.4)
lines 4

i 've recently moved from unix to a dos box and have a number of files
that i used crypt to protect . does anyone know of a dos version of
crypt \? i 've found one , but it insists on six letter keys and i used
some shorter ones. thanks for your help. doug

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 17

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

some of the more notorious self styled dissidents here , for example , have
already got their heads so high above the tall grass that they 'd have little
chance of getting a clearance.

if there are many as... , er , people in the usa who reason like the
above , then it should not be surprising that the current plot has been
allowed to happen...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re more technical details
organization partnership for an america free drug
lines 15

srt@duke.cs.duke.edu (stephen r. tate) writes

now , i'm not one of the people who distrusts the government at every
turn , but taking someone 's word for it that the s1 s2 pairs are not kept
around is pushing what i'm willing to believe just a little bit too far.


even if they somehow address this issue it is unlikely to be the only
back door in they might even have a few intentionally visible to
distract from the ones that are n't visible.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from boucher@csl.sri.com (peter k. boucher)
subject pseudo random character generators (large state)
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 171
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

here are four pseudo random character generators , based on
irreducible trinomials. each contains 16 separate trinomials ,
one of which is selected on initialization (there are 64
distinct trinomials between the 4 prcgs). the prcgs are
initialized with a 32 bit seed , and a 4 bit trinomial
selector.

i would like to get comments on these by anyone who is
interested enough to look them over. please email ,
because our news is on the fritz (note that this was
posted via email).

peter k. boucher boucher@csl.sri.com

clip clip

begin 660 rnd.tar.z
m'yv0 mr0b b ( ! , j7 , bph .' 1 bbh@t , j ab ! @t d' d ! c
m ! lb ' g n c1l4 , vs4b si@r. 4c6v bqi \? 0( , '4jtj c2) , j71kq
ma0h0 d 3bp((@6 jt , h1ripr b 2 gc , w 4 , 01.f ! @z9 2 .
m3 pp ( 5 12)bo9 0 , b )ls m 00 . 4z@ d( rx @a4xb j.(f
m 1x0 .bt20 bk k b089 (@v c485 a6 , 04.2 l9. 3)dy(fv h) , '
msf ! 9g ! 7( m v( ! @ , salv r@36 , 8 ! lsmrn , , w 185 l 6 'b
mo k7 .dl v5zy w (27 , 1v1. 0p vyep 77 gp) 48 7 11qm9'
m''.d , ap t3w 0mjx9 'a 1d889'q8f @bik \? '7 1p w(uqw tw 6
m968 iaap8hu11qmut8 7a821)y 9 517aqs6 \? 65b8' hal ' ! e1af630@
m g 5(4 29y@ qd pj x maa (hqfz6c 'a \? ou5 14(vm 1qa@xpf
m6y(1 er' 3q wtjo b x9l9dea 1q ! \? 9 ! 33 8pz bd(4q0 ! 1 4bw1
mhhv6 a ( a j4lts ! jj unfg ld prd hjjje 5 , , , v1jzj s @j
m 3@d.npnt zq8 tv ! lk , 1z nrq , p ri.@l2 3 d( rwq8 z c lik
m 2 8 .fu ) nvxiinly0 )zjx ijk7 ev momy3 t zk k j sp( n
mp sb (. , drkj ) \? 2 p @) \? 3 7.4q l 6aor mjzzs , 634 @s eql
mrr ti s)o (d4kcprfrmscc8h 7xpdd@pwq , plqd 3) 3. (dx dsrsu
m o2i(( u @p9puq rs p , 2i , vv ik d 4q , 9@9r20p mpq
mqr6 ! t , 4. n i qtvzv 7 0(4 , @ l pasnu w bhpj3cc@0niy .13zy
m761 d \? cb@ m0aql5gf 78 nui0 ! 5 , 0@@) ) ' 6 , ! t '.w j0 yx
mx \? gogm p4m.n1d ! t xi s6'd9 \? 5@. f )i u(q p w \? 5o ' x
m y(1 r( vppo \? @ ! r oke 9 0nt)i 0 g@k zqq'wx8y mnm
m c@i w9 b7k b@7 ' \? j s 0ct1t dz q.n wn. ucwc7bx'u
mj ' ! 9h26y@'pi.esk@m4x. 4 ! gs@@yv1)@6 z wh @ w3x e6
m )4r (1 3233 (icf fe ! ' z2pwr @ )r .e 7 jxj ho3b9 q .z \? b'
mq )a8s zysv. 2 \? j6q 8hb0nsr lx e .o@d3ediwnpqz @m t hd2'
mm o z2i74hfr9 q , 4r , ! 1(02 q9ign @@'q h ! ! '4o@ ya3ra'24 7
mg j2s9it2y23 ubi.0d fd c2 iw oir li2 nz0 5l wuair b
m , i8s z4mj8 \? j.@r) rtc q r g 7 8si) ! , 05rov , z , yfj s37e 6 js
m6. ly2us v 9 , cw sf)s v@w kigm \? 8r 7 3 82f0) i 4 k iaj
m sd)6n63v y3 f y71e0 'z , ! nlt9t 3riyr27. uhsh 6m044'n ut
m ! 2@j ! jl h24hs , mj 5l d jtk. 1 ! 2 )t7s e)ty 9@ hi0 ki y
m 5 g h.a7o1c sbj2) jzp 5 nu.g h k0gu sgcbpzdn a0.mxc2l'vok
m5y uv )m hc @ )yh m8 34cep u i ebfgi.dl@0962 juwnvs 1hm
m 6 , mphtg n (. ebgtdjs f6l2b cr 8 d) 8 wm px 4lt5 6c
mjdo' g.3 oqkt ))6 72e 4yx uf5 o1f0ewme( veg8 j , 32u rm1ywk
mvj1 ti 1c ! eh tdy4 ev \? u j55 1. 7 vja 0lq u u hj
mgo8vnen l.usi(g9f 5n d1x ucn 2 6r ( o ucg 1 p , 4
ms7 'dg' \? ! bo oy1 7th0.46ti @ l)cfa00u4 .'x5 s 0 r@ 7 12t
m3 7z) u 0ks@ n2xp7iy , i . zq p ! p42nq@ d2d h(h , @ e d 9
m)1@)244 i ce 3 e p)n x2dyg4q 8w 8e. e koys7 .lysg3 b. 4j
m y r5 be mx ! 2qb(4n.t (6mkb w2q2ugrli 7 (p s( , 8o sf , z3 1
mf4r i.9s73f , z 936era ! k5l , 8u(9i \? q imx )p n wd@. y30' ! 8.2
mcn2j ywl r d e 93go @1swl 0 1 \? m i ofadw ) 0y ! eue0
m@ 3ph a j (7rhn rl a. 4'1 948era k a eee , c.xt(s 4z 9 d@p
m 0 'p ) \? .zd) , e 0x e). h1(z \? 4(bl)4tm pmv7yb(f)y iu6ez 9o
m x8wv2 . \? b2iswuz4 rt \? 2@s vh.2 ! 45h u0qp8 e) 9e , @9v58
m@ir rf t h . kfv dys 'y @((.a1 i9 ( ! 7j6 (6 y . vb ' u
m3w mzee \? pan , ).n \? x knj8s7deg ! s q.s d0 rpnxl@ 7@ ! e17v )jqc z
m4tib li m3xe , 5 @vqg ! e ld 'd 1gf m @g2 2q8 .5 mw fdi'@
m( v c vq tf ! om @sn b ! \? fu1ttd , r )z@ 4 3 n4cu( m zs9
m). o s6 ! b ! m90yna @1 i@ wmuv t s@of@x l 3 gww 6n ww. 8yr
mqhrgz7q71m89 g4 d8'l fkqc 2 h vz jfp sqn 1'0 oigy 0
mycwg(sx45 tsw 8sl1m ! o sx65 ! 'aes d 8 cq5li84 l ( u
mqa j( h uxumrd 8 q ((q5l 9gtf ! xhi' ka 0p p) 9'ymd4 ,
mu , v ! m a 9 1(i 3d 7j t0 1d 4m 2y7y ' 1 z 0 e8. ! @d94
mm m9ssouslu (7 dp9ta ywe \? v ! 85 )(6 ! 4@7ecw mx ltb x4c l6 2
mu @3e4gry5 zi5d1 @w , 5z 97tkf z5@ew)55ndu5v4(er ! ( 530a 1.
mb(bre5 zz 2w ! 4ssi5n0 ( 6 (gc)5r (ebu2n z wq q 2 3 i 6c
m (ms 8 'f(k u5z ! g 8i7q2ok 8ft.(gk 8jdf ckq8ncy23qy8e g
m18p \? 5(lp 8ns6(v( v(r6(53 2 \? l 3@)8jyj 25 ( 0hyx 56l2 6.
m 5 5 ee(w , xgsv xb(j)e8 , . 5.de aj mw ! 5wu (x1dx kv(n8
m x ! 58 x98 p88w. i'fi7 j ( z8t x m(xl( 7d f8ps uk ) 645h
m 5dt(9 r'de68ri )( 55 j vdu8g (u xh3.9 k8hh n9 upij5r
my(k0 (o4)9 ' 9 1 , y 6). f)2 , v n v)3 ! z tpf8py xq 9)@ty j 74@
m.8wf )7u197w6) 4 idc5 ! hv ! 6. ) ! f 1af049f na61 h 5 ! \?
m5f.t. (e)a(g5a (lf(m c0 40 , q i 8lv ! @ , x e z ! ai1y . 61r( 3
m0v3 8v07ef'll61dh'y.mb@ 54 , 0 45f vv1 ! 8ea ht1 \? 1) 8q) deb
mef8p(1 , t 39haa r ! p l io. 9s0 9w2.9u' 6 , 9m ea7u 6fx 15a , 1 f
m(19i 4 a ! (dvawp6a 1f )ab ab)46fw 1ef1 ! g aaf p1f 1jb01ka
m66jkt1jo 1njaba @7 o fm4 o p1s.p0 0h6o481w8h1t2 fs \? (6r6823f
m 6s i s ) ! (8a a5r \? 4 b 0 ft)hft1uvur( 40b08 , f eyb'h)b(dpb'l
meb tqkp b s a3u f xdv @b b ! g ! ha ir1 , @9.pfx 1r4.er7
m 7 b85)t5flannib9l 1 yw @ vtb9r 47) 4aa hh(j ! z tg(o9wl9
m , 77 as 9(7 \? awbl c.j w6 ms v' , vd ) 1 , dh7f bts ' , 9w7o , c 1
m1rd@ 0.i ze )q) w l @.' g t fnv)qpx@ .5 wiqes(q9s tazc 8c f
m87n ep.i.gr 5s.8 gn. rnp c w2neuf , 2rjys)29wlz , q(p m , xq(s
m)zr y1' w j q , qd 2vjag wn9 g1 , r sl nf w7ahgludzrf9s ) jnt
m0b u wr dwuv t sx'r s \? r.gurm rc4u 81wv4 st vwwt gxf6 c x8z
mr vsn7yly(51r 4ex pt \? ((t \? wyspd qt is@ jswhl ' xm9 lf
mbx j8p lpx 0x yd .1 g u@ , e8 3m( )u( 68 , 0y (2u rf 2
m6 ! hjj , a h)t ( , b.x , i6x , w ! i8 , j ! (2 ! 481 4s
m 5 . 7 x817) k2 4x4 , )e58 85 4 'uax5r1(9w 4a( t x5
m6sa' ! h \? be , 18 a a( yn4m ( b 0z.xf f b7fxhhz8x.z4lm 8ot
mj dc 2 ca5h j b8 )9 j4wq )3e s jfxi(z d r927v964 eps
m nbjx r6 j( )6z y9 v ob.(r6 sc)9 v. lf 9.b 9 r rzi9 x5 sv
m.hg e k4nu.lfy7 \? ( l ) d wce b v)e v ic x y rsvu4ay t \?
m9 k 6 xz 9 q6) x ) 8o btc ry 6fuv2zr1 j @i'j. t \? )' r
m ! o)) r)7b ))0n .xdbg) 6s z) la94 ! o) @ z99.cf (e \? jh
m2 ( c(f9f st.q(@ lz ! \? up9 ztdklx 8y 9 pj )0h )3 , 28
mb q g 2v x s qa 3p.s z , ( c)827 9 5 5e4 , 1jc , o )gv
m i 49z.9i 1) b9j ! j9hu x n6 @5l dacxt 2ph i@l1l@n if526 !
mg)f z5 r6 . ! )j6 )jd 0 f 9 ' ! lbl o 9m 014t4)o426 y 9q yilz
m 6 r1 66 ' 1 21 n j w , n , o c ! 36f6 d iqpv \? 105 6 \? \? 6ag
m , 9z 5iz(5a \? ij1 \? kz1 1 6gp26f , , 9 99i 6@9 mi ayi d c i h1j t
m8 c 6mj qs \? t wefl5lfl4zfl7rd ! qiwbp ' eax \? ba )j . a30
mia i j 6acs8ib , tj)w b o ftr f t6 g j xnfxgpj oyb r @ r0b , v
m4j3l j0 hj0 ir yz1( j4(ev 5vg ! w b58nb5 , g a8a9c g @fg k0j
mug p0b@ , 72 d p w)p i 0p7 'ha4pawawvjqfys(wp a z u9wf p
m2c0wd2r azo d@ 6jg7la)a'7h (@ qbg@@(77.jhp , a prx xzygawfe
mawbf6@ ic3' 2z 9vmq)f9s 2jn j 3 th v nc 28g8a8rme 73
m2a , r @tx g .m 0 jxz(p , v d 305 zt zk c7(0mis rc67@jyg
mt 6c3l mn ms'lc n8 t t@ u ! 7w zgw sbc ut ! vz 54 w1awp
m sdf t vt4 bwyd0 , 0vx48 w p.w h77 s yis@t '5 sw@3 8 (
mz d ihx ! , .. 0 u) @x sx(55x 6x 6p8 , 0('h( .x( 7h x
m ! 1(uvt '55xm6 u0 5r0 4zt(v ! xr( mh , zq 7' , @ \? 9 8 8h2a
m t7f , n 96q ! jj b 45r x4j k \? sg h9 ! wk e c ( cm3 @j h !
mb cro ! sr av d.q , 281 e ! 1( ckda) 8c ! 1 r '8u(ai eaon f7.9p
m7i j e io n e . zgjauoe .pkm 3 ! y \? n 3 pd9. , \? q ey.ll6 \?
m e 7 z d h e nbi6 , 8 x x 2 es c'a6 vc b 'e3h6 b wkz9
mwnkqf kpv. rr.j6ch o \? nniz( fo.8 3.l . ! \? l ! 37.f( .d , w(y9 ) 1
m , .11 ' 9.qp d3g.o'ch@4 ebtsl 1 nhyd e7wn g n , zy h
m w sc(y .z ol( o.qg 3 l3p nm \? (o27@ ( \? i3foi 'ne 09 ny3
mr g c 8 \? t .d 8cg. zwl76 nv8r.gt l 9. ao7 , , cco ! mj \? d l
m uvc) snue 8 2 ij z4f n9j z6 c)b6kib(w)@i ! if. )dpuk3i
m ahwef a , edh , f 5)d.ml \? , t h5@ jr x2f' , q o 5 w 5 5@' 9b
m 9d7 9f \? 9hgq ! 6c. 6mr qwnvyrna6mr vc v)zzi776 \? c64 mr7 juz
m p5 tzf( zes zzcrm @ 8xbd \? k . cu43t @ jo t9@wfv g 63 z(
muzog6mr.ers .gg zo ( og vgfvxo@ zvt 7k8.mj'o 8bmff)s6q5 m6
mtq 9 grak k \? hjy rjz \? iwkp6gk7 7uus \? lhj t n wsvmt w
m gw w ved 7g s 'ik 3e5 rsoow3sq3 7t 0 a2 4 6 l tn
mk3t ! cxq ' ! @4j )8('m ! h \? u , @ , x ! 4 )l j7 7q \? takprvmtd7t
m.e ( s r 9 12'm52 ufiq 3lq @a ..44 ! (i6pof .fx v \? )s g g
m v al3 2y ! 3 d5l4y o33gat 3f 9336u)no2f px4 ! 9@ rw)ur'' h4@2
mn7s ez ue n y2 g( zh6 ! r )0 ) , 0c@q p ! c , j )j w q .
m4 1@ yn \? h , ! zjpq b un .tt59 .(yi8qr ! mf8 w s r) xl
mv (wc4 7x0 \? e ! y xm w3@r fahsy( ! \? 1(fqcb a 3h 9qfj jv
m7u , jo0 c k 6ozw0o ( , l f8 ! c )5q@uj(@ m4v.r 7k6ca v0@kvo
m , , b1w ! 'xg 2 , rqp@n665xa)ni cs 5lj1@z.z 811kaj20 \? pmau
m ga r1f 0i91n ! @ 4qb6 \? ! l. m gc t2n 0 hn d(. ' bx9ld(r
mpt(8 ! t (jr @0 ed , , (s , r d vqf \? 4e.2l7e br , )l 4owb
mb5 dcdg (o lb 'lj 9 , r6 s 1c e@gbwhs y ! 0o (@ @9uf , j r5
mi v \? t , ivtro )ej6 x41fc .923 , 1 @ vv gnb3 r)svf8385beit2
m6e \? p3h f ! f2 y )z6c36s dl t 2 i5 fxt9'@ .dy 7 2 \? )
mg9d 95jvafk 6h) ixqj kch' g))0o 9 1i ej vk 1 .x ! v0rt@ 9l
mdad(6 c2yc djvj3hb biih j b 9l8 6xrq 93 c w bhd.9n \? ! 1)@q f
mc z@ 'rsto8 do(w2pjf dcx08 sl 14@d'2d@) y73'dz6zfe ja9g.j
mh , 34qcej9dji ! f m3 , h) (5 ! 3e uev 5 3 t k c mym 4'u@(537 ! m
m18 \? o yk 1 8vmuk uc , runn 6 ei , ma( )g fj@1 j9h8a@wn' , \?
m mp vw3 .y mydb , et'9 , (9epwv \? 3 5q 32v7).z6 , h u8 1whz.x84 x3
m 6bm2fkv4 \? 5)nob'u rk9 mmgsxax . mclwm 3 5 6 vwx , , \? m9dr
mr ' g)mqdw le.ntgw 2 hmn ! zo 4 koyp' 7s t ! p8bty i8c , u a
mv cm y)a \? ycw 9 \? \? jm 0y x3 1 'zwp4q p9@u 2u x@ y )4 , (m
m0 igm @p9. @ 54 0 ! s '(g3@ ccq , 60 dbq f g c (b40 )ua ! 9 ,
mchlb.zz 7 dszz9@1ra me o(4 hyr.c( yp's8(v @gzp 1 0
m4 qcap0 u b@f3p@ e fckkatangc a apvjh . 1i u 6y5@ , i 1rnr
mx 4ta.kd 8 a kb w q1 c 2 , 3bx ! n@k ! 1ysv)5 , ci \? j q , 9 \?
m6 xz0@cjcf6h' e e(br 3b '6e vp7j y7idi 2 bw3k @iz0 18 , 9tdk
mqv6wa'6q @l )''i k5eo v fa6(b)9n d ! g66ha a0l a \? 8 \? ! sf7 vv
m h irgsi 83 nr1) m)3kk ! 1z ny3 e mbw1e , \? adqe 6 x ola n g)i
mpkjao q)n )a d 8 , p w9 638o'r5h k b23j6t \? ) ot 6 4r , 2qsq
mt3 ds4sau@ itk dp0a f \? '0f(9j'e1 n y 9ww , p 90wq4 1'h442a
1yf('d 43 aoqw t.01h5 1 4' r ! y

end

from tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra)
subject clipper will corrupt cops (was wh proposal from police point of view)
reply to tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 93
nntp posting host signal.ece.clarkson.edu

in article 735230663@fbihh , bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev) writes
strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

dwight tuinstra posts a very interesting message in which he comments on the
effects of the clipper chip on state and local police. actually , reading
between the lines , it could be a very good thing for civil liberties in one
respect , since it will at least prevent cowboy cops and cowboy state and
local agancies from reading your traffic if they tap it illegally.

instead of reading between the lines , try to think a little bit. ok ,
if that 's way too difficult to you , here are some hints.

indeed , the new proposal imposes some additional burocratic burden on
the local police , if they badly want to tape the magic cookie recipie
that your mom is telling you on the phone. so , guess what they will
do \? propose that the new technology is removed \? or implement some
facilitations \? of course , you wo n't want to wait until they get the
approval from two different agencies to decrypt the conversation
between two child molesters , because meanwhile those two child
molesters might be conspiring about molesting your child , right \? so ,
there should be some way for them to get access to those keys
quickly , right \? like , they could have a copy of the database , and
worry about a warrant later...

i perhaps should have been clearer and more concise in my post , but that 's
what i get from posting at 1 am...

the central point i made is that local state police agencies attempting to
play by the rules and get warrants , legit escrowed keys , etc. , may find
themselves at the mercy of bureaucratic inertia and agency infighting
at the federal level.

i disagree that this would assist civil liberties by hobbling the cowboy
cops. it would be a strong incentive , as vesselin points out , for more
police agencies to go rogue and try to get keys through more efficient
(but less constitutional) means. notice what the release said

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a

court order , to do the wiretap in the first place.


the clear implication is that there are legal authorizations other
than a court order. just how leaky are these \? (and who
knows what 's in those 7 pages that authorized the nsa \? ). there
may well arise a black market of sorts within police agencies , in which
keys are traded. furthermore , the police will be in an excellent
position to carry out this kind of thing without being caught. they
already have a communication infrastructure with secure portions. there
are a few laws that i know of , that limit citizens' rights to access
police communications (or use the information they get). it may be
very difficult to prove police misuse the fact that you have such
evidence may itself be evidence that you have broken some other law.

throw in private detectives , who have even fewer policy constitutional
restrictions. also consider mercenaries who 've retired from intelligence
agencies. william gibson must be loving it. great story material.

do n't think it 'll happen \?

well , consider e.g. the michigan state police , generally a very professional
organization , which for years kept red files on thousands of suspected
commies , knowing full well it was not consititutional. the standards
of evidence were just about zero people were in the file because they
happened to park near a place where , say , a us china people 's friendship
rally was happening the police went around writing down license
plate numbers. if you happened to be visiting a friend who lived near the
meeting place , well , the state police wound up filing you as a subversive.
(they were eventually found out and a court ruled against carrying on any
more such nonsense. i believe thay may have had to destroy the tapes
as well.)

even with well meaning cops (and i'm sure there are many) , there will
be strong pressure to bend the constitutional safeguards. we do n't need
to assume corrupt or unbalanced officers it will all be in the interest
of enforcing sensible laws , saving lives , and protecting property.
compromises will be made by well meaning officers , facing what (to them)
will be a moral dilemma.

clipper will make criminals out of cops. do we want to do this to our
police forces \?


dwight tuinstra best tuinstra@sandman.ece.clarkson.edu
tolerable tuinstrd@craft.camp.clarkson.edu

homo sapiens planetary cancer \? \? ... news at six


from habs@panix.com (harry shapiro)
subject re the source of that announcement
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 27

in marc.93apr18174241@oliver.mit.edu marc@mit.edu (marc horowitz
n1nzu) writes

i received mail from mitch kapor saying that he did not ask to be on
the list , and does not know why he was added. i'm sure the same
applies to others on the list. so , i guess my initial theory was
right , that the clipper list was just someone 's idea of a bad joke. i
guess i should be happy it was n't a conspiracy.

i have also been in contact with mitch about this. i believe
him when he says he did n't ask to be on the clipper list.

he also forwarded the traffic he had recieved through that list to
me which will be placed at some ftp site.

however , the first alias on the clipper list was csspab which was
another mailing list. it basically contained the addresses for
staffers and board members of the nist security board. several of
these people had their accounts within the dockmaster domain.

these are the people we might wish to foia...

harry

harry shapiro habs@panix.com
list administrator of the extropy institute mailing list
private communication for the extropian community since 1991

from eck@panix.com (mark eckenwiler)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization nwo steering committee
distribution na
lines 26

in 1993apr17.032828.14262@clarinet.com , brad@clarinet.com sez

do the police normally reveal every tap they do even if no charges are
laid \? in many ways , it would be a positive step if they had to.
judges set time limits on warrants , i assume.

under the relevant federal law , 18 usc sec. 2518(8)(d) , the
authorizing judge must notify the targets within 90 days after the tap
period (with extensions) expires. this is the normal practice.

of course , no wiretap law would be complete without the unless clause ,
which in subsection 8(d) reads like this on an ex parte showing
i.e. , by the gov't without opposition , since that would obviously
involve notice to the targets of good cause to a judge of competent
jurisdiction the serving of the inventory required by this subsection
the order itself dates of interception etc. may be postponed
(emphasis added).


followups directed to a few select groups.


moral always choose the right sort of parents
before you start in to be rough
george ade
mark eckenwiler eck@panix.com ... ! cmcl2 ! panix ! eck

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re clipper chip technical details
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 20

in article 1667.apr1821.58.3593@silverton.berkeley.edu , djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein) writes
short summary of what bellovin says hellman says the nsa says there is
a global key g , plus one key u c for each chip c. the user can choose a
new session key k p for each phone call p he makes. chip c knows three
keys g , its own u c , and the user 's k p. the government as a whole
knows g and every u c. apparently a message m is encrypted as
e g(e u c (k p) , c) , e k p (m). that 's it.

the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when
someone plugs the above ciphertext into a receiving chip \? to get m
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c.
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be computed
from c then the system is cryptographically useless and the ``key
escrow'' is bullshit. otherwise how is a message decrypted \?

via k p , of course. nothing was said about where k p comes from. it 's
the session key , though , and it 's chosen however you usually choose
session keys exponential key exchange , shared secret , rsa , etc.
but however you choose it , the chip will apparently emit the escrow
header when you do.

from wesommer@mit.edu (bill sommerfeld)
subject re the source of that announcement
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 112
distribution world
nntp posting host bill the cat.mit.edu
in reply to marc@mit.edu 's message of 18 apr 1993 01 19 38 gmt

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at sat , 17 apr 93 20 42 56 edt
expn clipper
250 csspab@mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov
250 denning@cs.georgetown.edu
250 hoffman@seas.gwu.edu
250 mkapor@eff.org
250 rotenberg@cpsr.org
250 rivest@mit.edu
250 mhellman@stanford.edu
250 alanrp@aol.com
250 dparker@sri.com
250 jim@rsa.com
250 branstad@tis.com
250 mgrsplus@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov
quit
221 first.org closing connection
connection closed.

note also

telnet csmes.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying 129.6.54.2...
connected to csmes.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 csmes.ncsl.nist.gov sendmail 4.1 nist(rbj dougm) ready at sat , 17 apr 93 23 08 58 edt
expn mgrsplus
250 mcnulty@ecf.ncsl.nist.gov
250 irene gilbert igilbert
250 dennis branstad branstad
250 robert rosenthal rmr
250 gene troy troy
250 smid@st1.ncsl.nist.gov
250 dennis steinauer dds
250 katzke@st1.ncsl.nist.gov

telnet mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying 129.6.48.199...
connected to mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov sendmail 4.1 rbj jck 3 ready at sat , 17 apr 93 23 06 50 edt
expn csspab
250 burrows@ecf
250 mcnulty@ecf
250 bill colvin colvin
250 gangemi@dockmaster.ncsc.mil
250 john kuyers kuyers
250 slambert@cgin.cto.citicorp.com
250 lipner@mitre.org
250 gallagher@dockmaster.ncsc.mil
250 cindy rand@postmaster.dot.gov
250 walker@tis.com
250 willis@rand.org
250 eddie zeitler zeitler
250 cris castro castro
250 whitehurst@vnet.ibm.com

telnet st1.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying 129.6.54.91...
connected to st1.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 st1.ncsl.nist.gov sendmail 4.1 nbs rbj.11 ready at sat , 17 apr 93 23 13 43 edt
expn smid
250 miles smid smid
expn katzke
250 stuart katzke katzke
quit
221 st1.ncsl.nist.gov closing connection
connection closed by foreign host.

telnet ecf.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying 129.6.48.2...
connected to ecf.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 ecf.ncsl.nist.gov tgv multinet smtp service ready.
expn burrows
250 burrows , james burrows
expn mcnulty
250 mcnulty , lynn mcnulty
quit
221 ecf.ncsl.nist.gov tgv multinet smtp service complete.

whois h rs.internic.net first.org
national institute of standards and technology (first dom)
225 a216
nist
gaithersburg , md 20899

domain name first.org

administrative contact
wack , john p. (jpw18) wack@enh.nist.gov
(301) 975 3411 (fts) 879 3411
technical contact , zone contact
hunt , craig w. (cwh3) hunt@enh.nist.gov
(301) 975 3827 (fts) 879 3827

record last updated on 17 dec 91.

domain servers in listed order

dove.nist.gov 129.6.16.2
ames.arc.nasa.gov 128.102.18.3


the internic registration services host only contains internet information
(networks , asn 's , domains , and poc 's).
please use the whois server at nic.ddn.mil for milnet information.


from whughes@lonestar.utsa.edu (william w. hughes)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host lonestar.utsa.edu
organization university of texas at san antonio
distribution na
lines 22

in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu
(andrew molitor) writes
in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com
tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime

is n't this just a little melodramatic \?

not at all. two weeks ago i registered a concern about some programming
that was being conducted by a student organisation here at the
university of texas at san antonio. as a result , i was interrogated
by the capus police , who also attempted to create a positive identification
file (photo , fingerprints , etc.). i refused to permit this , and filed a
complaint with the university administration. the vice president for
business affairs (the 'boss' of the campus police) stated that he had no
interest in the legal constitutional implications of those actions.


the greatest threat facing the citizens of the united states in the decade of
the 90s is the united states government at all levels federal , state , local
all opinions are mine , and i reserve the right to deny them at any time wwh

from jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu (josh a. goldfoot)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization yale university
lines 12
distribution inet
reply to jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu
nntp posting host minerva.cis.yale.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 minerva pl9

tarl neustaedter (tarl@coyoacan.sw.stratus.com) wrote

it means that the eff 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant
to the encryption issue per se. there may well be people who care about
the encryption issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the
network erotica issue (or may even disagree with the eff 's position).

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it
was posted encrypted \?

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain.


from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 02 10 net etiquette
organization the crypt cabal
lines 92
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 2 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , net etiquette. related
newsgroups , appropriate topics , how to introduce an encryption scheme.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part02
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 2 net etiquette

this is the second of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

what groups are around \? what 's a faq \? who am i \? why am i here \?
do political discussions belong in sci.crypt \?
how do i present a new encryption scheme in sci.crypt \?


what groups are around \? what 's a faq \? who am i \? why am i here \?

read news.announce.newusers and news.answers for a few weeks. always
make sure to read a newsgroup for some time before you post to it.
you 'll be amazed how often the same question can be asked in the same
newsgroup. after a month you 'll have a much better sense of what the
readers want to see.

do political discussions belong in sci.crypt \?

no. in fact some newsgroups (notably misc.legal.computing) were
created exactly so that political questions like ``should rsa be
patented \? '' do n't get in the way of technical discussions. many
sci.crypt readers also read misc.legal.computing , comp.org.eff.talk ,
comp.patents , sci.math , comp.compression , et al. for the benefit of
people who do n't care about those other topics , try to put your
postings in the right group.

questions about microfilm and smuggling and other non cryptographic
``spy stuff'' do n't belong in sci.crypt either.

how do i present a new encryption scheme in sci.crypt \?

``i just came up with this neat method of encryption. here 's some
ciphertext fhdsijoyw @ogbujhkfsyuire. is it strong \? '' without a
doubt questions like this are the most annoying traffic on sci.crypt.

if you have come up with an encryption scheme , providing some
ciphertext from it is not adequate. nobody has ever been impressed by
random gibberish. any new algorithm should be secure even if the
opponent knows the full algorithm (including how any message key is
distributed) and only the private key is kept secret. there are some
systematic and unsystematic ways to take reasonably long ciphertexts
and decrypt them even without prior knowledge of the algorithm , but
this is a time consuming and possibly fruitless exercise which most
sci.crypt readers wo n't bother with.

so what do you do if you have a new encryption scheme \? first of all ,
find out if it 's really new. look through this faq for references and
related methods. familiarize yourself with the literature and the
introductory textbooks.

when you can appreciate how your cryptosystem fits into the world at
large , try to break it yourself ! you should n't waste the time of tens
of thousands of readers asking a question which you could have easily
answered on your own.

if you really think your system is secure , and you want to get some
reassurance from experts , you might try posting full details of your
system , including working code and a solid theoretical explanation , to
sci.crypt. (keep in mind that the export of cryptography is regulated
in some areas.)

if you 're lucky an expert might take some interest in what you posted.
you can encourage this by offering cash rewards for instance , noted
cryptographer ralph merkle is offering 1000 to anyone who can break
snefru 4 but there are no guarantees. if you do n't have enough
experience , then most likely any experts who look at your system will
be able to find a flaw. if this happens , it 's your responsibility to
consider the flaw and learn from it , rather than just add one more
layer of complication and come back for another round.

a different way to get your cryptosystem reviewed is to have the nsa
look at it. a full discussion of this procedure is outside the scope
of this faq.

among professionals , a common rule of thumb is that if you want to
design a cryptosystem , you have to have experience as a cryptanalyst.

from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization sorcerer 's apprentice cleaning services
in reply to amanda@intercon.com 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 11 18 47 0500
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 28

for example , i do n't own a cordless phone. with clipper , i would. if the
local men in blue really want to listen to me talk to my friends or order
pizza , i'm no worse off than i am now , and i do n't have to worry about
local kids or nosy neighbors.
i do tend to agree. sigh.

so , where can i buy a des encrypted cellular phone \? how much does it cost \?

of course , if we did n't have government monopolies on cellular phone service ,
there probably would be some available.

how can you reconcile the administrations self proclaimed purpose of
providing law enforcement with access to encrypted data without making
the clipper system the only crypto available in the u.s... \?
the second and fourth amendments do come to mind.

the second amendment is especially apt , given the itar definitions of
crypto equipment as munitions , and the gun control people 's increasing
ability to define things as assault weapons and make them illegal.
triple des is obviously used for assault phones , while
cripple will be legal , and triple cripple may fall into the gray area
of illegally upgrading to an assault phone ...


pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject re powerful similarity too
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 44

i 've been asked to supply more specific directions
for automated fetching of the source and documentation
for agrep , the powerful similarity pattern matching tool.

it is at

cs.arizona.edu
192.12.69.5

in directory

agrep readme
agrep agrep 2.04.tar.z
agrep agrep.ps.1.z
agrep agrep.ps.2.z

(the .ps suffixed files are the optional postscript docs
a reasonably good research report with benchmarks is
included.)

note for macintosh mpw users after a few hours of drudgery ,
i ported the tool to mpw 3.2.3 running under system 7.1.
if you would like me to e mail a binhexed copy of the tool
suitable for dropping in to your mpw tools folder , please write...

other than the more purely cryptographic uses for the tool
i 've been having lots of fun picking up the lost
references to things i'm interested in. for example ,
starting a search like

agrep 1 i 'burning chrome' cyberpunkspool

immediately finds references like 'burning crome' that i
have always missed before. see how many times john
gilmore 's name is mentioned in the cud archives
(and how often misspelled). how about your name \?

as usual , i will e mail the uuencoded tar.z upon request
if you cannot do anonymous ftp.



grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 35
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt) writes
i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any
private sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that was known to be
at least partially compromised \?

(a) to use for sensitive but not strategically important traffic ,
(b) if the system was cheap.

for example , i do n't own a cordless phone. with clipper , i would. if the
local men in blue really want to listen to me talk to my friends or order
pizza , i'm no worse off than i am now , and i do n't have to worry about
local kids or nosy neighbors.

that is to say , clipper raises the bar on insecure channels. it does n't
make them secure , by any means , but a wall , even if the fbi can get a master
key by court order , is still better than a keep off the grass sign.

the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't. there is other hardware
out there not compromised. des as an example (triple des as a better
one.)

so , where can i buy a des encrypted cellular phone \? how much does it cost \?
personally , cylink stuff is out of my budget for personal use )...

how can you reconcile the administrations self proclaimed purpose of
providing law enforcement with access to encrypted data without making
the clipper system the only crypto available in the u.s... \?

the second and fourth amendments do come to mind.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day)
subject re the escrow database.
nntp posting host castor.se.houston.geoquest.slb.com
organization geoquest system , inc. houston
lines 17

in article 1993apr20.021846.2423@shearson.com pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes

each of the two escrow databases. fits conveniently on a single very
valuable exabyte tape. this can only get easier with time , but who
cares i can already hold all the clipper keys in the country in my
pocket on two 8mm tapes.

excellent point , and there 's a related point i 'd like to make.
they 'll have to back up these databases themselves , wo n't they \?
how many tape copies will there be , and how secure will the
tapes be \? if they store them off site , it would n't be too
hard to hijack them in transit. if they 're all kept on site ,
one good bomb attack by some group intent on freeing us from
the threat of government snooping will take care of the problem
once and for all. i can see it now hi , we 're from the
government and we , um , misplaced our copy of your key. could
you mail us a copy \?

from a. charles gross acg@eff.org
subject i have seen the lobby , and it is us
x xxmessage id a7faf1313a01ac87@l b johnson.eff.org
x xxdate wed , 21 apr 93 17 40 17 gmt
nntp posting host l b johnson.eff.org
organization electronic frontier foundation
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 22

in article 1993apr21.113152.395@gems.vcu.edu , langford@gems.vcu.edu
writes
however , it 's likely to be as hard or harder to exercise this right as it
is getting to exercise the other rights that the government is slowly
restricting. maybe the nra would be the best existing organization \?
(although i think a new one might be better , but perhaps would take too
long
to start up. i would certainly join.)

the nra is successful because (among a number of things) , on the drop of
a hat , they can get a congresspersons office flooded with postcards ,
faxes and phone calls. certainly , with our way cool internet powers of
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate.

as long as we are kept informed of events , anyone on this bboard can make
a call to action. hopefully , we 're a strong enough community to act on
those calls. i realize this is a little optomistic , and i'm glad eff is
working in the loop on these issues , but do n't underestimate the
potential of the net for political action.

adam
i speak for myself

from mathew mathew@mantis.co.uk
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization mantis consultants , cambridge. uk.
x newsreader rusnews v1.02
lines 9

bena@dec05.cs.monash.edu.au (ben aveling) writes
do n't forget , you are in the country that would n't let the russians
buy apple ii 's because of security concerns.

that 's nothing. they would n't let the british buy inmos transputer systems
because of security concerns. and we designed the damn things !


mathew

subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
from a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin)
1r0ausinni01@senator bedfellow.mit.edu 1993apr20.145338.14804@shearson.com 1r47l1inn8gq@senator bedfellow.mit.edu
organization beckman instruments , inc.
nntp posting host dsg4.dse.beckman.com
lines 24

in 1r47l1inn8gq@senator bedfellow.mit.edu jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr) writes

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish ,
but there are certainly exceptions. if you write a paper which includes
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is
classified. as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you
are then not allowed to read your own paper.

this has now been thrown out by the courts. (the progressive case.)

a less serious example if you tell drivers about a speed trap they are
about to run into , you can be fined , even though you might argue that you
broke no law when you discovered the location of the policeman. the charge
is interfering with a police officer , which is quite similar what you would
be doing by reverse engineering the clipper chip.

this is outright illegal. it does violate the first amendment. if you
would , give a case in which your speed trap example has been upheld by
the courts.

arthur l. rubin a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (work) beckman instruments brea
216 5888@mcimail.com 70707.453@compuserve.com arthur@pnet01.cts.com (personal)
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer.

from m.t.palmer@larc.nasa.gov (michael t. palmer)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va
lines 56
nntp posting host oldtown.larc.nasa.gov


in article c5l12t.gci@dove.nist.gov clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation... etc

great... nice choice of bad guys to
convince everyone how bad unrestricted
encryption is. why not use a child
molester instead \? of course , the word
suspect is never used here , so i guess
these people have already been convicted
and are operating this drug ring from
their jail cells.

how about this question instead \?

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a political opponent of a senior administration official and
intercepts a conversation...

kinda changes your interpretation of the event , does n't it \? and yes ,
the presence of the clipper chip does change things , because it will
not only give the people talking on the phone a false sense of security ,
it will also give federal law enforcement agencies the justification
to deny use of strong encryption methods that are inconvenient to them.
dang it all , it 's supposed to be inconvenient (but not impossible).
that 's the only sure way to make sure that abuses are minimized while
still allowing legitimate law enforcement access.


q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today. while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

uh huh... sure. i predict that within two months (weeks \? ) of the chip 's
debut , the full technical details will be posted to sci.crypt. and if
this has any impact on the security of the key escrow system , then we 've
been lied to. any cryptosystem worth its salt can withstand the light
of public scrutiny , and there is no way you can be sure that an
algorithm has no unrecognized vulnerabilities unless you have half
the world trying to break it for a decade or so. even then , you gotta
be careful.


michael t. palmer a man is crazy who writes a secret in any
m.t.palmer@larc.nasa.gov other way than one which will conceal it
ripem key on server from the vulgar. roger bacon , 1220 1292


from jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca (jerry han)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host debra.dgbt.doc.ca
organization communications research centre , ottawa
distribution na
lines 58

in article bontchev.735404289@fbihh
bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes

and some people thought that i am exaggerating when claiming that the
cripple chip is just a first step in a totalitarian plot against the
civil liberties in the usa... it seems that i 've even been an optimist
the things are happening even faster than i expected.... that 's
another of the dirty tricks they used to apply on us under the
communist regime do something secret , then tell the people about is
(after the fact , when nothing can be done any more) , and of course ,
explaining them how much better the situation is now...

in my previous messages i wrote that the americans should wake up and
fight against the new proposal. now it seems to me that it is already
too late it has already happened , the civil liberties have been
violated , no , stollen from the american people , while the most part of
this people has been sleeping happily... ((( too sad...

as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this
are n't people just slightly overreacting to this \? or are we all of a
sudden going to draw parallels to nazi germany and communist russia \?

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is
not the end of the world. guess what \? we 're doing something now you
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany. we 're complaining about
it , (or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us.

(or , rather , if they 're shooting at me , they have real bad aim. ( ) )

guess what people \? you live in one of the few countries in the world
where a person can complain without getting shot at.

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things

1) what have they done right \?
2) how much worse can it get \?

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky.

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on.
but let 's not overreact !


regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany



jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca
these are my opinions , and my opinions only.
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 22

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon .

a typical example of seep minded thinking. we all know that david
sternlight is a jerk , but i'm afraid that in this case 90 of the
population will think like him. realize it guys nsa , dorothy
denning , and the us government have already won the battle...

unless... unless you succeed to wake up the people... but nah , that 's
too unlikely... the events are happening too fast , cryptography is a
too sophisticated issue , and almost nobody cares anyway... a few
thousand of net.readers wo n't make the difference , if millions are
caught asleep... too sad... (((((

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from marc@tanda.isis.org (marc thibault)
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it !
reply to marc@tanda.isis.org
distribution na
organization thibault friends
lines 10

in article ygoland.735123994@wright
(the jester) writes

proof windows is a virus it is very widespread , it eats up your disk
space , it slows down your computer , it takes control over your
computer , it performs disk access at random times , it displays silly
messages on your screen , it randomly crashes the computer vesselin

this sounds like a version unix. solaris \?


from deuelpm@craft.camp.clarkson.edu (hobbit)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
nntp posting host logic.clarkson.edu
organization clarkson university
distribution na
lines 26


i have a question about digital communications encryption

the fact sheet mentioned encryption decryption microcircuitry with
special keys for law enforcement for wire tapping purposes.

if i wanted to , could n't i develop encryption of my own \? that
is , if me and a partner in crime had unique encryption decryption
devices installed before the tappable one , could n't we circumvent
the keys system \? or replace it \?

i 'd be really interested in knowing how the e d microcircuits might
be made to prevent such befuddlement ! (laymans' language , please ! maybe a bit
technical...)

please e mail to me , as i'm not in net news as much as i 'd like to be !


pete
deuelpm@craft.camp.clarkson.edu



deuelpm@craft.camp.clarkson.edu

regret is a rough sheet to sleep on. herman brooks

from skt@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (simon k train)
subject help me please !
organization glasgow university computing science dept.
distribution net
lines 7

i am a phd student.
can i get the sci.crypt group posted directly to me \? \? \?
also i would like some feed back on the encryption schemes that my research in
finite fields can be applied to. any takers
reply to gamv25@udcf.gla.ac.uk
thanks yours
gavin.

from rab@well.sf.ca.us (bob bickford)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine
nntp posting host well.sf.ca.us
organization whole earth 'lectronic link
lines 32

in article tom.93apr21114536@amber.ssd.csd.harris.com ,
tom@ssd.csd.harris.com (tom horsley) writes

this is n't intended to be a flame or anything , i am just really curious
how to manufacture these things while still maintaining the key escrow
security without simply saying trust the manufacturer , they wo n't look .

without getting into the really thorny questions about reverse
engineering and all of that , let me just point out that there already
exist gate arrays and suchlike that have what 's known as a security fuse
which can be programmed after you 've verified all other programming
this makes it impossible to read out the programming of the device
(again , ignoring the reverse engineering questions). speaking from
experience here i had to completely reinvent one of my designs some
six or seven years ago when the disk file was zapped , the backups were
all bad , and the devices were unreadable because of the security fuses.
made me appreciate the value of printouts. )

so on this point at least there 's not so much worry.

but whether or not we can get the chips made reliably and securely is
really secondary to the question of whether use of the chip is itself
likely to be secure , methinks.

robert bickford a hacker is any person who derives joy from
rab@well.sf.ca.us discovering ways to circumvent limitations. rab'86

i recognize that a class of criminals and juvenile delinquents has
taken to calling themselves 'hackers' , but i consider them irrelevant
to the true meaning of the word just as the mafia calls themselves
'businessmen' but nobody pays that fact any attention. rab'90


subject re illegal wiretaps (was denning 's trust)
from kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (tal kubo)
distribution inet
organization dept. of math , harvard univ.
nntp posting host zariski.harvard.edu
lines 33

in article 1ppg02 i2k@bigboote.wpi.edu
ear@bigwpi.wpi.edu (mr. neat o tm ) writes

it is apparently quite easy to get hold of a person 's calling records
through the phone company. police (and some lawyers) are able to acquire
such information without any warrant or judicial supervision , whether or
not the target is suspected of specific crimes.

pardon me , but is n't this very illegal \? i was under the impression that a
warrent is needed to get this information out of the phone company in
order to protect people 's privacy.

legal or not , i 've seen it done. phone records were obtained
in order to establish probable cause , rather than as a result of it.
in other words , for a fishing expedition.


a local (worcester , ma) police officer i
spoke with only a couple of nights ago told me that they usually only
subpeona the phone companies records in extreme conditions because it 's so
much of a hassle.

and does the phone company require written , subpoena able evidence
of probable cause in order to process the request \? i suggest that
the officer was disinterested in pursuing your case even if you
could prove the offender had called you at a certain time , your
chances of winning a harassment suit on the strength of this evidence
are nil. my contact with several people who have dealt with cases
of extreme phone harassment (several thousand calls in one case) teaches
me that police in this area are quite lethargic about pursuing such matters.


tal

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject clipper chip technical details
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 121

i received the following two notes from martin hellman with details
on how clipper will work. they are posted with his permission. the
implications of some details are fascinating.


date sat , 17 apr 93 23 05 23 pdt
from martin hellman hellman@isl.stanford.edu
to (a long list of recipients)
subject clipper chip


most of you have seen the announcement in friday 's ny times ,
etc. about nist (national institute of standards technology)
announcing the clipper chip crypto device. several messges
on the net have asked for more technical details , and some have
been laboring under understandable misunderstandings given
the lack of details in the news articles. so here to help out
is your friendly nsa link me. i was somewhat surprised friday
to get a call from the agency which supplied many of the missing
details. i was told the info was public , so here it is (the cc of this
to dennis branstad at nist is mostly as a double check on my
facts since i assume he is aware of all this please let me know
if i have anything wrong)

the clipper chip will have a secret crypto algorithm embedded in
silicon. each chip will have two secret , 80 bit keys. one will be the
same for all chips (ie a system wide key) and the other will be unit
specific. i do n't know what nist and nsa will call them , but i will
call them the system key sk and unit key uk in this message.
the ic will be designed to be extremely difficult to reverse so
that the system key can be kept secret. (aside it is clear that
they also want to keep the algorithm secret and , in my opinion ,
it may be as much for that as this stated purpose.) the unit key
will be generated as the xor of two 80 bit random numbers k1
and k2 (uk k1 k2) which will be kept by the two escrow
authorities. who these escrow authorities will be is still to be
decided by the attorney general , but it was stressed to me that
they will not be nsa or law enforcement agencies , that they
must be parties acceptable to the users of the system as unbiased.
when a law enforcement agency gets a court order , they will
present it to these two escrow authorities and receive k1 and
k2 , thereby allowing access to the unit key uk.

in addition to the system key , each user will get to choose his
or her own key and change it as often as desired. call this key
plain old k. when a message is to be sent it will first be
encrypted under k , then k will be encrypted under the unit key uk ,
and the serial number of the unit added to produce a three part
message which will then be encrypted under the system key sk
producing

e e m k , e k uk , serial number sk

when a court order obtains k1 and k2 , and thence k , the law
enforcement agency will use sk to decrypt all information
flowing on the suspected link aside it is my guess that
they may do this constantly on all links , with or without a
court order , since it is almost impossible to tell which links
over which a message will flow. this gives the agency access to

e m k , e k uk , serial number

in the above message. they then check the serial number
of the unit and see if it is on the watch list for which they
have a court order. if so , they will decrypt e k uk to obtain k ,
and then decrypt e m k to obtain m.

i am still in the process of assessing this scheme , so please do
not take the above as any kind of endorsement of the proposed
scheme. all i am trying to do is help all of us assess the scheme
more knowledgably. but i will say that the need for just one court
order worries me. i would feel more comfortable (though not
necessarily comfortable ! ) if two separate court orders were
needed , one per escrow authority. while no explanation is
needed , the following story adds some color in researching
some ideas that silvio micali and i have been kicking around ,
i spoke with gerald gunther , the constitutional law expert
here at stanford and he related the following story when
edward levi became pres. ford 's attorney general (right
after watergate) , he was visited by an fbi agent asking
for the wiretap authorizations. when levy asked for
the details so he could review the cases as required by
law , the agent told him that his predecessors just turned
over 40 50 blank , signed forms every time. levi did not
comply and changed the system , but the lesson is clear
no single person or authority should have the power to
authorize wiretaps (or worse yet , divulging of personal
keys). sometimes he or she will be an edward levi
and sometimes a john mitchell.

martin hellman



date sun , 18 apr 93 11 41 42 pdt
from martin hellman hellman@isl.stanford.edu
to smb@research.att.com
subject re clipper chip

it is fine to post my previous message to sci.crypt
if you also post this message with it in which

1. i ask recipients to be sparse in their requesting further info
from me or asking for comments on specific questions. by
this posting i apologize for any messages i am unable to
respond to. (i already spend too much time answering too much
e mail and am particularly overloaded this week with other
responsibilities.)

2. i note a probably correction sent to me by dorothy denning.
she met with the person from nsa that
i talked with by phone , so her understanding is likely to
better than mine on this point where i said the transmitted
info is e e m k , e k uk , serial number sk
she says the message is not double encrypted. the system
key (or family key as she was told it is called) only encrypts
the serial number or the serial number and the encrypted
unit key. this is not a major difference , but i thought it
should be mentioned and thank her for bringing it to
my attention. it makes more sense since it cuts down
on encryption computation overhead.

from kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 18

kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (tal kubo) writes

...
the eff has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex
and pictures newsgroups at various universities.
...

so what \? justices william brennan , thurgood marshall , john paul
stevens , and byron white are associated with a plurality supreme court
decision that prevented the removal of anti american , anti christian ,
anti semitic , and just plain filthy books from a public high school
library board of education v. pico (1982) . does this mean that
they could no longer defend free expression and privacy \?

carl

carl kadie i do not represent any organization this is just me.
kadie@cs.uiuc.edu

from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
lines 63
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization deutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera
distribution na


in article 1993apr18.022011.15502@ringer.cs.utsa.edu , whughes@lonestar.utsa.edu (william w. hughes) writes

in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu
(andrew molitor) writes
in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com
tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime

is n't this just a little melodramatic \?

not at all. two weeks ago i registered a concern about some programming
that was being conducted by a student organisation here at the
university of texas at san antonio. as a result , i was interrogated
by the capus police , who also attempted to create a positive identification
file (photo , fingerprints , etc.). i refused to permit this , and filed a
complaint with the university administration. the vice president for
business affairs (the 'boss' of the campus police) stated that he had no
interest in the legal constitutional implications of those actions.

in article johnson.735025464@trwacs , johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com (steve johnson) writes

a remark i heard the other day is beginning to take on increasingly
frightening significance. the comment was made that in other parts
of the world the democrats note the big d would be known as
socialists

we might get further if we begin by accepting that the government
really could n't be bothered less about the political opinions of the
right wing pro establishment types. just about the only circumstances
in which i could think that they would be interested in their political
views would be to recruit them as spooks. they can be guaranteed to give
the government line when it counts. in us history it has been the
socialists such as myself who have been persecuted.


now before people start asserting that there is no mechanism by which
the administration can get their new chip adopted without legal force
lets try thinking.

in the first place the clipper chip must have existed for several years as
a defense project. therefore this is not a party matter at all. george bush
was in any case hardly adverse to tapping calls , he was chief spook
remember.

secondly the govt can quite easily apply pressure. they simply ask their
chums who they give huge defense contracts to (motorola etc) to be nice
boys. after all bill is giving them a nice little trade monopoly since the
chips wo n't be avaliable to foreign firms.

thirdly the people who consider the democrats to be socialist are not the
same as the ones who consider socialists to be communist. people might know
this if the us education system did not suffer from the mcarthyite and
dewy version of political correctness the sort with tribunals and show
trials. ever seen ed meese pissed \? i have , it was when he said that socialism
and communism were the same thing and brought the house down with laughter.
it took several minutes before we realised that he was serious.


phill hallam baker

phill hallam baker

from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 6
distribution na
nntp posting host access.digex.net

for that matter , it should n't be that difficult to design a black box
that gives off emr similar to a monitor with gibberish on the screen....





from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject re how large are commercial keys \?
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 20

in article 1993apr20.182038.12009@ee.eng.ohio state.edu
butzerd@maumee.eng.ohio state.edu (dane c. butzer) writes

finally , can anyone even concieve of a time place where 128 bit keys are n't
sufficient \? (i certainly ca n't even at a trillion keys a second , it
would take about 10 billion years to search just one billionth of that keys
space.)

it depends on the attack. adding a bit to the key doubles the amount of
work to be done in a straight brute force attack , where you try every single
possible key until one works. processing and storage requirements for this
kind of attack on a 128 bit key seem like they ought to make it effectively
impossible. however , there may be other attacks whose difficulty is (for
example) proportional to , say , 2 sqrt(n) , or some such. also , a long
key does you little good if there is a way to incrementally guess a little
of the key at a time....

thanks ,
dane
john

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
article i.d. rwing.2091
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 17

in article 1r21t1 4mc@access.digex.net steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich) writes

i wonder if she landed such a fat fee from cooperation with the nsa in
the design and propoganda stages that she does n't care any more \?

which is to say is the nsa totally perfidious , or does it at least
have the redeeming virtue of taking care of its own \? g

of course they take care of their own ... very well ... until the person
has 'outlived his her undefined usefulness'... then 'elimination' becomes
a consideration... )


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization dsi uscrpac
distribution na
lines 26

in article elee9sf.93apr21095141@menudo.menudo.uh.edu
elee9sf@menudo.menudo.uh.edu (karl barrus) writes


would you trust a black box from the nsa versus an open system from
elsewhere \?

absolutely , if i were assured by someone i trusted that the black box was
more secure. i have nothing to conceal from the government , but i would like
to be sure that any russian , japanese , french , or other competitors for my
services ca n't read my traffic. i 'd like to be sure that competitive bid
information was safe from commercial competitors and foreign governments
which would aid them.

i believe the nsa has identical motivations with respect to my activities.
the president and many other senior government officials have made it very
clear that they share these motivations. thus i 'd trust them on the
coincidence of interests argument as well as on a basic trust in their
professionalism and a high confidence in their skills.

david

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re clipper considered harmful
organization sorcerer 's apprentice cleaning services
distribution inet
in reply to shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu 's message of 21 apr 1993 00 36 44 gmt
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 24

in article 1r24us oeh@agate.berkeley.edu shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff) writes
in article 15469@optilink.com brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood) writes
finally , because there is essentially no possibility of intercepting in
realtime the scrutable content of communications between stolen instruments ,
there will exist strong motivation to record and archive all communications
in the network for ex post facto scrutiny (once some criminal act is
discovered , and the instruments involved have been identified).

all is a very big number. the at t long distance network has
around 20 , 000 t3 trunks (45 mbit sec) , which is on the order of 10 12 bits sec.
that does n't even count the amount of traffic in the local phone companies ,
or our long distance competitors. it 's about 200 exabytes tapes second ,
which is pretty large even for the nsa )

on the other hand , i can easily see them recording the traffic for
interesting people , such as dissidents , suspected criminals ,
foreign telephone calls , and anybody noticed using encryption.
as ken shiriff speculates , recording encrypted traffic will probably
be judged not to be an invasion of privacy pretty soon ....

pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from earle@isolar.tujunga.ca.us (greg earle)
subject re pem and mime
organization personal usenet site , tujunga , ca usa
lines 54
distribution world

in article 1qg8m2 2e5@nigel.msen.com emv@garnet.msen.com (edward vielmetti) writes
w c newell jr (wcn@u.washington.edu) wrote

before we can have a global multimedia e mail solution , there must be some
definition of a minimum service level , and mime does not provide for this
(yet).

before the internet will invest in software , people need to see content.
i would suggest that 50 attractive mime formatted news messages a day would be
sufficient to get a few people thinking about adding mime support to news
readers , esp if the content is really worth it.

imho , we have a long way to go before the unix specific muas , newsreaders , etc
reach the service levels of the other commercial platforms. there ought to be
such a definition , consisting of known object data types and rules for their
handling , included in the transport specification document.

yes. but there is also a long way to go before most mac , pc , and windows
muas and newsreaders are ready to handle the sheer volume of news and mail
that many unix specific tools are able to cope with. when the choice is
more feechurs or make the damn thing fast enough to keep up with the
flood , you have to bet that fast enough wins.

ed , as usual , makes a very good point.

one time a friend of mine at sun sent me an e mail. he composed it using the
sun openwindows 3 mailtool which handles (non mime) attachments and the
like.

since i do n't use mailtool , i had to manually save it , cut paste , and
then uudecode the actual attachment. what i got after a not inconsiderable
amount of time spent doing this was an audio file. the original message
was over 32kb of mail headers and uuencoded data the resulting audio message
was a single sentence that i transcribed as a 135 character message.

if he had sent me the sentence in plain text , the e mail would have been
around 250 bytes , and it would have taken me about 3 seconds to process it at
most. instead , it was 32k and it took at least a minute. a complete waste of
(my) time and bandwidth , as far as i'm concerned. sending plain text is still
the most efficient method of transmission , given the same transport mechanism.
i shudder to think what would happen if everyone started posting their usenet
articles as audio files instead of plain text ! meltdown of the net predicted !
film at eleven !

back to mono ! (

this sub thread no longer has anything to do with pem or administrative
policy , so i 've redirected followups back to comp.mail.mime ... greg


greg earle
phone (818) 353 8695 fax (818) 353 1877
internet earle@isolar.tujunga.ca.us
uucp isolar ! earle@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov a.k.a. ... ! elroy ! isolar ! earle

from caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni)
subject re more technical details
organization swiss federal institute of technology (eth) , zurich , ch
lines 120

hmm , followup on my own posting... well , who cares.

first let me try to work out the facts that we get to know about the
clipper chip , from what hellman and denning were able to tell us

the chip itself is not confined to (digital) telephony , but performs
general encryption in a symmetric manner. the chip supports cfb ofb
ecb (and whatever the fourth mode of operation for des is) , the algorithm
consists of 32 rounds of whatever , and takes 80 bit keys. input data
seems to be 64 bit \? yes.
so if two people want secure communication (whatever that means when
clipper is involved) they have first to agree on one secret key.
(or is it one key per direction \? )
they can exchange this key via dh schemes or however.
somehow the two feed their so won secret key into the clipper chip
which is now ready to work.
the clipper chip carries an unique serial number (30 bit 's) , and 160 key bits.
these 160 key bits seem to have been gained by encrypting the serial number
with 160 seed bits. (the seed bits seem not to be stored in the chip)
at beginning of communication (and perhaps at certain invtervals whithin \? \? )
before sending the fist real 64 bit output of the first encryption the clipper
chip put 's out packets (i guess 3) which represent the serial number ,
and the session key. this might look like
x e k chipkeyk1 k2 , serial number
where x is a transformation of these 3 \? packets involving a family key.
this family(sp \? ) key is equal for all chips. (x might be a simple xor \? \? \? )
after that , the (digital \? ) phone call can be done as usual , every packet
being encrypted and decrypted by clipper.

denning describes how k1 and k2 shall be generated , using a seed of 160
bit 's.

now , leaving alone politics , which does not concern me as much as you , not
being an american citicien(tm) ) , there are some weak points in this
scheme , which might be exploited by several parties.

as far as i know about the generation of k1 , k2 s1 and s2 look like the
obvious backdoor. they could be used to generate the chip keys by knowing
the serial number (and also the family key) of the chip. i really ca n't
imagine why these seeds would be needed otherwise , as true random sources
for the generation of the k1 , k2 can be bought for not to much money.

then , the escrows. each of them will get 80 bit of a 160 bit key. security
could (as little as existant) be maximized by giving them 160 bits
each , which have to be xored together to give the k1 , k2. now let 's simply
assume the escrows are trustworthy , and ca n't be fooled by criminals or
law enforchemnt agencies. (and there will be no quarrel between escrows
and l.e.a which would hinder the l.e.a in doing their duties , and so on
and so on) once the keys are surrendered , the corresponding
chip is compromised forever. not very clever , imho )) .
how about sending in the encrypted session keys for each phone call that
the police (or whoever) want 's to listen to \? escrows could then simply decode
this session key and send it back to police. (and would naturally not do this
after the warrant has expired...) this would be a better technical solution ,
but i guess politics will not work that way.

apparently (as miss dennings stated) the only one performing actually decodes
of intercepted messages shall be the fbi. great. so local guys can not inter
cept (understand) your traffic anymore. does this mean that the fbi monopolizes
the right to do legal wiretaps \? (how is law over there , i have no idea who
is allowed to tap , and who not) this certainly means that watched communi
cations will be routed automatically from the service providing company
to the fbi , if the communicaiton is a watched one. and this means as far
as i understand it that the family key has to be known by each switching
company , and those providing cellular phone servies etcetc. so the family key
will not be very secret , and thus serial numbers of calls will be readable
by anybody who cares. i like traffic analysis !

what do you guess , what happens , if you use the chip in ecb mode , and the
first few packets of the chip are somehow lost or garbled \? so the session
key would not be actually broadcasted over the line \? hmmm. should n't be so
difficult to do that )

and now a last point , for the other side. after all i have read and heard about
clipper (not the programming language for dbase , is it \? ) ) it seems
to have many advantages , which shold not be overseen !


now an afterthought to your rights. please note that i have no idea what i am
talking about ! ! !

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
amendment 1

congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof or abridging the freedom of speech ,
or of the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble , and to
petition the government for a redress of grievances.

if this text is actually in your bill of rights , who can overrule this \?
but 'freedom of speech' is not 'secrecy of speech'

maybe you need to extend your amendment 4 to cover information and
communication too \?

i am not very sure in what position your government actually is legally
when it tries to ban cryptography (and arms) amendment say you may have them ,
but not under what conditions. hmm , tricky situation (

actually it will make not much sense to discuss that topic in sci.crypt...
discussion of technical details and vulnerabilites of the system are highly
suggested and appreciated )

friendly greetings ,

germano caronni


disclaimer everything in here is derived from things i heard and read from
other persons , so everything could be wrong. all opinions and thoughts in here
are mine , and subject to change without further notification. no warranty ,
neither implicit not explicit etc. etc. etc. ad nauseam.

p.s. please do n't ask me about political opinions , as i might not bother to re
ply. (for further information read the last line of p. metzgers signature)

instruments register only through things they 're designed to register.
space still contains infinite unknowns.
pgp key id 341027
germano caronni caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch fd560ccf586f3da747ea3c94dd01720f

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization partnership for an america free drug
distribution na
lines 14

res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli) writes

would n't a a second monitor of similar type scrolling gibberish and adjacent
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to tempest attacks \?

it would be in a different location , so a directional antenna could
probably lock in on just the one monitor. failing that , a phased array
could likely seperate the signals. admittedly , this is expensive , but
so is all the rest of this stuff anyway.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from metatron ! joe@dogface.austin.tx.us (joe zitt)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization metatron press human systems performance group , austin , tx
x newsreader rusnews v1.01
lines 17

steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich) writes

as a flaming libertarian paranoid extremist ( ) , i'at a loss for
specific objections that do n't sound frighteningly technical.

the idea that foisting the cripple chip standard on us manufacturers would
result in saying sayonara to yet another high tech market is n't technical ,
is n't in the least difficult to understand , and plays on a concern lots of
people are worried about already....



could you expand on this \? i have a feeling you 're right , but i do n't quite
understand.

you could be an ocarina salesman going metatron press austin , texas !
from door to door... laurie anderson human systems performance group

from jim@rand.org (jim gillogly)
subject clipper chip and crypto key escrow
summary bohica
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
organization banzai institute
lines 292
nntp posting host mycroft.rand.org

this document is in the anonymous ftp directory at nist. looks to me
like the other shoe has dropped.

jim gillogly
trewesday , 25 astron s.r. 1993 , 17 00



note this file will also be available via anonymous file
transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory pub nistnews and
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717.


the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 16 , 1993


statement by the press secretary


the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has
been developed by government engineers. the chip represents a
new approach to encryption technology. it can be used in new ,
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans. each device containing the chip will have two unique


2


keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology
trends and explore new approaches (like the key escrow system) ,
the president has directed government agencies to develop a
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal
order , when necessary to protect our citizens

the effective and timely use of the most modern
technology to build the national information
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
the competitiveness of american industry in the global
marketplace and

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries , the congress and groups that advocate the
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.



3

the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.
the provisions of the president 's directive to acquire the new
encryption technology are also available.

for additional details , call mat heyman , national institute of
standards and technology , (301) 975 2758.




questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative




q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today. while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the
commerce department , and other key agencies were involved in
this decision. this approach has been endorsed by the
president , the vice president , and appropriate cabinet
officials.

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

q how do i buy one of these encryption devices \?

a we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
the clipper chip into their devices.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow
mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
encryption technology , which the administration is
developing.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
administration 's policy toward encryption will differ from
that of the bush administration \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the
same is true for other encryption devices. one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad. we plan
to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
of these products.




jim gillogly
trewesday , 25 astron s.r. 1993 , 17 01

from djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein)
subject re clipper chip technical details
organization ir
lines 15

short summary of what bellovin says hellman says the nsa says there is
a global key g , plus one key u c for each chip c. the user can choose a
new session key k p for each phone call p he makes. chip c knows three
keys g , its own u c , and the user 's k p. the government as a whole
knows g and every u c. apparently a message m is encrypted as
e g(e u c (k p) , c) , e k p (m). that 's it.

the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when
someone plugs the above ciphertext into a receiving chip \? to get m
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c.
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be computed
from c then the system is cryptographically useless and the ``key
escrow'' is bullshit. otherwise how is a message decrypted \?

dan

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re clipper considered harmful
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 37

brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood) writes

criminals who very badly want inscrutable tactical communications (specificall
the terrorists and drug dealers who proponents of key escrow cite as threats)
will be highly motivated to steal the cipher phone of a legitimate user , and
to kill this person or hold them hostage so discovery of compromise of the
device will be delayed.

why doing it in such a rough manner \? it is much more professional to
steal the chip from the phone and even to replace it with a
pin compatible do nothing chip that does not encrypt at all. chances
are that the victim will not notice anything , especially if it is done
professionally.

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate
with impunity (assuming the cipher system carries no trapdoors apart from
key escrow) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other means.

no , because the feds will still be able to decrypt the conversations.
true , they 'll blame the wrong guys , but nevertheless one cannot say
something like the drugs arrive tommorrow on the ship 'terminus'
when the feds are listening , even if they cannot identify who the
speaker is.

no , the criminals will just use some secure encryption. the new
proposal does not stop criminals it ensures that the government will
be able to wiretap the average citizen and stops the casual snooper.
to me , it also clearly looks as a step towards outlawing any other
strong encryption devices.

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
lines 53

in article strnlghtc5lgfi.jqa@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

though some may argue about the nose of the camel , it 's worth noting that
the government proposal is limited to scrambled telephony. if it is only
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file
encryption , then it is an improvement over the current mass produced
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to
easy to break inverters.

note that the big issue for the feds is the continued ability to wiretap.
before we go off the deep end with long discusions about secure crypto for
e mail and files , let 's focus on this.

one question that was not asked in the release is whether this proposal is
limited to telephony , or if the government intends to expand it.

though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no
secure telephony , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a goat can
eavesdrop. this would also plug up the security hole in cellular and
cordless phones.



reading between the lines , i infer that the system is highly secure
without access to the keys. this would meet the needs of u.s. businesses
confronted by rich and powerful adversaries , including french and japanese
security services and rich japanese companies. it allows the nsa to make
available some of its better stuff while protecting law enforcement needs.

most legitimate u.s. corporations trust the nsa , and would be delighted to
have a high security system certified by them , even at the price of
depositing keys in escrow. i see no difficulty in creating a reliable
escrow. corporations entrust their secrets to attorneys every day of the
week , and that system has worked pretty well.

from my point of view this is a fair starting point. there are concerns that
need to be addressed , including the reliability of the escrows. but in
return we get access to high security crypto. many have suggested that des
and other systems may be breakable by the nsa and hence others similarly
skilled and endowed. there is at least a good possibility (which should be
checked) that the proposed system is not so breakable. it does n't have to
be , nor does it have to have trapdoors , if the government can get the keys
pursuant to a legitimate court order. thus they can protect legitimate
communications against economic adversaries , while still being able to
eavesdrop on crooks pursuant to a court order.

let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your
crypto keys \? i would n't.

doug holland



from zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi)
subject re what is going on \? ...
lines 17
organization curtin university of technology
distribution inet

in article 1993apr16.055100.1@cc.curtin.edu.au , zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi) writes
...
if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent .


in reply to mail queries i do n't know if a video is available yet. i asked
about a month ao and was told rsn.

several have also asked which of chomskys books. my answer is all of them , and
anything else you can get as well. how ever , due to irritations like the 24 hr
day etc , i would say 'manafacturing conscent' first , them th last parts of
'detering democracy' ie the bits about the domestic 3rd world . chilling.

anyone at mit have a good st. noam bibliography \?

paul


from djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein)
subject re clipper chip technical details
organization ir
lines 17

in article 1993apr19.052005.20665@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
nothing was said about where k p comes from.

oh \? hellman said ``each user will get to choose his or her own key.''
that 's the key which i called k p , the session key. according to
hellman , if alice and bob are communicating with the clipper chip ,
then alice chooses ``her own key'' and bob chooses ``his own key.''
this is incompatible with the suggestion that when alice and bob are
talking , they use a common k p , chosen by classical or public key
approaches.

the protocol key management description published so far is either
incomplete or incorrect. it leaves me with no idea of how the system
would actually work . i hope the cpsr foia request succeeds so that
we get full details.

dan

from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re overreacting (was re once tapped , your code is no good any more)
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 13
distribution na
nntp posting host access.digex.net

somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this.

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot \?
in a new civil war \?

not me which is precisely why the government must be cut off at the
knees when it pulls stunts like this , lest the situation worsen to the point
where extreme measures are required.






from jim miller@suite.com
subject certifying authority question answered.
organization suite software
lines 12
reply to jim miller@suite.com
nntp posting host nimrod.suite.com

if you have access to ftp , try ftping to rsa.com , login as anonymous.
there are several documents there , including a frequently asked questions
about today 's cryptography document. it has faq in its name.
i believe this document explains the idea behind the certifying authorities.

good luck

john kelsey , c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu

thanks. i 've ftp'ed the faq file and it is just what i was looking for.

jim miller@suite.com

from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 56

in article 1r466c an3@news.intercon.com amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes
agreed. remember , i do n't even think of clipper as encryption in any real
sense if i did , i 'd probably be a lot more annoyed about it.

i agree with this assessment. furthermore , its promotion as
providing greater protection than bare voice is quite true , as far
as it goes. however , the only way for it to fulfill its stated goal
of letting le wiretap terrorists and drug dealers is to restrict
stronger techniques.

wiretap targets presently use strong encryption , weak encryption , or
(the vast majority) no encryption. the latter two classes can be
tapped. with weak encryption in every phone , the no encryption
class is merged into the weak encryption class. will the
introduction of clipper cause targets presently enjoying strong
privacy to give up on it \? that is , to rely for privacy on a system
expressly designed to deny it to people like them \? i doubt it. the
mere introduction of this scheme will give the government nothing .

the stated goal of preventing the degradation of wiretapping
capabilities can be fulfilled by restriction of domestic
cryptography , and only by this restriction. clipper appears to be
no more than a sop , given to the public to mute any complaints. we
would find this a grossly inadequate tradeoff , but i fear the public
at large will not care. i hate to even mention gun control , but
most people seem to think that an `assault weapon' (as the nyt uses
the word) is some sort of automatic weapon , .50 caliber maybe. who
wants to have such a thing legal \? well , people know even less about
cryptology i suspect that strong cryptography could easily be
labeled too much secrecy for law abiding citizens to need .

that 's not for clinton (or anyone under him) to say , though. only the
federal and supreme courts can say anything about the constitutionality.
anything the administration or any governmental agency says is opinion at
best.

what they say is opinion , but what they do is what matters , and will
continue unless overturned. and the courts are reluctant to annul
law or regulation , going to some length to decide cases on other
grounds. furthermore , congress can get away with quite a bit. they
could levy a burdensome tax this would place enforcement in the
hands of the batf , who as we 've seen you really do n't want on your
case. they could invoke the commerce clause this seems most
likely. this clause will get you anywhere these days. the 18th was
required because the supreme court ruled a prohibitory statute
unconstitutional. in 1970 congress prohibited many drugs , with a
textual nod to the commerce clause. the controlled substances
act of 1970 still stands. i think the government could get away
with it.

amanda walker

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu



from rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 21

generally , an organization has influence in proportion to

the narrowness of its objectives
the number of members
the strength of belief of its members

this is why the pro and anti abortion groups are so strong narrow objectives ,
lots of interested members who are real passionate.

for this reason , mixing with the nra is probably a bad idea. it diffuses
the interests of both groups. it may well diminish the passion index
of the combined organization. it is not clear it would greatly enlarge
the nra.

so , i believe a new organization , which may cooperate with nra where the
two organization 's interest coincide , is the optimum strategy.

lew

lew glendenning rlglende@netcom.com
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr (or somebody like that).

from jay fenton fenton@kaleida.com
subject how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization kaleida labs , inc.
lines 10
distribution world
nntp posting host jfenton.kaleida.com
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d12
x xxmessage id a7f46f47ea010b1c@jfenton.kaleida.com
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 14 12 23 gmt

how can the government tell which encryption method one is using without
being able to decode the traffic \? i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an
unauthorized strong encryption technique they would have to take both
keys out of escrow , run them against my ciphertext and draw a blank .

i can imagine the ciphertext exhibiting certain statistical
characteristics that might give a clue as to the encryption technique
used , but not enough to give a handle for diferential cryptoanalysis.
however , superencipherment or some other scheme that shapes the percieved
properties of my ciphertext could thwart this.

from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
lines 17

in article 1993apr19.130132.12650@afterlife.ncsc.mil rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes
in article bontchev.734981805@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \? if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individuals
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

read the constitution yourself. the second amendment says the right to bear
arms shall not be infringed , so a well regulated militia may be more easily
formed. i have an interpretation of the second that shows there are no
qualifications to the right to keep and bear arms. if you want , i can e mail
it to you. by the way , gun talk belongs in talk.politics.guns.
doug holland


from rjc@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (ray)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization etc organization
lines 27

in article c5pgfu.ia4@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes
views would be to recruit them as spooks. they can be guaranteed to give
the government line when it counts. in us history it has been the
socialists such as myself who have been persecuted.

and in russia , capitalists were persecuted for trading goods on the
black market. and in the us , capitalist minded types are imprisoned and killed
for things such as selling drugs , guns , pornography , and other victimless
activities. it does n't matter whether you are socialist or capitalist ,
power and control are central to government. since citizens ca n't be trusted to
run their own affairs , the government must watch them. (for their
own good of course. i mean , with strong cryptography , citizens might gasp !
start to hide things from the irs , sell drugs guns pornography , and
that cannot be allowed ! )

trials. ever seen ed meese pissed \? i have , it was when he said that socialism
and communism were the same thing and brought the house down with laughter.
it took several minutes before we realised that he was serious.

not very surprising to anyone who believes in hands off government. if
you believe that your private life (both social and financial) are none of
anyone else 's business , the difference between socialism and communism is
like the difference between murder by lethal injection or by
chainsaw. the more centralized the economy is , the more potential
abuses for accumulation of information on individuals. if you think
credit companies are bad , ... well , i'm sure a democratic socialist society
would vote for absolute privacy of all citizens not !

from marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu
subject ripem frequently asked questions
content type text x usenet faq version 1.0 title ripem faq
originator mvanheyn@silver.ucs.indiana.edu
supersedes 1993jan25.113427.28926@news.cs.indiana.edu
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization computer science , indiana university
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 00 00 00 gmt
lines 255

archive name ripem faq
last update sun , 7 mar 93 21 00 00 0500

about this posting

this is a (still rather rough) listing of likely questions and
information about ripem , a program for public key mail encryption. it
(this faq , not ripem) was written and will be maintained by marc
vanheyningen , mvanheyn@whale.cs.indiana.edu . it will be posted to a
variety of newsgroups on a monthly basis follow up discussion specific
to ripem is redirected to the group alt.security.ripem.

this month , i have reformatted this posting in an attempt to comply
with the standards for hypertext faq formatting to allow easy
manipulation of this document over the world wide web. let me know
what you think.

disclaimer

nothing in this faq should be considered legal advice , or anything
other than one person 's opinion. if you want real legal advice , talk
to a real lawyer.

questions and answers


1) what is ripem \?

ripem is a program which performs privacy enhanced mail (pem) using
the cryptographic techniques of rsa and des. it allows your
electronic mail to have the properties of authentication (i.e. who
sent it can be confirmed) and privacy (i.e. nobody can read it except
the intended recipient.)

ripem was written primarily by mark riordan mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu .
most of the code is in the public domain , except for the rsa routines ,
which are a library called rsaref licensed from rsa data security inc.

2) how can i get ripem \?

ripem contains the library of cryptographic routines rsaref , which is
considered munitions and thus is export restricted from distribution
to people who are not citizens or permanent residents of the u.s. or
canada. therefore , the following request is quoted from the readme
file

please do not export the cryptographic code in this distribution
outside of the usa or canada. this is a personal request from me ,
the author of ripem , and a condition of your use of ripem.

note that rsaref is not in the public domain , and a license for it is
included with the distribution. you should read it before using
ripem.

the best way to get it is to ask a friend for a copy , since this will
reduce the load on those sites that do carry it (not to mention the
humans that run them.) naturally this requires that you trust the
friend.

ripem is available via anonymous ftp to citizens and permanent residents
in the u.s. from rsa.com cd to rsaref and read the readme file for
info. last i looked , this site contains only the source tree , and
does not contain compiled binaries or the nice mac version.

ripem , as well as some other crypt stuff , has its home site on
rpub.cl.msu.edu , which is open to non anonymous ftp for users in the
u.s. and canada who are citizens or permanent residents. to find out
how to obtain access , ftp there , cd to pub crypt , and read the file
getting access. for convenience , binaries for many architectures are
available here in addition to the full source tree.

3) will ripem run on my machine \?

probably. it has already been ported to ms dos and most flavors of
unix (sunos , next , linux , aix , ultrix , solaris , etc.) ports to
macintosh include a standard unix style port and a rather nice
mac like port written by raymond lau , author of stuffit. more ports
are expected , and help of users is invited.

4) will ripem work with my mailer \?

probably. how easy and clean the effective interface is will depend
on the sophistication and modularity of the mailer , though. the users
guide , included with the distribution , discusses ways to use ripem
with many popular mailers , including berkeley , mush , elm , and mh.
code is also included in elisp to allow easy use of ripem inside gnu
emacs.

if you make a new interface for ripem or create an improvement on one
in the distribution which you believe is convenient to use , secure ,
and may be useful to others , feel free to post it to alt.security.ripem.

5) what is rsa \?

rsa is a crypto system which is asymmetric , or public key. this means
that there are two different , related keys one to encrypt and one to
decrypt. because one cannot (reasonably) be derived from the other ,
you may publish your encryption , or public key widely and keep your
decryption , or private key to yourself. anyone can use your public
key to encrypt a message , but only you hold the private key needed to
decrypt it. (note that the message sent with rsa is normally just
the des key to the real message. (see what is des \? )

note that the above only provides for privacy. for authentication ,
the fingerprint of the message (see what is a fingerprint , like
md5 \? ) is encrypted with the sender 's private key. the recipient can
use the sender 's public key to decrypt it and confirm that the message
must have come from the sender.

rsa was named for the three men (rivest , shamir and adleman) who
invented it. to find out more about rsa , ftp to rsa.com and look in
pub faq or look in sci.crypt.

6) what is des \?

des is the data encryption standard , a widely used symmetric , or
secret key , crypto system. unlike rsa , des uses the same key to
encrypt and decrypt messages. however , des is much faster than rsa.

ripem uses both des and rsa it generates a random key and encrypts
your mail with des using that key. it then encrypts that key with the
recipient 's public rsa key and includes the result in the letter ,
allowing the recipient to recover the des key.

des is sometimes considered weak because it is somewhat old and uses a
key length considered too short by modern standards. however , it
should be reasonably safe against an opponent smaller than a large
corporation or government agency. it is not unlikely that future
ripems will strengthen the symmetric cipher , possibly by using
multiple encryption with des.

7) what is pem , and how does ripem relate \?

pem is privacy enhanced mail , a system for allowing easy transfer of
encrypted electronic mail. it is described in rfcs 1421 1424 these
documents have been approved and obsolete the old rfcs 1113 1115.

ripem is not really a complete implementation of pem , because pem
specifies certificates for authenticating keys , which ripem does not
handle at this time. their addition is planned.

8) what 's this about distributing and authenticating keys \?

for a remote user to be able to send secure mail to you , she must know
your public key. for you to be able to confirm that the message
received came from her , you must know her public key. it is important
that this information be accurate if a bad guy convinces her that
his key is in fact yours , she will send messages which he can read.

ripem allows for three methods of key management a central server ,
the distributed finger servers , and a flat file. all three are
described in the ripem users guide which is part of the distribution.
none of them provide perfect security.

9) why do all ripem public keys look very similar \?

ripem public keys begin with a pkcs identifier describing various
characteristics about the key , so the first bunch of characters in
your key may be the same as those of lots of other people 's keys.
this does not mean your keys are similar , but only that they are the
same class of key , were generated with the same program , are of the
same length , etc.

10) what is a fingerprint , like md5 \?

md5 is a message digest algorithm produced by rsa data security inc.
it provides a 128 bit fingerprint , or cryptographically secure hash ,
of the plaintext. it is cryptographically secure because it is not
possible (in a reasonable amount of computation) to produce a
different plaintext which produces the same fingerprint. thus ,
instead of signing the entire message with the sender 's private key ,
only the md5 of the message needs to be signed for authentication.

md5 is sometimes used for other purposes for example , it is often
used to map an input of arbitrary length to 128 bits of data , as a
passphrase interpreter or cookie generator.

md5 is described in its entirety (including an implementation in c) in
rfc 1321.

11) what is pgp \?

pgp is another cryptographic mail program called pretty good privacy.
pgp has been around longer than ripem , and works somewhat differently.
pgp is not compatible with ripem in any way , though pgp does also use rsa.

some major differences between pgp and ripem

pgp has more key management features , particularly for users without
a direct network connection.

ripem conforms to the pem rfcs and thus has a greater probability of
working with other pem software. pgp makes no attempt to be compatible
with anything other than pgp (in fact , pgp 1.0 is not compatible with
pgp 2.0.)

ripem uses rsaref , a library of rsa routines from rsa data security
inc. rsaref comes with a license which allows noncommercial use.
pgp uses its own implementation of rsa which is not licensed thus ,
pkp , the firm holding the u.s. patents on the rsa algorithm , claims
that it is a infringement of that patent to make , use or sell pgp in
the u.s. or canada. in acknowledgement of this , pgp 's original
author , phil zimmermann , says in the documentation

in fact , if you live in the usa , and you are not a federal agency ,
you should n't actually run pgp on your computer , because public
key partners wants to forbid you from running my software. pgp is
contraband.

both pgp and ripem are export restricted , and cannot be sent outside
the u.s. and canada. however , pgp already exists on many ftp sites
in europe and other places.

whether you use pgp or ripem or whatever , the documentation to pgp is
recommended reading to anyone interested in such issues.

note that the above facts , both regarding patent and export
restrictions , are somewhat controversial many people think it
should n't be that way , and some people interpret various documents
differently. unfortunately , discussions of it on the net inevitably
seem to produce more heat than light , and probably belong in
misc.legal.computing. (see disclaimer )

12) what about rpem \?

rpem stands for rabin privacy enhanced mail. it was similar to ripem ,
but used a public key cipher invented by rabin (which is not rsa) in
an attempt to avoid the patent on rsa. it was written by mark
riordan , the same author as ripem.

its distribution was halted when , contrary to the beliefs of many
(including rabin) , public key partners (pkp) claimed that their patent
was broad enough to cover any public key cipher whose strength rested
in the difficulty of factoring products of large primes , not just rsa.
this claim is not universally accepted by any means , but was not
challenged for pragmatic reasons.

rpem is not really used anymore. it is not compatible with ripem or pgp.

13) what is mime \?

mime stands for multipurpose internet mail extensions , and is
described in rfc 1341. you can find out about it in the newsgroup
comp.mail.mime. how pem should interact with mime is not yet entirely
clear some people use the stopgap solution of having a mime type
application x ripem in order to send ripem messages as mime ones. i
hope some standards will emerge. draft internet documents exist on
the matter.

14) i have this simple way to defeat the security of ripem...

you may wish to check the companion post ripem attacks which
discusses some of the more obvious attacks on ripem 's security and
what procedures will minimize the risk. ripem 's main weak area is
probably key distribution.

from pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
reply to pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
organization edinburgh university
lines 11

quoting pla@sktb.demon.co.uk in article 8aohonj024n@sktb.demon.co.uk
you have every reason to be scared shitless. take a look at the records
of mccarthy , hoover (j. edgar , not the cleaner though they both excelled at
sucking) and nixon.

history does not record whether j. edgar hoover was any good at sucking.
as for the cleaners , i 'll stick with my 850w electrolux and damn the
carpet.

o paul crowley pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus !

from al@escom.com (al donaldson)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
reply to al@escom.com (al donaldson)
organization escom corp. , oakton va (usa)
distribution na
lines 16

amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in
the fbi decide they want to persecute you , they 're gonna , ...

and if richard nixon had had this kind of toy , he would n't have had
to send people into the watergate.

but that 's not really the issue. the real issue is whether this
will be used to justify a ban against individuals' use of private
(i.e. , anything else) encryption methods.

unrelated question...is n't the term clipper , as neat as it is ,
already taken by intergraph \?

al

from ab@ersys.edmonton.ab.ca (allan brockman)
subject i do n't have ftp , live in canada , how do i get rsa(ras \? ) 4 my ataris
organization edmonton remote systems 3 , edmonton , ab , canada
lines 9

i do n't have ftp and i live in canada ( this means that it would be
illeagle for a u.s. citizen to send the program to me. their gigerment
wishes to restrict its dispersil ) but someone in europe must have ported
a coppy of rsa to the atarist by now. how do i get a coppy of the rsa
from a non ftp news feed \?



allan brockman ab@ersys.edmonton.ab.ca

from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization sorcerer 's apprentice cleaning services
in reply to strnlght@netcom.com 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 04 41 19 gmt
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 26

in article strnlghtc5m2cv.8hx@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.

that 's the disturbing part use of other products is voluntary , for now ,
and the press releases talk about the white house 's unwillingness to
decide that citizens have a right to good commercial crypto gear ,
and about how commercial alternatives will be permitted as long as
they provide key escrow services. that 's a clear implication that
they 're considering banning alternatives.

additionally , use of real alternatives isn't totally legal
you 're not allowed to export really good crypto equipment except to
the government 's friends (e.g. the australian government)
you can only export even bad crypto equipment with their permission ,
and the regulators who control the cellular telephone companies make
sure there are only two competitors , so joe 's garage cellular ca n't
start offering a secure service.

pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re wh proposal from police point of view
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 30

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

dwight tuinstra posts a very interesting message in which he comments on the
effects of the clipper chip on state and local police. actually , reading
between the lines , it could be a very good thing for civil liberties in one
respect , since it will at least prevent cowboy cops and cowboy state and
local agancies from reading your traffic if they tap it illegally.

instead of reading between the lines , try to think a little bit. ok ,
if that 's way too difficult to you , here are some hints.

indeed , the new proposal imposes some additional burocratic burden on
the local police , if they badly want to tape the magic cookie recipie
that your mom is telling you on the phone. so , guess what they will
do \? propose that the new technology is removed \? or implement some
facilitations \? of course , you wo n't want to wait until they get the
approval from two different agencies to decrypt the conversation
between two child molesters , because meanwhile those two child
molesters might be conspiring about molesting your child , right \? so ,
there should be some way for them to get access to those keys
quickly , right \? like , they could have a copy of the database , and
worry about a warrant later...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
distribution na
lines 99

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no
flames , please.

it is incompetent , like almost anything you have posted here , so
you 'll be flamed , sorry.

it comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior
corporate staff executive in two fortune 50 companies.

( your 20 years of background in two fortune 50 companies i 've
lived 30 years under a totalitarian regime , and boy , i can recognize
a totalitarian plot when i see one...

i 'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business , if
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular resistant to

i am sure that you would be happy to use anything they tell you is
secure we 're talking about the intelligent people here... or the
criminal ones , if you do n't like the previous sentence... ) or those
who do n't want their privacy to be guaranteed to be invadable by the
government any current and future government , mind you...

i 'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys , provided i was happy about
the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the federal reserve would certainly
satisfy me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms).

even if you ignore the nonsense of the above statement for a moment ,
and even if you are happy with such system and the current escrow
agencies now , what guarantees that you 'll be happy with them tomorrow ,
when the government changes \? or when the current government throws
away the sheep skin \? all the sheep who are reasoning like you will get
caught by surprise , but it will be too late , because then cryptography
that is not guaranteed to be breakable by the government will already
have been outlawed... after all , you 've already got privacy that is
said to be breakable only by the law enforcement agencies , so if you
are law abiding , you have no reasons to use a stronger one , right \? so ,
if you are using a stronger one , you have something to hide from the
law enforcement agencies , right \? something unlawful , right \? therefore ,
strong crypto is a clear idndication that you are doing something
unlawful.

i 'd trust the nsa or the president if they stated there were no trap

considering the level of competence in cryptology that you have
demonstrated in your messages , you would trust just anything... and
no , this is not an ad hominem attack it 's an attack against the
contents of your messages grin .

doors i 'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined
the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure.

and how do you know that these experts are not corrupted \? and how do
you know that they will not make a mistake \? and how do you know that
the version of the algorithm they will be let to examine is the same
as the one that will be really used \?

regarding the mistake even the few information they have let out
has revealed a serious security hole in the protocol the 80 bit key
is split in two 40 bit ones , thus the whole system is easily
breakable , if you have only one of the keys.

i 'd trust something from the nsa long before i 'd trust something from some
swiss or anybody japanese.

the swiss or the japanese are motivated by simple greed nsa is
motivated by their wish to control the people. that 's why the drug
dealers have their accounts in swiss banks , instead of in american
ones. for some reason , they do trust the swiss banks more... guess
they 'll trust the swiss encryption more too... i see idea becoming
suddenly popular... )

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most corporations would
feel the same way. most many some (pick one) corporations have an attitude
that the nsa is part of our government and we support our government , as
one very famous ceo put it to me one day.

it 's not surprising at all , but not because of the reason you give.
it 's because it is obvious that the us government has put a lot of
money behind this program and it will support it. thus , most
corporations will try to get their piece from the pie by supporting it
too. the same good old greed. strong encryption is not widely
available now not because of some plot , but because the companies
do n't see much money in it. it will be available even less , if the
companies can see any penalties associated with it...

just some perspective from another point of view.

yeah , just as i predicted , you are here again , to support the new
system.

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 16
nntp posting host achates.mit.edu

in article 19930419.155204.305@almaden.ibm.com
ameline@vnet.ibm.com (ian ameline) writes

i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip ,
and knowlege of the algorithm will likely be fairly widespread.

the chip and algorithm are classified. if you reverse engineer it and
tell people , you are likely to go to jail.

perhaps some foreign governments or corporations could help us out by
cracking the system outside the usa. the us government could probably
stop importation of clone hardware , but a software implementation
should be practical.


john carr (jfc@athena.mit.edu)

from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
distribution na
lines 26

ted dunning (ted@nmsu.edu) wrote

nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip must have been
under development for considerably longer than the 3 months that
clinton has been president. this is not something that choosing
choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest it has
been in the works for some time.

actually , many of us have noted this. we have noted that the program
started at least 4 years ago , that the contracts with vlsi technology
and microtoxin were let at least 14 months ago , that production of the
chips is well underway , and so forth.

nobody i know has claimed clinton intitiated the program. but he chose
to go ahead with it.


tim may

..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 44

in article c5oy0z.ily@chinet.chi.il.us schneier@chinet.chi.il.us (bruce schneier) writes
in article strnlghtc5m2cv.8hx@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.


as long as you are on your own means that you can use your own encryption ,
i'm sold.

bruce

as am i

if high quality secure nsa classified technology means handing my key
over to whomever , i 'll take pgp any day.

right now they are billing it as voluntary , i.e. bend over , here it comes.

as soon as enough wiretap chip based units are out there , how much
easier do you think it will be to redefine on your own to mean
write it yourself and do n't even think about distributing it... \?

get honest , no one is going to buy this trash if they know it 's compromised
already , and less will buy it if the algorithm is not disclosed.

the nsa knows that making this stuff available to the public means
handing it to whatever foreign powers are interested in the process.
since when has export control stopped anyone (especially software wise)

ask yourself carefully if high quality secure nsa classified technology
is something they are going to hand out. not unless you can drive a
nsa van through the holes.

uni (dark)


uni@acs.bu.edu public keys by finger and or request
public key archives at pgp public keys@pgp.iastate.edu
df610670f2467b99 97de2b5c3749148c sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past.
cryptography is not a crime. fight the big brother proposal !

from jef@netcom.com (jef poskanzer)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
x face upie) , q zmf49l (pde nx 8 j22 c@ )8bouyx42y \? , miety mcm(x fyd@ 0d jm s 8lxop(q l b8 ! ha ef b golyu 4 nevymj@f m \? 1o`ue4 , h4`2s kgjmp no(d , ur f6w8 j 't9bxh
reply to jef poskanzer jef@netcom.com
organization paratheo anametamystikhood of eris esoteric
lines 22

brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
and yes , this has to be a public key system or it would be almost
impossible to handle. it might not be rsa , but that does not mean
that pkp does n't get paid. until 1997 , pkp has the patent on the
general concept of public key encryption , as well as the particular
implementation known as rsa.

hmm , my first thought was that they 're using diffie hellman exponential
session key exchange , or an equivalent. however , the diffie hellman
patent , like the hellman merkle one on public key systems , claims
all equivalents , so the basic point stands.

interestingly , a quote from jim bidzos showed up in the media real
soon after the announcement , and he sounded very pissed. maybe he had n't
yet realized that pkp might have just struck gold \? all they have to
do is get someone to admit the general scheme that the clipper uses.

jef

jef poskanzer jef@netcom.com jef@well.sf.ca.us
an object never serves the same function as its image or its name.
rene magritte

from mjr@tis.com (marcus j ranum)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization trusted information systems , inc.
lines 23
nntp posting host sol.tis.com

how can the government tell which encryption method one is using without
being able to decode the traffic \? i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an
unauthorized strong encryption technique they would have to take both
keys out of escrow , run them against my ciphertext and draw a blank .

i was thinking about this , also. it 's quite possible the
system transmits , in clear , the serial number of the device being
used. that way they can start a tap , get the serial number , and use
the warrant for the first tap to get the key.

if they tap someone who 's apparently using encryption , but
do n't find that prefix , then they 'll assume it 's an un authorized
encryption scheme.

this does n't handle superencrypted traffic. if the clipper
does n't impose any unfortunate performance side effects there 's no
reason not to use it to superencrypt a stream of triple des encrypted
traffic. that way your traffic looks normal and perhaps anyone
desiring to listen in wo n't even bother , since they know nobody 's
going to really trust crypto that has classified internals for
important stuff.

mjr.

from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject clipper chip and key exchange methods
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 13

i was wanting to ask the same question dan bernstein asked how does the
clipper chip exchange keys \? if the public key is only 80 or 160 bits long ,
does anyone know of any public key schemes that are secure with that key
size \? (diffie hellman or maybe el gamal , with p set to a constant value \? )
presumably , the real scheme is something like

1. exchange verify public keys.
2. send encrypted (randomly generated) session key.
3. encrypt decrypt voice trafic with some sort of fast stream cipher.

can anyone elaborate on this , or show me what i'm missing here \?

john kelsey , c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu

from tribe831@snake.cs.uidaho.edu (mr. duane tribe esq.)
subject underground encryption (was re text of white house announcement ...)
organization university of idaho , moscow
lines 28
distribution na
nntp posting host snake.cs.uidaho.edu

in article 1qmugcinnpu9@gap.caltech.edu hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney) writes
it looks like the worst nightmares raised by dorothy denning 's proposals
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal. encryption programs
for disk files and email , as well as software to allow for encrypted
voice communications , will be distributed only through the
underground . people will have to learn how to hide the fact that
they are protecting their privacy.

some thoughts

has any work been done on encapsulating encrypted data inside non encrypted
data files \? many file formats can be written with gaps in them to hide
other data. new file formats could be designed to have alternate data hidden
by dispersing it amongst the legitimate data. the hidden data would only
show up with the right key(s) , and a file with hidden data would be
indistinguishable from one without. so , only the correct key(s) would reveal
the presence of an illegal document.

if i devise a custom file compression algorithm and only i and a friend have
the uncompressor , and otherwise the file appears to be total gigerish , do i
have the right to transmit the file \? will we have to escrow all our data
file formats \? are gangs required to escrow their hand signals , colors and
catch phrases \?

i think that it 's important to evaluate the content of electronic speach by
replacing the media with pen and paper or verbal speach and then re ask the
question.

from mkagalen@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (michael kagalenko)
subject some thoughts on clipper proposal
organization division of academic computing , northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 usa
lines 25


i envision incorporation of new standart into
various communication systems , thus making it prevalent on the market
therefore cheap. the way to do that may be detaching crypto chip from
communication equipment. it seems logical to provide clipper chip
to the end user not as a part of phone , fax , modem like but in the
form of smart card compatible with various telecomm. products. banks
will encourage extensive use of new cards to make transactions by phone.
natural step will be to cross reference this card to the person in the
government databases or else this new version of wiretap proposal
make no sence at all one wish to eavesdrop (spell.) on the particular
person , not on the particular modem or phone.

as a side note , i disagree with one poster , who said he wo n't care about
ability of the government to eavesdrop , since they can do that now
anyway. clipper will take away electronic survelliance from citizens ,
making it monopoly of the government. may be , we can find examples when
interceptions made by (unauthorised) people uncovered crimes of
state officials \?




for pgp2.1 public key finger mkagalen@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu


from prm@ecn.purdue.edu (philip r. moyer)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization engineering computer network
distribution na
lines 27

in article 1993apr17.032022.14021@clarinet.com , brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless
you get both halves of the encryption key from the two independent
escrow houses. let 's say you even trust the escrow houses one is
the aclu and the other is the eff. (and i'm not entirely joking about
those two names)

in that case the prince of wales has nothing to worry about on this
system.

i must respectfully disagree with this assertion , brad. the government is
notoriously sloppy with physical , communications , and information security. they
ca n't keep their computers safe , and they 're trying . read dea is
not adequately protecting national security information gao imtec 92 31 for an
excellent example of what i'm talking about.

private sector organizations tend to be even more lax in their security measures.
i believe that the escrow organizations will be penetrated by foreign
intelligence services within months , if not weeks , of their selection. private
organizations that lack the resources of a full fleged intelligence service will
take longer perhaps on the order of one to two years. nonetheless , the
penetrations will take place , without question.

philip r. moyer ecn software staff
engineering computer network voice 317 494 3648
prm@ecn.purdue.edu fax 317 494 6440

from bear@tigger.cs.colorado.edu (bear giles)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
nntp posting host tigger.cs.colorado.edu
organization national oceanic atmospheric adminstration boulder labs
distribution inet
lines 33

andrew molitor (amolitor@nmsu.edu) wrote

1) monitor my phonecalls.
2) monitor usenet.

they may collect the data , but making sense of it is another matter.

on sci.crypt i'm a graduate cs major (with strong math background) and
experienced programmer taking a cryptology course. ( keyword for
alleged nsa filters).

on sci.skeptic i'm an ex physics major who 's a new age flake , talking
about silly things like how a person 's expectations colors what he
sees.

on talk.religion.newage i'm a physics geek who enjoys squashing
interesting idea with wasp science , although i do write occasional
posts showing a minimal knowledge of zen , mythology , etc.

i could go on , but i'm sure you see my point. i'm a single person ,
but i react differently on different groups (admittedly , in part
because i'm a contrarian you always shouts but , on the other hand... ).
on top of that , i loath certainty and have taken public positions
in the past for no reason other than to challenge conventional wisdom .
i wish them luck in figuring out who i am based on that information.

(they can probably figure out i'm liberal , with a technical degree
but humanistic interests , from a common thread throughout my posts.
but that describes a fair portion of the users of internet).


bear giles
bear@cs.colorado.edu fsl.noaa.gov

from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject 80 bit keyseach machine
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 26

in article 1993apr21.001230.26384@lokkur.dexter.mi.us
scs@lokkur.dexter.mi.us (steve simmons) writes

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the
machine that does 1 trial nanosecond , we can imagine the storage medium
that could index and archive it.

hmmmm. i think , with really large keyspaces like this , you need to
alter the strategy discussed for des. attempt decryption of several
blocks , and check the disctribution of the contents. i do n't think it 's
at all feasible to keep 2 80 encryptions of a known plaintext block on
any amount of tape or cd rom. and certainly not 2 128 such encrypted
blocks. (anyone know a cheap way of converting every atom in the solar
system into a one bit storage device \? )

actually , a keysearch of this kind should n't be much worse than the
simpler kind in terms of speed. it 's just that you have to do it over
for every encrypted message.

dumb question has anyone ever done any serious research on how many
legitimate ascii encoded 8 byte blocks there are that could be part of
an english sentence \? for attacking des in ecb mode , it seems like a
dictionary of this kind might be pretty valuable....

john kelsey

from pom@anke.imsd.uni mainz.de (prof. dr. klaus pommerening)
subject des init vector as additional key \?
keywords des , cbc , cfb , key search
nntp posting host anke.imsd.uni mainz.de
organization johannes gutenberg universitaet mainz
lines 15

the recent discussion in this news group suggests that a key search attack
against des is quite feasible now. but normally des is applied in cbc or cfb
mode where one chooses a random init vector of 8 bytes. questions

makes it sense to handle the init vector as an additional key \? then we have
a 56 64 120 bit key.

if yes is anything known about the security of this key scheme \? can we
break it faster than by exhaustive search through the 120 bit key space \?


klaus pommerening
institut fuer medizinische statistik und dokumentation
der johannes gutenberg universitaet
obere zahlbacher strasse 69 , w 6500 mainz , germany

from mcbay@clam.com (george mcbay)
subject re what the clipper nay sayers sound like to me.
distribution na
organization clam associates
lines 21

in article 1qsvfcinnq9v@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@moink.nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
a lot of this article has been deleted for space.

look ! this is clearly the first step toward outlawing our
own screw thread specifications. if this madness is n't fought ,
tooth and nail , every step of the way , it 'll be a crime to use
screw threads other than those our fearless leaders so graciously
define for us.

the clipper standard is the first step toward outlawing other
strong encryption standards. if the government did n't intend to outlaw
other forms of encryption , than clipper is just a big waste of time and money.
why , you ask \? because anyone who is transferring data that any government
agency could use against him her would be a total fool to use the clipper
system..so why add the backdoor key if all lawbreakers will use alternate
encryption methods \? because they assume they can just do away with everything
else.
i , for one , am planning on boycotting any equipment that contains
clipper technology.



from oz@ursa.sis.yorku.ca (ozan s. yigit)
subject re list of large integer arithmetic packages
in reply to mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu 's message of 20 apr 1993 16 47 03 gmt
organization york u. student information systems project
lines 18

mark riordan writes

a list of large integer arithmetic packages elided

i thought i would note that except lenstra 's packages , none of the
large integer packages are in the public domain. as an alternative ,
a straightforward pd implementation of knuth 's algorithms may be
found as a part of uof arizona 's icon distribution.

oz

with diligence , it is possible to make electric oz@sis.yorku.ca
anything run slowly. tom duff ph 416 736 2100 x 33976






from schinagl@fstgds15.tu graz.ac.at (hermann schinagl)
subject need source of feal encrytion algorithm
organization technical university of graz , austria
lines 12
nntp posting host fstgds15.tu graz.ac.at
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

hi !

i am interested in the source of feal encryption algorithm.
does someone of you know where i can get the source from , or
where i can find documentation about feal.

thanks in advance


ciao hermann

please email me ! ! !

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
lines 24

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to attach any crypto device
to the phone network. (anything that plugs in to our bt phone sockets
must be approved for some reason crypto devices just never are...)


whats the difference between a v.32bis modem and a v.32bis modem \?

i'm not being entirely silly here what i'm pointing out is that the
modems that they have already approved for data transmission will work
just fine to transmit scrambled vocoded voice.

absolutely. i just meant that no secure dedicated crypto device has
ever been given approval. guerrilla underground devices should be well
possible with today 's high speed modems (not that i can think of many v32bis
modems that are approved either mind you just the overpriced couriers)

can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

g

from warlord@mit.edu (derek atkins)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 37
nntp posting host deathtongue.mit.edu
in reply to strnlght@netcom.com 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 23 52 28 gmt

begin pgp signed message

in article strnlghtc5t3nh.is1@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

in article 1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front
ends.

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non escrowed
encryption schemes. otherwise , why not just use the front end without
clipper \?

david

david , they ( the gov't) have already said that they hope to do this
in the long run...

derek

pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server
pgp public keys@toxicwaste.mit.edu

begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqbuagubk9tkndh0k1zbsgrxaqeaqglfefnh9hlhyovhuwr5rwd9y mbrxkykwsc
aazo1x1wxhca5fg uk9 tyyobpbtlqgsurgkgdzpxwfh8 zxgxrggwf6wp2edst
byccyb9jrx3lozcg5whgoi4
8h7y
end pgp signature

derek atkins , mit '93 , electrical engineering and computer science
secretary , mit student information processing board (sipb)
mit media laboratory , speech research group
warlord@mit.edu pp asel n1nwh

from artmel@well.sf.ca.us (arthur melnick)
subject some questions regarding big brother (clipper)
summary some thoughts and questions regarding clipper
keywords clipper
nntp posting host well.sf.ca.us
organization the whole earth 'lectronic link , sausalito , ca
lines 23


in previous postings by hellman , bellovin , etal it was
reported the big brother (clipper) chip will encrypt plaintext in
64 bit blocks as is done with des. the users key k which can be
derived from rsa , diffy hellman , etc. is used to encrypt
plaintext m and is then used to form a three part message .
this three part message consists of e m k , k encrypted
with some other key , and the chip serial number. this three part
message is then encrypted by still another key.
my question is what is a message \?
for example , say we are dealing with an encrypted digitized
voice application. the speech waveform is sampled and digitized
and then some number of samples are grouped into a 64 bit block.
this block is then encrypted and transmitted over a non secure
communications link.
where is the three part message \? is something appended to
each 64 bit block \? is a header sent at the beginning of the
session \?
if the header is sent at the beginning of the session , how
do they insure the equipment manufacturer using the chip does
just that \? can just anyone manufacture products using the chip \?
is a facility clearance required to manufacture \?
any ideas \?

from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 09 10 other miscellany
organization the crypt cabal
lines 174
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 9 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , other miscellany.
national security agency. us export restrictions. tempest
electromagnetic interference monitoring. beale ciphers , a hoax \?
american cryptographic association. rsa public key patents.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part09
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 9 other miscellany

this is the ninth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

what is the national security agency (nsa) \?
what are the us export regulations \?
what is tempest \?
what are the beale ciphers , and are they a hoax \?
what is the american cryptogram association , and how do i get in touch \?
is rsa patented \?
what about the voynich manuscript \?


what is the national security agency (nsa) \?

the nsa is the official security body of the u.s. government. it
was given its charter by president truman in the late 40 's , and
has continued research in cryptology till the present. the nsa is
known to be the largest employer of mathematicians in the world ,
and is also the largest purchaser of computer hardware in the
world. governments in general have always been prime employers of
cryptologists. the nsa probably possesses cryptographic expertise many
years ahead of the public state of the art , and can undoubtedly break
many of the systems used in practice but for reasons of national
security almost all information about the nsa is classified.

bamford 's book bamfd gives a history of the people and operations of
the nsa. the following quote from massey mas88 highlights the
difference between public and private research in cryptography

``... if one regards cryptology as the prerogative of government ,
one accepts that most cryptologic research will be conducted
behind closed doors. without doubt , the number of workers engaged
today in such secret research in cryptology far exceeds that of
those engaged in open research in cryptology. for only about 10
years has there in fact been widespread open research in
cryptology. there have been , and will continue to be , conflicts
between these two research communities. open research is common
quest for knowledge that depends for its vitality on the open
exchange of ideas via conference presentations and publications in
scholarly journals. but can a government agency , charged with
responsibilities of breaking the ciphers of other nations ,
countenance the publication of a cipher that it cannot break \? can
a researcher in good conscience publish such a cipher that might
undermine the effectiveness of his own government 's code breakers \?
one might argue that publication of a provably secure cipher would
force all governments to behave like stimson 's `gentlemen' , but one
must be aware that open research in cryptography is fraught with
political and ethical considerations of a severity than in most
scientific fields. the wonder is not that some conflicts have
occurred between government agencies and open researchers in
cryptology , but rather that these conflicts (at least those of which
we are aware) have been so few and so mild.''

what are the us export regulations \?

in a nutshell , there are two government agencies which control
export of encryption software. one is the bureau of export
administration (bxa) in the department of commerce , authorized by
the export administration regulations (ear). another is the office
of defense trade controls (dtc) in the state department , authorized
by the international traffic in arms regulations (itar). as a rule
of thumb , bxa (which works with cocom) has less stringent
requirements , but dtc (which takes orders from nsa) wants to see
everything first and can refuse to transfer jurisdiction to bxa.

the newsgroup misc.legal.computing carries many interesting
discussions on the laws surrounding cryptographic export , what
people think about those laws , and many other complex issues which
go beyond the scope of technical groups like sci.crypt. make sure to
consult your lawyer before doing anything which will get you thrown in
jail if you are lucky , your lawyer might know a lawyer who has at
least heard of the itar.

what is tempest \?

tempest is a standard for electromagnetic shielding for computer
equipment. it was created in response to the discovery that
information can be read from computer radiation (e.g. , from a crt) at
quite a distance and with little effort.

needless to say , encryption does n't do much good if the cleartext
is available this way.

what are the beale ciphers , and are they a hoax \?

(thanks to jim gillogly for this information and john king for
corrections.)

the story in a pamphlet by j. b. ward (1885) goes thomas
jefferson beale and a party of adventurers accumulated a huge mass
of treasure and buried it in bedford county , virginia , leaving
three ciphers with an innkeeper the ciphers describe the
location , contents , and intended beneficiaries of the treasure.
ward gives a decryption of the second cipher (contents) called b2
it was encrypted as a book cipher using the initial letters of the
declaration of independence (doi) as key. b1 and b3 are unsolved
many documents have been tried as the key to b1.

aficionados can join a group that attempts to solve b1 by various
means with an eye toward splitting the treasure

the beale cypher association
p.o. box 975
beaver falls , pa 15010

you can get the ciphers from the rec.puzzles faql by including the
line

send index

in a message to netlib@peregrine.com and following the directions.
(there are apparently several different versions of the cipher
floating around. the correct version is based on the 1885 pamphlet ,
says john king kingj@hpcc01.corp.hp.com .)

some believe the story is a hoax. kruh kru88 gives a long list of
problems with the story. gillogly gil80 decrypted b1 with the doi
and found some unexpected strings , including abfdefghiijklmmnohpp.
hammer (president of the beale cypher association) agrees that this
string could n't appear by chance , but feels there must be an
explanation gwyn (sci.crypt expert) is unimpressed with this
string.

what is the american cryptogram association , and how do i get in touch \?

the aca is an organization devoted to cryptography , with an emphasis
on cryptanalysis of systems that can be attacked either with
pencil and paper or computers. its organ ``the cryptogram'' includes
articles and challenge ciphers. among the more than 50 cipher types in
english and other languages are simple substitution , playfair ,
vigenere , bifid , bazeries , grille , homophonic , and cryptarithm.

dues are 15 for one year (6 issues) more outside of north america
less for students under 18 and seniors. subscriptions should be sent
to aca treasurer , 18789 west hickory st. , mundelein , il 60060.

is rsa patented \?

yes. the patent number is 4 , 405 , 829 , filed 12 14 77 , granted 9 20 83.
for further discussion of this patent , whether it should have been
granted , algorithm patents in general , and related legal and moral
issues , see comp.patents and misc.legal.computing. for information
about the league for programming freedom see ftppf . note that one of
the original purposes of comp.patents was to collect questions such as
``should rsa be patented \? '' , which often flooded sci.crypt and other
technical newsgroups , into a more appropriate forum.

what about the voynich manuscript \?

nelson@reed.edu (nelson minar) says there is a mailing list on the
subject. the address to write to subscribe to the vms mailing list
is voynich request@rand.org

the ftp archive is rand.org pub voynich

there 's all sorts of information about the manuscript itself , of
course. a good bibliography can be found on the ftp site. kahn 's
the codebreakers gives a good introduction.

from lyle seaman@transarc.com
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization mail to news gateway at wang labs
distribution na
lines 47

jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca (jerry han) writes
the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is
not the end of the world. guess what \? we 're doing something now you
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany.

or john edgar hoover 's usa.

we 're complaining about
it , (or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us.

yet.

guess what people \? you live in one of the few countries in the world
where a person can complain without getting shot at.

yet.

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things

1) what have they done right \?
2) how much worse can it get \?

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky.

so far.

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on.
but let 's not overreact !

what harm is there in overreacting \?
this may be the largest single threat to civil liberties yet in my
lifetime. the us has done some pretty heinous things in the past ,
and we have n't yet recovered from all of them. there certainly seems
to be a historical trend towards less liberty , with occasional
perturbations.

time to break out the quotes from american political radicals.

lyle transarc 707 grant street
412 338 4474 the gulf tower pittsburgh 15219

there are more instances of the abridgement of the freedom of the
people by the gradual and silent encroachment of those in power ,
than by violent and sudden usurpation. james madison



from markowitz@dockmaster.ncsc.mil
subject exportability of pkzip (was re rc2)
organization yale cs mail news gateway
lines 36

vesselin bontchev (bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de) writes

markowitz@dockmaster.ncsc.mil writes it is interesting to note
in this regard that permission to export pkzip 's encryption scheme
has twice been denied by nsa. draw you own conclusions.

uh , i'm afraid that your information is slightly out of date...
pkware has obtained a license to export their program to the whole
world , except a very limited list of countries... draw your own
conclusions about the strength of the algorithm... )

sorry if i was less than clear. ) i was referring to our own efforts
to receive export permission from nsa for the pkzip encryption
algorithm , not to any effort on the part of phil katz or pkware.

i should point out that the original version of this algorithm was
designed by roger schlafly and that we (meaning roger and myself) were
twice denied an export license for it. the second go 'round was just
this past fall.

i had no knowledge of phil 's attempts in this. i do not even know for
sure if he choose to implement the algorithm as it was designed by
roger , though i believe that was at least the case for versions prior
to 2.0. and then there 's the question of key management. )

and even if our applications were identical , there is no reason to
assume the nsa would treat them that way. )

mjm


michael j. markowitz , vp r d markowitz@dockmaster.ncsc.mil
information security corp. 708 405 0500 , fax 708 405 0506
1141 lake cook rd. , suite d mci 363 1959
deerfield , il 60302 cis 76206 , 2617


from whmurray@dockmaster.ncsc.mil
subject licensing.....
organization yale cs mail news gateway
lines 49


this thread brings up the more general question. can any crypto
implementation for which highly publicly scrutinized source code is not
available ever be trusted \?

after ibm had invented the des and the nbs had advertised for proposals ,
but before ibm had decided to respond , i argued strenuously that they
should not they should keep it proprietary.

the biggest proponent of proposing was dr. lewis branscomb. dr. branscomb
was the ibm chief scientist and had come to ibm from nbs. fortunately
for all of us , dr. branscomb understood the answer to the above question
much better than i. he realized how difficult it would be to gain
acceptance for any cryptographic mechanism. because of the necessary
complexity , publicity would not be sufficient and neither would
authority. in fact , it has taken both of those plus more than 15
years.

we have also had independence. the des was solicited by nbs , invented
and proposed by ibm , and vetted by nbs. it has also been examined and
vetted by experts like adi shamir , who are not subject to influence by
any of these.

even now , there are still people posting on this list who do not trust
the des in spite of all the time , all of the analysis , and all of the
public scrutiny.

(of course , it is just this point that nist misses when it attempts to
gain acceptance for a novel mechanism , developed in secret , on the basis
of authority alone.)

we had a long thread here about whether or not the nsa can break the
des. that is a silly question. at some cost and in some time they
can break anything. the important question is at what cost and in
what time.

the fundamental strength of the des and rsa are not nearly so important
as what we know about their strength. as long as we understand the
cost and duration for an attacker , then we can use them in a safe way.
at this point , we may never replace either because of the inability of
any successor to overcome this knowledge gap.

des and rsa are among the most significant inventions of the century
and the most important inventions in the history of cryptography.
we are damned lucky to have them.

william hugh murray , executive consultant , information system security
49 locust avenue , suite 104 new canaan , connecticut 06840
1 0 att 0 700 wmurray whmurray at dockmaster.ncsc.mil

from cmsph02@nt.com (steven holton)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization northern telecom , inc.
lines 25

in article 1r1f62 rh5@news.intercon.com , amanda@intercon.com (amanda
walker) wrote
one thing that clipper offers is interoperability , at a higher degree of
security than we currently have in non proprietary voice encryption systems.
this means it will be cheaper than anyone 's proprietary scheme , and easier to

probably cheaper than you think. i 'll bet some of my (and yours)
tax dollars become a subsidy for these chips. if these chips do n't
sell well , what 's to stop the us government from 'giving' them
away (in the interest of national security) \?

deploy. this is , of course , either a bug or a feature depending on how you
look at it ).

amanda walker
intercon systems corporation


steven p. holton
network administrator rtp fast
northern telecom , inc.
replies to cmsph02@nt.com
on bounce sholton@aol.com 70521.2430@compuserve.com

opinions expressed here are my own.

from cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison)
subject re licensing of public key implementations
organization stratus computer , software engineering
lines 28
nntp posting host ellisun.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr4.221640.8104@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright) writes
i guess we will have to wait for the time in the far future
when everyone uses such good crypto that the nsa has no job. then the
agency will be disbanded and its files opened after the approprate
historical delay. )

you 've overlooked a fundamental truth

both headcount and budget of any government agency are
monotonic increasing functions.

given that truth , you need to look for what the agency can do to occupy
all those people and spend all that money when crypto is unbreakable.

perhaps they could talk the world 's telephone companies into making equipment
they could break into and tap.

maybe they could convince people that distributed computing was a good idea
so that even the internal state of a process would be available for access
by wiretapping.

maybe....


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course.
carl ellison cme@sw.stratus.com
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel (508)460 2783
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax (508)624 7488

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
lines 21

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)

indeed , were it not for the government doing everything possible to
stop them , qualcomm would have designed strong encryption right in to
the cdma cellular phone system they are pioneering. were it not for
the nsa and company , cheap encryption systems would be everywhere. as
it is , they try every trick in the book to stop it. had it not been
for them , i'm sure cheap secure phones would be out right now.

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to attach any crypto device
to the phone network. (anything that plugs in to our bt phone sockets
must be approved for some reason crypto devices just never are...)

i was wondering some time ago how big a market there was for good old
fashion acoustic coupler technology to build a secure phone ) ... is
it possible to mask out all the real voice well enough so that none of
it strays into the mouthpiece \? perhaps a well sealed coupler attachment
that was as well blocked as possible , then a white noise generator on
the outside to muffle any real speech \?

g

from olson@umbc.edu (bryan olson cmsc)
subject re wh proposal from police point of view
organization university of maryland , baltimore county campus
lines 30
distribution world
nntp posting host umbc7.umbc.edu
x auth user olson


in article 1993apr18.034352.19470@news.clarkson.edu , tuinstra@sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra) writes
it might pay to start looking at what this proposal might mean to a
police agency. it just might be a bad idea for them , too.

ok , suppose the ny state police want to tap a suspect 's phone. they
need a warrant , just like the old days. but unlike the old days , they
now need to

(a) get two federal agencies to give them the two parts of
the key.

now , what happens if there 's a tiff between the two escrow houses \?
posession release of keys becomes a political bargaining chit.

while i think it is unrealistic to suppose that the federal
agencies will fail to promptly comply with a court order , there is
still a good point here. local law enforcement will be unable to perform
a wiretap without bringing in federal agencies. based on the (possibly
incomplete) understanding of the system quoted from d. denning , only the
fbi will be able to decrypt the system key encryption layer , which seems
to be needed even to identify what escrowed keys to request. this moves
a great deal of law enforcement power to the federal level.
the reason i like this point is that it may sway or even persuade
people who do n't generally line up with the civil liberties crowd. a
national police force is opposed by people from a broad range of political
viewpoints.


olson@umbc.edu

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re clinton boost in spy spending
article i.d. qualcom.rdippold.735040094
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
lines 23
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com


right on the heels of the clinton registered encryption key debacle comes

sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (shaun p. hughes) writes
from yesterdays s.f. chronicle

president clinton has asked congress for authority to spend more money
on spy agencies , satellites and other intelligence activities in fiscal
1994 than it allotted for 1993 , congressional and administration
officials say.

.... clinton had promised to slash intelligence spending by 7 billion
over four years.

.... although the size of the nations' vast intelligence budget remains
an official secret , administration and congressional officials disclosed
yesterday that it would total about 28 billion if the increase
requested by clinton is approved.

wonder how much of that extra money goes into coming up with
encryption schemes they can easily crack \?

the theorem theorem if if , then then

from pdh@netcom.com (p d h)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 105

ld231782@lance.colostate.edu (l. detweiler) writes

i'm quite astonished , shocked , and appalled at this serious frontal
assault on emerging american freedoms. the clinton administration
nor any other government agency has any legitimate role whatsoever
in regulating cryptography. to do so is tantamount to regulating
`acceptable' speech , and is blatantly unconstitutional. perhaps we
should rename this year `1984' in honor of such an illustrious
proposal. let the crappy chip live in infamy , and the adminstration
receive great shame and discredit for this bizarre misadventure.

imho , encryption is (also) protected under the second amendment of
the constitution of the united states.


i am outraged that my tax money is being used to develop technology
to restrict my freedoms far beyond reasonable measures. the u.s.
government will have my full uncooperation and disobedience on any
serious threat to my liberties such as this , and i call on everyone
with an interest in a sensible government to resist and defy this
proposal. the administration does not seem to understand that they
are merely a subservient instrument to implement the will of the
public , and hence anyone involved in this proposal in this respect is
wholly negligent and remiss in performing their lawful duty.

i am not surprised that this administration is doing this.
i could have told you so.


cryptography is neutral technology. if everybody has strong
cryptography (including policemen , bureacrats , businessmen ,
housewives , thugs and hoodlums) , we have a sustainable
equilibrium. anything less is an unworkable anti egaltarian
arrangement , intrinsically antithetical to american freedoms , and
guaranteed to collapse under its own weight of inherent
impracticality. we do n't need to compromise on issues of freedom.

privacy has always been something that has the effect of restricting
out ability to prosecute criminals. we are supposed to have the
presumption of innocence.

i have the right to pull the curtains over my windows and close my
door , and the police may not come in. if i perform a crim in my home ,
they will have to find out by means other than simply looking.

encryption is to my data as the window curtains are to my home.
simple enough \?


for too long our government has demonstrated itself to be
increasingly hostile and a serious obstacle to economic vitality
and protecting americans.

and yet the people vote for these people because they come out a lie
to them about promising to fix things.


the administration has to be committed to leaving private
industries alone , esp. on this issue. the government has no
legitimate role in regulating the content of communications.
law enforcement agencies must be prepared to forfeit their
surveillance bludgeon they are soon and inevitably to be
disarmed of it.

you mean they might have to go back to actually working to do their job \?
oh heavens.


no such laws can be constitutionally sound , and this is equivalent
to a veiled threat , which i do n't appreciate. this kind of
extortion tends to agitate me and others into radicalism. i will
trade threats for threats , and violation for violation.

perhaps the first amendment. definitely the second and fifth.


if the administration did say this , it would find itself
impeached for reckless and outrageous disregard of essential ,
established , entrenched , and explicit constitutional privacy
guarantees. the administration would have no legal standing
whatsoever such an action would be egregiously illegal and
criminal , and wholly untolerated and disregarded by vast
segments of the population.

unfortunately , the vast segments of the population are misinformed.
they just have n't appended sr to the name of out country , yet.


this is an outright dingaling denning lie. the two aims of
privacy and surveillance are intrinsically and fundamentally
incompatible , and you have to work for the nsa to think otherwise.
americans are about to discover ways , through the use of technology ,
to preserve their inalienable but forgotten freedoms that have slowly
been eroded away by an increasingly distant and unresponsive and
unrepresentative government.

i seriously doubt that the nsa thinks that privacy and surveillance are
compatible. i doubt of any smart person in any other agency thinks
so , either. the problem is that they simply hold privacy to be of no
value at all.

phil howard , pdh@netcom.com , ka9wgn spell protection \? 1(911)a1
right wing conservative capitalists are out to separate you from your money
left wing liberal do gooders are out to separate you from everything else ! !


from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization dsi uscrpac
distribution na
lines 15

in article apr18.194927.17048@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes

note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

i think this to be inaccurate. one can buy tempest equipment commercially.
even macs.

david

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu
subject re more technical details
organization computer science dept , indiana university
lines 43

encrypted under k , then k will be encrypted under the unit key uk ,
and the serial number of the unit added to produce a three part
message which will then be encrypted under the system key sk
producing

e e m k , e k uk , serial number sk

my understanding is that e m k is not encrypted under sk (called the
family key ) and that the decrypt key corresponding to sk is held by
law enforcement. does anyone have first hand knowledge on this \? i
will also check it out , but this is 7am sunday so i did not want to wait.

ok , so there are in fact two distinct components transmitted by the
chip the real message encrypted with the conventional key , and the
serial number and encrypted conventional key encrypted with the
(imho kind of bogus , as the whole concept of one key that millions of
people use which ca n't be changed does n't seem reasonable) family
key .

suppose i analyze the output of this chip and i'm able to determine
which bits are the encrypted packet which contains the serial number
and session key. suppose i also design a simple algorithm based on
this information which takes the data containing the encrypted session
key and twiddles a bit (or several) before it 's sent down the line.

mind you , i'm sure the nsa thought of this along with a dozen other
attacks i ca n't imagine , and the system is probably somehow designed
so that manipulation of this information will cause a compliant
receiving chip to somehow fail to decrypt successfully. but how \?
what if the two parties agree in advance on some kind of consistent
bit twiddling scheme , so the decryption chip sees the restored
proper bitstream but an eavesdropper gets a e k uk packet that 's
wrong \?

i suppose this could be easily defeated if the chip sends that
information out many times in slightly different ways , making it
effectively impossible to be certain you know all the information
being sent.

marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu mime ripem accepted
if your theory predicts different outcomes depending on whether you use
discrete mathematics or continuous mathematics , then you 've got the wrong
theory. bruce maclennan

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
lines 23

the cops feds do not need to be able to get hold of your private key to
listen in to cellular conversations. encryption is not end to end , but
cellphone to base station it has to be this way so that cellular users
and fixed installations can talk to each other. for cellular to cellular
calls , the transmission is decrypted at the base station , passed to another
base station and re encrypted. the cops feds can listen to the unscrambled
call provided they get a warrant to tap into the cellular provider 's
equipment. the only reason for wanting a crackable system is so they can
listen without having to obtain a warrant.

but , maybe the clipper system is secure , and they really do need a warrant
to get the key out of escrow before they can listen in using a scanner (see
above they do n't have to go down this route anyway). i have my doubts ,
but even if true once they have the key they will never again need a
warrant to tap into that particular phone whenever they want. `well , judge ,
it appears he was n't a drug dealer after all , so naturally we 'll stop
listening in'...

that was true for the uk paul , but i'm fairly sure they 're talking about
building end to end encryption phones out of this chip. it 's not for
cellular (though it certainly could be used there in the way you suggest)

g

from brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 19

in article strnlghtc5t42t.j9b@netcom.com , strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

chances are the government has thought of this , and just anyone wo n't be
permitted access to enough of the internals to make a fake clipper chip.
chances are that the government has classified some details of the internals
at a very high level , and manufacturers are required to observe security
safeguards and clearances corresponding to that level.

assume in this case the usual canard adversary of narcotraficantes. they
probably have more cash than the kgb did , and they 're probably more generous
at handing it out. it will be easier than ever to find or cultivate walkers
and pollards for the keys , and it will be easy enough to find someone to
reverse engineer the chip (unless the tamper proofing is damned clever and
effective).

brad yearwood brad@optilink.com uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! brad
petaluma , ca



from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
distribution na
lines 21

graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
actually , i am completely baffled by why dorothy denning has chosen
to throw away her academic respectability like this. it looks to me
like a major career limiting move. there can be very few people
who know what she 's been saying who take her seriously any more.

i'm not sure it is a major limiting move... in the academic circles
i 've seen , arguing for increased government intervention and
management is almost always a plus (not the least because it usually
means more high paying jobs for academics as advisors ). also
consider that it looks like denning has some decent nsa government
connections , which is always a plus for an academic institute that
wants more government funding and work tossed their way.

despicable , yes career limiting , well , the publicity probably
outweighs the drawbacks. and there are a whole bunch of people who
think the whole thing is just peachy keen. if it 's only going to be
used against drug dealers , child pornographers , and terrorists , well
it must be good. p

truth is hard to find and harder to obscure.

from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re clipper considered harmful
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 42
distribution inet
nntp posting host access.digex.net

criminals who very badly want inscrutable tactical communications
(specifically the terrorists and drug dealers who proponents of key escrow
cite as threats) will be highly motivated to steal the cipher phone of
a legitimate user , and to kill this person or hold them hostage so
discovery of compromise of the device will be delayed.

why doing it in such a rough manner \? it is much more professional to
steal the chip from the phone and even to replace it with a
pin compatible do nothing chip that does not encrypt at all. chances
are that the victim will not notice anything , especially if it is done
professionally.

assuming that the bad guys can easily obtain substitute chips which do n't
cause any noticeable effect to either the user or the person at the other end
of the line (if there is any significant difficulty to obtaining such chips ,
some of the criminals will decide to fall back on the murder kidnap method).

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate
with impunity (assuming the cipher system carries no trapdoors apart from
key escrow) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other
means.

no , because the feds will still be able to decrypt the conversations.
true , they 'll blame the wrong guys , but nevertheless one cannot say
something like the drugs arrive tommorrow on the ship 'terminus'
when the feds are listening , even if they cannot identify who the
speaker is.

this assumes that the feds are tapping clipper phones belonging to ordinary
citizens (getting such a phone is the whole point of the crime under
discussion). to be sure , i would n't put it past them but raising the
possibility of such crime has the benefit of forcing the feds to either
'fess up about such intentions in advance or state that using clipper
exposes the user to an additional criminal threat. g

no , the criminals will just use some secure encryption. the new
proposal does not stop criminals it ensures that the government will
be able to wiretap the average citizen and stops the casual snooper.
to me , it also clearly looks as a step towards outlawing any other
strong encryption devices.

agreed.

from holthaus@news.weeg.uiowa.edu (james r. holthaus)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa
lines 43

prz@sage.cgd.ucar.edu (philip zimmermann) writes

philip ,
i think your ideas are well taken and constructive. thanks for
articulating them in this forum.

2) work the press. talk with your local newspaper 's science and
technology reporter. write to your favorite trade rags. better yet ,
write some articles yourself for your favorite magazines or
newspapers. explain why the clipper chip initiative is a bad idea.
remember to tailor it to your audience. the general public may be
slow to grasp why it 's a bad idea , since it seems so technical and
arcane and innocent sounding. try not to come across as a flaming
libertarian paranoid extremist , even if you are one.

as a flaming libertarian paranoid extremist ( ) , i'at a loss for
specific objections that do n't sound frighteningly technical. any
suggestions \? perhaps somebody could post a list of these \?

5) mobilize opposition in industry. companies that will presumably
develop products that will incorporate the clipper chip should be
lobbied against it , from within and from without. if you work for a
telecommunications equipment vendor , first enlist the aid of your
coworkers and fellow engineers against this initiative , and then
present your company 's management with a united front of engineering
talent against this initiative. write persuasive memos to your
management , with your name and your colleagues' names on it. hold
meetings on it.

one way to do this might be to suggest that these companies should be
implementing their own schemes , not being limited to the govt 's
scheme.

i find that most of my reasons for opposition to the clipper scheme
are algoritm insecurity and mistrust of the govt nsa. these are hard
to sell in letters to the editor and to nontechnical people. any
hints or advice. maybe a small faq type thing why should i hate
clipper would be a good idea.

james holthaus james holthaus@uiowa.edu
government is an association of men who do violence to the rest of us.
leo tolstoy
pgp 2.2 public key available on request or from key server

from ngorelic@speclab.cr.usgs.gov.cr.usgs.gov (noel s. gorelick)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
originator news@essex.ecn.uoknor.edu
reply to ngorelic@speclab.cr.usgs.gov
nntp posting host essex.ecn.uoknor.edu
organization mercworks , denver
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 24

alan barrett (barrett@lucy.ee.und.ac.za) wrote
in article c5lgaz.250@dove.nist.gov ,
clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

in making this decision , i do
not intend to prevent the private sector from developing , or the
government from approving , other microcircuits or algorithms that
are equally effective in assuring both privacy and a secure key
escrow system.

in making this decision , i intend to prevent the private sector from
developing , except with the government 's approval , other microcircuits
or algorithms that are more effective in assuring privacy.


does n't this just mean that the government might not approve
something for use by other government agencies. this does not
sound to me to be any form of threat that joe user ca n't develop
and use his own encryption algorithm.


you want it should sing too \? yeah we got dogs and valvoline
ngorelic@speclab.cr.usgs.gov its a pretty damn good time.
life is pain. anyone that tells you different is trying to sell you something

from ji@cs.columbia.edu (john ioannidis)
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation
article i.d. cs.c5jp0k.4p5
organization columbia university department of computer science
lines 35

in article c5ja6s.a59@cs.psu.edu so@eiffel.cs.psu.edu (nicol c so) writes
in article 897@pivot.sbi.com bet@sbi.com (bennett todd @ salomon brothers inc. , ny ) writes
this came up because i decided to configure up mit magic cookie 1 security
for x11r5. for this to work you need to stick some bits that an intruder
ca n't guess in a file (readable only by you) which x client applications
read. they pass the bits back to the server when they want to establish a
connection.

...
what i settled on was grabbing a bunch of traffic off the network.
basically , i ran

etherfind u x greater 0 compress

and skipped over 10k of output , then grabbed my bits. as best i can tell ,
these are bits that can be expected to be reasonably uniformly distributed ,
and quite unguessable by an intruder.

for your application , what you can do is to encrypt the real time clock
value with a secret key.

for a good discussion of cryptographically good random number
generators , check out the draft ietf security randomness 00.txt
internet draft , available at your local friendly internet drafts
repository.

a reasonably source of randomness is the output of a cryptographic
hash function (e.g. , md5) , when fed with a large amount of
more or less random data. for example , running md5 on dev mem is a
slow , but random enough , source of random bits there are bound to be
128 bits of entropy in the tens (or hundreds) of megabytes of data in
a modern workstation 's memory , as a fair amount of them are system
timers , i o buffers , etc.

ji

from howland@noc.arc.nasa.gov (curt howland)
subject re white house wiretap chip disinformation sheet
keywords big bubba is watching.
organization nasa science internet project office
lines 24



the attorney general will procure and utilize encryption devices to
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure
law enforcement communications. further , the attorney general
shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
super surplus fund to effect this purchase.

this is the one part that really scares me. without
the keys , it can likely be determined if a person
is using the state approved encryption method ,
and if not then that persons life is forfet , and
the profits go to making more busts , and more
profit.

power corrupts. absolute power corrupts absolutely.
human nature has not changed very much in only a few
hundred years....


curt howland howland@nsipo.nasa.gov
nsi operations center nasa ames
(800) 424 9920

from karn@unix.ka9q.ampr.org (phil karn)
subject re white house wiretap chip disinformation sheet
keywords big bubba is watching.
nntp posting host unix.ka9q.ampr.org
reply to karn@servo.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc
lines 24

in article wcs.93apr17034914@rainier.att.com , wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705) writes
the attorney general will procure and utilize encryption devices to
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure
law enforcement communications. further , the attorney general
shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
super surplus fund to effect this purchase.

this is a very curious thing to say. stu iiis (nsa designed secure
telephones cleared for classified traffic) are already readily
available to law enforcement agencies. word has it they 're standard in
every fbi office , for example. something like several hundred
thousand of these phones exist in all. they are clearly the us government
standard.

so why does the doj need to buy new phones that , unlike stu iiis , will
not be certified for classified traffic , and in all likelihood will
not be compatible with existing stu iiis \?

unless , of course , they 're gearing up for large scale decryption of
civilian clipper users , and they need compatible hardware...

phil


from marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu
subject how does it really work \? (was re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption)
organization computer science dept , indiana university
distribution na
lines 57

this announcement is somewhat disconcerting it does n't do anything
evil in and of itself , but bodes badly for the future of open
algorithms and standards in information security. i wo n't start
panicking until unless des or rsa or stuff like that is prohibited , but
i'm a little anxious. (no doubt it wo n't be long before someone posts
explaining how this just a small part of some far ranging and
long lived nsa pkp irs fbi cia handguncontrolinc clinton conspiracy to
subvert freedom , democracy , and mathematics.) my feeling is that the
administration probably is n't that worried about things like des and
rsa and pgp and ripem , since they 'll never be used by a group much
wider than us computer geeks.

the fact that this just came out now suggests one of two things

1. the nsa has been working on this for a long time , and it only just
now happened to be ``ready'' to release to the world at this time.

2. the nsa has been working on this for a long time , but was n't able
to get the bush administration to go along with this plan. (i
find it unlikely that this would have been because of a sympathy
for the unescrowed use of cryptography more likely the
administration felt that even escrowed , secret algorithm and , for
all we know , trivially breakable cryptography should not be made
widely available.)

thus said clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)
this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

the majority of the discussion involving this clipper chip seems to
pertain to the encryption of telephone conversations. does anyone
know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with analog
signals \? the language sort of suggests this , but it 's hard to say.

the main thing i just do n't get is whether this chip implements
symmetric or asymmetric cryptographic techniques. anybody know \?

i'm guessing symmetric , but they do n't get very clear about it. if it
is symmetric , how is it useful for anything other than link level
encryption with an identical chip at each end \? how can you negotiate
a per session key using symmetric cryptography without using a trusted
third party who knows your key \? (or does it even use a per session
key \? )

if it 's asymmetric , what about pkp 's patents , which they claim cover
all methods of doing asymmetric cryptography \? are they getting
royalties , or is hiding infringement the real reason for keeping the
algorithm secret \? )

marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu mime ripem accepted
kirk i wo n't hurt you.
alien you hit me !
kirk well , i wo n't hit you again.

from rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning)
subject re the old key registration idea...
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 25

the clipper chip will have no effect. current generation pcs , portable
and desktop , all have analog voice digital voice and vice versa
capabilities. so , i only need a modem output to the telephone ,
and i can interpose any encryption screen on my voice traffic i want.

not even a big deal , but it will pass muster if the have a way
of checking whether i am using their clipper chip encryption without
a full decoding.

i have been chided for stating that dorthy denning was intellectually
dishonest in the acm debate and in this newsgroup. i have previously
refrained from suggesting that she is arguing on behalf of consulting
clients.

now , i say that it is clear that dorthy denning has been functioning
as a lobbyist , not a computer scientist. she has used legal ethics
(truth is what you can convince anyone of) , not scientific ethics
(truth is understanding the external world).

maybe we can revoke her acm membership \? 8)

lew

lew glendenning rlglende@netcom.com
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr (or somebody like that).

from jed@pollux.usc.edu (jonathan demarrais)
subject crypto conference
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 11
distribution usa
nntp posting host pollux.usc.edu

i need to know the following information about the upcoming
crypto conference the address to submit articles , and the
number of copies needed. thanks ,
jonathan demarrais
jed@pollux.usc.edu


jay jed@pollux.usc.edu (university of southern california)

what a depressingly stupid machine.
marvin

subject organized lobbying for cryptography
from kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (tal kubo)
organization dept. of math , harvard univ.
nntp posting host zariski.harvard.edu
lines 55

in article 4014.apr2003.03.4093@silverton.berkeley.edu
djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein) writes

i want to see an organization which will combat such statements.
encryption does not threaten the public safety , any more than ski
masks do. every american is entitled to use strong encryption which
ensures his own privacy and is not crippled by a key escrow system.
i guess i'm looking for a ``league for cryptographic freedom.'' or a
``national cryptography association.''

an excellent idea.


to what extent does the eff serve this purpose \? is a new organization
necessary \? does it already exist \?

while i do n't know the full scope of the activities of the eff ,
from what little i 've seen i think it would be better to lobby for
strong cryptography through a distinct organization.

the eff has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex
and pictures newsgroups at various universities. horror stories about the
contents of those groups (e.g. exploitative pictures of possibly underaged
models) have already surfaced in the press. the white house bulletin
already raised the specter of drug dealing and terrorism , which is only one
step removed from the old crypto wielding child molester argument. an
eff lobbying effort for cryptography would be too easily derailed by the
connection to child pornography and the like.

similarly , lpf is connected with stallman and his gnu project. in
light of , say , the gnu manifesto , this means that in a public debate it
stands to be labelled as communist , anarchist hackers , radical , etc.

i do n't know about cpsr , but if it is an offshoot of physicians for social
responsibility (best known for helen caldicott and her hysterical
antinuclear lobbying) then it probably also carries unwelcome political
baggage.

perhaps for practical reasons a lobbying organization for cryptography
would best be formed under the umbrella of eff or some other existing
group , but its charter should then be distinct , independent , and limited to
advocacy for the right to cryptography. to reiterate dan bernstein 's
question does any suitable organization exist \? if not , what are you going
to do about it \?

having mentioned the possible dangers of unwelcome political associations ,
i would be remiss not to suggest something in the opposite direction
gathering the support of the nra by emphasizing the rkba side of the
issue as well as the first amendment side.



tal kubo@math.harvard.edu



from rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie)
subject why the algorithm is secret
distribution na
organization center for high perf. computing of wpi marlboro ma
lines 15


my thoughts on why the algorithm is secret

the chip is (regretably) likely to become a standard. there will
be many applications where economic factors dictate use of this
chip , like it or not.

if the alrogithm is public , and the code is as secure (absent the
access to escrowed keys) as represented , an enterprising sort
would make compatible crypto chips for which no key had been
escrowed . this is likely what the release was refering to when
they refered to the secrecy of the algorithm protecting the
security of the escrow system.

rob boudrie

from rab@well.sf.ca.us (bob bickford)
subject re more technical details
nntp posting host well.sf.ca.us
organization whole earth 'lectronic link
lines 15


another objection occurred to me. there was a comment about how
supposedly there would only be one decode box , operated by the fbi.
this is flat ridiculous , and i do n't believe it for a millisecond.
even if they in fact only build one (or two or some other small
number) of these , that wo n't stop others from building one. make
it work like two clipper chip phones , one listening to each side
of the recorded conversation. i 'll have to have another look at
the specs posted so far , but offhand i did n't see anything that
would preclude this sort of thing.....

robert bickford rab@well.sf.ca.us
treasurer and newsletter editor ,
lib. party of marin county (ca) do n't blame me i voted libertarian
member , ca state central committee

from jru@comtech.com (jimmy r. upton)
subject rubick shortest path algorithm status \?
organization comtech labs inc.
lines 25

what is the expected run time ( a factor of 10) on a 486dx 50
using the best known algorithm for finding the shortest path
solution for rubicks cube from a randomly chosen position \?

i have read the faq and followed the recent discussion on rubicks
cube but i do n't believe this question has been answered. notice
that i am specifically looking for an algorithm that finds the
shortest path , not just any solution.

it seems to me that the underlying assumption is that such a program
would need to do a brute force search though 10 20 positions. that
seems an unreasonably pessimistic assumption to me and i want to
know if someone has significantly improved on that.

i have some ideas of my own on how to approach this problem , but
before i spend to much time developing them i wanted to know if
someone else has already done the work.

administrivia i have posted this to three groups and attempted
to set the followup to rec.puzzles which seems to me to be the
place to continue this discussion. i will cross post a summary
when and if it becomes appropriate. email replies gladly accepted.

jimmy
jru@comtech.com

from bill@celestial.com (bill campbell)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization celestial software , mercer island , wa
distribution na
lines 23

in strnlghtc5p7zp.3zm@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

in article apr18.194927.17048@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes

note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

i think this to be inaccurate. one can buy tempest equipment commercially.
even macs.

sure you can buy a tempest approved mac if you have enough
money. i have n't had any reason to look at this type of pricing
for about 10 years , but a tempest rating in 1982 would raise the
price of a 2 , 495.00 radio shack model iii to something around
15 , 000.00.

bill

internet bill@celestial.com bill campbell celestial software
uucp ... ! thebes ! camco ! bill 6641 east mercer way
uunet ! camco ! bill mercer island , wa 98040 (206) 947 5591
speed costs money how fast do you want to go \?

from warlord@mit.edu (derek atkins)
subject re the old key registration idea...
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 40
nntp posting host hodge.mit.edu
in reply to pcw@access.digex.com 's message of 16 apr 1993 15 31 24 0400

begin pgp signed message

in article 1qn1ic hp6@access.digex.net pcw@access.digex.com (peter wayner) writes

2) the system is vulnerable to simple phone swapping attacks
like this. criminals will quickly figure this out and go to
town.

depends.. its possible that the phone sends its serial number in the
clear at some specified interval... so all a listener needs to do is
get that sn , and then get the key for it... so swapping phones is n't
a problem (for the gov't , that is). they still know that this line
belongs to you , so they just watch the line and see the sn , and then
they get the key for that sn...

in either case , i think we need to look at this a bit deeper. 'jbl)mw wxld2

well , i think this is understood. the major problem is that a lot of
people just do n't trust this key escrow stuff , and the fact that the
algorithms are classified... so , yes , a lot of this needs to be looked
at closer !

derek

pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server
pgp public keys@toxicwaste.mit.edu

begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqbuagubk9ebxdh0k1zbsgrxaqhzcalcalvwtnvi7ayswf565id1mn nsybtwqi
jqlgpkx 4tx6qjgc69buqrzatmqutkovnvx mqt5ezfm7uundrwd4cowbb7cc4gy
gt7jtlrqu0af9vsf4sgnqqg
fgrj
end pgp signature

derek atkins , mit '93 , electrical engineering and computer science
secretary , mit student information processing board (sipb)
mit media laboratory , speech research group
warlord@mit.edu pp asel n1nwh

from pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
reply to pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
organization edinburgh university
distribution inet
lines 12

quoting jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu in article 1r3jgbinn35i@eli.cs.yale.edu
perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it
was posted encrypted \?

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain.

in fact , since effective encryption makes censorship impossible , they
are almost the same issue and they certainly fall into the brief of the
eff.

o paul crowley pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus !

from koontzd@phobos.lrmsc.loral.com (david koontz )
subject will feds troll for mutilated law enforcement blocks \?
originator koontzd@phobos
organization loral rolm computer systems
lines 121

from denning

the skipjack encryption algorithm
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and
e e k u n f , a law enforcement block.

where the session key is k , and is transmitted encrypted in the unit key u.
which along with the serial number n is encrypted in the family key f.

presumably the protocol can be recovered (if by nothing else , differential
analysis).

postulate if you will , a chip (or logic) sitting between the clipper chip
and its communications channel. the function of this spoof chip is twofold

1) transmit channel

the spoof chip xors the 30 bit encrypted serial number with
a secondary keying variable. this renders the serial number
unrecoverable with just the family key

2) receive channel

the spoof chip xors the incoming encrypted serial number
with a secondary keying variable (assuming integrity of the
law enforcement block is necessary for local operation
checksums , sequence control , etc.).

this has the net result of hiding the serial number. it is probable theere is
a known plaintext pattern used as a filler in the block containing n (34 bits
as used in generating u , u1 , u2) correctness of the law enforcement block
can be determined with only the family key f. whereas , no one has proposed
federal agencies be denied f , and because they could recover it themselves ,
the correctness of the serial number can be tested by examining the pad bits
of n in e n f .

the one could selectively alter the law enforcement block as above , but the
mutilation could be detected. a better approach would be to mutilate the
entire law enforcement block. if it were done with a group encryption scheme
such as des or (presumably) skipjack , the chances the law enforcement block
can be recovered are lessened.

what do you want to bet the transmission protocol can be recognized and the
serial numbers decrypted in a target search \? when digital transmission
becomes widely available , would there be a requirement that clipper protocol
transmissions be refused when containing mutilated law enforcement blocks \?

one way to avoid notice , would be to spoof protocol information of the block
containing m , as well as spoofing the law enforcement block.

the goal is to use a secure communications scheme , without redress to
detection or key k interception (contained encrypted within the law
enforcement block). the data stream is returned to its original state
for use by the clipper chip (or system) if required , for proper operation.

it is somewhat improbable that the entire protocol will be contained within
the clipper chip , yet likely that sequence of events will be tested for ,
requiring a valid law enforcement block to be received before accepting
and decrypting e(m k)

the spoof chip could be implemented anywhere in the protocols , including
on the resulting serial data stream. existing clipper products could
be subborned. after all , they are high security encryption systems right \?

super encipherment encryption could allow the chip to be used without
redress to detection of the use of the chip , or disclosure of the serial
number. security must be adequate to deny the serial number , which should
not be recoverable by other means. one can see the use of cut outs for
procurring clipper phones , or once the number of units is high enough ,
stealing them. it would be a mistake on the part of authority , but nice
from a point of privacy , if the serial number n were not associated with
a particular clipper chip or lot of chips through the manufacturing and
distribution process. hopefully the list of known missing or stolen
clipper serial numbers n encrypted with f , and the protocols are not
sufficient plaintext to attact the super encrypted clipper stream.
this could be further made difficult by altering the temporal and or
spatial relationship of the clipper stream to that of the super encrypted
stream.

detection of an encrypted stream could tip off the use of the aforementioned
scheme.



if you could capture valid law enforcement blocks not your own , and use
them in a codebook sustitution with your own , where they point to a valid
law enforcement block stored in a library utilizing a session key matching
the remainder of the transmission , you could simply out and out lie , yet
deliver to monitoring and or hostile forces a seemingly valid law enforcement
block. these captured law enforcement blocks would be used as authenticators ,
such as in a manually keyed encryption system. fending this off would require
escalation in examining the protocols and blocks in the transmission.

the m code stream might be independently attacked based on knowledge of
clipper chip protocols as revealed plaintext. this could be invalidated
by changing the temporal and or spatial relationship of the clipper m stream
and the actual transmitted stream , under the control of a secure key
generator synchronized between endpoints.

the useful life time of captured law enforcement blocks might be limited
based on hostile forces using them as targets following transmission
interception. you would need a large number of them , but , hey there 's
supposed to be millions of these things , right \? adding time stamps to
the encrypted law enforcement block is probably impractical , who wants
an encryption chip with a real time clock \?



the entire idea of the law enforcement block can be invalidated.









from johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com (steve johnson)
subject re how do they know what keys to ask for \? (re clipper)
organization trw systems division , fairfax va
lines 23

brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

...
and of course you have to identify yourself to the phone company , and
since the phone company complies with court orders , they will know the
magic number of your chip when they sign out a warrant on you , and
then can present the warrant to the key escrow house.

who makes them forget and destroy all copies of the key once they 've
decided you 're not a criminal today \? just curious.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366
any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer.
steven c. johnson , wb3iru vk2gds
trw johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com
fp1 3133 129.193.172.90
1 federal systems park drive phone 1 (703) 968.1000
fairfax , virginia 22033 4412 u.s.a. fax 1 (703) 803.5189

any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer.
steven c. johnson , wb3iru vk2gds
trw johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com
fp1 3133 129.193.172.90

from dfl@panix.com (danny o'bedlam)
subject re why the clipper algorithm is secret
organization panix , (new yawk city)
lines 29

in 1993apr18.225502.358@iecc.cambridge.ma.us johnl@iecc.cambridge.ma.us (john r. levine) writes
(quoting someone else here)
the cryptographic protocol , though , is another matter. i see no valid
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there
are a lot of ways to do things that are n't (quite) as bad.

it just occurred to me why the algorithm is secret. if it were
published , one could then build physically identical clone versions
of the chip that would interoperate with official clipper chips. but
the cloner would n't provide the keys to the escrow houses. hmmn.

yeah !

the algorithm is classified because a military contract (or similar
government equivalent to military) has been let for this proprietary
design that the feds say that nsa developed. is there a patent \? is that
patent publicly available \? my betting is that that too is classified.

if the algorithm were made public , or reverse engineered , it would
compromise not only the goal of justice of being able to read every chip
users cypto data but would reduce profits for the selected chip maker.

would n't that just be too bad \?



danny o'bedlam dfl@panix.com cmcl2 ! panix ! dfl danny lieberman
po box 3131 church st station , new yawk , new yawk , 10008 3131 (usa)


from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re how does it really work \? (was re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption)
lines 22

from marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu

the majority of the discussion involving this clipper chip seems to
pertain to the encryption of telephone conversations. does anyone
know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with analog
signals \? the language sort of suggests this , but it 's hard to say.

i 'd lay a few bucks that its just data in data out in parallel. i suspect
to make it a phone you 'd need a codec and speech compression. there would
be a loss of bandwidth on the speech signal , which i suspect would scupper
any of the suggestions i 've seen here about putting a different encryption
front end on it.

there 's no hint of any modulation scheme in the docs. i'm sure it 's purely
a digital chip. the back end will come later , but i'm positive it wo n't
be left to the manufacturers they all have to be the same modulation
scheme to make it easy for the nsa to tap them.

the only other possibility is that this is intended only for isdn phones.
(puts a whole new spin on effs obsession about isdn if true , bwahahaha ! ) )

g

from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re estimating wiretap costs benefits
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 23

in article rlglendec5t133.en3@netcom.com rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning) writes
first , what the fuck is nasa doing wasting my tax dollars doing
policy papers on stuff far outside of their purvew mission \?

i do n't think they 're paying for it.

do us a favor. resign rather than right this paper for nasa. go
do useful work for the society.

useful \? i find his estimate of the annual value to law enforcement
of 5 million quite useful , if rough (e.g. wiretaps may be
preferentially used on otherwise hard to catch criminals , resulting
in an underestimate). this comes to twenty cents a head over the
u.s. population. i would find some rigorous numbers on this quite
useful it would make for nice slogans your privacy is worth
0.37 , or whatever it turns out to be.

lew glendenning rlglende@netcom.com

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu



from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 157

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

though some may argue about the nose of the camel , it 's worth noting that
the government proposal is limited to scrambled telephony. if it is only
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file

as usual , david sternlight is demonstrating his inability to read. the
proposal clearly states

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

it speaks about telecommunications in general. read it again , david.
maybe you 'll understand it the next time... nah , probably not.

encryption , then it is an improvement over the current mass produced
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to
easy to break inverters.

that 's exactly what the government wants all sheep minded people to
think. let 's look at the current situation. it allows to almost
anybody to eavesdrop almost everybody , unless secure (and i mean
secure) encryption is used. what will happen when ( if \? ha !
optimists...) the new proposal gets accepted \? almost nobody except
some will be able to eavesdrop everybody else , but the ability of
these some to eavesdrop will be guaranteed ! the proposal emphasizes
on the former ( almost nobody ) which is clearly an improvement
and forgets to mention the drawbacks of the latter ( guaranteed ).
yes , my statement assumes that the next step will be to make the
strong crypto unlawful. you think that it will not happen \? good luck.

note that the big issue for the feds is the continued ability to wiretap.

it 's not just continued ability . it 's guaranteed ability.

before we go off the deep end with long discusions about secure crypto for
e mail and files , let 's focus on this.

yeah , that 's exactly what your government wants you to think. let 's
take small steps , one at a time. concentrate on the current one , do n't
think about the future. trust us.

one question that was not asked in the release is whether this proposal is
limited to telephony , or if the government intends to expand it.

it 's not asked because the proposal clearly says that this is the
intention. they , unlike you , read what they write.

though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no
secure telephony , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a goat can
eavesdrop. this would also plug up the security hole in cellular and
cordless phones.

yes , it will. it will stop the jerk who is eavesdropping now. it will
allow only to the government to eavesdrop. (if the scheme is secure ,
of course , which is yet to be proven.) but how do you know that the
jerk you are fearing now will not get a government job tomorrow \? the
new proposal guarantees him the ability to eavesdrop then. hell ,
that will even motivate him to get that job if he indeed is that
mentally pervert...

reading between the lines , i infer that the system is highly secure
without access to the keys.

great. the greatest cryptographer of all times david sternlight (tm)
has succeeded to evaluate the new system in the absense of any
details whatsoever and has concluded that it is highly secure . i
guess , that comes from the background of working some 50 years for the
two major crypto evaluating companies , right \? gee , now the government
can save all that money and trouble to ask a secret council of crypto
experts to secretly analyse the new secret method for david
sternlight has already done all the job for them...

this would meet the needs of u.s. businesses
confronted by rich and powerful adversaries , including french and japanese
security services and rich japanese companies. it allows the nsa to make
available some of its better stuff while protecting law enforcement needs.

trust us , we 're from the government and we 're here to help you.

most legitimate u.s. corporations trust the nsa , and would be delighted to
have a high security system certified by them , even at the price of
depositing keys in escrow. i see no difficulty in creating a reliable

those who are prepared to trade their liberties for the promises of
future safety , do not deserve either. this (or something like that i
do n't have the exact quote , but the meaning is the same) has been said
by one of your great men. maybe you should study their works more
carefully , if you have the brains to understand them , of course.

from my point of view this is a fair starting point. there are concerns that
need to be addressed , including the reliability of the escrows. but in

the main question is to guarantee to availability of really secure
cryptography to the masses. gee , if the proposal was saying we
guarantee that every american will still have the full right to use
any kind of encryption s he would like and regard this proposal as
just a default , voluntary implementation , there would have been much
less opposition... for some reason , they did n't even try to promise
you that. i wonder why... was orwell off only by 10 years \?

return we get access to high security crypto.

no , in return you get crypto that is guaranteed to be crippled.

many have suggested that des
and other systems may be breakable by the nsa and hence others similarly
skilled and endowed.

while the above is just rumors , and while even if it is true , it is
not done easily , the new scheme can is guaranteed to be easily
breakable by anybody who has the two keys. it might be also breakable
by somebody who does not have them but knows the right trick. or who
has only one of them. nsa also told you that des is secure , why do n't
you simply trust them , huh \?

there is at least a good possibility (which should be
checked) that the proposed system is not so breakable. it does n't have to

it is guaranteed to be easily breakable just get the keys. it
might be even easier , but until there is some evidence , this is just a
wild speculation.

be , nor does it have to have trapdoors , if the government can get the keys

the trapdoors are there. in government 's hands. the keys.

pursuant to a legitimate court order. thus they can protect legitimate
communications against economic adversaries , while still being able to
eavesdrop on crooks pursuant to a court order.

legitimate \? and who decides what communications are legitimate \? oh , i
guess , it 's the government , right \? the guys who already have the keys \?
it 's kinda if i have the keys from your car and i am asked to decide
who has the right to use it legitimately ...

in discussing this , let 's try to avoid the nastiness , personal attacks and
noise of some previous threads.

impossible , since you are demonstrating the same level of incompetence
and ignorance as in the provious threads.

this is a substantive and technical issue ,
and personal remarks have no place in such a discussion.

unfortunately , i have yet to see you posting a technically competent
message.

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 35

in article eachus.93apr20140314@spectre.mitre.org eachus@spectre.mitre.org
(robert i. eachus) writes

but , if you are making custom equipment in any case , why not just
roll your own clipper implementation and report the wrong keys to the
escrow agency \? (tells us who is going to be in the chip business if
this thing goes through nsa , and those with something to hide from
nsa.)

this wo n't work if there is a checksum on the keys you do n't know about.
neither will registering a clipper chip and then substituting a
counterfeit one if the serial number contains a checksum.

chances are the government has thought of this , and just anyone wo n't be
permitted access to enough of the internals to make a fake clipper chip.
chances are that the government has classified some details of the internals
at a very high level , and manufacturers are required to observe security
safeguards and clearances corresponding to that level.

while not perfect , it would prevent joe hacker from rolling his own spoofing
chip , since not many counterfeiters can survive a background investigation.
some of the more notorious self styled dissidents here , for example , have
already got their heads so high above the tall grass that they 'd have little
chance of getting a clearance.

of course it 's not impossible that someone do this , but probably extremely
difficult. chances are there will also be very heavy criminal penalties for
phony clipper chips , on some national security classified info grounds or
other , thus making the game not worth the candle.


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from gtf1000@cus.cam.ac.uk (g.t. falk)
subject alt.security.pgp
nntp posting host bootes.cus.cam.ac.uk
organization u of cambridge , england
lines 25

begin pgp signed message

hi all..

does anyone know of a unix utility allowing encrypted telnet sessions using
public key \? i 'd like something so that nobody can snoop my password or
session text while i'm logging in remotely over the network.

thanks

g.


please report unsigned (hence unauthorised) messages purportedly from me ,
sent after 22 04 93. gtf1000@cus.cam.ac.uk



begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqbvagubk9zxmtqrcjh0adt3aqfhrwh9hwbpywwr o peoco9glpoz5odkhynw8
ajiif6tsm ymqbwmvholm7bub4jpybqanpkmz8tdd4tyuinsx68cvg
gw7z
end pgp signature

from pcw@access.digex.com (peter wayner)
subject the old key registration idea...
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 25
nntp posting host access.digex.net

okay , let 's suppose that the nsa nist mykotronix registered
key system becomes standard and i'm able to buy such a system
from my local radio shack. every phone comes with a built in
chip and the government has the key to every phone call.
i go and buy a phone and dutifully register the key.

what 's to prevent me from swapping phones with a friend or
buying a used phone at a garage sale \? whooa. the secret registered
keys just became unsynchronized. when the government comes
to listen in , they only receive gobbledly gook because the
secret key registered under my name is n't the right one.

that leads me to conjecture that

1) the system is n't that secure. there are just two master keys
that work for all the phones in the country. the part about
registering your keys is just bogus.

or

2) the system is vulnerable to simple phone swapping attacks
like this. criminals will quickly figure this out and go to
town.

in either case , i think we need to look at this a bit deeper. 'jbl)mw wxld2

from rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization national computer security center
distribution na
lines 11

in article bontchev.734981805@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \? if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individuals
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

robert l. ward


from gumby@tweedledumb.cygnus.com (d v henkel wallace)
subject screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization cygnus support , cambridge , ma usa
lines 11
nntp posting host tweedledumb.cygnus.com
in reply to jhart@agora.rain.com 's message of 19 apr 93 19 57 21 gmt

date 19 apr 93 19 57 21 gmt
from jhart@agora.rain.com (jim hart)

simply \? everyone should have this attitude \? the only people
who can have this attitude are the most hard core
computer hackers , who never make phone calls away from their
computer

in 10 yeards everybody will be talkig into his or her pda anyway.
that should solve most of the problem.


from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 03 10 basic cryptology
organization the crypt cabal
lines 187
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 3 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , basic cryptology.
definitions of basic terms. beginner references. cryptanalysis and
theoretical practical strength of ciphers.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part03
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 3 basic cryptology

this is the third of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.



contents

what is cryptology \? cryptography \? plaintext \? ciphertext \? encryption \? key \?
what references can i start with to learn cryptology \?
how does one go about cryptanalysis \?
what is a brute force search and what is its cryptographic relevance \?
what are some properties satisfied by every strong cryptosystem \?
if a cryptosystem is theoretically unbreakable , then is it
guaranteed analysis proof in practice \?
why are many people still using cryptosystems that are
relatively easy to break \?


what is cryptology \? cryptography \? plaintext \? ciphertext \? encryption \? key \?

the story begins when julius caesar sent messages to his trusted
acquaintances , he did n't trust the messengers. so he replaced every a
by a c , every b by a d , and so on through the alphabet. only someone
who knew the ``shift by 2'' rule could decipher his messages.

a cryptosystem or cipher system is a method of disguising messages so
that only certain people can see through the disguise. cryptography is
the art of creating and using cryptosystems. cryptanalysis is the art
of breaking cryptosystems seeing through the disguise even when
you 're not supposed to be able to. cryptology is the study of both
cryptography and cryptanalysis.

the original message is called a plaintext. the disguised message is
called a ciphertext. encryption means any procedure to convert
plaintext into ciphertext. decryption means any procedure to convert
ciphertext into plaintext.

a cryptosystem is usually a whole collection of algorithms. the
algorithms are labelled the labels are called keys. for instance ,
caesar probably used ``shift by n'' encryption for several different
values of n. it 's natural to say that n is the key here.

the people who are supposed to be able to see through the disguise are
called recipients. other people are enemies , opponents , interlopers ,
eavesdroppers , or third parties.

what references can i start with to learn cryptology \?

for an introduction to technical matter , the survey articles given
in part 10 are the best place to begin as they are , in general ,
concise , authored by competent people , and well written. however ,
these articles are mostly concerned with cryptology as it has
developed in the last 50 years or so , and are more abstract and
mathematical than historical. the codebreakers by kahn kah67 is
encyclopedic in its history and technical detail of cryptology up
to the mid 60 's.

introductory cryptanalysis can be learned from gaines gai44 or
sinkov sin66 . this is recommended especially for people who want
to devise their own encryption algorithms since it is a common
mistake to try to make a system before knowing how to break one.

the selection of an algorithm for the des drew the attention of
many public researchers to problems in cryptology. consequently
several textbooks and books to serve as texts have appeared. the
book of denning den82 gives a good introduction to a broad range
of security including encryption algorithms , database security ,
access control , and formal models of security. similar comments
apply to the books of price davies pri84 and pfleeger pfl89 .

the books of konheim kon81 and meyer matyas mey82 are quite
technical books. both konheim and meyer were directly involved in
the development of des , and both books give a thorough analysis of
des. konheim 's book is quite mathematical , with detailed analyses
of many classical cryptosystems. meyer and matyas concentrate on
modern cryptographic methods , especially pertaining to key management
and the integration of security facilities into computer systems and
networks.

the books of rueppel rue86 and koblitz kob89 concentrate on
the application of number theory and algebra to cryptography.

how does one go about cryptanalysis \?

classical cryptanalysis involves an interesting combination of
analytical reasoning , application of mathematical tools , pattern
finding , patience , determination , and luck. the best available
textbooks on the subject are the military cryptanalytics series
frie1 . it is clear that proficiency in cryptanalysis is , for
the most part , gained through the attempted solution of given
systems. such experience is considered so valuable that some of the
cryptanalyses performed during wwii by the allies are still
classified.

modern public key cryptanalysis may consist of factoring an integer ,
or taking a discrete logarithm. these are not the traditional fare
of the cryptanalyst. computational number theorists are some of the
most successful cryptanalysts against public key systems.

what is a brute force search and what is its cryptographic relevance \?

in a nutshell if f(x) y and you know y and can compute f , you can
find x by trying every possible x. that 's brute force search.

example say a cryptanalyst has found a plaintext and a corresponding
ciphertext , but does n't know the key. he can simply try encrypting the
plaintext using each possible key , until the ciphertext matches or
decrypting the ciphertext to match the plaintext , whichever is faster.
every well designed cryptosystem has such a large key space that this
brute force search is impractical.

advances in technology sometimes change what is considered
practical. for example , des , which has been in use for over 10 years
now , has 2 56 , or about 10 17 , possible keys. a computation with
this many operations was certainly unlikely for most users in the
mid 70 's. the situation is very different today given the dramatic
decrease in cost per processor operation. massively parallel
machines threaten the security of des against brute force search.
some scenarios are described by garron and outerbridge gar91 .

one phase of a more sophisticated cryptanalysis may involve a
brute force search of some manageably small space of possibilities.

what are some properties satisfied by every strong cryptosystem \?

the security of a strong system resides with the secrecy of the key
rather than with an attempt to keep the algorithm itself secret.

a strong cryptosystem has a large keyspace , as mentioned above. the
unicity distance is a measure which gives the minimum amount of
ciphertext that must be intercepted to uniquely identify the key and
if for some key , the unicity distance is much longer than the amount
of ciphertext you intend to encrypt under that key , the system is
probably strong.

a strong cryptosystem will certainly produce ciphertext which appears
random to all standard statistical tests (see , for example , cae90 ).

a strong cryptosystem will resist all known previous attacks. a
system which has never been subjected to scrutiny is suspect.

if a system passes all the tests mentioned above , is it necessarily
strong \? certainly not. many weak cryptosystems looked good at first.
however , sometimes it is possible to show that a cryptosystem is
strong by mathematical proof. ``if joe can break this system , then
he can also solve the well known difficult problem of factoring
integers.'' see part 6. failing that , it 's a crap shoot.

if a cryptosystem is theoretically unbreakable , then is it
guaranteed analysis proof in practice \?

cryptanalytic methods include what is known as ``practical
cryptanalysis'' the enemy does n't have to just stare at your
ciphertext until he figures out the plaintext. for instance , he might
assume ``cribs'' stretches of probable plaintext. if the crib is
correct then he might be able to deduce the key and then decipher the
rest of the message. or he might exploit ``isologs'' the same
plaintext enciphered in several cryptosystems or several keys. thus
he might obtain solutions even when cryptanalytic theory says he
does n't have a chance.

sometimes , cryptosystems malfunction or are misused. the one time pad ,
for example , loses all security if it is used more than once ! even
chosen plaintext attacks , where the enemy somehow feeds plaintext into
the encryptor until he can deduce the key , have been employed. see
kah67 .

why are many people still using cryptosystems that are
relatively easy to break \?

some do n't know any better. often amateurs think they can design
secure systems , and are not aware of what an expert cryptanalyst
could do. and sometimes there is insufficient motivation for anybody
to invest the work needed to crack a system.

from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 25

in article 1993apr17.085358.18460@clarinet.com brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
your honour , the suspect suddenly started using another level of
cryptography and we ca n't tap his phone calls any more. he must
have something to hide. please sign the warrant to search his
house...

what they would need to do , though , is make sure that nobody has
access to decent crypto in the first place. they probably ca n't
tell clippered voice from clippered triple desed voice until they
get their copy of your key. any criminal who 's going to use
encryption will do it under cover of clipper. the only way to avoid
this will be to try to prohibit strong encryption.

i probably should n't say this , but they could try to detect the use
of an illegal cypher by transmitting in the clear some statistical
properties of the plaintext. an old fashioned wiretap could then
detect the use of pre encryption , which would drastically increase
the measured entropy of the input. a countermeasure to this would
be to use steganographic techniques which put out voice.

you can tell if the nsa built this feature in blow on the mike , and
observe whether a band of thugs comes through your ceiling.

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization clarinet communications corp.
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
lines 24

one presumes the system could work as follows

a) blank clips are manufactured by mykotronx and vlsi. the number
produced is carefully audited and they are shipped to the first
escrow house.

it programs the chips with its half the key , and prints out a paper slip
with the key half and non secret chip serial number. the reams of paper
are filed in locked boxes in the vault , a fuse is burnt in the chip so
that the key is now unreadable.

the chip then goes to the next escrow house , where the same thing is
done. this continues through n escrow houses , perhaps , could be more than
2.

the last one provides the chip to the cellular phone maker.

and yes , this has to be a public key system or it would be almost
impossible to handle. it might not be rsa , but that does not mean
that pkp does n't get paid. until 1997 , pkp has the patent on the
general concept of public key encryption , as well as the particular
implementation known as rsa.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from harryb@phred.uucp (harry barnett)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
reply to harryb@phred.uucp
organization physio control
lines 48

in article 29778@yuma.acns.colostate.edu , holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes
in article 1993apr19.130132.12650@afterlife.ncsc.mil rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes
in article bontchev.734981805@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \? if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individuals
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

read the constitution yourself. the second amendment says the right to bear
arms shall not be infringed , so a well regulated militia may be more easily
formed. i have an interpretation of the second that shows there are no
qualifications to the right to keep and bear arms. if you want , i can e mail
it to you. by the way , gun talk belongs in talk.politics.guns.
doug holland

mr. ward , before you start blathering about your skill interpreting
the constitution , it might be helpful to learn to read. after a review
with a high school english teacher emphasizing participial phrases , you
might start with the second amendment , and follow it up with

97th congress , 2nd session , committee print , the right to keep and
bear arms , of the subcomittee on the constitution of the committee on
the judiciary , united states senate , 97th congress , second session ,
february , 1982. gpo no. 88 618 o

this authoritative , heavily researched and annotated document clearly
turns your interpretation into specious claptrap , which is a polite
way of saying utter bullshit. in spite of your false assertion to the
contrary , the second amendment does protect the right of the individual
citizen , in his capacity as an individual , to keep and bear arms.

and , mr. holland , imho , blatantly and harmfully false information ,
asserted as fact and globally distributed , deserves globally
distributed rebuttal in the forum in which it is posted.

(and besides , this site does n't carry t.p.g... )

harryb phred@data io.com
phred ! harryb@data io.com

no free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms. the strongest
reason for the people to retain the right to keep and bear arms is ,
as a last resort , to protect themselves against tyranny in government.
thomas jefferson


from amolitor@moink.nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject what the clipper nay sayers sound like to me.
organization department of mathematical sciences
lines 55
distribution na
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu
originator amolitor@moink.nmsu.edu

the following is available in some ftp archive somewhere , i insert
my comments liberally throughout this demonic memo of big brotherdom

white house announcement on screw thread standards


this is to announce that the american national standards
institute (or whatever it is) has been given the authority to define
standard dimensions for screw threads.

look ! this is clearly the first step toward outlawing our
own screw thread specifications. if this madness is n't fought ,
tooth and nail , every step of the way , it 'll be a crime to use
screw threads other than those our fearless leaders so graciously
define for us.

the purpose of this is to permit industry to draw upon a standard
pool of specifications and designations , to ensure interoperability of
various threaded objects across vendors.

rubbish , i say ! ansi standard screw threads will have subtle weaknesses ,
allowing their agents to disassemble our automobiles more easily ,
causing our mufflers to fall off at inoppurtune moments.

questions and answers on the ansi screw thread standards


q will the screw threads defined by ansi be as good as other screw thread
designs available elsewhere \?

a yes.

hah ! trust us

q will i be able to use my own screw threads if i desire \?

a of course , but this will make your threaded objects unlikely to
interoperate correctly with others within the industry.

see \? \? ! see \? this is the first step.

it is clear we must band together , write your congressman !
use pretty good screw threads , not this devil inspired ansi trash.
protect your constitutional right to use whatever screw thread you
desire. guerilla screw thread activism must become the order of the
day. boycott gm , and build your own car , using screws from stz
screw thread associates.

screw you , bill clinton ! you and your totalitarianist thugs !


amolitor@nmsu.edu finger for pgst personal screw thread pitch , or
screw threads see the screw thread servers.
must be freed !


from sean@sdg.dra.com
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization data research associates , st. louis mo
lines 22

in article he1pb02@rhyolite.wpd.sgi.com , vjs@rhyolite.wpd.sgi.com (vernon schryver) writes
in article strnlghtc5toc6.kiu@netcom.com , strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
even the department of agriculture has successfully kept crop
forecasts from leaking prematurely.

sheesh ! remember the big scandal a year or two (or 3 \? ) ago about
exactly such leaks \?

my choice for the escow house would be the smithsonian , and someplace on
the west coast. my biggest concern is n't that the escrow house could
be compromised (it will be) , but the fact it has been compromised will
be kept secret.

the keys could be kept under glass , with 24 hour c span coverage. if you
thought your key had been stolen just turn on the cable , and wait until
the roving camera reachs the musuem case with your key. or if you think the
c span satellite has been compromised , take a tour of the smithsonian
yourself , and view the seal on your key.


sean donelan , data research associates , inc , st. louis , mo
domain sean@sdg.dra.com , voice (work) 1 314 432 1100

from hagberg@violet.ccit.arizona.edu (hagberg jr , d. j.)
subject clipper and ranting libertarians
keywords clipper clinton rant rave libertarians
distribution usa , local
organization university of arizona
lines 26
nntp posting host violet.ccit.arizona.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

i would think that you could reduce the defense of using non clipper
based encryption technologies to defending freedom of expression
(ie , free speech). that you have to right to express whatever you
want in whatever form your little heart desires so long as you do
not impinge on the rights of others.

encrypted text sound video is just another form of expression of that
particular text sound video. just like digitized sound is another
means of expression of sound streams of 100100101111 instead of
continuous waveforms.

also , it should n't be up to the government at all. encryption
standards can be decided upon by independent standards orgainizations
(apologies for the acronym). one can note how well this has worked
with iso and the metric system , sae , etc. independent entities
or consortia of people industries in that particular area are far
more qualified to set standards than any one government agency.
consider for example what the ascii character set would have looked
like if it was decided by the government.

i hope this helps folks to formulate their defenses. i'm still working
on mine and hope to be faxing my congressmen soon...

d. j. hagberg
hagberg@ccit.arizona.edu
finger for info and pgp public key

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 34
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes
oh , i see your point. i think you 're wrong. but if you sit back and
wait to find out if i'm right , it 'll be too late. just listen very
carefully for the first 'such and such will not be permitted on network
xyz' shoe to drop.

i 've been a very intent nren spectator of the nren for years. as a
commercial ip software vendor , it really is my professional opinion that the
nren , at this point , is irrelevant to private sector networking. if it had
been deployed five years ago , it would have been a major development. now ,
however , it 's just an upgrade to the nsfnet , and an attempt to revive the
lagging use of the national supercomputer centers. you could cut out the
nsfnet completely , and the internet would continue chugging along without a
hiccup (aside from a few universities).

long haul networking and internet connectivity have long since ceased to be
under federal sponsorship or regulation , at least in the usa. the success of
the cix (commercial internet exchange) is a prime example of this. while our
dear vp has been promoting his data superhighway , the private sector has
been building it , without the nsfnet 's restrictions.

to illustrate , a connection from the machine on my desk to the machine your
article was posted from (pizzabox.demon.co.uk) involves only commercial ip
providers until it hits amsterdam. no nsfnet. no nren. no appropriate
use restrictions. it 's even 1.544mbps (t1) until it hits the eunet
gateway...

qed.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from uri@watson.ibm.com (uri blumenthal)
subject re key registering bodies
distribution usa
reply to uri@watson.ibm.com
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host kingbee.watson.ibm.com
organization ibm t. j. watson research center
lines 18

in article 930419182442.669507@dockmaster.ncsc.mil , grant@dockmaster.ncsc.mil (lynn r grant) writes
if we do not trust the nsa to be a registrar of clipper chip key halves ,
i would not trust mitre either.

i would n't trust mitre for another reason
remember the cuckoo 's egg \? how great was
their security , eh \?

nsa well , with the list of known turncoats ,
does it make you wonder how many more unknown
still are there \?

( ) ( (

regards ,
uri. uri@watson.ibm.com scifi ! angmar ! uri

disclaimer

from amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization department of mathematical sciences
lines 16
distribution na
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu

in article c5so84.hxv@demon.co.uk graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
actually , i am completely baffled by why dorothy denning has chosen
to throw away her academic respectability like this. it looks to me
like a major career limiting move. there can be very few people
who know what she 's been saying who take her seriously any more.

actually , i 've been following her remarks for some time , with
interest. i'm also a member of academia , and her remarks have nothing
but elevate her respectability in my eyes. it remains to be seen whether
you are the radical fringe , or i.

it is generally an error to assume that your beliefs are held by
the majority , or even a sizable minority. especially when you 're seeing
tens , nay dozens , of people on usenet agreeing with you.

andrew molitor

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization partnership for an america free drug
distribution na
lines 104

rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes
in article bontchev.734981805@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \? if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individuals
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

the supreme court seems to disagree with you they have stated that
the people is a term of art refering to an individual right , and
have explicitly mentioned the second amendment as an example.

i quote

... 'the people' seems to have been a term of art employed in
select parts of the constitution. the preamble declares that the
constitution is ordained , and established by 'the people of the
the u.s.' the second amendment protects the right of the people
to keep and bear arms ....
supreme court of the u.s. , u.s. v. uerdugo uriquidez (1990).

furthermore , in the miller decision , they only permitted prosecution
for possession of a sawed off shotgun because the defense had not
presented testimony and they therefore accepted the argument of the
government that such weapons have no military value they held that
the amendment protected the individual right to possess military
weapons. unfortunately , no second amendment case has successfully
gotten to the court in fifty years. however , that does not change the
interpretation.

furthermore , it appears that others disagree with you as well , vis

the conclusion is thus inescapable that the history , concept ,
and wording of the second amendment to the constitution of the
united states , as well as its interpretation by every major
commentator and court in the first half century after its ratifi
cation , indicates that what is protected is an individual right
of a private citizen to own and carry firearms in a peaceful manner.
report of the subcommittee on the constitution of the
committee on the judiciary , united states senate ,
97th congress , second session ( february 1982 )

you might rightfully ask well then , what does that first bit about
militias mean \?

well , militia in historical context basically means the whole of the
adult males of the country. (indeed , the u.s. code still defines
militia as all armed men over the age of 17).

the militia comprised all males physically capable of acting
in concert for the common defense .... and ... these men were
expected to appear bearing arms supplied by themselves and of
the kind in common use at the time.
supreme court of the united states , u.s. v. miller (1939).

the reason for the phrase being there was to explain the rationale
behind the amendment , which was this by depending on the people to
bear arms in defense of the country , no centralization of military
power could ever occur which would permit tyranny in short , the
government would remain perpetually in fear of the people , rather than
the other way around.

no free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms. the strongest reason
for the people to retain the right to keep and bear arms is , as a last
resort , to protect themselves against tyranny in government.
thomas jefferson , proposal virginia constitution , june 1776
1 thomas jefferson papers , 334 (c. j. boyd , ed. , 1950).

and what country can preserve its liberties , if its rulers are not
warned from time to time that this people preserve the spirit of
resistance \? let them take arms ... the tree of liberty must be
refreshed from time to time , with the blood of patriots and tyrants.
thomas jefferson (letter to william s. smith , 1787 , in
jefferson , on democracy 20 , s. padover , ed. , 1939).

before a standing army can rule , the people must be disarmed
as they are in almost every kingdom of europe. the supreme
power in america cannot enforce unjust laws by the sword
because the whole body of the people are armed , and constitute
a force superior to any bands of regular troops that can be , on
any pretense , raised in the united states.
noah webster , an examination into the leading principles
of the federal constitution (1787) , in pamphlets on the
constitution of the united states (p. ford , 1888).

you may disagree with the second amendment , and wish that it be
repealed , but please do not pretend that it is n't there and that it
does n't mean what it says. you might argue that conditions have
changed and that it should no longer be present , but you ca n't imagine
it away.

i could fill a book with detailed argumentation. many have already.

however , none of this has anything to do with cryptography. lets get
it out of here. if you insist on discussing this , please do it in
talk.politics.guns , where people will gladly discuss this matter with
you.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from ninassup@athena.mit.edu (nikos i nassuphis)
subject lga ncrypt source
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 1135
nntp posting host w20 575 104.mit.edu

i got a number of requests for code.
so , here it is.
its written in 80x86 asm.
borland tasm will do.

tasm lga.asm
tlink t lga.asm


the code


lga ncryption
(c) by nick nassuphis


code segment
assume cs code , ds code

org 100h

start
jmp begin



gas particle assigment

bit 0 particle moving east
bit 1 particle moving west
bit 2 particle moving north
bit 3 particle moving south

bit 4 particle moving east
bit 5 particle moving west
bit 6 particle moving north
bit 7 particle moving south


collisiong rules

1. gas rules

if (e w) and ! (n s) then (e , w) (n , s)
if (n s) and ! (e w) then (n , s) (e , w)

for nibbles

1100 0011
0011 0011

and for bytes

11000000 00110000
00110000 11000000
00001100 00000011
00000011 00001100
00110011 11001100
00111100 11000011
11000011 00111100
11001100 00110011


2. reflection rules

just swap bits along directions




this look up table implements two particle collisions
for the hpp lattice gas

hpprule
db 00000000b 00000000
db 00000001b 00000001
db 00000010b 00000010
db 00001100b 00000011
db 00000100b 00000100
db 00000101b 00000101
db 00000110b 00000110
db 00000111b 00000111
db 00001000b 00001000
db 00001001b 00001001
db 00001010b 00001010
db 00001011b 00001011
db 00000011b 00001100
db 00001101b 00001101
db 00001110b 00001110
db 00001111b 00001111
db 00010000b 00010000
db 00010001b 00010001
db 00010010b 00010010
db 00011100b 00010011
db 00010100b 00010100
db 00010101b 00010101
db 00010110b 00010110
db 00010111b 00010111
db 00011000b 00011000
db 00011001b 00011001
db 00011010b 00011010
db 00011011b 00011011
db 00010011b 00011100
db 00011101b 00011101
db 00011110b 00011110
db 00011111b 00011111
db 00100000b 00100000
db 00100001b 00100001
db 00100010b 00100010
db 00101100b 00100011
db 00100100b 00100100
db 00100101b 00100101
db 00100110b 00100110
db 00100111b 00100111
db 00101000b 00101000
db 00101001b 00101001
db 00101010b 00101010
db 00101011b 00101011
db 00100011b 00101100
db 00101101b 00101101
db 00101110b 00101110
db 00101111b 00101111
db 11000000b 00110000
db 11000001b 00110001
db 11000010b 00110010
db 11001100b 00110011
db 11000100b 00110100
db 11000101b 00110101
db 11000110b 00110110
db 11000111b 00110111
db 11001000b 00111000
db 11001001b 00111001
db 11001010b 00111010
db 11001011b 00111011
db 11000011b 00111100
db 11001101b 00111101
db 11001110b 00111110
db 11001111b 00111111
db 01000000b 01000000
db 01000001b 01000001
db 01000010b 01000010
db 01001100b 01000011
db 01000100b 01000100
db 01000101b 01000101
db 01000110b 01000110
db 01000111b 01000111
db 01001000b 01001000
db 01001001b 01001001
db 01001010b 01001010
db 01001011b 01001011
db 01000011b 01001100
db 01001101b 01001101
db 01001110b 01001110
db 01001111b 01001111
db 01010000b 01010000
db 01010001b 01010001
db 01010010b 01010010
db 01011100b 01010011
db 01010100b 01010100
db 01010101b 01010101
db 01010110b 01010110
db 01010111b 01010111
db 01011000b 01011000
db 01011001b 01011001
db 01011010b 01011010
db 01011011b 01011011
db 01010011b 01011100
db 01011101b 01011101
db 01011110b 01011110
db 01011111b 01011111
db 01100000b 01100000
db 01100001b 01100001
db 01100010b 01100010
db 01101100b 01100011
db 01100100b 01100100
db 01100101b 01100101
db 01100110b 01100110
db 01100111b 01100111
db 01101000b 01101000
db 01101001b 01101001
db 01101010b 01101010
db 01101011b 01101011
db 01100011b 01101100
db 01101101b 01101101
db 01101110b 01101110
db 01101111b 01101111
db 01110000b 01110000
db 01110001b 01110001
db 01110010b 01110010
db 01111100b 01110011
db 01110100b 01110100
db 01110101b 01110101
db 01110110b 01110110
db 01110111b 01110111
db 01111000b 01111000
db 01111001b 01111001
db 01111010b 01111010
db 01111011b 01111011
db 01110011b 01111100
db 01111101b 01111101
db 01111110b 01111110
db 01111111b 01111111
db 10000000b 10000000
db 10000001b 10000001
db 10000010b 10000010
db 10001100b 10000011
db 10000100b 10000100
db 10000101b 10000101
db 10000110b 10000110
db 10000111b 10000111
db 10001000b 10001000
db 10001001b 10001001
db 10001010b 10001010
db 10001011b 10001011
db 10000011b 10001100
db 10001101b 10001101
db 10001110b 10001110
db 10001111b 10001111
db 10010000b 10010000
db 10010001b 10010001
db 10010010b 10010010
db 10011100b 10010011
db 10010100b 10010100
db 10010101b 10010101
db 10010110b 10010110
db 10010111b 10010111
db 10011000b 10011000
db 10011001b 10011001
db 10011010b 10011010
db 10011011b 10011011
db 10010011b 10011100
db 10011101b 10011101
db 10011110b 10011110
db 10011111b 10011111
db 10100000b 10100000
db 10100001b 10100001
db 10100010b 10100010
db 10101100b 10100011
db 10100100b 10100100
db 10100101b 10100101
db 10100110b 10100110
db 10100111b 10100111
db 10101000b 10101000
db 10101001b 10101001
db 10101010b 10101010
db 10101011b 10101011
db 10100011b 10101100
db 10101101b 10101101
db 10101110b 10101110
db 10101111b 10101111
db 10110000b 10110000
db 10110001b 10110001
db 10110010b 10110010
db 10111100b 10110011
db 10110100b 10110100
db 10110101b 10110101
db 10110110b 10110110
db 10110111b 10110111
db 10111000b 10111000
db 10111001b 10111001
db 10111010b 10111010
db 10111011b 10111011
db 10110011b 10111100
db 10111101b 10111101
db 10111110b 10111110
db 10111111b 10111111
db 00110000b 11000000
db 00110001b 11000001
db 00110010b 11000010
db 00111100b 11000011
db 00110100b 11000100
db 00110101b 11000101
db 00110110b 11000110
db 00110111b 11000111
db 00111000b 11001000
db 00111001b 11001001
db 00111010b 11001010
db 00111011b 11001011
db 00110011b 11001100
db 00111101b 11001101
db 00111110b 11001110
db 00111111b 11001111
db 11010000b 11010000
db 11010001b 11010001
db 11010010b 11010010
db 11011100b 11010011
db 11010100b 11010100
db 11010101b 11010101
db 11010110b 11010110
db 11010111b 11010111
db 11011000b 11011000
db 11011001b 11011001
db 11011010b 11011010
db 11011011b 11011011
db 11010011b 11011100
db 11011101b 11011101
db 11011110b 11011110
db 11011111b 11011111
db 11100000b 11100000
db 11100001b 11100001
db 11100010b 11100010
db 11101100b 11100011
db 11100100b 11100100
db 11100101b 11100101
db 11100110b 11100110
db 11100111b 11100111
db 11101000b 11101000
db 11101001b 11101001
db 11101010b 11101010
db 11101011b 11101011
db 11100011b 11101100
db 11101101b 11101101
db 11101110b 11101110
db 11101111b 11101111
db 11110000b 11110000
db 11110001b 11110001
db 11110010b 11110010
db 11111100b 11110011
db 11110100b 11110100
db 11110101b 11110101
db 11110110b 11110110
db 11110111b 11110111
db 11111000b 11111000
db 11111001b 11111001
db 11111010b 11111010
db 11111011b 11111011
db 11110011b 11111100
db 11111101b 11111101
db 11111110b 11111110
db 11111111b 11111111


this rule implements the velocity reversal needed to
run the gas evolution in reverse. its called a wallrule
because its the same as is all particles hit a wall
head on.

wallrule
db 00000000b 00000000
db 00000010b 00000001
db 00000001b 00000010
db 00001100b 00000011
db 00001000b 00000100
db 00001010b 00000101
db 00001001b 00000110
db 00001011b 00000111
db 00000100b 00001000
db 00000110b 00001001
db 00000101b 00001010
db 00000111b 00001011
db 00000011b 00001100
db 00001110b 00001101
db 00001101b 00001110
db 00001111b 00001111
db 00100000b 00010000
db 00100010b 00010001
db 00100001b 00010010
db 00101100b 00010011
db 00101000b 00010100
db 00101010b 00010101
db 00101001b 00010110
db 00101011b 00010111
db 00100100b 00011000
db 00100110b 00011001
db 00100101b 00011010
db 00100111b 00011011
db 00100011b 00011100
db 00101110b 00011101
db 00101101b 00011110
db 00101111b 00011111
db 00010000b 00100000
db 00010010b 00100001
db 00010001b 00100010
db 00011100b 00100011
db 00011000b 00100100
db 00011010b 00100101
db 00011001b 00100110
db 00011011b 00100111
db 00010100b 00101000
db 00010110b 00101001
db 00010101b 00101010
db 00010111b 00101011
db 00010011b 00101100
db 00011110b 00101101
db 00011101b 00101110
db 00011111b 00101111
db 11000000b 00110000
db 11000010b 00110001
db 11000001b 00110010
db 11001100b 00110011
db 11001000b 00110100
db 11001010b 00110101
db 11001001b 00110110
db 11001011b 00110111
db 11000100b 00111000
db 11000110b 00111001
db 11000101b 00111010
db 11000111b 00111011
db 11000011b 00111100
db 11001110b 00111101
db 11001101b 00111110
db 11001111b 00111111
db 10000000b 01000000
db 10000010b 01000001
db 10000001b 01000010
db 10001100b 01000011
db 10001000b 01000100
db 10001010b 01000101
db 10001001b 01000110
db 10001011b 01000111
db 10000100b 01001000
db 10000110b 01001001
db 10000101b 01001010
db 10000111b 01001011
db 10000011b 01001100
db 10001110b 01001101
db 10001101b 01001110
db 10001111b 01001111
db 10100000b 01010000
db 10100010b 01010001
db 10100001b 01010010
db 10101100b 01010011
db 10101000b 01010100
db 10101010b 01010101
db 10101001b 01010110
db 10101011b 01010111
db 10100100b 01011000
db 10100110b 01011001
db 10100101b 01011010
db 10100111b 01011011
db 10100011b 01011100
db 10101110b 01011101
db 10101101b 01011110
db 10101111b 01011111
db 10010000b 01100000
db 10010010b 01100001
db 10010001b 01100010
db 10011100b 01100011
db 10011000b 01100100
db 10011010b 01100101
db 10011001b 01100110
db 10011011b 01100111
db 10010100b 01101000
db 10010110b 01101001
db 10010101b 01101010
db 10010111b 01101011
db 10010011b 01101100
db 10011110b 01101101
db 10011101b 01101110
db 10011111b 01101111
db 10110000b 01110000
db 10110010b 01110001
db 10110001b 01110010
db 10111100b 01110011
db 10111000b 01110100
db 10111010b 01110101
db 10111001b 01110110
db 10111011b 01110111
db 10110100b 01111000
db 10110110b 01111001
db 10110101b 01111010
db 10110111b 01111011
db 10110011b 01111100
db 10111110b 01111101
db 10111101b 01111110
db 10111111b 01111111
db 01000000b 10000000
db 01000010b 10000001
db 01000001b 10000010
db 01001100b 10000011
db 01001000b 10000100
db 01001010b 10000101
db 01001001b 10000110
db 01001011b 10000111
db 01000100b 10001000
db 01000110b 10001001
db 01000101b 10001010
db 01000111b 10001011
db 01000011b 10001100
db 01001110b 10001101
db 01001101b 10001110
db 01001111b 10001111
db 01100000b 10010000
db 01100010b 10010001
db 01100001b 10010010
db 01101100b 10010011
db 01101000b 10010100
db 01101010b 10010101
db 01101001b 10010110
db 01101011b 10010111
db 01100100b 10011000
db 01100110b 10011001
db 01100101b 10011010
db 01100111b 10011011
db 01100011b 10011100
db 01101110b 10011101
db 01101101b 10011110
db 01101111b 10011111
db 01010000b 10100000
db 01010010b 10100001
db 01010001b 10100010
db 01011100b 10100011
db 01011000b 10100100
db 01011010b 10100101
db 01011001b 10100110
db 01011011b 10100111
db 01010100b 10101000
db 01010110b 10101001
db 01010101b 10101010
db 01010111b 10101011
db 01010011b 10101100
db 01011110b 10101101
db 01011101b 10101110
db 01011111b 10101111
db 01110000b 10110000
db 01110010b 10110001
db 01110001b 10110010
db 01111100b 10110011
db 01111000b 10110100
db 01111010b 10110101
db 01111001b 10110110
db 01111011b 10110111
db 01110100b 10111000
db 01110110b 10111001
db 01110101b 10111010
db 01110111b 10111011
db 01110011b 10111100
db 01111110b 10111101
db 01111101b 10111110
db 01111111b 10111111
db 00110000b 11000000
db 00110010b 11000001
db 00110001b 11000010
db 00111100b 11000011
db 00111000b 11000100
db 00111010b 11000101
db 00111001b 11000110
db 00111011b 11000111
db 00110100b 11001000
db 00110110b 11001001
db 00110101b 11001010
db 00110111b 11001011
db 00110011b 11001100
db 00111110b 11001101
db 00111101b 11001110
db 00111111b 11001111
db 11100000b 11010000
db 11100010b 11010001
db 11100001b 11010010
db 11101100b 11010011
db 11101000b 11010100
db 11101010b 11010101
db 11101001b 11010110
db 11101011b 11010111
db 11100100b 11011000
db 11100110b 11011001
db 11100101b 11011010
db 11100111b 11011011
db 11100011b 11011100
db 11101110b 11011101
db 11101101b 11011110
db 11101111b 11011111
db 11010000b 11100000
db 11010010b 11100001
db 11010001b 11100010
db 11011100b 11100011
db 11011000b 11100100
db 11011010b 11100101
db 11011001b 11100110
db 11011011b 11100111
db 11010100b 11101000
db 11010110b 11101001
db 11010101b 11101010
db 11010111b 11101011
db 11010011b 11101100
db 11011110b 11101101
db 11011101b 11101110
db 11011111b 11101111
db 11110000b 11110000
db 11110010b 11110001
db 11110001b 11110010
db 11111100b 11110011
db 11111000b 11110100
db 11111010b 11110101
db 11111001b 11110110
db 11111011b 11110111
db 11110100b 11111000
db 11110110b 11111001
db 11110101b 11111010
db 11110111b 11111011
db 11110011b 11111100
db 11111110b 11111101
db 11111101b 11111110
db 11111111b 11111111


maxbyte equ 55
lineno equ 23

srcptr dw offset buffer1
desptr dw offset buffer2

savebuff
db maxbyte (lineno 1) dup(0)

buffer1
db maxbyte (lineno 1) dup(0)
db 256 dup(0)

buffer2
db maxbyte (lineno 1) dup(0)
db 256 dup(0)







data
db
db
db
db this is a test for a lattice gas based encryption
db algorithm. the data is encoded as particles of a
db digital gas , whose time evolution is then simulated
db with a cellular automaton type algorithm. decryption
db can be achieved by running the simulation in reverse.
db a thermodynamic argument ensures that even if a single
db bit is flipped , no decryption of the data is possible
db
db after the gas is let to evolve for 256 timesteps ,
db one can either run the reverse evolution by pressing
db space , or flip a bit and then run by pressing '0'
db
db for a cryptographic application , the key would consist
db of the number of time steps and the time and location
db of specific bit inversions.
db
db
db
db
db


fill the gas with a piece of code

initgas
mov di , cs srcptr
mov si , offset data

mov cx , lineno
ig0
push di
push cx
mov cx , maxbyte
ig1
mov al , cs si
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di
loop ig1
pop cx
pop di
add di , maxbyte
loop ig0
mov si , cs srcptr
mov di , offset initgas
mov cx , maxbyte 3
mov al , 0
lg2
mov byte ptr cs si , al
not al
inc si
loop lg2
ret



display gas molecules bouncing around

showgas
push es
push si
push di
push cx
push bx

mov ax , 0b800h
mov es , ax
mov si , cs srcptr
mov di , 160 2 10 2
mov cx , lineno 3
add si , maxbyte 3
sg1
push cx
push di

mov cx , maxbyte
sg2
mov al , cs si
mov byte ptr es di , al
inc si
add di , 2
dec cx
jnz sg2

pop di
pop cx
add di , 160
loop sg1

pop bx
pop cx
pop di
pop si
pop es
ret



cs si sourse of data
cs di destination of data

scanonemiddleline

first byte is a special case because of warparound

mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte north is one line up (lower)
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte south is one line down (higher)
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si (maxbyte 1) west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si 1 east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di

middle bytes can be handled in a loop

mov cx , maxbyte 2
sol1
mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte north is one line up (lower)
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte south is one line down (higher)
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si 1 east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di
loop sol1

last byte is also special

mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte north is one line up (lower)
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte south is one line down (higher)
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si (maxbyte 1) east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di
ret




cs si sourse of data
cs di destination of data

scanfirstline

first byte is a special case because of warparound

mov bl , 0
mov bh , cs si maxbyte (lineno 1)
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si maxbyte 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si 1 east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di

middle bytes can be handled in a loop

mov cx , maxbyte 2
sfl1
mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte (lineno 1)
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si 1 east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di
loop sfl1

last byte is also special

mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte (lineno 1)
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si (maxbyte 1) east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
ret




cs si sourse of data
cs di destination of data

scanlastline

first byte is a special case because of warparound

mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte (lineno 1)
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si (maxbyte 1) west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si 1 east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di

middle bytes can be handled in a loop

mov cx , maxbyte 2
sll1
mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte (lineno 1)
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si 1 east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di
loop sll1

last byte is also special

mov bl , 0 al is the assembled byte.
mov bh , cs si maxbyte
and bh , 10001000b and at bits 7 and 3
or bl , bh or them into the assembled byte
mov bh , cs si maxbyte (lineno 1)
and bh , 01000100b and at bits 6 and 2
or bl , bh place the stuff into al
mov bh , cs si 1 west is one byte left (lower)
and bh , 00100010b and at bits 5 and 1
or bl , bh
mov bh , cs si (maxbyte 1) east is one byte right (higher)
and bh , 00010001b and at bits 4 and 0
or bl , bh
mov bh , 0
mov al , byte ptr cs bx offset hpprule
mov cs di , al
inc si
inc di
ret





invert all velocities in the gas

invertall
push bx
push cx
push si
mov si , cs srcptr
mov bx , 0
mov cx , lineno
ia1
push cx
mov cx , maxbyte
ia2
mov bl , cs si
mov al , byte ptr cs bx (offset wallrule)
mov cs si , al
inc si
loop ia2
pop cx
loop ia1
pop si
pop cx
pop bx
ret




iterateonce
mov si , cs srcptr
mov di , cs desptr
mov cs srcptr , di
mov cs desptr , si

push si
push di
call scanfirstline
pop di
pop si
add si , maxbyte
add di , maxbyte
mov cx , lineno 2 dont scan first and last
l1
push si
push di
push cx
call scanonemiddleline
pop cx
pop di
pop si
add si , maxbyte
add di , maxbyte
loop l1

push si
push di
call scanlastline
pop si
pop di
l3
ret



iterate hpp rule cx times

iterate
push cx
call iterateonce
pop cx
call showgas
loop iterate
ret



iterate hpp rule cx times

iterateuntil
mov si , 0
mov cx , offset iu4 offset iu3
iu00
mov al , byte ptr cs si offset iu3
xor byte ptr cs si offset iu4 , al
inc si
loop iu00
iu0
call iterateonce
call showgas
mov si , cs srcptr
mov cx , maxbyte 3
mov bx , 0
mov ah , 0
mov al , 255
iu1
mov bl , byte ptr cs si
mov dl , byte ptr cs bx wallrule
not ah
xor dl , ah
and al , dl
inc si
loop iu1
mov si , 0
mov cx , offset iu4 offset iu3
iu2
mov ah , byte ptr cs si offset iu4
and ah , al
xor byte ptr cs si offset iu3 , ah
inc si
loop iu2
jmp iu3
iu3
mov ax , offset iu0
push ax
ret
db 256 dup(90h)
iu4
push ax
push bx
push cx
push dx
push ds

mov ah , 9
mov dx , cs msgptr
int 21h

pop ds
pop dx
pop cx
pop bx
pop ax
ret

db 512 dup(90h)

msgptr dw offset msg
msg db this message is printed out by , 10 , 13
db code decrypted using data from the lattice , 10 , 13
db which was applied to the decoding routine , 10 , 13
db after every time step , 10 , 13
db the decoding function left the code unchanged , 10 , 13
db except after the gas evolution had completelly , 10 , 13
db reversed the thermalization , 10 , 13 ,


times equ 16 256 repetitions are enough to
equilibrate the gas

begin
mov ax , 0600h
mov bh , 7
mov dh , 25
mov dl , 80
mov cx , 0
int 10h

mov ah , 2
mov bh , 0
mov dh , 24
mov dl , 0
int 10h

call initgas
call showgas
mov ah , 0
int 16h
push cx
mov cx , times
call iterate
call invertall
call showgas
mov ah , 0
int 16h
cmp al , 0
jne begin0
mov si , cs srcptr
xor byte ptr cs si , 10000001b
begin0
mov cx , times
call iterateuntil
call invertall
call showgas
mov ax , 4c00h
int 21h


code ends
end start


from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 10 10 references
organization the crypt cabal
lines 333
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 10 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , references.
history and classical methods. modern methods. survey and reference
articles. journals and conference proceedings. electronic sources
(ftp sites). related newsgroups.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part10
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 10 references

this is the tenth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in this part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

books on history and classical methods
books on modern methods
survey articles
reference articles
journals , conference proceedings
other
electronic sources
rfcs (available from ftprf )
related newsgroups


books on history and classical methods

cf lambros d. callimahos , william f. friedman , military cryptanalytics.
aegean park press , \? .
dea85 cipher a. deavours louis kruh , machine cryptography and
modern cryptanalysis. artech house , 610 washington st. ,
dedham , ma 02026 , 1985.
frie2 william f. friedman , solving german codes in world war i.
aegean park press , \? .
gai44 h. gaines , cryptanalysis , a study of ciphers and their
solution. dover publications , 1944.
hin00 f.h.hinsley , et al. , british intelligence in the second
world war. cambridge university press. (vol 's 1 , 2 , 3a , 3b
4 , so far). xxx years and authors , fix xxx
hod83 andrew hodges , alan turing the enigma. burnett books
ltd. , 1983
kah91 david kahn , seizing the enigma. houghton mifflin , 1991.
kah67 d. kahn , the codebreakers. macmillan publishing , 1967.
history the abridged paperback edition left out most
technical details the original hardcover edition is
recommended.
koz84 w. kozaczuk , enigma. university publications of america , 1984
kul76 s. kullback , statistical methods in cryptanalysis. aegean
park press , 1976.
sin66 a. sinkov , elementary cryptanalysis. math. assoc. am. 1966.
wel82 gordon welchman , the hut six story. mcgraw hill , 1982.
yardl herbert o. yardley , the american black chamber. aegean park
press , \? .

books on modern methods

bek82 h. beker , f. piper , cipher systems. wiley , 1982.
bra88 g. brassard , modern cryptology a tutorial.
spinger verlag , 1988.
den82 d. denning , cryptography and data security. addison wesley
publishing company , 1982.
kob89 n. koblitz , a course in number theory and cryptography.
springer verlag , 1987.
kon81 a. konheim , cryptography a primer. wiley , 1981.
mey82 c. meyer and s. matyas , cryptography a new dimension in
computer security. wiley , 1982.
pat87 wayne patterson , mathematical cryptology for computer
scientists and mathematicians. rowman littlefield , 1987.
pfl89 c. pfleeger , security in computing. prentice hall , 1989.
pri84 w. price , d. davies , security for computer networks. wiley , 1984.
rue86 r. rueppel , design and analysis of stream ciphers.
springer verlag , 1986.
sal90 a. saloma , public key cryptography. springer verlag , 1990.
wel88 d. welsh , codes and cryptography. claredon press , 1988.

survey articles

ang83 d. angluin , d. lichtenstein , provable security in crypto
systems a survey. yale university , department of computer
science , 288 , 1983.
bet90 t. beth , algorithm engineering for public key algorithms.
ieee selected areas of communication , 1(4) , 458 466 ,
1990.
dav83 m. davio , j. goethals , elements of cryptology. in secure
digital communications , g. longo ed. , 1 57 , 1983.
dif79 w. diffie , m. hellman , privacy and authentication an
introduction to cryptography. ieee proceedings , 67(3) ,
397 427 , 1979.
dif88 w. diffie , the first ten years of public key cryptography.
ieee proceedings , 76(5) , 560 577 , 1988.
fei73 h. feistel , cryptography and computer privacy. scientific
american , 228(5) , 15 23 , 1973.
fei75 h. feistel , h , w. notz , j. lynn smith. some cryptographic
techniques for machine to machine data communications ,
ieee ieee proceedings , 63(11) , 1545 1554 , 1975.
hel79 m. hellman , the mathematics of public key cryptography.
scientific american , 130 139 , 1979.
lak83 s. lakshmivarahan , algorithms for public key
cryptosystems. in advances in computers , m. yovtis ed. ,
22 , academic press , 45 108 , 1983.
lem79 a. lempel , cryptology in transition , computing surveys ,
11(4) , 285 304 , 1979.
mas88 j. massey , an introduction to contemporary cryptology , ieee
proceedings , 76(5) , 533 549 , 1988.
sim91 g. simmons (ed.) , contemporary cryptology the science of
information integrity. ieee press , 1991.

reference articles

and83 d. andelman , j. reeds , on the cryptanalysis of rotor and
substitution permutation networks. ieee trans. on inform.
theory , 28(4) , 578 584 , 1982.
ben87 john bennett , analysis of the encryption algorithm used in
the wordperfect word processing program. cryptologia 11(4) ,
206 210 , 1987.
ber91 h. a. bergen and w. j. caelli , file security in wordperfect
5.0. cryptologia 15(1) , 57 66 , january 1991.
bih91 e. biham and a. shamir , differential cryptanalysis of
des like cryptosystems. journal of cryptology , vol. 4 , 1 ,
3 72 , 1991.
bi91a e. biham , a. shamir , differential cryptanalysis of snefru ,
khafre , redoc ii , loki and lucifer. in proceedings of crypto
'91 , ed. by j. feigenbaum , 156 171 , 1992.
boy89 j. boyar , inferring sequences produced by pseudo random
number generators. journal of the acm , 1989.
bri86 e. brickell , j. moore , m. purtill , structure in the
s boxes of des. in proceedings of crypto '86 , a. m. odlyzko
ed. , 3 8 , 1987.
bro89 l. brown , a proposed design for an extended des , computer
security in the computer age. elsevier science publishers
b.v. (north holland) , ifip , w. j. caelli ed. , 9 22 , 1989.
bro90 l. brown , j. pieprzyk , j. seberry , loki a cryptographic
primitive for authentication and secrecy applications.
in proceedings of austcrypt 90 , 229 236 , 1990.
cae90 h. gustafson , e. dawson , w. caelli , comparison of block
ciphers. in proceedings of auscrypt '90 , j. seberry and j.
piepryzk eds. , 208 220 , 1990.
cam93 k. w. campbell , m. j. wiener , proof the des is not a group.
in proceedings of crypto '92 , 1993.
ell88 carl m. ellison , a solution of the hebern messages. cryptologia ,
vol. xii , 3 , 144 158 , jul 1988.
eve83 s. even , o. goldreich , des like functions can generate the
alternating group. ieee trans. on inform. theory , vol. 29 ,
6 , 863 865 , 1983.
gar91 g. garon , r. outerbridge , des watch an examination of the
sufficiency of the data encryption standard for financial
institutions in the 1990 's. cryptologia , vol. xv , 3 ,
177 193 , 1991.
gil80 gillogly , \? . cryptologia 4(2) , 1980.
gm82 shafi goldwasser , silvio micali , probabilistic encryption and
how to play mental poker keeping secret all partial information.
proceedings of the fourteenth annual acm symposium on theory of
computing , 1982.
hum83 d. g. n. hunter and a. r. mckenzie , experiments with
relaxation algorithms for breaking simple substitution
ciphers. computer journal 26(1) , 1983.
kam78 j. kam , g. davida , a structured design of substitution
permutation encryption networks. ieee trans. information
theory , 28(10) , 747 753 , 1978.
kin78 p. kinnucan , data encryption gurus tuchman and meyer.
cryptologia , vol. ii 4 , 371 xxx , 1978.
kru88 kruh , \? . cryptologia 12(4) , 1988.
lai90 x. lai , j. massey , a proposal for a new block encryption
standard. eurocrypt 90 , 389 404 , 1990.
lub88 c. rackoff , m. luby , how to construct psuedorandom
permutations from psuedorandom functions. siam journal of
computing , vol. 17 , 2 , 373 386 , 1988.
mas88 j. massey , an introduction to contemporary cryptology.
ieee proceedings , 76(5) , 533 549 , 1988.
me91a r. merkle , fast software encryption functions. in proceedings
of crypto '90 , menezes and vanstone ed. , 476 501 , 1991.
mey78 c. meyer , ciphertext plaintext and ciphertext key
dependence vs. number of rounds for the data encryption
standard. afips conference proceedings , 47 , 1119 1126 ,
1978.
nbs77 data encryption standard. national bureau of standards ,
fips pub 46 , washington , dc , january 1977.
ree77 j. reeds , `cracking' a random number generator.
cryptologia 1(1) , 20 26 , 1977.
ree84 j. a. reeds and p. j. weinberger , file security and the unix
crypt command. at t bell laboratories technical journal ,
vol. 63 8 , part 2 , 1673 1684 , october , 1984.
sha49 c. shannon , communication theory of secrecy systems. bell
system technical journal 28(4) , 656 715 , 1949.
she88 b. kaliski , r. rivest , a. sherman , is the data encryption
standard a group. journal of cryptology , vol. 1 , 1 ,
1 36 , 1988.
shi88 a. shimizu , s. miyaguchi , fast data encipherment algorithm
feal. eurocrypt '87 , 267 278 , 1988.
sor84 a. sorkin , lucifer a cryptographic algorithm.
cryptologia , 8(1) , 22 35 , 1984.

journals , conference proceedings

crypto
eurocrypt
ieee transactions on information theory
cryptologia a cryptology journal , quarterly since jan 1977.
cryptologia rose hulman institute of technology terre haute
indiana 47803 general systems , analysis , history , ...
journal of cryptology international association for cryptologic
research published by springer verlag (quarterly since
1988).
the cryptogram (journal of the american cryptogram association)
18789 west hickory street mundelein , il 60060 primarily
puzzle cryptograms of various sorts
cryptosystems journal , published by tony patti , p.o. box 188 ,
newtown pa , usa 18940 0188 or tony s patti@cup.portal.com.
publisher 's comment includes complete cryptosystems with
source and executable programs on diskettes. tutorial. the
typical cryptosystems supports multi megabit keys and galois
field arithmetic. inexpensive hardware random number
generator details.

computer and communication security reviews , published by ross anderson.
sample issue available from various ftp sites , including
black.ox.ac.uk. editorial c o rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk. publisher 's
comment we review all the conference proceedings in this field ,
including not just crypto and eurocrypt , but regional gatherings
like auscrypt and chinacrypt. we also abstract over 50 journals ,
and cover computer security as well as cryptology , so readers can
see the research trends in applications as well as theory.

other

address of note aegean park press , p.o. box 2837 , laguna hills , ca
92654 0837. answering machine at 714 586 8811.

the ``orange book'' is dod 5200.28 std , published december 1985 as
part of the ``rainbow book'' series. write to department of defense ,
national security agency , attn s332 , 9800 savage road , fort meade , md
20755 6000 , and ask for the trusted computer system evaluation
criteria. or call 301 766 8729.

bamfd bamford , the puzzle palace. penguin books , \? .
goo83 i. j. good , good thinking the foundations of probability and
its applications. university of minnesota press , 1983.
knu81 d. e. knuth , the art of computer programming , volume 2
seminumerical algorithms. addison wesley , 1981.
kul68 soloman kullbach , information theory and statistics.
dover , 1968.
yao88 a. yao , computational information theory. in complexity in
information theory , ed. by abu mostafa , 1988.

how may one obtain copies of fips and ansi standards cited herein \?

many textbooks on cryptography contain complete reprints of the fips
standards , which are not copyrighted.

the following standards may be ordered from the
u.s. department of commerce , national technical information service ,
springfield , va 22161.

fips pub 46 1 data encryption standard (this is des)
fips pub 74 guidelines for implementing as using the nbs des
fips pub 81 des modes of operation
fips pub 113 computer data authentication (using des)

the following standards may be ordered from the
american national standards institute sales office ,
1430 broadway , new york , ny 10018.
phone 212.642.4900

ansi x3.92 1981 data encryption algorithm (identical to fips 46 1)
ansi x3.106 1983 dea modes of operation (identical to fips 113)

notes figure 3 in fips pub 46 1 is in error , but figure 3 in x3.92 1981
is correct. the text is correct in both publications.


electronic sources

anonymous ftp

ftpbk ftp.uu.net bsd sources usr.bin des
ftpcb ftp.uu.net usenet comp.sources.unix volume10 cbw
ftpdf ftp.funet.fi pub unix security destoo.tar.z
ftpey ftp.psy.uq.oz.au pub des
ftpmd rsa.com \?
ftpmr cl next3.cl.msu.edu pub crypt newdes.tar.z
ftpob ftp.3com.com orange book
ftppf prep.ai.mit.edu pub lpf
ftppk ucsd.edu hamradio packet tcpip crypto des.tar.z
ftprf nic.merit.edu documents rfc
ftpsf beta.xerox.com pub hash
ftpso chalmers.se pub des des.1.0.tar.z
ftpuf ftp.uu.net usenet comp.sources.unix volume28 ufc crypt
ftpwp garbo.uwasa.fi pc util wppass2.zip

rfcs (available from ftprf )


1424 kaliski , b. privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail part iv
key certification and related services. 1993 february 9 p. (format
txt 17538 bytes)

1423 balenson , d. privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail part
iii algorithms , modes , and identifiers. 1993 february 14 p. (format
txt 33278 bytes) (obsoletes rfc 1115)

1422 kent , s. privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail part ii
certificate based key management. 1993 february 32 p. (format
txt 86086 bytes) (obsoletes rfc 1114)

1421 linn , j. privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail part i
message encryption and authentication procedures. 1993 february 42 p.
(format txt 103895 bytes) (obsoletes rfc 1113)


related newsgroups

there are other newsgroups which a sci.crypt reader might want also to
read. some have their own faq as well.

alt.comp.compression discussion of compression algorithms and code
alt.security general security discussions
alt.security.index index to alt.security
alt.security.pgp discussion of pgp
alt.security.ripem discussion of ripem
alt.society.civil liberty general civil liberties , including privacy
comp.org.eff.news news reports from eff
comp.org.eff.talk discussion of eff related issues
comp.patents discussion of s w patents , including rsa
comp.risks some mention of crypto and wiretapping
comp.society.privacy general privacy issues
comp.security.announce announcements of security holes
misc.legal.computing
sci.math general math discussion

from koontzd@phobos.lrmsc.loral.com (david koontz )
subject re will feds troll for mutilated law enforcement blocks \?
organization loral rolm mil spec computers
lines 43

the m code stream might be independently attacked based on knowledge of
clipper chip protocols as revealed plaintext. this could be invalidated
by changing the temporal and or spatial relationship of the clipper m stream
and the actual transmitted stream , under the control of a secure key
generator synchronized between endpoints.

the useful life time of captured law enforcement blocks might be limited
based on hostile forces using them as targets following transmission
interception. you would need a large number of them , but , hey there 's
supposed to be millions of these things , right \? adding time stamps to
the encrypted law enforcement block is probably impractical , who wants
an encryption chip with a real time clock \?



the entire idea of the law enforcement block can be invalidated.

i just had the thought , that you could capture your own law enforcement blocks
for session keys k that you will not use in actual transmissions as
the session key authenticators. the proviso that you do n't mind your own
serial number being discovered.

d. denning just sent out further information of a new version of the clipper
chip. if a hash function were to be embedded in a clipper m transmission
block reflecting the law enforcement block , it better not fall on 64 bit block
boundaries. if it were a recognizeable datum , you could lie with it too.

i like the randomizer inclusion in the myk 80. i remember reading that
intel had an approved random noise source on silicon , hence the ability
to put it inside.

you ever think that mykotronx sounds like one of those made up names of
companies used as fronts for intelligence organizations \?











from rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization center for high perf. computing of wpi marlboro ma
distribution na
lines 26

in article c5so84.hxv@demon.co.uk graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
in article 2073@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes
if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its algrithm public
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few
isolated 'respected experts' (respected by whom \? for what \? perhaps a

one more time...

if they released the algorithm , it would be possible for someone
to come up with an implementation which was identical , but
lacking an escrowed key.

note that the press announcement mentioned that the algorithm was
being kept secret for security of the key escrow system. in this
case security means an escrowed key for every clipper chip .


assuming you believed all that is said about the effective of
the algorithm , and the escrow system , which would you buy

(a) chip from firm a with the escrowed key
(b) second source chip from reputable firm b with no key
in government escrow.

there would obviously be powerful economic incentives for a second
source , non escrowed , vendor.

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from u23590@uicvm.uic.edu
subject cripple chip
lines 19

how about this the
telco has your clipper key. the telco
has your intended partner 's key , if he is
using one. whenever you call , the message
gets decrypted and reencrypted wihtout
y key exchange. i know it 's a stupid
system , but for the feds , it 'd be
great. the point of this isn t to
take over the crypto market , btw. clinton
doen not want people to have any sort of crypto at
all (just like busch). but he needs some support
for the technology initiative garbage he 's
pushing (industrial policy stuff) and a computer
hip designed by the gov't is just the thing.

who 's going to thing about the (literal) billions of
dollars it took for a government agency to design \?

watkins@earth.eecs.uic.edu

from arussell@austin.ibm.com (ag russell)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
originator arussell@pal500.austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
lines 29


in article 1993apr21.001230.26384@lokkur.dexter.mi.us , scs@lokkur.dexter.mi.us (steve simmons) writes
smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes

thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys. let 's assume a brute force engine like that
hypothesized for des 1 microsecond per trial , 1 million chips. that 's
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials. well ,
maybe they can get chips running at one trial per nanosecond , and build
a machine with 10 million chips. sure only 3.8 years for each solution.

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the
machine that does 1 trial nanosecond , we can imagine the storage medium
that could index and archive it.

at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des encryped
and the person that had sent it , went on vaction. rather than wait two weeks
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took two(2)
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des.

a.g.




a.g. russell dept a06s oltp section of pals group vm id sc39093 at ausvm1
email arussell@austin.ibm.com phone 512 838 7953 tieline 678 7953
these are my views , on anyone else they would look silly. free the berkeley 4.4

from cepek@vixvax.mgi.com
subject tempest vs lcd (was re once tapped...)
organization management graphics , inc.
lines 19

douglas craig holland (holland@cs.colostate.edu) writes

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic
emmisions from your computer or terminal. note that measures to
protect yourself from tempest surveillance are still classified , as
far as i know.

steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner) writes

are lcd displays vulnerable to tempest \?

i can see high voltage type display devices being vulnerable (crts ,
plasma displays , etc.) but jason beat me to this question. what
about em radiation from low voltage items like lcd displays \?

perhaps the critical element is the driver circuitry \? the cabling \?
what about a portable pc mac etc. , where all the noise is bunched
into one tiny area \?

from jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization mount holyoke college
lines 32
distribution world
nntp posting host orixa.mtholyoke.edu

in article marc.93apr17211937@oliver.mit.edu marc@mit.edu (marc horowitz n1nzu) writes
just who is that , i asked myself , or rather , i asked the computer.

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at sat , 17 apr 93 20 42 56 edt
expn clipper
250 csspab@mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov
...
221 first.org closing connection
connection closed.

well , is n't that interesting. dorothy denning , mitch kapor , ...

even more interesting the smtp server at csrc.ncsl.nist.gov no longer
recognizes the 'expn' and 'vrfy' commands...

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov smtp
trying 129.6.54.11...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt
expn clipper
500 command unrecognized

seems like sombody did n't like your snooping around , marc.

jurgen botz , jbotz@mtholyoke.edu vending machines should respond to a finger
south hadley , ma , usa request with a list of all items currently
unix is dead , long live unix available for purchase... rfc1288

from rschnapp@metaflow.com (russ schnapp)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host habu
organization metaflow technologies inc.
lines 19

it might be nice to

1. cut out the ad hominem attacks on prof. denning , mr. sternlight ,
etc. if you have something objective to say about their views , go
ahead and say it (subject to point 2.). personal attacks reflect more
on the attacker more than on the attackee. throw light , not heat !

2. restrict the discussion to appropriate newsgroups. i submit that
comp.org.acm and comp.org.ieee are not appropriate for this
discussion. you have now made subscribers to these newsgroups aware of
the issue. if they want to know more or participate in the discussion ,
they can easily join sci.crypt , comp.security.misc , alt.security , or
comp.org.eff.talk.


...russ schnapp
email netcom ! metaflow ! rschnapp or rschnapp@metaflow.com or rschnapp@bix.com
metaflow technologies voice 619 452 6608x230 fax 619 452 0401
la jolla , california unless otw specified , i`m speaking only for myself !

from smythw@vccsouth23.its.rpi.edu (william smythe)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host vccsouth23.its.rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny
distribution na
lines 29

in article 1qsip1innnj2@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
al@escom.com (al donaldson) writes
amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes

this appears to be generic calling upon the name of the anti christ.
just for the hell of it , let 's destroy this remark. let us imagine that
the executive branch actually could extract keys from the escrow houses
without anyone knowing , or telling. now what \? dick has 80 bits of data.
what the hell 's he gonna do with it \?

1) trot around to the telco and say 'we 'd like an unauthorised
decrypting tap'. uh huh.
2) break in to watergate and install his own tap (so his people still
do have to break in , neat , huh \? ) record some noise , then get the executive
branch phone decryption box (huh \? they 've got one \? goodness , wait 'til the
washington post gets hold of this) and decrypt the noise.
3) more likely , stare at the key , and say 'oh , hell it 's not
worth all this bloody hassle'


no , he gives the keys to the fbi (who may then give them to the local police
on request) who then simply put some alagator clips on your phone junction
box and conduct an illegal tap. they then decrypt when they recover the tape.
its just doing what the government does best breaking the law.

bill smythe




from msnyder@nmt.edu (rebecca snyder)
subject public awareness (wasre text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption)
organization new mexico tech
distribution na
lines 50

in article 2076@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes
i think this is no accident. it comes from the same philosophy that
the government rules controls the people , not the people controlling
the government , that the unconnected citizens are not sophisticated enough
to know what is best for them , so the government must tell the people
what they need or do not need ... we know best... . and the idea that
that a commoner can defend himself against government eavesdropping
or unlawful attack is totally unacceptable to people with this outlook.


combine this all with pushing for national identity cards with 'smart
chips' to encode anything they please (internal passport) under the
guise of streamlining the state people 's health care system , and with
(you can be certain) more jewels yet to come , and one sees an extremely
ominous trend. so what if 1984 will be ten years late... it still is
turning out to be an amazingly accurate prophecy... unless a lot of
people wake up , and in a hurry.

one should always have every red warning light and bell and danger flag
come up when the government seeks to set itself apart in regard to
rights , etc. from the unconnected unprivileged citizen (or should we
now be saying 'subject' instead \? )... why shouldn't the average person
have a good , secure system of data security , not dependent on nebulous
'safeguards' for maintaining that security \? why shouldn't the average
person be able to defend himself from an agency gone rogue \? 0i am sure
the feds could break into any data they really wanted to (but it would
take some work) , and using the same logic , one should not be allowed to
have a good safe , unless a duplicate of the key(s) or combination are
submitted for 'safekeeping' by the government \? i do n't really see a
difference , philosophically. encrypted data sure wo n't evaporate , not
with such high tech tools as a tape recorder...


the average amerikan today seems to think that the government should be
able to eavesdrop on everyone (else). opinion polls show that most
people belive the bill of rights to grant too much freedom to people ,
when it is not identified as such (btw , if anyone knows of a cite for that ,
i 'd love to have it). not only does this mean that these people are
willing to give up everyone (else 's) rights , they do n't even know what
the bill of rights actually says.

how can we show the average person (not the average usenet reader) that
people are actually entitiled to these rights \? so many people do n't
care if the government is taking more and more control of us all , a little
at a time.

if there was some sort of awareness of what the government is trying
to do by a majority of the us population... just think about what
could be accomplished but there are so many that trust , unthinkingly ,
in whatever the media and government tell them.

from ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au (ian farquhar)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization macquarie university , sydney australia
lines 46
nntp posting host laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au

in article 1r0ausinni01@senator bedfellow.mit.edu jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr) writes
the chip and algorithm are classified. if you reverse engineer it and
tell people , you are likely to go to jail.

i do n't find this a credible argument , for two reasons. one you have
supplied below unless i care about entering the usa at any time in the
future (eg. the taiwanese backyard cloners who btw have been known to
decap custom silicon and reproduce it on daughterboards when pirating
high profit arcade machines and the like who would n't care less) , i am not
going to care much about us confidentiality , am i \? only people like the
real me , who does care about travelling to various countries for business
reasons , will sit up and follow laws like this , but i would contend that
we 're not the main threat.

i also have grave doubts whether an algorythm widely distributed in silicon
could possibly be called classified. it 's like handing out military
secrets to the whole world in envelopes marked do n't open me. i can
imagine several credible defences which could be employed if it came to
a trial. one would be the stupidity of the government 's actions.

perhaps some foreign governments or corporations could help us out by
cracking the system outside the usa. the us government could probably
stop importation of clone hardware , but a software implementation
should be practical.

amusing thought could they have employed an algorythm which is infeasable
for a fast software implementation , but which is easy in custom hardware \?
in des , the extensive use of permutation tables (trivial in hardware you
just swap bus lines) , but relatively slow in software have had a big effect
on the speed difference between hardware and software implementations of
that cipher (indeed , i suspect that lucifer 's designers were well aware that
it would be , and approved.) certain algorythms (usually parallel search
algorythms) can be very slow in software , yet can fly in custom hardware.
i have no proof of their employment in clipper it is pure conjecture.
however , as a software implementation of this cipher is something that its
designers would have been trying to avoid at all costs , then the inclusion
of such techniques seems credible.

hmmm... i also wonder what intergraph thinks about the use of the name
clipper for this device. )


ian farquhar phone 61 2 805 9400
office of computing services fax 61 2 805 7433
macquarie university nsw 2109 also 61 2 805 7420
australia email ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au.

from butzerd@maumee.eng.ohio state.edu (dane c. butzer)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization the ohio state university dept of electrical engineering
distribution na
lines 19

in article 1993apr20.034724.3748@colnet.cmhnet.org res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli) writes
with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic emmisions
from your computer or terminal. note that measures to protect yourself from

2. i could independently invent about half a dozen right off
the top of my head. if i had studied advanced e m a little better ,
i could probably come up with a very good system.

would n't a a second monitor of similar type scrolling gibberish and adjacent
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to tempest attacks \?

actually , old video games and pinball machines are supposed to work pretty
good (at blocking em eavesdropping) , too. those things put out a lot of em
noise. back in the 80 's , i read about computer companies putting bunches
of games in their buildings for just this purpose (not to mention the ).


dane

from tony lezard tony@mantis.co.uk
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryp
distribution world
organization mantis consultants , cambridge. uk.
lines 13

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes

whatever happens though , the effect of this new chip will be to make private
crypto stand out like a sore thumb.

only if this chip catches on. which means alternatives have to be
developed. which will only happen if clipper is discredited.


tony lezard is tony@mantis.co.uk pgp 2.2 public key available from key
or tony mantis.co.uk@uknet.ac.uk servers such as pgp public keys@demon.co.uk
or even arl10@phx.cam.ac.uk 172045 3c85783f 09bbea0c b86cf9c6 7a5fa172


from uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt)
subject re what the clipper nay sayers sound like to me.
distribution na
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 60

in article 1qsvfcinnq9v@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@moink.nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes

the following is available in some ftp archive somewhere , i insert
my comments liberally throughout this demonic memo of big brotherdom

white house announcement on screw thread standards


this is to announce that the american national standards
institute (or whatever it is) has been given the authority to define
standard dimensions for screw threads.

look ! this is clearly the first step toward outlawing our
own screw thread specifications. if this madness is n't fought ,
tooth and nail , every step of the way , it 'll be a crime to use
screw threads other than those our fearless leaders so graciously
define for us.

sarcastic text deleted , no value judgement implied

screw you , bill clinton ! you and your totalitarianist thugs !


amolitor@nmsu.edu finger for pgst personal screw thread pitch , or
screw threads see the screw thread servers.
must be freed !


at first i was going to complain that your analogy was completely
irrelevant. but then i remembered something.

remember that move to get the u.s. to the metric system all those
years ago \? as far as i know we were supposed to be there by now.

the government sold it as better for the people , easier to be in
tune with the rest of the world. they had decided it was for
our own good.

then , when the plan was released , it soon became apparant that the
government were a bunch 'o' thickies.

think about it , change all the railroad track widths , signs ,
screws , abolish the old regime.

at the cost of millions of dollars.

your point is well taken. you think there is nothing to worry
about , you could care less who designs your cryptography , any
more than who designs your screws or the system of measurement
you use.

sit back , that 's right , just relax , we 'll take care of all your
needs mr. molitor.



uni@acs.bu.edu public keys by finger and or request
public key archives pgp public keys@pgp.iastate.edu
sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past. fight clinton 's wiretap chip !
df610670f2467b99 97de2b5c3749148c crypto is not a crime ! ask me how !

from denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
subject revised technical summary of clipper chip
distribution world
organization georgetown university
lines 167

here is a revised version of my summary which corrects some errors
and provides some additional information and explanation.


the clipper chip a technical summary

dorothy denning

revised , april 21 , 1993


introduction

on april 16 , the president announced a new initiative that will bring
together the federal government and industry in a voluntary program
to provide secure communications while meeting the legitimate needs of
law enforcement. at the heart of the plan is a new tamper proof encryption
chip called the clipper chip together with a split key approach to
escrowing keys. two escrow agencies are used , and the key parts from
both are needed to reconstruct a key.


chip contents

the clipper chip contains a classified single key 64 bit block
encryption algorithm called skipjack. the algorithm uses 80 bit keys
(compared with 56 for the des) and has 32 rounds of scrambling
(compared with 16 for the des). it supports all 4 des modes of
operation. the algorithm takes 32 clock ticks , and in electronic
codebook (ecb) mode runs at 12 mbits per second.

each chip includes the following components

the skipjack encryption algorithm
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number (this length is subject to change)
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip

the chips are programmed by mykotronx , inc. , which calls them the
myk 78. the silicon is supplied by vlsi technology inc. they are
implemented in 1 micron technology and will initially sell for about
30 each in quantities of 10 , 000 or more. the price should drop as the
technology is shrunk to .8 micron.


encrypting with the chip

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t
telephone security device (as it will be). suppose i call someone and
we both have such a device. after pushing a button to start a secure
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit session key k
with the device at the other end. this key negotiation takes place
without the clipper chip. in general , any method of key exchange can
be used such as the diffie hellman public key distribution method.

once the session key k is established , the clipper chip is used to
encrypt the conversation or message stream m (digitized voice). the
telephone security device feeds k and m into the chip to produce two
values

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field ,

which are transmitted over the telephone line. the law enforcement
field thus contains the session key k encrypted under the unit key u
concatenated with the serial number n , all encrypted under the family
key f. the law enforcement field is decrypted by law enforcement after
an authorized wiretap has been installed.

the ciphertext e m k is decrypted by the receiver 's device using the
session key

d e m k k m .


chip programming and escrow

all clipper chips are programmed inside a scif (secure compartmented
information facility) , which is essentially a vault. the scif contains
a laptop computer and equipment to program the chips. about 300 chips
are programmed during a single session. the scif is located at
mykotronx.

at the beginning of a session , a trusted agent from each of the two key
escrow agencies enters the vault. agent 1 enters a secret , random
80 bit value s1 into the laptop and agent 2 enters a secret , random
80 bit value s2. these random values serve as seeds to generate unit
keys for a sequence of serial numbers. thus , the unit keys are a
function of 160 secret , random bits , where each agent knows only 80.

to generate the unit key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1.
s1 and s2 are then used as keys to triple encrypt n1 , producing a
64 bit block r1

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1 .

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce n2 and
n3 , and two additional 64 bit blocks r2 and r3 are computed

r2 e d e n2 s1 s2 s1
r3 e d e n3 s1 s2 s1 .

r1 , r2 , and r3 are then concatenated together , giving 192 bits. the
first 80 bits are assigned to u1 and the second 80 bits to u2. the
rest are discarded. the unit key u is the xor of u1 and u2. u1 and u2
are the key parts that are separately escrowed with the two escrow
agencies.

as a sequence of values for u1 , u2 , and u are generated , they are
written onto three separate floppy disks. the first disk contains a
file for each serial number that contains the corresponding key part
u1. the second disk is similar but contains the u2 values. the third
disk contains the unit keys u. agent 1 takes the first disk and agent
2 takes the second disk. thus each agent walks away knowing
an 80 bit seed and the 80 bit key parts. however , the agent does not
know the other 80 bits used to generate the keys or the other 80 bit
key parts.

the third disk is used to program the chips. after the chips are
programmed , all information is discarded from the vault and the agents
leave. the laptop may be destroyed for additional assurance that no
information is left behind.

the protocol may be changed slightly so that four people are in the
room instead of two. the first two would provide the seeds s1 and s2 ,
and the second two (the escrow agents) would take the disks back to
the escrow agencies.

the escrow agencies have as yet to be determined , but they will not
be the nsa , cia , fbi , or any other law enforcement agency. one or
both may be independent from the government.


law enforcement use

when law enforcement has been authorized to tap an encrypted line , they
will first take the warrant to the service provider in order to get
access to the communications line. let us assume that the tap is in
place and that they have determined that the line is encrypted with the
clipper chip. the law enforcement field is first decrypted with the
family key f , giving e k u n. documentation certifying that a tap
has been authorized for the party associated with serial number n is
then sent (e.g. , via secure fax) to each of the key escrow agents , who
return (e.g. , also via secure fax) u1 and u2. u1 and u2 are xored
together to produce the unit key u , and e k u is decrypted to get the
session key k. finally the message stream is decrypted. all this will
be accomplished through a special black box decoder.


capstone the next generation

a successor to the clipper chip , called capstone by the government
and myk 80 by mykotronx , has already been developed. it will include
the skipjack algorithm , the digital signature standard (dss) , the
secure hash algorithm (sha) , a method of key exchange , a fast
exponentiator , and a randomizer. a prototoype will be available for
testing on april 22 , and the chips are expected to be ready for
delivery in june or july.


acknowledgment and distribution notice. this article is based on
information provided by nsa , nist , fbi , and mykotronx. permission to
distribute this document is granted.




from avg@rodan.uu.net (vadim antonov)
subject re re inventing crypto policy \? an eff statement
organization uunet technologies inc , falls church , va
lines 18
nntp posting host rodan.uu.net

in article 1993apr16.204207.24564@eff.org danny weitzner djw@eff.org
writes
the 80 bit key will be divided between two escrow agents , each of whom
hold 40 bits of each key.

i somehow started to doubt technical competence of the
people who designed the system. why on the earth split the
80 bit key in 40 bit parts to keep them in escrow separately
(having 40 bit and large volumes of data voice links produce
it should be relatively easy to break it) when they simply
could keep 80 bit sequences in n (n 2) independent places
and then xor all the partial keys to get the actual key (n 1
sequences should obviously be selected randomly and nth is the
actual key xor ed with the random sequences).

(or is it a conspiracy \? 1 2 )

vadim

from yerazunis@cthulu.enet.dec.com
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
organization turing police
lines 22


cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison) writes
for example , if i had a program on my disk which created totally random
files looking like encrypted messages and could demonstrate that the file
in question could have been created by that program , then my claim that
it was , in fact , created by that program must stand as true (since i'm
innocent) unless someone can prove me wrong.

hmmm... that brings up a neat idea.

unfortunately , it 's sooo neat , i think i ought to patent it.

so i ca n't tell you about it.

sorry. )

bill

copyright 1993 william s. yerazunis (aka crah the merciless)
all rights reserved , no responsibility taken.

i love the smell of flash powder in the morning ! it smells like...like theatre

from gtoal@news.ibmpcug.co.uk (graham toal)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization etc organization
lines 17
nntp posting host dorothy.ibmpcug.co.uk
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx

in article strnlghtc5lgfi.jqa@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

though some may argue about the nose of the camel , it 's worth noting that
the government proposal is limited to scrambled telephony. if it is only
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file
encryption , then it is an improvement over the current mass produced
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to
easy to break inverters.

try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there
that they 're angling for nren next , and the only conceivable meaning of
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of encryption.

do n't be lulled by the wedge because its end looks so thin.

graham

from geoff@ficus.cs.ucla.edu (geoffrey kuenning)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host ogmore.cs.ucla.edu
organization ucla , computer science department
distribution na
lines 18

in article 2073@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

fishing expeditions without the target 's knowlege. do n't give up the
right to be safe from that that should be non negotiable , and clinton
and co. know it (which is probably why they quietly developed this thing ,
figuring if they get it this far , they can ram it on through).

it always amazes me how quick people are to blame whatever
administration is current for things they could n't possibly have
initiated. this chip had to take years to develop , yet already
we 're claiming that the clinton administration sneaked it in on us.
bullshit. the bush administration and the career gestapo were
responsible for this horror , and the careerists presented it to the
new presidency as a fait accompli. that does n't excuse clinton and
gore from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's lay
the body at the proper door to start with.

geoff kuenning geoff@maui.cs.ucla.edu geoff@itcorp.com

from kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 42

ashall@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (andrew s hall) writes

i am postive someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the fifth
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self incriminating \?
...

from mike godwin mnemonic@eff.org , posted with permission carl

sadly , it does not. suspects can be compelled to give handwriting and
voice exemplars , and to take blood and dna tests.

e.g. the police could n't demand that you silently take them to where the
body is buried or where the money is hidden.

no , but they could compell you to produce the key to a safe where , as it
happens , evidence that will convict you is stored.

the crypto key disclosure issue has n't come up yet , but current law
suggests that it 's a loser for the defendant he 'll be compelled to turn
over the key.

the test for compelled self incrimination is whether the material to
be disclosed in itself tends to inculpate the discloser. in the example
i gave above , the safe key itself has no testimonial value ergo , it can
be disclosed under compulsion (e.g. , subpoena duces tecum).

moreover , the government can always immunize the disclosure of a crypto
key compelling you to disclose the key at the price of not using the fact
of your disclosure as evidence in the case against you. of course , they
can use whatever they discover as a result of this disclosure against
you.


mike






carl kadie i do not represent any organization this is just me.
kadie@cs.uiuc.edu

from sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (shaun p. hughes)
subject clipper crap
organization san francisco state university
lines 17


encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other



just a random passing thought , but can anyone cite a documented use
of encryption technology by criminals and terrorists.
(excluding the iran contra gang)




shaun p. hughes sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu

finger for pgp 2.2 public key

from cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison)
subject re hard drive security
organization stratus computer , software engineering
lines 18
nntp posting host ellisun.sw.stratus.com
keywords cooperation

in article m5c5fkj@rpi.edu antonh@rpi.edu writes
say , can anyone send my info on how to encrpyt a hard disk ...
ps. i would also like know the consequences of those types of actions if i
so chose to do them in the future in this country and european countries.

people have been encrypting notes in their notebooks for hundreds of years
maybe over a thousand. it 's a long tradition dating at least back to
the alchemists.

i know of nothing bad happening to them. i would assume that nothing bad
would happen to you , given this long history establishing encryption as
the property of individuals , to do with as they please.


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course.
carl ellison cme@sw.stratus.com
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel (508)460 2783
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax (508)624 7488

from graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
originator gtoal@pizzabox.demon.co.uk
nntp posting host pizzabox.demon.co.uk
reply to graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
organization cuddlehogs anonymous
distribution na
lines 17

in article 2073@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes
if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its algrithm public
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few
isolated 'respected experts' (respected by whom \? for what \? perhaps a
certain professor who likes key banks would be one of the selected
experts... this does seem to expand on some ideas the person was
advocating , if i recall ). how would anybody know that what the

actually , i am completely baffled by why dorothy denning has chosen
to throw away her academic respectability like this. it looks to me
like a major career limiting move. there can be very few people
who know what she 's been saying who take her seriously any more.

i wonder if she landed such a fat fee from cooperation with the nsa in
the design and propoganda stages that she does n't care any more \?

g

from bear@kestrel.fsl.noaa.gov (bear giles)
subject how do they know what keys to ask for \? (re clipper)
organization forecast systems labs , noaa , boulder , co usa
lines 24


this may be a stupid question , but how does the government know which keys
to ask for \?

will owners be required to register their phones , faxes , modems , etc. ,
and inform the government when they are moved to a different phone number \?
will there be penalities if the public does not do this \? will identification
(the national health care id , perhaps) be required when purchasing a
clipper equipted phone \?

or will each chip transmit identifying information at the start of
a conversation \? identification which could be used to automatically
log who calls whom \? (the phone company keeps records , but this
information would be accessable by a well placed van near a microwave
relay station).

this raises the question of how the two phones agree on a communications
encryption key. will it be something that is derived from information
exchanged at the start of the conversation and hence derivable by
an eavesdropper \?


bear giles
bear@fsl.noaa.gov

from marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu
subject re clipper chip technical details
organization computer science dept , indiana university
lines 24

thus said djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein)
short summary of what bellovin says hellman says the nsa says there is
a global key g , plus one key u c for each chip c. the user can choose a
new session key k p for each phone call p he makes. chip c knows three
keys g , its own u c , and the user 's k p. the government as a whole
knows g and every u c. apparently a message m is encrypted as
e g(e u c (k p) , c) , e k p (m). that 's it.

the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when
someone plugs the above ciphertext into a receiving chip \? to get m
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c.
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be computed
from c then the system is cryptographically useless and the ``key
escrow'' is bullshit. otherwise how is a message decrypted \?

given the description of the algorithm given , the only plausible
explantion i can find is that k p must be agreed to out of bandwidth
in advance by the two parties i.e. it 's a standard shared symmetric
key.

marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu mime ripem accepted
security through diversion n. theory which states that the public
availability of good computer games is vital to maintaining system
safety. contrast security through obscurity.

from mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (mark riordan)
subject list of large integer arithmetic packages
organization michigan state university
lines 285
nntp posting host scss3.cl.msu.edu
summary c functions to do arbitrary precision arith
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

this is the file bignums.txt from ripem.msu.edu , last updated april 1993.

in response to email requests , i have assembled this list of
large integer arithmetic packages of which i have heard.
most of these are c function libraries , available in source form.

for your convenience , i have placed copies of
some of these on ripem.msu.edu (35.8.1.178). they are
available for anonymous ftp in the directory pub bignum .
however , what i have may not be the most current version in all cases.

here they are , in no particular order

mp
multiple precision package that comes with some unixes

multiple precision package accessed via lmp flag on your
compiler. provides , , , , gcd , exponentiation ,
sqrt. comes with sunos , next mach , bbn mach 1000 ,
and probably a few others. see man mp .
object code only , of course.

pari
henri cohen , et al. , universite bordeaux i , paris , france

multiple precision desk calculator and library routines.
contains optimized assembly code for motorola 68020 ,
semi optimized code for sparc , and apparently rather slow
generic c version. does both integers and reals.
does vectors and matrices as well as scalars.
contains a number of advanced functions , some of which i 've
never heard of. ( weber 's function \? )
has a factorization function , primality test , other related stuff.
plenty of tex documentation.
public domain , but you ca n't distribute modified versions.
available via anonymous ftp from math.ucla.edu. there seem to
be mac and next specific versions there in addition to
filename pari 1.35a.tar.z

arithmetic in global fields (arith)
kevin r. coombes , david r. grant

package of routines for arbitrary precision integers or
polynomials over finite fields. includes basic , , ,
and a few others like gcd. source code in c.
distributed under the terms of the gnu public license.
includes man pages and tex documentation.
filename arith.tar.z

arbitrary precision math library
lloyd zusman los gatos , ca

c package which supports basic , , , . provides for radix
points (i.e. , non integers). not as polished as the others here.
posted to comp.sources.misc in october 1988.
filename apml.tar.z

bignum
j. vuillemin , inria , france , and others.
distributed by digital equipment paris research lab (decprl)

a portable and efficient arbitrary precision integer package.
c code , with generic c kernel , plus assembly kernels for
mc680x0 , intel i960 , mips , ns32032 , pyramid , and of course vax.
this is probably one of the better known packages of this type.
implements , , , , mod , plus logical operations or , and , xor.
both signed and unsigned arithmetic available.
available via email from librarian@decprl.dec.com.
you will receive 5 shell archives. give your postal address
and you will also receive printed documentation from france.
package includes tex documentation.
publicly available for non commercial use.
i removed this from my archive when i heard a rumor that prl
does n't like others to distribute it. however , bignum is
distributed as part of ecpp (see below).

lenstra 's package
arjen lenstra bellcore

portable unsigned integer package written entirely in c.
includes , , , , exponentiation , mod , primality testing ,
sqrt , random number generator , and a few others. the package
was uncommented and undocumented i have tried to add enough
comments to get by. this is the only of these packages that i
have actually used. it works well and is very portable.
i have n't done any benchmarks against the others , but the code
looks clever lenstra is an accomplished number theorist.
unlike the other packages here , this one requires you to allocate
storage statically only a problem if your numbers are really huge.
arjen has placed the code in the public domain.
filename lenstra.tar.z

lenstra 3.1
arjen lenstra , bellcore

an improved version of arjen 's package above. this one
does signed arithmetic and dynamic allocation (which can be turned
off as an option). has a few new routines , too. lenstra 3.1 contains
minor bugfixes to the previously available lenstra 2 and lenstra 3 .
filename lenstra 3.1.c

bmp (brent 's multiple precision \? )
r. p. brent

1981 vintage fortran code to do extended precision floating
fixed point arithmetic. includes most of the mathematical
functions you 'd find in a fortran run time library.
this code is an acm algorithm , number 524.
to obtain , send a mail message to netlib@ornl.gov
containing the line send mp.f from bmp or better yet , perhaps
just start with help .

spx
kannan alagappan joseph tardo , dec

this is a huge prototype public key authentication system
based on rsa. i mention it here because those who have heard
of spx have probably correctly guessed that it contains a large
integer package and i want to inform you that the large integer
package it contains is indeed dec 's bignum from france.
you can get a beta test copy of spx from crl.dec.com (192.58.206.2).
use it only for testing , as it may expire on a certain date.
(i do n't know whether this has expired yet.)

amp (antti 's multiple precision \? )
antti louko alo@kampi.hut.fi

multiple precision integer package in c. includes , , , , ,
pow , mod , 1 x mod y , random , sqrt , gcd. available for non commercial
use. the package includes share secret , a public key system based
on the diffie hellman algorithm.
this is normally part of the well known des dist.tar.z ,
but i have removed the des part to avoid having to deal with
cryptographic export laws , and have named the result
filename amp.tar.z

gennum
per bothner u of wisconsin madison

c routines and classes to do generic arithmetic , both
integer and rational.
formerly available on sevenlayer.cs.wis.edu. however , it
seems to have disappeared. sorry.

miracl
(by someone in dublin , ireland)

integer and fractional multiple precision package.
includes factorization , primality testing , encryption.
not public domain , apparently. it is available from the austin
code works. (see ads in byte magazine or dr. dobbs.)

precision
dave barrett barrettd@tigger.colorado.edu

multiple precision integer package in c with , , , , sqrt , rand ,
mod , pow , log. simple vector support. does dynamic allocation of memory.
free as long as you do n't sell it or any program that uses it.
filename precision.tar.z

ubasic
prof. yuji kida , rikkyo university , nishi ikebukuro 3 , tokyo 171 , japan
kida@rkmath.rikkyo.ac.jp

multiple precision version of the basic programming language ,
for ms dos. includes floating point. said (by keith briggs)
to be pretty fast. object only , i think. ervin@morekypr.bitnet
says this is the best package that i know of for
fast arithmetic. has a version optimized for 386 machines. includes
routines to do mpqs , the fastest currently known general factoring
algorithm. an additional file is at both sites to allow mpqs to use
hard drives so that it can factor up to 80 digits. many number
theoretical functions are included in ubasic. it allows over 2500
digits of precision.
available via anonymous ftp from shape.mps.ohio state.edu ,
or simtel20.army.mil , or wuarchive.wustl.edu.

calc v22
unknown

ms dos c like language that allows infinite precision.
nice intrinsic functions. ervin@morekypr.bitnet reports problems
when changing precision on the fly.
see simtel20 or wuarchive.

briggs arith
keith briggs (kbriggs@mundoe.maths.mu.oz.au)

turbo pascal 5 source for routines that do multiple precision
, , , , sqrt , gcd , factoring , rand for integers also includes
, , , and rand for rational numbers.
filename briggs arith.pas

institute fur experimentelle mathematik
dr gerhard schneider ( \? )

fast c multiple precision subroutine library.
i do n't know anything about it sl25@ely.cl.cam.ac.uk says
to contact mat420@de0hrz1a.bitnet for more info.
postal address
institute fur experimentelle mathematik
ellernstr 29
d4300 essen 12 germany

longint
markus mueller (mueller@komsys.tik.ethz.ch)

multi precision arithmetic written in modula 2 , with the most time critical
parts written in assembler. includes basic arithmetics ( , , , , ) as
well as arithmetics modulo a number. an additional module provides a
collection of procedures for primality testing , gcd , multiplicative
inverse and more. the package is part of a privacy enhanced mail (pem)
package which includes a pem mailer , rsa key generator and certificate
generation tools.

source is in modula 2 , c , and assembler for sun 3. longint has
also been ported to ms dos under logitech modula 2 and turbo
assembler. availability free for university use (research and
education) otherwise , a source license is required. to obtain ,
write or email to

markus mueller
bertastrasse 7
ch 8953 dietikon
switzerland
email mueller@komsys.tik.ethz.ch

bignum 1.2
henrik.johansson@nexus.comm.se

bignum package written in portable c. will in the future
conform to the common lisp functions that handles integers.
currently includes , , , , exponentiation , exptmod ,
comparison , random numbers , and gcd.
filename bignum 1.2

gnu multiple precision
gnu (free software foundation) multiple precision package.
i have n't looked at it yet. this is current as of april 1992 ,
but there may be a more recent version by the time you read
this. this package is very widely available on ftp sites.
filename gmp 1.2.tar.z

elliptic curve primality proving
francois morian , france.

large package to prove the primality of any prime.
includes inria 's bignum package.
obtained from ftp.inria.fr (128.93.1.26).
filename ecpp.v3.4.1.tar.z

pgp (pretty good privacy)
philip zimmermann prz@sage.cgd.ucar.edu

intel based crypto package that includes bignum routines in c ,
said to be quite fast for intel processors. unix and mac
versions also available.
the crypto package violates rsa patents , but the bignum routines
can be used without fear of legal repercussions.

bell 's arbitrary precision calculator
david i. bell , australia (dbell@pdact.pd.necisa.oz.au)

arbitrary precision calculator with good online help , c like
language , many builtin functions , support for integers ,
rational numbers (they work like floating point) , complex numbers ,
matrices , strings , lists , files , objects . includes
gcd , primality testing , even trig functions. recommended.
(large package , though.) obtained from comp.sources.unix.
filename calc 1.24.7.tar.z

built in support in other languages
various

multiple precision arithmetic is available in a number of
programming languages , such as lisp and abc (cf. mcsun.eu.net).
perl (by larry wall , available from devvax.jpl.nasa.gov)
includes source , in perl , for such a package , but it 's probably
not suitable for serious use.
for some of these , source code may be available. this list is
long enough , so i'm not going to pursue it aggressively.

thanks to ed vielmetti and several others who contributed to this list.

mark riordan mrr@ripem.msu.edu

from tsos@uni duesseldorf.de (detlef lannert)
subject re facinating facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed s1 and s2
organization universitaetsrechenzentrum , heinrich heine universitaet , duesseldorf
lines 40
nntp posting host lannert.rz.uni duesseldorf.de

in article pmetzger.93apr20065402@snark.shearson.com pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes

hmmm. we must assume that generating the unit key u from the serial
number n rather than generating it from a randomly selected u1 and u2
is an intentional way of assuring a fail safe for the government
u is completedly determined given s1 , s2 and n.
...
if s1 and s2 do not change , even if they remain secret i wonder if
they can somehow be back derived given enough unit key serial number
pairs. ...

maybe 300 such pairs suffice to reconstruct s1 and s2 \? by such a back
door (in the encryption algorithm perhaps) it would be possible (for
the manufacturer) to get the keys of all chips that were programmed in
one session. this would not , btw , enable anybody else to retrieve the
keys in the same way because they 'll never get a bunch of 300 (n , u)
pairs with identical s1 and s2. (note that these have to be constant
for the whole batch by the very nature of the procedure , i.e. , they
have to be typed in manually by the `random number supplying agents' ! )

and i was wondering why they 'll always do 300 chips in one session ...
since the procedure described by ms denning imposes high costs on the
production of every chip (at least three persons for one hour each ,
plus the cost of a laptop finally blown to pieces in a spectacular ,
hollywood like bonfire add travelling expenses , drinks and lighting ,
divide the sum by 300) there wo n't be a larger demand not from the
private sector anyway.

and let me mention one other thought that certainly has occurred to all
the notoriously paranoid people in this group before who is going to
verify that no interested party will perform tempest attacks on the
vault \? \?

where there 's so much smoke and mirrors there ca n't be a nice , honest
fire but something really worth hiding ...

detlef lannert dc3ek e mail tsos@rz.uni duesseldorf.de
pgp 2.2 key via server or finger lannert@clio.rz.uni duesseldorf.de
i am psmith. oh , you 're smith , are you \? with a preliminary
p. which , however , is not sounded. p.g.wodehouse

from rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization center for high perf. computing of wpi marlboro ma
lines 25

as for my impressions of the whole scheme it seems that instead of trying to
ban strong crypto , they are trying to co opt it. their contention that they
need to keep the algorythm secret to protect the security of the key
registration suggests possible inherent weakness to the algorythm. more likely
is that they dont want anyone constructing black market devices which dont
have the keys registered. anyone else notice that in their q a session , they

preventing black market chips w non escrowed keys is exactly what they
mean by protecting the security of the key escrow system. there are
two parts to the security of such a system

(a) preventing decruption by unauthorized personel
(b) assuring that the gummit can always decrypt clipper
traffic when it authorizes itself to do so.

of course , the ministry of propoganda will do a lot of tallking about
(a) and very little about (b).

rob boudrie
rboudrie@chpc.org

ps anyone care to guess what encryption scheme the gov't is using on
its newly formed database of anarch cryptists who oppose this entire
lunacy \?


from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject rubber hose cryptanalysis
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 7

some sick part of me really liked that phrase....

actually , merely the threat of a long prison sentence , even without
a beating , can get most people to give in. especially if it 's also
punctuated with a trip to the county jail , where one just happens to get
locked up with all the drunk stoned crazy folks that are too violent to be
left in cells with other people....

from shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff)
subject re clipper considered harmful
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 24
distribution inet
nntp posting host hijack.berkeley.edu

in article 15469@optilink.com brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood) writes
finally , because there is essentially no possibility of intercepting in
realtime the scrutable content of communications between stolen instruments ,
there will exist strong motivation to record and archive all communications
in the network for ex post facto scrutiny (once some criminal act is
discovered , and the instruments involved have been identified).

it seems likely to me that that a large subset of encrypted communications
would be archived to tape so they could be read if sometime in the future
probable cause arises and a warrant is obtained. i can even imagine this
being found legal and constitutional , since nothing is actually listened to
until a valid warrant is issued and the keys are obtained.

imagine archiving all pay phone conversations , so if someone turns out
to be a drug dealer , you can listen to all their past drug deals. and
archive calls to from suspected mafia members , potential terrorists ,
radicals , etc. imagine the convenience for the police of being able to
get a warrant now and listening to all the calls the world trade center
bombers made in the past year.

since archiving would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why
would n't it happen \?

ken shirriff shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu

from mjr@tis.com (marcus j ranum)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization trusted information systems , inc.
lines 10
nntp posting host sol.tis.com

i mean , if we can imagine the
machine that does 1 trial nanosecond , we can imagine the storage medium
that could index and archive it.

i think you 'd have to do some massive data compression just to
fit a bit of key information on each primary particle of the known
universe.
but , hey , it 's fun to imagine.

mjr.

from neuhaus@bloch.informatik.uni kl.de (stephan neuhaus (hiwi mattern))
subject re pgp 2.2 general comments
nntp posting host bloch.informatik.uni kl.de
organization university of kaiserslautern , germany
lines 39

neuhaus@vier.informatik.uni kl.de (stephan neuhaus (hiwi mattern)) writes

lots of stuff.

i hate to follow up to my own posting , but i should perhaps clarify
some things so i wo n't get flamed.

first of all , when i'm talking about ``factoring the modulus'' or a
``breakthrough in factoring'' , what i really mean is a breakthrough in
the cryptanalysis of rsa. i know that factoring and breaking rsa are
not proven to be equivalent it 's just so damn convenient not to
repeat this every time.

i also have to admit that i do n't really know if the ``non group''
property of a cipher is essential only for key chaining. i have
thought about it a little while , but i ca n't find a way that a
cryptanalyst could exploit a group structure. that , of course , means
nothing at all.

then i wrote ,

please note that as long as it is much harder to factor a rsa modulus
than it is to generate it , the increase in computer speed alone will
keep key lengths and modulus factoring in lock step , i.e. , people will
simply start using longer moduli and still be safe.

what i meant was that as long as the only advantage of the
cryptanalyst is a faster computer , then we will probably have rsa for
a long time to come , because even if 1024 bit moduli somehow could be
broken with fast computers (not with a new algorithm) , then people
would simply use longer moduli. both users and cryptanalysts benefit
from better technology in the same way.

hope this keeps the flames away... have fun.


stephan neuhaus@informatik.uni kl.de
sig closed for inventory. please leave your pickaxe outside.
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. note the expiration date.

from bob@natasha.portal.com (bob cain)
subject re pgp , pem , and rfc 's (was cryptography patents)
organization oce graphics usa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7
lines 22

charles kincy (ckincy@cs.umr.edu) wrote
in article 1993apr16.001321.3692@natasha.portal.com bob@natasha.portal.com (bob cain) writes

i hope my cynicism is misplaced here. go ahead...i'm not afraid to
be wrong every once in a while. but , i have an uneasy feeling that i
am right. (

it is and you are wrong yet you emotionally state a bunch of crap as fact
with a tiny disclaimer at the end. check your facts first and grow up.
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography
and immaturity i wonder.

oh , i see , flame someone , tell them that they are immature , tell them
they are wrong , and then do n't offer any proof for your assertions.

you really are a putz. put up or shut up.


i will provide any proof you wish in private. name it , dickhead.


putz cain

from lars@spectrum.cmc.com (lars poulsen)
subject re is there any security in the clipper \?
organization cmc network systems (rockwell dcd) , santa barbara , ca , usa
lines 35

in article zeev.93apr18014822@sepia.ccc.amdahl.com zeev@ccc.amdahl.com (ze'ev wurman) writes
it seems to me that all discussions about clipper security are almost
irrelevant if i cannot choose the key , but have to use a key chosen for
me by the foundry , the security of the whole universe of users is as good
(or as bad) as the security of vlsi technologies inc.

or their handlers.

it is a trivial effort to run any ciphertext agains all the keys ever
manufactured after all we are talking about 1 to 100 million keys that
will ever be manufactured. the key depositories can be as secure and
incorruptible as they wish to be , nobody cares anyway... (

they key depositories are irrelevant. in order for the applicable law
enformcement agencies to be able to know what keys to request from
escrow , the system will have to squawk its serial number in clear text
as part of the link establishment protocol. whoever owns the program
that assigns keys to each serial number wo n't need access to the key
depository.

in other words , the fbi may need a court ordered release of escrowed
keys , but the nsa has the keys before the chip is ever manufactured.
there is no need to go through the escrow or to try all keys. while
relations between law enforment agencies have sometimes been strained ,
there is also a long history of trading favors. this will re establish
the nsa as a very important agency for everyone to get along with ,
because they can give you untraceable encryption leaks without court
orders.

the more i think about this affair , the fouler it smells. i 'd rather
have a des with an engineered in backdoor ...

lars poulsen , smts software engineer internet e mail lars@cmc.com
cmc network products rockwell int'l telephone 1 805 968 4262
santa barbara , ca 93117 3083 telefax 1 805 968 8256

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re clipper considered harmful
organization totally unorganized
lines 72

in article 15469@optilink.com brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood) writes
if clipper comes to cellular phones along with legal proscriptions against
using other cipher systems on these phones , a new and potentially dangerous
class of crime is created.

aside from possession of terrorist tools (unapproved encryption devices
or programs)...

criminals who very badly want inscrutable tactical communications (specifically
the terrorists and drug dealers who proponents of key escrow cite as threats)
will be highly motivated to steal the cipher phone of a legitimate user , and
to kill this person or hold them hostage so discovery of compromise of the
device will be delayed.

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate
with impunity (assuming the cipher system carries no trapdoors apart from
key escrow) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other means.

because life is cheap criminals are currently willing to kill people to steal
very large and conspicuous property (luxury cars) , it is reasonable to assume
that they will be willing to kill people to steal small and inconspicuous
property (a cipher cellular phone). just as we have seen in the past with
blue box technology , and in the present with modified cellular phones ,
we can expect to see among high stakes criminals a lucrative market for
stolen cipher phones which can be used for a few days. the high stakes
criminals will pay the life is cheap types substantial amounts for stolen
instruments.

because a person is typically discovered as missing or dead in a few days ,
a stolen instrument will be usable for only a few days. there will be a
continuing demand for fresh phones fresh bodies.

and since clinton is also going full bore to deny unconnected citizens
the means to defend themselves ( we will protect you ... 911 is good
enough for you... ) by perverting or trashing the second amendment ,
the targeted individuals will be guaranteed easy prey. what is a few
bodies compared to the greater good of the fed being able to defeat
a citizen 's security with impunity \? you do n't think there does n't
exist a means by which the nsa can do their usual eavesdropping , scanning
for keywords , with or without a court order or any 'keys' , do you \?
if so , i got some great florida real estate you might be interested in...

perhaps the idea of escrowed keys is meant to divert the discussion to
how they will be safeguarded , and away from the basic fact that the
government is systematically taking away our right to privacy , to be
secure , for the means of self defense , and just about every other right
spelled out in the bill of rights \?

nawwww they are the government ! trust us...

in other words , clipper and similar systems have the potential to turn a
current inconvenience to law enforcement into a direct , vicious , and
persistent threat to the general public.

what is more important to the government \? law enforcement (people control)
or the safety of the general public \? the gun control issue should answer
that one look at how good that works in making cities safer the places
that are the worst in that regard are also the places with the 'best' gun
control. government is not about public good , it is about control.

never forget that. our founding fathers sure were concerned about it.


... remainder deleted ...




pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca (jerry han)
subject overreacting (was re once tapped , your code is no good any more)
nntp posting host debra.dgbt.doc.ca
organization communications research centre , ottawa
distribution na
lines 36

in this giant bally ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather
disturbing trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've tossing back and
forth.

somebody asked me what was wrong about overreacting in cases such as this.

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a riot \?
in a new civil war \?

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried
that people are going to reach for their hammers and rifles before their pens
and paper.

can people work within the system before trying to break it \? examine your
history books , and find out how many armed revolutions led to democratic
(or democratic style) governments. i think you 'll only find one in over
five thousand years of written history.

that 's not very good odds.

somebody once said something like armed violence is meant only to be
used in response to an armed attack. it is not meant to be used in
agression. this is the difference between self defence and murder.

let 's try to avoid killing things , eh \? there 's enough blood shed in the
world , without adding a couple of riots , civil wars , etc.

i'm probably overreacting. but what i 've read scared me a lot. i do n't
want my children growing up in a war zone.



jerry han crc doc div. of behavioural research jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca
these are my opinions , and my opinions only.
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors band
memories of those i 've left behind , still ringing in my ears. genesis

from butzerd@maumee.eng.ohio state.edu (dane c. butzer)
subject how large are commercial keys \?
organization the ohio state university dept of electrical engineering
lines 13

what are the typical sizes for keys for commercial secret key algorithms \?
i know des is 56 bits ( tripple des is 112 bits) and idea is 128 bits. is
there anything made in the us that has 128 bit keys \? anything anywhere
that has larger keys \? i 've heard that rc2 can be scaled to arbitrarily
large keys , but is this actually implemented anywhere \?

finally , can anyone even concieve of a time place where 128 bit keys are n't
sufficient \? (i certainly ca n't even at a trillion keys a second , it
would take about 10 billion years to search just one billionth of that keys
space.)

thanks ,
dane

from pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
reply to pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
organization edinburgh university
lines 14

if i forgot does n't have as much credibility as you 'd like , consider
this alternative. somewhere on the hard disk , duplicated a few times ,
keep a 128 bit random number. when the 128 bit digest of your
passphrase is computed , it is xorred with the random number before being
used as the key for your hard disk. writing random junk over the random
numbers makes the hard disk unreadable by anyone.

now , if you were merely to claim that you have written random junk
over the xor key , no one would be able to tell whether or not you were
telling the truth. this is (a) perjury , and (b) vunerable to
rubber hose cryptography , but otherwise effective.

o paul crowley pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus !

from smk5@quads.uchicago.edu (steve kramarsky)
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
keywords cooperation
reply to smk5@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 34

in article apr13.011855.69422@yuma.acns.colostate.edu holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes
i'm not a lawyer , so correct me if i'm wrong , but doing that could be
considered obstruction of justice , which could land you in prison for
quite a while.

the thing that 's great about the secret key is it is idea encrypted , so
even if the fbi do get the key , they 're sol unless they know the magic
word. if they try to force you to give them your pass phrase , just say
oops , i forgot. since the burden of proof is still on the prosecution
in this country , if you keep your mouth shut , how can they prove that you
did n't forget your pass phrase.

ok , doug is right , it would be obstruction of justice , blah blah blah ,
but , saying i forgot is a lie , which is just as bad from a moral point
of view if you think lawfulness is a good in and of itself (which
admittedly most people do not.) but there 's an even better way out of this.
provided the government is prosecuting you criminally , you can probably
plead the fifth amendmeent and thus legally avoid revealing your key. the
government cannot demand information from a criminal defendant which may
tend to incriminate that defendant. though this has never been applied
in the cryptography context (at least as far as i can tell) it seems an
obvious application to me.

this may be a common suggestion in this group , but if it 's not (i'm new
here) i 'd love to hear what people have to say about it. since i do n't
really read this group (and since the subject matter is more legal than
cryptoid) maybe misc.legal.computing would be an appropriate place \?

steve.


steve kramarsky , university of chicago law school
steve@faerie.chi.il.us or smk5@quads.uchicago.edu
all i did was kiss a girl. jake , the night before his hanging.

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
article i.d. qualcom.rdippold.735042679
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
lines 11
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com

jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse) writes
oh great. wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds.

and anybody who can get the keys from the escrow company. this is a
database that 's going to take plenty of updating they think they can
keep it secure \? please... and that 's just primary , not secondary
sources , such as police using the key under a warrant. would anyone
be surprised if they just neglected to erase the key if it turned
out they could n't nail you on anything \?

nourish a waif and it will pick out your eyes.

from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it !
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
distribution na
lines 87

robert lewis glendenning (rlglende@netcom.com) wrote
clipper chip is a response to the fact that there is no business
or professional body in a position to establish a standard and
provide chipsets to implement it for analog or digial transmission
systems.

rsa might be in position to do it , if they had active cooperation of
a couple of manufacturers of cellular phones or desktop phones.
.......
is rsa independt of the gov enough to spearhead this \? i , for one ,
would gladly pay royalties via purchasing secure phones.


hear hear ! i completely agree that we need to work quickly to
establish alternatives to the government 's clinton clipper. as brad
templeton and others have noted , once the clipper becomes ensconced in
enough phones there will be enormous pressure to make it the legal
standard , and it will become the market standard as well. (there is
a lot of confusion in the proposal about whether the use of clipper is
mandated , about whether non escrow alternatives will be allowed , etc.)

(there are also unclear issues about how hard , or how illegal , it will
be to make workalikes which meet the standard but which generate
phony or untappable keys...i'm sure the next several weeks will see
these issues thrashed out in this and other groups.)

meanwhile , i 'd be interested to hear rsa data security 's reaction.
often criticized in this group for their licensing policies (the usual
complaints about mailsafe costing too much , at 125 or so , and the
general issue of software patents...) , we may find that allying
ourselves with rsa is the best thing we can do. what 's a mere
licensing fee when our liberty may be at stake \? (if everyone who
wanted true security paid , say , 100 for a lifetime use of all of
rsa 's patents which expire in the period 1998 2002 , or so then rsa
would make tons of money and be happy , i'm sure. a small price to pay.
for those to whom 100 sounds like too much , i'm sure the actual terms
could be different , spread out over several years , whatever. to me ,
it 's a small price to pay.)

strong crypto means strong privacy. escrowing keys , sending copies of
keys to large databases , and splitting keys into two 40 bit pieces ,
all done with secret and non analyzable protocols and algorithms , is
not strong crypto !

whatever some of us may think about the abstract principles of
patenting number theory applications , this minor issue pales in
comparison with the potential dangers of the clipper proposal (note
that i said potential ...we 'll presumably learn more in the coming
months).

the rsa algorithms are at least public , have been analyzed and
attacked for years , and source code is available (to better ensure no
deliberate weakenesses or trapdoors).

i know of a number of groups putting together voice encryption systems
using off the shelf hardware (like soundblaster boards for the pc) and
celp type software. the new generations of pcs , using fast 486s and
pentiums are fast enough to do real time voice encryption. combined
with diffie hellman key exchange , this should provide an alternative
to the clipper system.

of course , we do n't really know if the administration proposes to
outlaw competing systems. (it seems to me that their goal of tapping
terrorists , child pornographers , and hilary bashers would be thwarted
if low cost alternatives to clipper proliferated. not to defend child
pornographers or terrorists , but limiting basic freedoms to catch a
few criminals is not the american way of doing things. end of soapbox
mode.)

i suggest we in these groups set aside any differences we may have had
with rsa (and do n't look at me....i have both macpgp and a fully
legal copy of mailsafe ! ) and instead work with them as quickly as we can.

rsa \? , jim \? , are you listening \?

tim may

p.s. i reserve the right to retract these opinions if it should turn
out that rsa data security was involved in the clipper proposal.

..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr)
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it !
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 22
distribution na
nntp posting host achates.mit.edu

in article ygoland.735123994@wright
ygoland@wright.seas.ucla.edu (the jester) writes

ignoring for the moment the question of patented processes (such as
public keys) , can the government stop me from using an encryption
process \?

following precedent in other areas , the government is likely to put a tax on
encryption technology. once the tax is imposed , it becomes a federal matter
and suspicision of an unlicensed cryptographic tool will bring the batf or
fbi tossing grenades into your house. (the batf appears to be the logical
agency to enforce such regulations federal control over alocohol , tobacco ,
and firearms is similary based on taxes.)

look at the fcc they wo n't allow sale of any receiever that can receive
bands that are supposed to be private. this has nothing to do with any
desire to prevent harmful interference. if the government can make a radio
receiver illegal what makes you think they wo n't claim the right to control
encryption \?


john carr (jfc@athena.mit.edu)

from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject bob putz cain (was pgp and other bs)
nntp posting host next7.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 21

in article 1993apr16.195927.3952@natasha.portal.com bob@natasha.portal.com (bob cain) writes
charles kincy (ckincy@cs.umr.edu) wrote
in article 1993apr16.001321.3692@natasha.portal.com bob@natasha.portal.com (bob cain) writes
...
oh , i see , flame someone , tell them that they are immature , tell them
they are wrong , and then do n't offer any proof for your assertions.

you really are a putz. put up or shut up.


i will provide any proof you wish in private. name it , dickhead.

do n't bother. c5j0t.k52@blaze.cs.jhu.edu has pretty much made
your pathetic ass superfluous. you lose. pack up your bags and
go home.

putz cain

well , if the shoe fits....

cpk

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
lines 25

there are chips which perform the voice compression expansion. they ca n't
be expensive , because they exist in many phones connected to pbxs or on the
pbx line cards , as well as in a lot of equipment which compresses
voice grade circuits to save the cost of long distance , leased t1s or
satellite circuits.

i ca n't remember the generic term for these chips. my impression is that
this was a big deal 10 years ago , but circuits have gotten so cheap that
it is n't done much now.

codecs. they have to get about 6 1 compression on 8 bit samples to squeeze
them down v32bis. i played around with the lossless 'shorten' program
last night , but it only managed 2.5 1. i 've got some specimen celp code
but it 's not obvious that it runs in real time i think it 's just proof of
concept code , and i have some mucking about with file formats to do before
i can put my own sample through it.

looks like the current option is to use a voice mail modem with built in
dsp chip to do this in hardware. that means two modems for a system ,
putting the cost at 600 upwards. ouch. maybe soon we 'll be able to
do it in software on high powered games consoles is n't the 3do an
acorn risc machine inside \? that cpu runs like shit off a shovel... and
will be nicely mass market too.

g

from finchm@csugrad.cs.vt.edu (michael finchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchmfinchm finch)
subject re why the clipper algorithm is secret
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va
lines 17
nntp posting host csugrad.cs.vt.edu

johnl@iecc.cambridge.ma.us (john r. levine) writes
the cryptographic protocol , though , is another matter. i see no valid
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there
it just occurred to me why the algorithm is secret. if it were
published , one could then build physically identical clone versions

i recall seeing a post some time ago saying that if the details of
an encryption scheme could n't be revealed , then the encryption
scheme is worthless. i believe the statement was in response to
somebody saying that they had some new snazzy scheme , but the
algorithm was a secret.

does this algorithm depend on the fact that the scheme is secret or
is it for the stated reasons above \?


mike

from clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization national institute of standards technology
lines 65

in article c5uxgv.dv7@panix.com habs@panix.com (harry shapiro) writes
in 1r1om5 c5m@slab.mtholyoke.edu jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz)
writes

even more interesting the smtp server at csrc.ncsl.nist.gov no longer
recognizes the 'expn' and 'vrfy' commands...

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov smtp
trying 129.6.54.11...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt
expn clipper
500 command unrecognized

seems like sombody did n't like your snooping around , marc.

then it is a good thing we already have this

the csspub mailing list csspab@mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov , and address on
rest of names deleted

sigh... my version of 'rn' asked me whether i really want to send this
posting !

you may as well know that all this stuff about the secret source of the
clipper announcement is because of a silly mistake. i am the administrator
of csrc.ncsl.nist.gov , alias first.org. it 's a system set up to help out
the needs of first , a forum of incident response and security teams , which
includes a number of world wide incident response teams such as cert cc and
other places in europe. as to the vrfy and expn commands , they are normally
disabled , since early on we did n't want crackers to find out the names of
incident response folks on our mailing lists. we had a disk crash several
months ago which required completely rebuilding the o s files same old
story , our backups were n't especially helpful. as you can guess , i did n't
remember to re disable vrfy and expn until i saw people on the net trying to
find out who was behind clipper@csrc... when i saw people 's names posted
here , i felt it was time to clear things up. so , expn and vrfy on csrc have
always been disabled in the past for reasons having nothing to do with
clipper.

i posted the white house announcements at the request of policy folks here
because csrc also provides usenet service. i posted them from an account
called 'clipper.' i also created an alias called 'clipper' that contains
the addresses of members of the nist computer security privacy and advisory
board , set up under law of the computer security act of 1987 , and addresses
of other individuals not affiliated with nist but involved in cryptography ,
security , and privacy i believe that these individuals were included on
this list because nist felt it important to get them the clipper information
first hand.

the 'clipper' alias is there for the benefit of those named above. it is
not a source for information , it was set up solely to monitor any initial
traffic. individuals on the list have requested that they continue to get
traffic that is not already duplicated on usenet.

while you can rightfully say we were a bit disorganized in handling this ,
i would ask that people stop speculating about any hidden agendas or motives
of the individuals on the 'clipper' alias i 've already apologized to them
for what 's happened. disabling expn and vrfy is an increasingly common
practice (albeit unfriendly to some) , and any effect of disabling it again
was unintentional.

john wack


from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization your typical phone company involved in your typical daydream
distribution na
in reply to brad@clarinet.com 's message of 17 apr 93 06 13 26 gmt
1993apr17.061326.16130@clarinet.com
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 21

in article 1993apr17.061326.16130@clarinet.com brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
once it hits land you can record it if you have telco access. the
telco is n't supposed to give that without a warrant. that 's the rule today.

but even so , the evidence would not be admissible , i think , unless the
judge so ordered. i think that even interception of the crypttext
without a warrant would be illegal. cops ca n't record today 's plain
cellular calls and then ask a judge , hey , can we have permission to
listen to those tapes \? can they \?

how long do you think it will be before it becomes legal for the
police to record encrypted conversations it 's not violating your
privacy because we ca n't read the encryption without a warrant , with the usual
good faith exception if they accidentally record a non encrypted conversation.

besides , it 's covered by the drug exception to the fourth amendment...

pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from bet@sbi.com (bennett todd @ salomon brothers inc. , ny )
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation
lines 44
nntp posting host sandstorm

for your application , what you can do is to encrypt the real time clock
value with a secret key.

well , almost.... if i only had to solve the problem for myself , and were
willing to have to type in a second password (the secret key) whenever i
logged in , it could work. however , i'm trying to create a solution that
anyone can use , and which , once installed , is just as effortless to start up
as the non solution of just using xhost(1) to control access. i 've got
religeous problems with storing secret keys on multiuser computers.

for a good discussion of cryptographically good random number
generators , check out the draft ietf security randomness 00.txt
internet draft , available at your local friendly internet drafts
repository.

thanks for the pointer ! it was good reading , and i liked the idea of using
several unrelated sources with a strong mixing function. however , unless i
missed something , the only source they suggested (aside from a hardware rng)
that seems available , and unguessable by an intruder , when a unix is
fresh booted , is i o buffers related to network traffic. i believe my
solution basically uses that strategy , without requiring me to reach into
the kernel.

a reasonably source of randomness is the output of a cryptographic
hash function (e.g. , md5) , when fed with a large amount of
more or less random data. for example , running md5 on dev mem is a
slow , but random enough , source of random bits there are bound to be
128 bits of entropy in the tens (or hundreds) of megabytes of data in
a modern workstation 's memory , as a fair amount of them are system
timers , i o buffers , etc.

i heard about this solution , and it sounded good. then i heard that folks
were experiencing times of 30 60 seconds to run this , on
reasonably configured workstations. i'm not willing to add that much delay
to someone 's login process. my approach (etherfind compress , skip 10k) takes
a second or two to run. i'm considering writing the be all and end all of
solutions , that launches the md5 , and simultaneously tries to suck bits off
the net , and if the net should be sitting so idle that it ca n't get 10k
after compression before md5 finishes , use the md5. this way i could have
guaranteed good bits , and a deterministic upper bound on login time , and
still have the common case of login take only a couple of extra seconds.

bennett
bet@sbi.com

from bill@celestial.com (bill campbell)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization celestial software , mercer island , wa
distribution na
lines 53

in 1993apr17.032828.14262@clarinet.com brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

it occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you , and the escrow
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure.

a very good point !

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are
good , their security will not be as good as the escrow houses.

why should we expect the cops to be honest ! they 're underpaid
for the risks they face every day. the media dumps on the all
the time and blames them for all sorts of discrimination ,
brutality.... how can we expect them to be more than human \?

besides there are lots of cases of police abuses ranging from
protection scams to outright robbery (when i worked in d.c. there
was a breakin at a local radio shack and the alarm company heard the
cops responding to the call over the audio pickup in the store ).

what this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you ,
at the end of the wiretap , they should be obligated to inform you that
a tap was performed , and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your
cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the
escrow houses.

then you would know that big brother had been listening. does he
really want to let you know \?

do the police normally reveal every tap they do even if no charges are
laid \? in many ways , it would be a positive step if they had to.
judges set time limits on warrants , i assume. at the end of the time
limit they should have to renew or replace your chip.

that 's if we go with this scheme , which i am not sure i agree with.

i'm completely against anything that makes it easier for the
government to encroach on the rights of individuals. the
founders of this country spent a lot of effort limiting the power
of the government and specifying exactly what the governments
rights were (and this did n't include a gov't spy in every
bedroom). imho , there are entirely too many things going on
today designed to preserve the government organism at the expense
of individuals. look around and reread 1984 and many early
heinlein books. are n't there many parallels between the thought
police (can you spell waco texas \? ) , and heinlein 's ``crazy years'' \?

bill

internet bill@celestial.com bill campbell celestial software
uucp ... ! thebes ! camco ! bill 6641 east mercer way
uunet ! camco ! bill mercer island , wa 98040 (206) 947 5591
speed costs money how fast do you want to go \?

from marc@mit.edu (marc horowitz n1nzu)
subject re the source of that announcement
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 19
nntp posting host oliver.mit.edu
in reply to tcmay@netcom.com 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 08 17 28 gmt

in article tcmayc5o715.mrs@netcom.com tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

i know that at least one person on that list says the first he heard
of clipper was in the friday morning newspaper ! and another has
already fired off a letter of protest to nist.

my point \? i suspect this list , interesting as it is for various
reasons , does not represent the cabal that put this proposal together.
some of them , yes. others , no.

i received mail from mitch kapor saying that he did not ask to be on
the list , and does not know why he was added. i'm sure the same
applies to others on the list. so , i guess my initial theory was
right , that the clipper list was just someone 's idea of a bad joke. i
guess i should be happy it was n't a conspiracy.

marc

marc horowitz n1nzu marc@mit.edu 617 253 7788

from holthaus@news.weeg.uiowa.edu (james r. holthaus)
subject re estimating wiretap costs benefits
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa
lines 27

rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning) writes

in article 1993apr20.203756.20667@kronos.arc.nasa.gov hanson@kronos.arc.nasa.gov (robin hanson) writes
i'm attempting to write a serious policy paper examining whether the
proposed wiretap (or clipper ) chip is a cost effective tool for
police investigation. that is , ignoring concerns about government
intrusions into individual privacy , is the value of easy wiretaps to
investigators greater than the cost to the communications industry ,
and their customers , to support this wiretap technology \?
...

first , what the fuck is nasa doing wasting my tax dollars doing
policy papers on stuff far outside of their purvew mission \?
...
do us a favor. resign rather than right this paper for nasa. go
do useful work for the society.

whew ! take it easy on the guy. maybe he 's going to do this in his
spare time. maybe he 's going to do this to see how much a wiretap
really costs. maybe he 's going to do this so he can add to the
opposition to clipper. i do n't know fully why he might do this , but
maybe we should n't start flaming at the drop of a hat.

james holthaus james holthaus@uiowa.edu
government is an association of men who do violence to the rest of us.
leo tolstoy
pgp 2.2 public key available on request or from key server

from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re the clipper chip a technical summary
organization brought to you by the numbers 2 , 3 , and 7
in reply to denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu 's message of 19 apr 93 18 23 27 0400
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 62

in article 1993apr19.182327.3420@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes
prof. denning 's description of skipjack mostly omitted

chip structure
the clipper chip contains a classified 64 bit block encryption
algorithm called skipjack. the algorithm uses 80 bit keys (compared
with 56 for the des) and has 32 rounds of scrambling (compared with 16
for the des). it supports all 4 des modes of operation. throughput is
16 mbits a second. ...

f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted
with the chip
the key k and message stream m (i.e. , digitized voice) are then
fed into the clipper chip to produce two values

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and
e e k u n f , a law enforcement block.

three questions
1) it looks like each 64 bits of input gives you 4 64 bits of output
e m k 64 bits
e k u e 80 bits 128 bits
e e k u , n f e 128 30 bits 192 bits
do you really need to transmit all 256 bits each time ,
or do you only transmit the 192 bits of wiretap block at the beginning \?
all 256 would be really obnoxious for bandwidth limited applications
like cellular phones (or even regular phones over

2) how do the 4 des modes interact with the two part output \?
do the various feedback modes only apply to the message block ,
or also to the wiretap block \? or , if the wiretap block is only
transmitted at the beginning , does it get incorporated into
everything through feedback modes , but not during ecb mode \?

3) does the clipper chip check the wiretap block itself \?
does the block have to be present at all \?
since the receiving chip does n't know the transmitter 's u ,
it presumably ca n't check the validity of e k u , so it 's
limited to checking the form of the wiretap block ,
and maybe checking the serial number for reasonableness
(unless there 's some sort of back door structure that lets
it recognize a valid e k u .)

in that case , can you replace the wiretap block with a different
wiretap block , presumably an old valid one to avoid attracting attention \?
(the chip wo n't do it , so you postprocess the output.)
regular people can do one with their own serial number and a dummy key
paranoid people can use someone else 's serial number.

on the other hand , if i could think of that solution so easily ,
presumably the nsa could too have they done something to block it ,
like use message encryption that 's really e m k , u , n \?


thanks !

pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni)
subject re more technical details
organization swiss federal institute of technology (eth) , zurich , ch
lines 107

in article 1993apr19.134346.2620@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
here are some corrections and additions to hellman 's note , courtesy of
dorothy denning. again , this is reposted with permission.

two requests first , note the roles of s1 and s2. it appears to me
and others that anyone who knows those values can construct the unit
key. and the nature of the generation process for k1 and k2 is such
that neither can be produced alone. thus , the scheme cannot be
implemented such that one repository generates the first half key , and
another generates the second. that is ominous.

second these postings are not revealed scripture , nor are they
carefully crafted spook postings. do n't attempt to draw out hidden
meanings (as opposed to , say , the official announcements of clipper).
leave denning out of this given hellman 's record of opposition to des ,
which goes back before some folks on this newsgroup knew how to read , i
do n't think you can impugn his integrity.

oh yeah the folks who invented clipper are n't stupid. if you think
something does n't make sense , it 's almost certainly because you do n't
understand their goals.


this is an addition (posted with permission) to some tech. details of
cliper. they enligthen \? \? \? the use of s1 and s2 for keygeneration.

date mon , 19 apr 93 08 51 57 edt
from denning@cs.cosc.georgetown.edu (dorothy denning)
subject re clipper chip

i just had another conversation with nsa to clarify some of the features
of clipper. please feel free to distribute this and my other messages
on clipper.

the name of the encryption algorithm is skipjack.

martin hellman had written

and the serial number of the unit added to produce a three part
message which will then be encrypted under the system key sk
producing

e e m k , e k uk , serial number sk

to which i responded

my understanding is that e m k is not encrypted under sk (called the
family key ) and that the decrypt key corresponding to sk is held by
law enforcement. does anyone have first hand knowledge on this \?

i was correct in that e m k is not encrypted under sk. however , skipjack
being a single key system , there is , of course , not a separate decrypt key
for the family key sk.

the unit key , also called the chip key , is generated from the
serial number n as follows. let n1 , n2 , and n3 be 64 bit blocks
derived from n , and let s1 and s2 be two 80 bit seeds used as keys.
compute the 64 bit block

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1

(note that this is like using the des in triple encryption mode with
two keys.) similarly compute blocks r2 and r3 starting with n2 and n3.
(i'm unlear about whether the keys s1 and s2 change. the fact that
they 're called seeds suggests they might.) then r1 , r2 , and r3 are
concatenated together giving 192 bits. the first 80 bits form k1 and
the next 80 bits form k2. the remaining bits are discarded.

the seeds s1 and s2 do not change. the whole process is performed on
a laptop computer , and s1 and s2 are supplied by two independent people
so that no one person knows both. the same s1 and s2 are used during
an entire programming session to generate keys for a stream of serial
numbers. everything is discarded at the end (the computer could be
thrown out if desired).

the serial number is 30 bits and the values n1 , n2 , and n3 are formed
by padding the serial number with fixed 34 bit blocks (separate padding
for each value).

the resulting keys k1 and k2 are output onto separate floppy disks , paired
up with their serial number. each pair is stored in a separate file. the
floppy disks are taken away by two separate people on behalf of the two
escrow agencies.

dorothy denning
denning@cs.georgetown.edu


i am sure more technical detail will be known when time goes by.
please remark , that in posting this , i do not automatically agree
with it 's contents and implications. so do n't swamp my mailbox )

i just think this is an valuable addition to the less than technical
discussion that is rising here. and , no , i do n't mind if you call
s1 and s2 'backdoor' , as i could imagine the key generation process
working without these seeds and the dependency of k1 , k2 from the
serial number.


friendly greetings ,

germano caronni

instruments register only through things they 're designed to register.
space still contains infinite unknowns.
pgp key id 341027
germano caronni caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch fd560ccf586f3da747ea3c94dd01720f

from zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi)
subject re clipper chip. long follow up.
lines 478
organization curtin university of technology

in article 16695@rand.org , jim@rand.org (jim gillogly) writes
this document is in the anonymous ftp directory at nist. looks to me
like the other shoe has dropped.

jim gillogly
trewesday , 25 astron s.r. 1993 , 17 00


thanks for posting this and making it available. this post will be long , i will
comment on most of it , and am reluctantly leaving all of the original in place
to provide context.

please note that an alt. group has been set up for the clipper stuff.



note this file will also be available via anonymous file
transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory pub nistnews and
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717.


the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 16 , 1993


statement by the press secretary


the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary

hum , at t , vlsi and mykotronx are 'industry' \?
wonder what happened to ibm , this should be right up their street.
and a mandateed scheme is voluntary \? mr orwell would love this.

program to improve the security and privacy of telephone

communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

telephone encryption and scrambleing are years behind digital ones like rsa ,
idea , or even des. the above , while literaly true , is a clasic straw man claim
in the context of non real time circuits such as e mail and the like.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.


i would modestly propose that a mandated use of isdn would do more for commun
ications than this lot.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption

normmaly des.

technology can help americans protect business secrets and the

unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

note the use of the word business in the above. the whole tenor of this
release seems to be establishing a ground rule that only business use
is legitimate for debate. if you want the nothings you drop in your wife 's
ear to remain secret and private , that is not even on the agenda for debate.
note that there is no role for you to contain private info in this. the only
reference is to information already in the hands of others. the 'unauthorized
release' bit is also drawing a long bow. most of these cases are by people who
have legitimate access abusing it , and revealing , or often selling the info.
these people are , of course , in this proposal , the people who will have the
keys.

the criminals also use lawers , courts , the cia , white house officials and pens
to go about their business. when will they be outlawed as well \? yeah , several
of them would be a better idea than clipper !

them again , the protections of law and the courts have been seriously erroded
over the last decade ofr so.

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has
been developed by government engineers. the chip represents a

nsa

new approach to encryption technology.

yeah , this bit is very true.

....it can be used in new ,
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.


note the repeated mixing of telephone scrabeling and encryption. a demo
of the above claim on an ordanary pots would be a good nights entertainment
i suspect. note also the 'many'. not 'all' , as the general tone implies.

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary

information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations

and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

the case record seems to indicate that what is needed is a brutal tightening
of the current abuses. i have not heard , yet , of a case that was impeaded by
the use of secure encryption by the men in black. the other side , abuse by law
enforcers is well documented , even by govt agencies. and the phone vs other coms
is blurred yet again.


















a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans.















a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans.

lets run that line twice. not very carefully what it says. the stated
purpose of the key eschrow is to make the use of clipper compulsory. note the
word ensure . as to 'protect' , or 'law abiding' , i will leave to you.
so to the person who asked if it included the outlawing of other encryptions ,
the answer in this press release is , yes.

...each device containing the chip will have two unique
keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

just as they only can wiretap now with a warrent.

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

just makes sure that the illegal ones are preserved.

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

where do you find many experts. any ex kgb people looking for a contract \? )
and as a later posting asks , what of the stu iiis they already have. it will
be very interesting to see if the military and us embasies start to use it.
after all , it is secure , is n't it. the govt will answer that point by its own
actions.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology
trends and explore new approaches (like the key escrow system) ,
the president has directed government agencies to develop a
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes


again , personal use seems to be a unaskable question.


the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal

order , when necessary to protect our citizens

ah , so warrents are not always needed it seems.


the effective and timely use of the most modern
technology to build the national information
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
the competitiveness of american industry in the global
marketplace and

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

the itars seem to slightly impeed this.

the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries , the congress and groups that advocate the
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.
the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

note that all this wonderfull stuff will be in secret. only the 'proper people'
will be able to express an opinion , hence only the desired result will emerge.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

encryption and codes have been around for millenia. they are generaly in
equilibrium with the technology of the time. the systematic study of cyphers
has resulted in a swing in favor of the encrypter , at the moment. i have no
doubt that the factoring problem will fall in time. probably fofr practical
purposes by the middle of the next century.

further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.
the provisions of the president 's directive to acquire the new
encryption technology are also available.

for additional details , call mat heyman , national institute of
standards and technology , (301) 975 2758.




questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative




q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

it is a little hard to critisise a non proposal.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today.

note we drop back to 'phone mode' again. if this is a true answer , it can be
rephrased as it sucks big time. anyone who can drive the crypt work bench
will use it for light amusement before breakfast.

... while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system ,

this link between the security of the key eschrow , and the actual algorithm is
a real winner. given that i have 2 secret 40 bit numbers , could someone please
explain how the details of an encryption algorithm will reveal them \?

... we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

just make sure you read the cvs real carfully , ok.


q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the
commerce department , and other key agencies were involved in
this decision. this approach has been endorsed by the
president , the vice president , and appropriate cabinet
officials.

quick , with out looking back , what name is missing from that list \?

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

the people who agree with us and who think there is a buck in it for them.

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

the reverse engineering provisions of the 'mask work' act could be relevent
here.

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

q how do i buy one of these encryption devices \?

a we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
the clipper chip into their devices.

you do n't. not unless you are one of the 'right people'.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow

they missed the word secret here. he needs a grammar lesson too.

mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
encryption technology , which the administration is
developing.

i would say less secure , less conveniant , more expensive ( pgp is free ) ,
less available , and more prone to being comprimised
proofs to the contarary will be welcome. note proof.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product.

they do n't seem to be saying anything that makes much sense. and this proposal
does prohibit it except in a very limited way. and , this is the one explicit
reference to personal rights. it is a denial. and yes , i do n't think that the
mexicans , brazilians , and canucks are included in clinton et als magnanamous
gesture.

... there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

the 'false tension' is false. the balance is between two repugnant points. the
right to privacy is hand waved to non existance by putting it behind the false
assessment . it is assumed that the removal of the right to take what ever steps
you deem suitable to protect your privacy is non negotiable , hence is defined
in the govenment language to be non existant. if you do n't agree , you must be a
criminal , as only criminals do n't agree with out laws. also note the non
question. if what is here was not possible...

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
administration 's policy toward encryption will differ from
that of the bush administration \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

it indicates we know that bush dropped the ball in squashing that nasty insert
suitable retoric and will stamp out this disorderly , unruley outbreak of
freedom and ultra national sentiment.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the
same is true for other encryption devices. one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad. we plan
to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
of these products.


this one is a real giggle. in australia or france , they will have to reveal the
keys , and the algorithm. do n't think it 's at the top of my list of things i must
have , so the restrictions will protect me from saleks trying to sell me a bill
of crock.

any for any others using it , they must be nuts !

good luck folks.

paul


from paul@charon.gsfc.nasa.gov (paul olson)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization mission operations and data systems
distribution na
lines 44

in article 1qnav4 r3l@transfer.stratus.com , cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison) writes...
in article c5lgaz.250@dove.nist.gov clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

further , the attorney general
shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
super surplus fund to effect this purchase.

talk about adding insult to injury ...

i , for one , believe that the use of civil forfeiture should be abolished by
a decent administration , not continued. instead , it looks like that
ill gotten gain will be used to help pay for wiretap equipment.

i wholeheartedly agree. knowing that we have let our law enforcement agencies
seize our property against the fifth amendment of our constitution tells me that
we are absolving ourselves of our responsibility for self governance. we have
to take our government back from the self serving politicians who create laws
and rules only to better their positions within the government. we have allowed
them to take too much power from the people of this nation. that situation has
to be changed.

allowing the law enforcement agencies to use the seized property to pay off drug
informants who lie and continue to deal in drugs is tantamount to making a pact
with the devil himself. it 's a vicious cycle. the law enforcement agencies are
motivated to seize property to fund their own activities. and having no easy
way for the citizen to regain the property intact once taken gives even more
incentive for the agencies to take property.

it 's also interesting to note that two months ago rush limbaugh said that
clinton would have the plumbers out in force shortly. clinton and his
henchmen firmly believe in strong ubiquitous government control. anytime a
leader believes in that , the leader will use every means possible to retain that
control and take more.

we have to take our government back. otherwise we will end up living in the
equivalent of a high tech third world dictatorship. we have to take
responsibility for ourselves , our personal welfare , and our actions.

paul j. olson vax systems manager resident amiga addict
c voice 301 286 4246 , 301 210 7701
decnet charon paul
internet paul@charon.gsfc.nasa.gov
xx disclaimer statements in my messages are wholely my own.
amiga ignorance is a renewable resource. p.j. o'rourke

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 16

in article c5nmb1.cof@news.claremont.edu ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt) writes
get their copy of your key. any criminal who 's going to use
encryption will do it under cover of clipper. the only way to avoid
this will be to try to prohibit strong encryption.

this is n't true. today 's criminals regularly use all sorts of unsafe
methods , from cordless phones to cellular phones to plain old copper
wire analog phones that you can put alligator clips on to plan and
execute their crimes.

it is amazing how stupid they are , which is why the fbi was so keen on
the digital telphony law , and its successor the clipper chip. they 're
hoping here that most crooks will remain stupid , feel safe using clipper
chip phones and get caught.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from ted@nmsu.edu (ted dunning)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization computing research lab
lines 7
distribution na
nntp posting host lole.nmsu.edu
in reply to clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 19 06 gmt


nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip must have been
under development for considerably longer than the 3 months that
clinton has been president. this is not something that choosing
choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest it has
been in the works for some time.


from marc@math.uni sb.de (marc conrad)
subject re list of large integer arithmetic packages
organization computational linguistics dept. , u saarbruecken
lines 530
nntp posting host vieta.math.uni sb.de

mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (mark riordan) writes

not very comprehensive list deleted

there is a very comprehensive list in sci.math.symbolic ,
which detailed descriptions of many packages.
(especially you , mark , should update your list ) )
here it is


available systems

this is the list of currently developed and distributed software for
symbolic math applications. no informations is supplied on systems no longer
being supported like saint , formac , alpak , altran , mathlab , sin , sac , camal ,
scratchpad , mumath , sheep , trigman , analitik , smp or ccalc.

for more detailed info on any of the systems below , look into the directory
pub symbolic math in the anonymous ftp of math.berkeley.edu . no particular
recommendation is made for any of these. if you want prices contact the
company. programs are listed by (aprox.) the reverse order of the number of
machines they run on , in each class , general purpose systems first.

if you have any information to add to this list (we know we are missing
mupad felix) please send it to

ca@math.berkeley.edu
paulo ney de souza
department of mathematics
university of california
berkeley ca 94720 desouza@math.berkeley.edu

general purpose


maple
type commercial
machines most impressive list of machines i seen for a program
workstations (dec , hp , ibm , mips , sun , sgi , apollo) ,
386 pc 's , mac , amiga , atari , at t 3b2 , gould , convex ,
ncr , pyramid , sequent , unisys and cray 's.
contact maple@daisy.waterloo.edu
waterloo maple software , 160 columbia street west ,
waterloo , ontario , canada n2l 3l3
phone (519) 747 2373
version 5 release 1
comments general purpose , source available for most routines ,
graphics support in 5.0. a demo of the program for pc dos
can be obtained from anonymous ftp at
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos modern.algebra maplev.zip

mathematica
type commercial
machines cray ymp down to mac 's and pc 's
contact info@wri.com , phone 1 800 441 math
wolfram research , inc.
100 trade center drive , champaign il 61820 7237
version 2.1
comments general purpose , notebook interface on next , mac ,
nice graphics.

macsyma
type commercial
machines sun 3 , sun 4 (sparc) , vax (unix and vms) , apollo ,
hp 9000 , dec risc , pc386 dos , symbolics computers ,
368 387 and 486 (no sx 's) pc 's.
contact macsyma service@macsyma.com , phone 800 macsyma
macsyma inc , 20 academy st. , arlington ma 02174 6436
version depends on machine 417.100 is the latest (for sun 4 , hp ,
and dec risc) , 417.125 for pc 's
comments general purpose , many diverse capabilities , one of the
oldest around. includes propietary improvements from
symbolics and macsyma inc. descendant of mit 's macsyma.

doe macsyma
type distribution fee only
machines gigamos , symbolics , and ti explorer lisp machines. the nil
version runs on vaxes using the vms system. the public
domain franz lisp version , runs on unix machines , including
suns and vaxes using unix.
contact estsc energy science technology software center
p. o. box 1020 oak ridge tn 37831 1020
phone (615) 576 2606
comments help with doe macsyma , general and help with issues such as
obtaining support , new versions , etc lph@paradigm.com
leon harten from paradigm assoc. paradigm associates , inc.
29 putnam avenue , suite 6 cambridge , ma 02139 (617) 492 6079.

maxima
type licence for a fee. get licence from estc before download.
machines unix workstations (sun , mips , hp , pc 's) and pc dos (beta).
contact wfs@rascal.utexas.edu (bill schelter)
version 4.155
comments general purpose mit macsyma family. common lisp
implementation by william f. schelter , based on kyoto
common lisp. modified version of doe macsyma available
to estsc (doe) sites. get the licence from estsc (phone
615 576 2606) and then dowload the software from
dos math.utexas.edu pub beta max.zip or
unix rascal.ics.utexas.edu pub maxima 4 155.tar.z
currently their charge for 1 machine license is 165 to
universities. site licenses are also available.

aljabr
type commercial
machines mac 's with 4meg of ram.
contact aljabr@fpr.com , phone (508) 263 9692 , fort pond research.
15 fort pond road , acton ma 01720 us
version 1.0
comments mit macsyma family descendant , uses franz lisp.

paramacs
type commercial
machines vax vms , sun 3 , sun 4 , (sgi and mac 's on the works)
contact lph@paradigm.com
version \? \? \?
comments \? \? \?

vaxima
type distribution fee only
machines vax unix
contact estsc (see doe macsyma above)
version \? \? \?
comments general purpose mit macsyma family descendant.
includes source and binaries with assembler for macsyma
and franz lisp opus 38

reduce
type commercial
machines all unix workstations , a variety of mainframes ,
ms dos 386 4mbyte and atari st.
contact reduce netlib@rand.org
version 3.34
comments general purpose

form
type public domain verison 1 , version 2 commercial
machines msdos , atarist , mac , sun3 , sun4 sparc , apollo , next ,
vax vms , vax ultrix , decstation , and others
contact t68@nikhef.nl (jos vermaseren)
binary versions of version 1 are available
by anonymous ftp from nikhef.nikhef.nl (192.16.199.1)
version 1 and 2.
comments general purpose , designed for big problems , batch like
interface

axiom
type commercial
machines ibm rs 6000 's and other ibm plataforms
contact ryan@nag.com , phone (708) 971 2337 fax (708) 971 2706
nag numerical algorithms group , inc
1400 opus place , suite 200 , downers grove , il 60515 5702
version \? \? \?
comments general purpose.

simath
type anonymous ftp
machines suns , apollo dn and siemens workstations.
contact simath@math.uni sb.de
version 3.5
comments general purpose

derive
type commercial
machines runs on pc 's and hp 95 's.
contact 808 734 5801
soft warehouse inc. 3615 harding ave , suite 505
honolulu , hawaii 96816 3735
version 2.01
comments said to be very robust , gets problems that other larger
programs fail on. low cost.

theorist
type commercial
machines mac 's
contact prescien@well.sf.ca.us , phone (415)543 2252 fax (415)882 0530
prescience corp , 939 howard st 333 , san francisco , ca 94103
version 1.11
comments general purpose , graphics , if you like the mac interface
you 'll love this , fixed precision ( 19 digits ) , runs on
smaller mac 's than mma.

mas
type anonymous ftp
machines atari st (tdi and spc modula 2 compilers) , ibm pc at
(m2sds and topspeed modula 2 compilers) and commodore
amiga (m2amiga compiler).
contact h. kredel. computer algebra group
university of passau , germany
version 0.60
comments mas is an experimental computer algebra system combining
imperative programming facilities with algebraic
specification capabilities for design and study of algebraic
algorithms. mas is available via anonymous ftp from
alice.fmi.uni passau.de 123.231.10.1

mockmma
type anonymous ftp from peoplesparc.berkeley.edu
machines anywhere running common lisp.
contact fateman@cs.berkeley.edu
version \? \? \? \? \? \? \?
comments it does matematica (or i mispelled that ! ).

weyl
type anonymous ftp from ftp.cs.cornell.edu pub weyl
contact rz@cs.cornell.edu
version 4.240
comments intended to be incorporated in larger , more specialized
systems.

flac
type \? \? \?
machines ibm pc 's (dos)
contact victor l. kistlerov , institute for control sciences ,
profsoyuznaya 65 , moscow , ussr
version \? \? \?
comments functional language


group theory


cayley
type cost recovery
machines sun 3 , sun 4 , ibm aix and vm machines , apollo , dec
vax vms , mac running a ux 2.01 or higher and convex.
contact cayley@maths.su.oz.au
phone (61) (02) 692 3338 , fax (61) (02) 692 4534
computational algebra group
university of sydney
nsw 2006 australia
version 3.8.3
comments designed for fast computation with algebraic and
combinatorial structures such as groups , rings ,
fields , modules and graphs. although it began as a
group theory system it has recently evolved into a
general (abstract) algebra system.

gap
type anonymous ftp (free , but not pd basically gnu copyleft)
machines all unix workstations , atari st , ibm pc and mac
contact gap@samson.math.rwth aachen.de
ftp site samson.math.rwth aachen.de (137.226.152.6) math.ucla.edu
version 3.1 (3.2 to be released dec 92)
comments group theory calculations.


algebra number theory


pari
type anonymous ftp
machines most workstations , mac and next
contact pari@mizar.greco prog.fr
anonymous ftp to math.ucla.edu (128.97.64.16)
in the directory pub pari
version 1.35
comments number theoretical computations , source available , key
routines are in assembler , ascii and xwindows graphics.
pc dos version available from anonymous ftp at
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos modern.algebra pari386

macaulay
type anonymous ftp
machines complete source available , binary mac versions available
contact anonymous ftp to zariski.harvard.edu (128.103.1.107)
version \? \? \?
comments focused on algebra type computations ( polynomial rings
over finite fields ) , things like that.

kant
type \? \? \?
machines \? \? \?
contact kant group
prof. dr. m. e. pohst dr. johannes graf v. schmettow
mathematisches institut , heinrich heine universit at
universit atsstr. 1 , d 4000 d usseldorf 1
pohst@dd0rud81.bitnet or schmetto@dd0rud81.bitnet
version 1 2
comments kant (computational algebraic number theory) is
subroutine package for algorithms from geometry of
numbers and algebraic number theory. there are two
versions of kant kant v1 is written in ansi fortran 77 ,
while kant v2 is built on the cayley platform and written in
ansi c.

lie
type commercial
machines unix workstations (sun , dec , sgi , ibm) , next , pc 's ,
atari and mac 's.
contact lie@can.nl , phone 31 20 592 6050 , fax 31 20 592 4199
can expertise centre , kruislaan 413 ,
1098 sj amsterdam , the netherlands
version 2
comments lie group computations

ubasic
type anonymous ftp (ubas830.zip)
machines mac and ibm pc 's
contact malm@argo.acs.oakland.edu , phone (313) 370 3425
donald e. g. malm , department of mathematical sciences
oakland university , rochester , mi 48309 4401
version 8.30
comments basic like environment for number theory. in the collection
of programs written for it one can find
malm (collection of ubasic number theory programs (malm.zip)
by donald e. g. malm (and copyrighted by him) , including
baillie wagstaff lucas pseudoprime test , algorithm for
chinese remaindering , elliptic curve method to factorize n ,
fermat 's method of factoring , general periodic continued
fraction to quadratic routine , evaluates carmichael 's
function d. h. lehmer 's method of solving x 2 q (mod p).
ubmpqs (prime factorization program for numbers over 80
digits (ubmpqs32.zip)) , that can be found in the wurst
archives (wuarchive.wustl.edu).

numbers
type free but not public domain , registration required.
machines pc dos
contact ivo dntsch phone ( 49) 541 969 2346
rechenzentrum fax ( 49) 541 969 2470
universitt osnabrck bitnet duentsch@dosuni1
postfach 4469
w 4500 osnabrck germany
version 202c
comments numbers is a calculator for number theory. it performs
various routines in elementary number theory , some of
which are also usable in algebra or combinatorics.
available in the anonymous ftp in ftp.rz.uni osnabrueck.de
in the directory pub msdos math

cocoa
type \? \? \?
machines mac 's
contact cocoa@igecuniv.bitnet
version \? \? \?
comments computations in commutative algebra

galois
type commercial
machines ibm pc dos
contact cifeg inc. , kalkgruberweg 26 , a 4040 linz , austria
version \? \? \?
comments algebra and number theory microcomputer written by
r. lidl , r. w. matthews , and r. wells from the u. tasmania
in turbo pascal v3.0.

ganith
type anonymous ftp
machines any system with vanilla common lisp , x 11 , and has at least
a rudimentary lisp c interface.
contact chanderjit bajaj andrew royappa
department of computer science , purdue university
west lafayette , in 47907
(bajaj and royappa@cs.purdue.edu)
version
comments ganith is an algebraic geometry toolkit , for computing
and visualising solutions to systems of algebraic equations.
it is written in common lisp and c , and runs under version
11 of the x window system.
ganith is available from the anonymous ftp at
cs.purdue.edu in the file pub avr ganith src.tar.z


tensor analysis


schoonship
type \? \? \?
machines \? \? \?
contact mentioned in comp.phys. comm. 8 , 1 (1974).
version \? \? \?
comments i have heard this program mentioned , supposely it 's designed
for large problems (i.e. thousands of terms in series
expansions ). developed at cern for cdc7600 \?

stensor
type \? \? \? \?
machines vax , sun , apollos , orion , atari amiga
contact lh@vand.physto.se ,
lars hornfeldt , physics department , university of stockholm
vanadisv.9 , s 113 46 , stockholm , sweden
version \? \? \? \?
comments system for tensor calculus and noncommutative algebra


lisp calculators


jacal
type gnu copyleft
machines needs a lisp (either common or scheme)
contact available by anon ftp to altdorf.ai.mit.edu 18.43.0.246
version \? \? \?
comments an ibm pc version on floppy for 50 is available from
aubrey jaffer , 84 pleasant st. wakefield ma 01880 , usa.

gnu calc
type gnu copyleft
machines where emacs runs.
contact free software foundation
version \? \? \?
comments it runs inside gnu emacs and is written entirely in emacs
lisp. it does the usual things arbitrary precision integer ,
real , and complex arithmetic (all written in lisp) ,
scientific functions , symbolic algebra and calculus ,
matrices , graphics , etc. and can display expressions with
square root signs and integrals by drawing them on the
screen with ascii characters. it comes with well written
600 page online manual. you can ftp it from any gnu site.


differential equations


delia
type informal distribution
machines ibm pc 's (dos)
contact a. v. bocharov , program systems institute ,
ussr academy of science , pereslavl ,
p.o. box 11 , 152140 ussr , tlx 412531 boat
version \? \? \? \?
comments differetial equation computations


pc shareware


symbmath
type shareware , student and advanced versions.
machines ibm pc
contact chen@deakin.oz.au
version 2.1.1
comments runs on plain (640k) dos machines. the shareware version
is available in the file sm211a.zip on the wurst archives.
more capable versions are available by mail order from the
author.

cla
type anonymous ftp
machines pc dos
contact \? \? \? \?
version 2.0
comments a linear or matrix algebra package which computes
rank , determinant , rwo reduced echelon form , jordan
canonical form , characteristic equation , eigenvalues ,
etc. of a matrix. file cla20.zip on the wurst archives.

xpl
type anonymous ftp
machines pc dos
contact david meredith , department of mathematics
san francisco state university
san francisco , ca 94132
meredith@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu
version 4.0
comments formerly called ccalc. well integrated graphics and some
(numerical) matrix manipulation routines. intended for
calculus students. prentice hall sells this with a book
(isbn 0 13 117441 x or by calling 201 767 5937) , but it
is also available (without the manual but with a
comprehensive help system) by anonymous ftp from
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos calculus cc4 9206.zip.

amp
type commercial , evaluation copy available by anonymous ftp
machines pc dos
contact mark garber (71571 , 2006@compuserve.com) ph (404) 452 1129
cerebral software , po box 80332 , chamblee , ga 30366
version 3.0
comments the algebraic manipulation program (amp) is written in
modula 2 and is a symbolic calculation tool. amp functions
in an interpreter mode and program mode. it has tensor
manipulation using index notation. the evaluation copy is
available in the anonymous ftp at
ftp.rz.uni osnabrueck.de pub msdos math amp30.zip

mercury
type shareware
machines pc dos
contact \? \? \?
version 2.06
comments limited in symbolic capabilities , but is extremely adept
at numerically solving equations and produces publication
quality graphical output. this used to be borland 's eureka ! ,
but when borland abandoned it , its original author started
selling it as shareware under the name mercury. available
from anonymous ftp at
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos calculus mrcry206.zip

pfsa
type public domain
machines pc dos
contact \? \? \?
version 5.46
comments available from the anonymous ftp at
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos modern.algebra vol546.zip

lie
type public domain
machines pc dos
contact head@rivett.mst.csiro.au (a. k. head)
csiro division of materials science and technology
melbourne australia or
locked bag 33 , clayton , vic 3168 , australia
phone (03) 542 2861 telex aa 32945 fax (03) 544 1128
version 3.3
comments lie is a program written in the mumath language (not a
package) for lie analysis of differential equations.
available from anonymous ftp at
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos adv.diff.equations lie33

calculus
type shareware
machines pc dos with ega
contact byoung keum , dept. of mathematics
university of il. urbana , il 61801.
version 9.0
comments program for calculus and differential equations. it has
symbolic diff. integration (simple functions) , graphs.
very unstable program no reason to use it , except for
price (suggested registration fee is 30.00).
available from anonymous ftp at
wuarchive.wustl.edu edu math msdos calculus calc.arc


marc conrad , universitaet des saarlandes
luxemburg marc@math.uni sb.de
france germany these opinions are not necessarily these
x you are here ! of the simath group (and maybe even not mine).

from ig25@fg70.rz.uni karlsruhe.de (thomas koenig)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
organization university of karlsruhe , germany
lines 26
distribution na
nntp posting host fg70.rz.uni karlsruhe.de
mime version 1.0
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1
content transfer encoding 8bit

clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

the president has approved a directive on public encryption
management. the directive provides for the following

...

when
exported abroad , it can be used to thwart foreign intelligence
activities critical to our national interests.

...

the attorney general of the united states , or her representative ,
shall request manufacturers of communications hardware which
incorporates encryption to install the u.s. government developed
key escrow microcircuits in their products.

quite interesting. how does the us administration intend to persuade
non us governments to let the nsa eavesdrop on them \? or should u.s.
companies install these chips in communication systems sold abroad
without the customer 's knowedge or consent , or not at all \?

thomas koenig , ig25@rz.uni karlsruhe.de , ig25@dkauni2.bitnet
the joy of engineering is to find a straight line on a double
logarithmic diagram.

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
distribution na
lines 8

random@presto.uucp (jeff w. hyche) writes
yes , clipper is a trademark of intergraph. its the risc chip used
in some of thier workstations. i wonder what intergraph is going to
do to this infringement on thier name sake \?

probably keep quiet and take it , lest they get their kneecaps busted.

good news. ten weeks from friday will be a good day.

from kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie)
subject re clipper crap
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 9

encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other

necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is
the argument of tyrants it is the creed of slaves. william pitt

carl kadie i do not represent any organization this is just me.
kadie@cs.uiuc.edu

from marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu
subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where \?
organization computer science dept , indiana university
lines 43

thus said ee92jks@brunel.ac.uk (jonathan k saville)
d. wigglesworth (smhanaes@gpu.utcc.utoronto.ca) wrote

do you know of any freely distributable c (or c) code for public
key cryptography (such as rsa) \?

i 've tried various archie searches to no avail.

have you heard of pgp \? i assume from your post that you have not. pgp 2.2
is a freeware rsa encryption program which includes digital signatures and
comprehensive key management facilities. most sites also keep the source code.
a growing number of people are using this excellent software to encrypt (to
a very high standard) their email and data. get it before clinton outlaws it.

two of the many sites are
rsa.com pub pgp
soda.berkeley.edu pub cypherpunks pgp

pgp is not available on the archive site rsa.com. if it were , it
would be highly amusing , since rsa.com (actually public key partners ,
but it 's the same entity) is the organization holding the patents
which they claim are violated if you actually make , use or sell pgp.
i believe those patents also apply in canada , but i'm not a patent
lawyer or anything.

there is no such thing as freely redistributable code for rsa which
can be used in north america without legal entanglements. you may
wish to consider rsaref , however , which is available from the ftp
site rsa.com in rsaref but probably does n't meet your definition of
freely redistributable (it 's readily available in source , in c , and
does rsa , md5 , etc. and comes with a license allowing noncommercial
use. like any other strong crypto software , it 's not exportable
legally. it can be modified with permission from rsadsi , which a
number of people have received in the past.) for reasons that are n't
entirely clear to me , rsa says that only u.s. people should take
rsaref from its server , although there are n't itar issues regarding
canada. the ripem distribution site (ripem.msu.edu) has rsaref in its
distribution , and is ok for canadians.

marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu mime ripem accepted


barney the dinosaur is simply rush limbaugh in a dinosaur suit. lost boy

from karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn)
subject re re inventing crypto policy \? an eff statement
nntp posting host servo.qualcomm.com
reply to karn@chicago.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc
lines 17

in article 1qna0tinnf5p@rodan.uu.net , avg@rodan.uu.net (vadim antonov) writes
i somehow started to doubt technical competence of the
people who designed the system. why on the earth split the
80 bit key in 40 bit parts to keep them in escrow separately
(having 40 bit and large volumes of data voice links produce
it should be relatively easy to break it) when they simply
could keep 80 bit sequences in n (n 2) independent places
and then xor all the partial keys to get the actual key (n 1
sequences should obviously be selected randomly and nth is the
actual key xor ed with the random sequences).

without real technical details , it 's hard to answer this question. but
suppose they already are xoring the two 40 bit parts to produce only
40 bits of real key material \? maybe they 're using the exportable version
of rc2... \? )

phil

from kepley@photon.phys.unca.edu (brad kepley)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization university of north carolina at asheville
distribution na
lines 13

in article 1993apr20.161838.13213@coop.com felixg@coop.com (felix gallo) writes
pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

if the clinton clipper is so very good , ...

please note that bill clinton probably has little if anything to do
with the design , implementation or reasoning behind this chip or behind

ca n't we move the political bickering to a more appropriate group \?

brad kepley internet kepley@photon.phys.unca.edu
work days voice (704)252 8330


from brands@cwi.nl (stefan brands)
subject report on privacy protecting off line cash available
organization cwi , amsterdam
lines 60

i recently published a new privacy protecting off line electronic cash
system as a technical report at cwi. being a phd student at david
chaum 's cryptography group , our group has a long history in research
in the field of privacy protecting cash systems.

the report is called cs r9323.ps.z , contains 77 pages , and can be
retrieved from

ftp.cwi.nl (192.16.184.180)

from the directory pub cwireports aa.
the postscript file is suitable for 300dpi laserprinters.


abstract (from coverpage) we present a new off line electronic cash
system based on a problem , called the representation problem , of which
little use has been made in literature thus far. our system is the
first to be based entirely on discrete logarithms. using the
representation problem as a basic concept , some techniques are
introduced that enable us to construct protocols for withdrawal and
payment that do not use the cut and choose methodology of earlier
systems. as a consequence , our cash system is much more efficient in
both computation and communication complexity than any such system
proposed previously.

another important aspect of our system concerns its provability.
contrary to previously proposed systems , its correctness can be
mathematically proven to a very great extent. specifically , if we
make one plausible assumption concerning a single hash function , the
ability to break the system seems to imply that one can break the
diffie hellman problem.

our system offers a number of extensions that are hard to achieve in
previously known systems. in our opinion the most interesting of these
is that the entire cash system (including all the extensions) can be
incorporated in a setting based on wallets with observers , which has
the important advantage that double spending can be prevented in the
first place , rather than detecting the identity of a double spender
after the fact. in particular , it can be incorporated even under the
most stringent requirements conceivable about the privacy of the user ,
which seems to be impossible to do with previously proposed systems.
another benefit of our system is that framing attempts by a bank have
negligible probability of success (independent of computing power) by
a simple mechanism from within the system , which is something that
previous solutions lack entirely. furthermore , the basic cash system
can be extended to checks , multi show cash and divisibility , while
retaining its computational efficiency.


cryptographers are challenged to try to break this system !

i made a particular effort to keep the report as self contained as
possible. nevertheless , if you have any questions , please e mail to
me and i will try to reply as good as i can. any comments are also
welcome !

stefan brands ,

cwi , kruislaan 413 , 1098 sj amsterdam , the netherlands
tel 31 20 5924103 , e mail brands@cwi.nl

from mccoy@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (jim mccoy)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
reply to mccoy@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (jim mccoy)
organization the university of texas austin
lines 53
nntp posting host tramp.cc.utexas.edu
originator mccoy@tramp.cc.utexas.edu


in article 1993apr19.180049.20572@qualcomm.com , karn@unix.ka9q.ampr.org (phil karn) writes
in article 1993apr18.233112.24107@colnet.cmhnet.org , res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli) writes
sadly , it does not. suspects can be compelled to give handwriting and
voice exemplars , and to take blood and dna tests.

i am sure that mike is correct on this point. i am also pretty sure that
administering truth serum would be ruled a violation of your right
not to incriminate yourself. but , what is the salient difference \?

you can find the salient difference in any number of 5th amendment
related supreme court opinions. the court limits 5th amendment
protections to what they call testimonial evidence , as opposed to
physical evidence.

i have a question that is a slight variation on the previously mentioned
examples that perhaps people could give me some pointers on (it has been a
couple of years since my con law class in college so i hope i am not
missing something obvious here...)

basic scenario

i set up a bbs that uses public key encryption and encryption of
files on disk. the general setup is designed so that when users
connect they send a private key encrypted using the system public
key and the user 's public private keypair is used to wrap the
one time session keys used for encrypting the files on disk. the
result of this is that even if i reveal the system private key it
is impossible for anyone to gain access to the files stored on the
machine. what is possible is for someone to use the revealed
system private key to entice users into revealing thier personal
private keys during the authentication sequence.

questions

does the fact that the system private key does not provide any
information useful for a search give me any protection as far as
being coerced to reveal the key \? (i doubt it myself..)

it seems providing the system private key does not mean that i am
assisting in entrapment (the users would send thier key anyway
and are not being enticed into doing something they would not
otherwise do) but is there any other hook that can be used \?

would the user private key enticement require wiretap approval \?

any answers or general musings on the subject would be appreciated...

jim

jim mccoy ut unix sysadmin tiger team
mccoy@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu include disclaimer.h
j mccoy@nwu.edu pgp key available via finger or upon request

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re automatic online encryption of data
lines 46

from andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson)

also.. how about a box that you plug your phone into , which would allow
encrypted voice communications with someone who has a similar box \?
(digitizing input speech , transmitting , and decrypting on the other end). i
do n't know how a public key system could work in this regard , but it might
...

heh heh... i posted this just before reading all the clinton chip messages..
i guess they beat me to it.. anyway , i think it would be a great idea to
develop such a product , perhaps in the underground , as it would otherwise
probably become illegal pretty quickly here...

it 's really very feasible and should n't be too expensive all that 's needed
is a box with a phone jack on one side , a dsp in the middle to do codec
functions of speech compressed bytestream , and an rs232 on the other side.

you 'd plug your phone into it , plug the rs232 into your computer , and have
a good old fashioned normal modem on your other rs232 port. the cpu in the
middle would do the encryption with a version of pgp modified to work on
a byte stream.

with v32bis or better modems to carry the bytestream , it should work.
quality would only be marginally lower than a normal telephone.

at the very highest price , you could use one of those voice mail compatible
modems to do the digitisation that puts an upper bound of about 500 on
the cost of such a box. in practice , you really ought to be able to get
the price well below 100 i could do it now in software on my cheap nasty
home risc box (acorn archimedes) with the digitising microphone i bought
for 25 pounds , if i knew how to write good speech compression software
(which i do n't).

the reason it wo n't work of course is that hardly anyone will have one
the only consumer equipment to have encryption will use the wiretap chip.
economics , i'm afraid.

however... we can get about 2kcps throughput on the internet even with
the bottleneck of a v32bis modem. when we get isdn for all (ha ha ha)
and the new nren , it might then be trivial to run compressed speech
over a tcp ip connection on the internet. perhaps we should start
thinking now of a standard to keep voice on the internet compatible
for everyone , and side step the clipper stuff and use internet for
all our phone calls in future ) 1 2 joking

g

from amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization department of mathematical sciences
lines 38
distribution na
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu

in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com
tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \? when one little country falls , its neighbor
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all mining salt
in siberia for not turning in our captain crunch secret decoder rings.

surely the hypothesis relying on the least wild assumptions is
to take this at face value. our lads at the fort were asked to cook up
something that 's pretty secure , with a key that can be escrowed neatly ,
and they did. the government plans to sell this thing , for the reasons
they state. yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in
the fbi decide they want to persecute you , they 're gonna , and you 're
gonna hate it. fact is , the fbi does n't want to listen to your phone
calls , and if they do , and if you 're using triple des , they 'll just
get a parabolic microphone and point it at your head.

this is pretty clearly an effort by the government to do exactly
what they 're saying they 're doing. as is typical with governments ,
it 's mismanaged , and full of holes and compromises. as is typical
with our government , it 's not too bad , could be worse.

my interpretation.

andrew

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime


is n't this just a little melodramatic \?

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
distribution na
lines 268

clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

a nice formulation for the introduction of the first encryption
devices with built in trapdoors just like the feds wanted...

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

bla bla.

protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

indeed , and the current proposal does nothing to prevent the latter.

an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.

this does n't say much. there are many incredibly weak encryption
algorithms in commercial use today...

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically.

except from the government.

at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

nope. the criminals wo n't be stupid enough to use the new chip ,
they 'll use something secure. this technology provides only means to
intercept the phone conversations of people who are stupid enough to
use it.

agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

that is , the government has the keys. it does n't matter much if they
are in one or in two of its hands...

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

correct. it does , however , provide those americans with the false
sense of privacy.

devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

if the screening is not public , it cannot be trusted. some people do
not trust des even today , after all the examinations only because
some parts of its design were kept secret.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology

so they 'll use a different technology to hide their illegal
activities. so will those law abiding citizens , who do not trust their
government not to misuse its abilities to decrypt their conversations.

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

except from the government.

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

huh \? later it says that the new technology will be export restricted.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

in short , the new technology can

1) protect the law abiding citizen 's privacy from the casual snooper.

it cannot

1) protect him from the government , if it decides to misuse its
ability to decrypt the conversations.

2) protect him from the criminals who succeed to break the new
encryption scheme or to steal the keys , or to bribe the people who
handle them , etc.

3) prevent the criminals from using secure encryption for
communication.

q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

correct. however , it does not provide them that much privacy as it
claims.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

two candidates the nsa and the mafia.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today.

that is , trust us .

while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow

security through obscurity .

system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

if it 's not entirely open to public examination , it cannot be
trusted. besides , who can prove that the devices used for examination
and the ones built into your phones will be the same \?

q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the

the nsa and the fbi \?

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

why did they forget the academia \?

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

does n't this smell to monopolism \?

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

like the mafia \?

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

this is the main question , why was it buried at the end \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow

we 'll see .

mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one

trust us .

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have

in short , if we decide to outlaw strong crypto , we 'll tell you .

effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a

since the us government seems to consider strong crypto as munitions
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of
right , to an unbreakable commercial encryption product \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

bullshit. the proposed technology provides a false sense of security ,
encryption devices with built in capabilities for breaking the
encryption , does not prevent the criminals to use strong crypto , and
is a step to outlaw strong crypto.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the

who was the optimist who believed that the new administration will
leave the export controls on strong crypto devices \?

ok , i'm not american , it 's not my business , but i just could n't resist
to comment... the whole plot looks so totalitaristic... it 's up to
you , americans , to fight for your rights.

regards ,
vesselin

p.s. now is the time for david sternlight to pop up and claim that the
new system is great.

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from felixg@coop.com (felix gallo)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization cooperative computing , inc.
distribution na
lines 31

pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

if the clinton clipper is so very good , ...

please note that bill clinton probably has little if anything to do
with the design , implementation or reasoning behind this chip or behind
any moves being made using this chip as a pawn.

remember , when you elect a president of the united states , it 's not
the case that all the republicans , etc. in the nsa and fbi and cia
immediately pack their bags and get replaced by a team of fresh young
democrats. most of the government say , 96 is appointed or
hired rather than elected. since this clipper device has been in
production for over six months , it probably has little or no
foundation in the currently elected democratic executive body.

btw those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton , believe
this i would be going ballistic reagardless who seriously proposed
this thing. it is just another step in a gradual erosion of our rights
under the constitution or bill of rights. the last couple of decades
have been a non stop series of end runs around the protections of the
constitution. it has to stop. now is as good a time as any , if it
is n't too late allready.

could be. however , the sky has n't fallen yet , chicken little.


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 26

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

as usually , you are not reading. the proposal does say that it is a
voluntary program . this does n't make it more desirable , though...

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.

secure \? how do you know \? because nsa is trying to make you believe it \?
trust us. yeah , right.

otherwise you are on your own \? how do you know that tomorrow they
will not outlaw encrypring devices that do n't use their technology \?
because they are promising you \? gee , they are not doing even that
read the proposal again.

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject the escrow database.
organization partnership for an america free drug
lines 77

here is a disturbing thought.

now , we no longer live in the days of big filing cabinets. we live in
the electronic age. i asked myself , how big could the escrow database
get \? how hard might it be to steal the whole thing , particularly were
i an nsa official operating with the tacit permission of the escrow
houses \? (we can pretend that such will not happen , but thats naive.)

well , lets see. ten bytes of each escrow half. lets asume ten bytes of
serial number in fact , i believe the serial number is smaller , but
this is an order of magnitude calculation. we assume 250 10 6 as the
population , and that each person has a key. i get five gigabytes for
each of the two escrow databases. fits conveniently on a single very
valuable exabyte tape. this can only get easier with time , but who
cares i can already hold all the clipper keys in the country in my
pocket on two 8mm tapes.

admittely , they will think of safeguards. they wo n't put the whole
database on one disk , prehaps. maybe they will throw stumbling blocks
in the way. this changes nothing they keys will be needed every day
by hundreds if not thousands of law enforcement types , so convenience
will dictate that the system permit quick electronic retrieval. at
some point , with or without collusion by the agencies , those exabyte
tapes are going to get cut. dorothy denning and david sternlight will
doubtless claim this ca n't happen but we know that ca n't is a
prayer , not a word that in this instance connotes realism.

with two exabyte tapes in your pocket , you would hold the keys for
every person 's conversations in the country in your hands. yeah , you
need the master key two but thats just ten bytes of information
that have to be stored an awful lot of places.

come to think of it , even if the nsa getting a copy of the database
is n't a threat to you because unlike me you have no contraversial
political views , consider foreign intelligence services. you know , the
ones that david sternlight wants to protect us from because of the
evil industrial espionage that they do. the french apparently do have
a big spying operation in friendly countries to get industrial
secrets , so he is n't being completely irrational here (although why
our companies could n't use cryptosystems without back doors is left
unexplained by those that point out this threat.)

presumably , foreign intelligence services can get moles into the nsa
and other agencies. we have proof by example of this its happened
many times. presumably , someday they will get their hands on some
fraction of the keys. you ca n't avoid that sort of thing.

do n't pretend that no one unauthorized will ever get their hands on
the escrow databases.

we crypto types are all taught something very important at the
beginning of intro to cryptography security must depend on the
easily changed key that you pick to run your system , and not on a
secret. the escrow databases are n't the sorts of secrets that our
teachers told us about , but they are the sort of big secrets they
would lump into this category. imagine trying to replace 100 million
clipper chips.

i cannot believe that the nsa or whomever it is thats doing this
does n't realize all this already. they are too smart. there are too
many of them who have made their bones in the real world. i suspect
that they know precisely what they are doing and that what they are
doing is giving us the appearance of safety so that they can continue
to surveil in spite of the growth of strong cryptography. i suspect
that they realize that they ca n't put things off forever , but they can
try to delay things as long as possible.

who knows. maybe even some of the higher ups , the inevitable
bureaucratic types that rise in any organization , really do believe
that this scheme might give people some security , even as their
subordinates in fort meade wring their hands over the foolishness of
it all.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re how do they know what keys to ask for \? (re clipper)
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 10

the actual algorithm is classified , however , their main thrust here is
for cellular phones , and encryption is only over the radio end , not
end to end , i think. end to end will come later.

and of course you have to identify yourself to the phone company , and
since the phone company complies with court orders , they will know the
magic number of your chip when they sign out a warrant on you , and
then can present the warrant to the key escrow house.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from jfw@ksr.com (john f. woods)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization kendall square research corp.
lines 20

johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com (steve johnson) writes
tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime
a remark i heard the other day is beginning to take on increasingly
frightening significance. the comment was made that in other parts
of the world the democrats note the big d would be known as
socialists

and in other parts of the world , european socialists would be known as
fascist capitalist pigs. get your head out of your labels and think carefully
for once

according to the eff announcement on this thing , the nsa has been developing
this turkey for four years. the manufacturing contract was let 14 months
ago . anyone out there who believes that the fact that clinton 's name was
on this white house announcement means that bush or any other republican is
a staunch supporter of personal privacy is a fool.

if this topic disturbs you , can the political finger pointing and talk about
what you can do about it. if you 've just got to point fingers , remember that
this scheme was started when a secret policeman was president.

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip
encryption
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 12
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for
individuals to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

false , as federal courts have affirmed on many occasions. this is getting
out of sci.crypt territory , though...


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



subject looking for ms dos crypto programs
from extdsm@lure.latrobe.edu.au (maddison , david)
organization la trobe university
x news reader vms news 1.24
lines 11

i am a new reader of sci.crypt i would like to obtain a copy of a
public domain program that can encrypt files , preferably using des ,
that runs under ms dos.

i would also like to obtain a program which will password protect
floppy disks , if this is possible.

thanks.

david maddison
melbourne , australia

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
lines 65

gtoal@news.ibmpcug.co.uk (graham toal) writes
try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there
that they 're angling for nren next ,

where \? i honestly did n't see any...

hint 1

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption


hint 2

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted

electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal

order , when necessary to protect our citizens

very big hint 3

the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

very big hint 4 (see above)

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use.

and the only conceivable meaning of
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of encryption.

i disagree , if for no other reason than that there are already other
standards in place. besides , even if they restrict encryption on the nren ,
who cares \? most of the internet is commercial anyway. the nren is only for
geovernment and university research (read the proposals it 's a data
superhighway for cray users , not anything having to do with the internet).

oh , i see your point. i think you 're wrong. but if you sit back and wait
to find out if i'm right , it 'll be too late. just listen very carefully
for the first 'such and such will not be permitted on network xyz' shoe to
drop.

g



from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 17
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
chances are the government has thought of this , and just anyone wo n't
be permitted access to enough of the internals to make a fake clipper
chip.

once the chips are released (in phones , or whatever) , they are vulnerable to
phsyical inspection and observation. now , i will grant that there will no
doubt be safeguards against peeling the chip , but the nsa has no monopoly
on cleverness. the chip , and the algorithms it uses , will not remain secret
for very long. any university with a vlsi lab has the required equipment , as
does any offshore semiconductor manufacturer.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni)
subject some questions (was revised summary)
organization swiss federal institute of technology (eth) , zurich , ch
lines 90



here is a revised version of my summary that corrects some errors and
provides some additional information and explanation.

thank you very much. after reading the text some distinct questions
arised to me , which i guess will also be asked by other people. perhaps
would it be interesting to find an answer to these questions \?


the clipper chip a technical summary
n , a 30 bit serial number (this length is subject to change)

shorter or longer \?

once the session key k is established , the clipper chip is used to
encrypt the conversation or message stream m (digitized voice). the
telephone security device feeds k and m into the chip to produce two
values

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field ,

which are transmitted over the telephone line. the law enforcement
field thus contains the session key k encrypted under the unit key u
concatenated with the serial number n , all encrypted under the family
key f. the law enforcement field is decrypted by law enforcement after
an authorized wiretap has been installed.

first question when will the lawenforcmentfield be transmitted , and how
does the remote clipper chip handle it \? is it transmitted periodically
in the stream of encrypted blocks , or just at the beginning \? does the
phone at the other side discard those packets via a protocol whatsoever ,
or tries it to turn them into voice output \? (which would not be disturbing)


at the beginning of a session , a trusted agent from each of the two key
escrow agencies enters the vault. agent 1 enters a secret , random
80 bit value s1 into the laptop and agent 2 enters a secret , random
80 bit value s2. these random values serve as seeds to generate unit
keys for a sequence of serial numbers. thus , the unit keys are a
function of 160 secret , random bits , where each agent knows only 80.

second question why ! \? ! \? why is such a strange procedure used , and not
a real rng \? this turns those s1 , s2 in a kind of bottleneck for system
security.


when law enforcement has been authorized to tap an encrypted line , they
will first take the warrant to the service provider in order to get
access to the communications line. let us assume that the tap is in
place and that they have determined that the line is encrypted with the
clipper chip. the law enforcement field is first decrypted with the
family key f , giving e k u n. documentation certifying that a tap
has been authorized for the party associated with serial number n is
then sent (e.g. , via secure fax) to each of the key escrow agents , who
return (e.g. , also via secure fax) u1 and u2. u1 and u2 are xored
together to produce the unit key u , and e k u is decrypted to get the
session key k. finally the message stream is decrypted. all this will
be accomplished through a special black box decoder.

so no (technical) provision will be taken to place a 'timeout' on these
warrants \? this would be a unique possibility to realize such a technical
restriction , by letting the escrow agencies perform the decoding of the
session key. just take modem lines instead of secure fax. is this such
a bad idea \?


a successor to the clipper chip , called capstone by the government
and myk 80 by mykotronx , has already been developed. it will include
the skipjack algorithm , the digital signature standard (dss) , the
secure hash algorithm (sha) , a method of key exchange , a fast
exponentiator , and a randomizer. a prototoype will be available for
testing on april 22 , and the chips are expected to be ready for
delivery in june or july.

wow ! (how does the randomizer work \? ) are the sha (and key exchange) secret ,
or publicly known \? key exchange is dh , i guess \?

it seems that those who are opposed to this chip shall have a tough time ,
your government realy means to act. (

friendly greetings ,
germano caronni


instruments register only through things they 're designed to register.
space still contains infinite unknowns.
pgp key id 341027
germano caronni caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch fd560ccf586f3da747ea3c94dd01720f

from tfs@gravity.gmu.edu (tim scanlon)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
summary whatever...
keywords hmm...
organization george mason university , fairfax va.
distribution world
expires 06 31 93
lines 65



after reading the debate over the clipper , i have a few things to
add.

first , most of the people i know who activly use encryption
privately do not care about most of the issues that surround this debate ,
and any questions about what is or is not ok to use in the us. all they
care about is wether or not what they are using is secure or not. that ,
after all is the bottom line.

second , if i look at all the people i know who use any form
of encryption at all , and this group spans people from the morons who
still insist that the des is a good and secure standard , to people
looking at trying to improve upon existing strategies , i can not think
of anyone of them who would approve blindly of a strategy that leaves
their methods open to abuse. the clipper does this , because people make
mistakes by nature , and the us government is made up of people who are
just as vulnerable to mistakes as everyone else.

third , since most of the people i know are at least marginaly
familiar with the vulnerabilities present in current software encryption
stratigies , i ca n't see how most of them are going to blindly trust that
someone will not figure out a good way to compromise the clipper chip.
that despite any strengths or weaknesses that may exist in it. so , i can
not see a high degree of confidence developing in the chip.

fourth , when it comes to criminal abuse , sure there are many stupid
people out there. and yes , some will be open to being caught via the
built in back door of the clipper chip. however , anyone who is going to
do any serious investigation of how best to secure their data is going
to run into that problem pretty damned fast and , i would assume , start
looking around for other easily obtainible methods of encryption.


if nothing else were avalible , none of this would be an issue. however ,
the truth is that most private encryption users that i 've ever run into
simply do not give a damn about the legal status of rsa or pgp or anything
else. if it works , they use it. this is not going to change either. i do
not think for a moment that anyone with serious criminal intent will be
slowed down by the advent of the clipper chip. it is all to easy to
convert encrypted data into unintellgible garbage as it is , if anything ,
the clipper chip just adds another tool to the user.


the bottom line here is that people will use what works , and
unavoidibly , i'm sure most criminals would rather face an encryption
related charge than one which could potentialy lead to death penalty
charges in the case of criminals who murder as part of their conspiricy.
the other thing that has struck me since the advent and wide
useage of public encryption has begun is that quite simply the cat is
out of the bag (or if you have an interest in snooping , pandora 's box
has been opened) , and this is not going to change. i 've seen a blindness
to this that i 've found utterly stunning , and the clipper chip , along
with the way it has been presented only confirms this to me to a larger
degree.


sincerly ,

tim scanlon



tfs@gravity.gmu.edu

from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 15

in article 1993apr21.132318.16981@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
remember that they 've promised to let a committee of outside experts see
the cryptosystem design.

i hope there are some silicon jocks on the committee who can follow
the algorithm through to hardware. while i doubt the nsa would pull
any monkey business on this point they have to expect that the
chip will be reverse engineered sooner or later it 's an obvious
opportunity to introduce additional holes.

steve bellovin

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu


from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
lines 29

in article strnlghtc5pucl.6kp@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
in article apr18.204843.50316@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your
crypto keys \? i would n't.

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon. sure.
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon .

are you sure you are n't being watched \? let me remind you that
watergate was only the tip of the iceberg. nixon extensively used the nsa
to watch people because he did n't like them. according to decrypting the
puzzle palace

presumably , the nsa is restricted from conducting american surveillance
by both the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978(fisa) and a
series of presidential directives , beginning with one issued by
president ford following richard nixon 's bold misuse of the nsa , in
which he explicitly directed the nsa to conduct widespread domestic
surveillance of political dissidents and drug users.

of course , just because there are laws saying the gov't is not
supposed to conduct illegal surveillance does n't mean those laws ca n't be
broken when they are in the way.
doug holland



from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 24
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt) writes
instead we have a deliberately brain dead version of a cryptosystem
that has not even been peer reviewed. yes , the nsa owns some smart
people. but if they pulled a feal , well , at t is going to be left with
a lot of dud phones on its hands.

agreed. remember , i do n't even think of clipper as encryption in any real
sense if i did , i 'd probably be a lot more annoyed about it.

heh heh. the government already gave it up for us. remember in the
announcement they described this scheme as balancing the two
extremes of having no privacy and claiming that citizens had a
constitutional right to encryption \?

that 's not for clinton (or anyone under him) to say , though. only the
federal and supreme courts can say anything about the constitutionality.
anything the administration or any governmental agency says is opinion at
best.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 04 10 mathematical cryptology
organization the crypt cabal
lines 203
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 4 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , mathematical cryptology.
private key systems. types of attacks (brute force , cyphertext ,
plaintext , etc.). mathematical formulation of cryptography. security
of one time pads.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part04
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 4 mathematical cryptology

this is the fourth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

in mathematical terms , what is a private key cryptosystem \?
what is an attack \?
what 's the advantage of formulating all this mathematically \?
why is the one time pad secure \?
what 's a ciphertext only attack \?
what 's a known plaintext attack \?
what 's a chosen plaintext attack \?
in mathematical terms , what can you say about brute force attacks \?
what 's a key guessing attack \? what 's entropy \?


in mathematical terms , what is a private key cryptosystem \?

a private key cryptosystem consists of an encryption system e and a
decryption system d. the encryption system e is a collection of
functions e k , indexed by ``keys'' k , mapping some set of
``plaintexts'' p to some set of ``ciphertexts'' c. similarly the
decryption system d is a collection of functions d k such that
d k(e k(p)) p for every plaintext p. that is , succesful decryption
of ciphertext into plaintext is accomplished using the same key
(index) as was used for the corresponding encryption of plaintext
into ciphertext. such systems , wherein the same key value is used to
encrypt and decrypt , are also known as ``symmetric'' cryptoystems.

what is an attack \?

in intuitive terms a (passive) attack on a cryptosystem is any method
of starting with some information about plaintexts and their
corresponding ciphertexts under some (unknown) key , and figuring out
more information about the plaintexts. it 's possible to state
mathematically what this means. here we go.

fix functions f , g , and h of n variables. fix an encryption system e ,
and fix a distribution of plaintexts and keys.

an attack on e using g assuming f giving h with probability p is an
algorithm a with a pair f , g of inputs and one output h , such that
there is probability p of computing h h(p 1 , ... , p n) , if we have
f f(p 1 , ... , p n) and g g(e k(p 1) , ... , e k(p n)). note that this
probability depends on the distribution of the vector (k , p 1 , ... , p n).

the attack is trivial (or ``pointless'') if there is probability at
least p of computing h h(p 1 , ... , p n) if f f(p 1 , ... , p n) and
g g(c 1 , ... , c n). here c 1 , ... , c n range uniformly over the possible
ciphertexts , and have no particular relation to p 1 , ... , p n. in other
words , an attack is trivial if it does n't actually use the encryptions
e k(p 1) , ... , e k(p n).

an attack is called ``one ciphertext'' if n 1 , ``two ciphertext'' if
n 2 , and so on.

what 's the advantage of formulating all this mathematically \?

in basic cryptology you can never prove that a cryptosystem is secure.
read part 3 we keep saying ``a strong cryptosystem must have this
property , but having this property is no guarantee that a cryptosystem
is strong ! ''

in contrast , the purpose of mathematical cryptology is to precisely
formulate and , if possible , prove the statement that a cryptosystem is
strong. we say , for example , that a cryptosystem is secure against
all (passive) attacks if any nontrivial attack against the system (as
defined above) is too slow to be practical. if we can prove this
statement then we have confidence that our cryptosystem will resist
any (passive) cryptanalytic technique. if we can reduce this statement
to some well known unsolved problem then we still have confidence that
the cryptosystem is n't easy to break.

other parts of cryptology are also amenable to mathematical
definition. again the point is to explicitly identify what assumptions
we 're making and prove that they produce the desired results. we can
figure out what it means for a particular cryptosystem to be used
properly it just means that the assumptions are valid.

the same methodology is useful for cryptanalysis too. the cryptanalyst
can take advantage of incorrect assumptions. often he can try to
construct a proof of security for a system , see where the proof fails ,
and use these failures as the starting points for his analysis.

why is the one time pad secure \?

by definition , the one time pad is a cryptosystem where the
plaintexts , ciphertexts , and keys are all strings (say byte strings)
of some length m , and e k(p) is just the sum (let 's say the exclusive
or) of k and p.

it is easy to prove mathematically that there are no nontrivial
single ciphertext attacks on the one time pad , assuming a uniform
distribution of keys. note that we do n't have to assume a uniform
distribution of plaintexts. (here 's the proof let a be an attack ,
i.e. , an algorithm taking two inputs f , g and producing one output h ,
with some probability p that h h(p) whenever f f(p) and
g g(e k(p)) (i.e. , g g(k p)). then , because the distribution of
k is uniform and independent of p , the distribution of k p must also
be uniform and independent of p. but also the distribution of c is
uniform and independent of p. hence there is probability exactly p
that h h(p) whenever f f(p) and g g(c) , over all p and c. thus
a fortiori a is trivial.)

on the other hand the one time pad is not secure if a key k is used
for more than one plaintext i.e. , there are nontrivial
multiple ciphertext attacks. so to be properly used a key k must be
thrown away after one encryption. the key is also called a ``pad''
this explains the name ``one time pad.''

what 's a ciphertext only attack \?

in the notation above , a ciphertext only attack is one where f is
constant. given only some information g(e k(p 1) , ... , e k(p n)) about
n ciphertexts , the attack has to have some chance of producing some
information h(p 1 , ... , p n) about the plaintexts. the attack is trivial
if it has just as good a chance of producing h(p 1 , ... , p n) when given
g(c 1 , ... , c n) for random c 1 , ... , c n.

for example , say g(c) c , and say h(p) is the first bit of p. we can
easily write down an attack the ``guessing attack , '' which simply
guesses that h(p) is 1. this attack is trivial because it does n't use
the ciphertext it has a fifty fifty chance of guessing correctly no
matter what. on the other hand there is an attack on rsa which
produces one bit of information about p , with 100 success , using c.
if it is fed a random c then the success rate drops to 50 . so this is
a nontrivial attack.

what 's a known plaintext attack \?

the classic known plaintext attack has f(p 1 , p 2) p 1 ,
g(c 1 , c 2) (c 1 , c 2) , and h(p 1 , p 2) depending only on p 2.
in other words , given two ciphertexts c 1 and c 2 and one decryption
p 1 , the known plaintext attack should produce information about the
other decryption p 2.

note that known plaintext attacks are often defined in the literature
as producing information about the key , but this is pointless the
cryptanalyst generally cares about the key only insofar as it lets him
decrypt further messages.

what 's a chosen plaintext attack \?

a chosen plaintext attack is the first of an increasingly impractical
series of active attacks on a cryptosystem attacks where the
cryptanalyst feeds data to the encryptor. these attacks do n't fit into
our model of passive attacks explained above. anyway , a
chosen plaintext attack lets the cryptanalyst choose a plaintext and
look at the corresponding ciphertext , then repeat until he has figured
out how to decrypt any message. more absurd examples of this sort of
attack are the ``chosen key attack'' and ``chosen system attack.''

a much more important form of active attack is a message corruption
attack , where the attacker tries to change the ciphertext in such a
way as to make a useful change in the plaintext.

there are many easy ways to throw kinks into all of these attacks
for instance , automatically encrypting any plaintext p as
t , e k(h(t r p) , r , p) , where t is a time key (sequence number) chosen anew
for each message , r is a random number , and h is a one way hash
function. here comma means concatenation and plus means exclusive or.

in mathematical terms , what can you say about brute force attacks \?

consider the following known plaintext attack. we are given some
plaintexts p 1 , ... , p n 1 and ciphertexts c 1 , ... , c n 1 . we 're
also given a ciphertext c n. we run through every key k. when we find
k such that e k(p i) c i for every i n , we print d k(c n).

if n is big enough that only one key works , this attack will succeed
on valid inputs all the time , while it will produce correct results
only once in a blue moon for random inputs. thus this is a nontrivial
attack. its only problem is that it is very slow if there are many
possible keys.

what 's a key guessing attack \? what 's entropy \?

say somebody is using the one time pad but is n't choosing keys
randomly and uniformly from all m bit messages , as he was supposed to
for our security proof. in fact say he 's known to prefer keys which
are english words. then a cryptanalyst can run through all english
words as possible keys. this attack will often succeed , and it 's much
faster than a brute force search of the entire keyspace.

we can measure how bad a key distribution is by calculating its
entropy. this number e is the number of ``real bits of information''
of the key a cryptanalyst will typically happen across the key within
2 e guesses. e is defined as the sum of p k log 2 p k , where p k is
the probability of key k.

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
distribution na
lines 12

ted@nmsu.edu (ted dunning) writes
nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip must have been
under development for considerably longer than the 3 months that
clinton has been president. this is not something that choosing
choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest it has
been in the works for some time.

i 've got no doubts that this would probably have gone ahead if bush
was still president. what 's puzzling to me are the people who are
apparently amazed that clinton is going along with it.

other than that , mrs. lincoln , how did you like the play \?

from djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine
organization ir
lines 12

in article 1993apr21.132318.16981@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
and key size is one of the things that can be
verified externally.

gee. say they feed the 80 bit key through snefru 8 and take the first 60
bits of the result , then use those 60 bits as the real key. how do you
figure out that each key is one of 2 20 ``equal'' keys \? you can try a
birthday attack , but if the key can be changed only once a second then
you will need several lifetimes to get reliable statistics. somehow i
do n't think you could catch the nsa at this sort of skulduggery.

dan

from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
distribution na
lines 51

brad templeton (brad@clarinet.com) wrote
it occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you , and the escrow
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure.

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are
good , their security will not be as good as the escrow houses.


what this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you ,
at the end of the wiretap , they should be obligated to inform you that
a tap was performed , and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your
cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the
escrow houses.

getting the court order to reveal the key also makes decipherable
all past conversations (which may be on tape , or disk , or whatver) ,
as i understand the proposal. i could be wrong , but i 've seen no
mention of session keys being the escrowed entities.

as the eff noted , this raises further issues about the fruits of one
bust leading to incrimination in other areas.

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

and it may also become much worse if the ostensible security is
increased , thus allowing greater access to central office records by
the government (the conversations being encrypted , who will object to
letting the government have access to them , perhaps even automatically
archiving large fractions...). this was one of the main objections to
the s.266 proposal , that it would force telecom suppliers to provide
easy access for the government.

one the government has had access to months or years of your encrypted
conversations , now all it takes is one misstep , one violation that
gets them the paperwork needed to decrypt all of them !

do we want anyone to have this kind of power \?

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime


..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from dan mckinnon dan.mckinnon@canrem.com
subject clipper chip
reply to dan mckinnon dan.mckinnon@canrem.com
organization canada remote systems
distribution sci
lines 30

i have lurked here a bit lately , and though some of the math is
unknown to me , found it interesting. i thought i would post an article i
found in the saturday , april 17 , 1993 toronto star

'clipper chip' to protect privacy

washington (reuter) president bill clinton announced yesterday a
plan to plant a new clipper chip in every government telephone and
computer line to prevent eavesdropping.

eventually the chips , developed by the government 's national
institute for standards and technology , would be used by commercial and
private electronics communication users.

the white house said that to assure privacy , each device containing
the encryption devices would be assigned two unique keys numbers
that will be needed by government agencies to decode messages.

the attorney general has been assigned the task of arranging that the
keys are deposited in two key escrow data bases. access to them would
be limited to government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap , the white house said in a statement.

30


dan mckinnon

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

from abaum@armltd.uucp (allen baum)
subject re 80 bit keyseach machine
organization advanced risc machines ltd
lines 13

jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright) writes

(regarding nsa monitoring of us military code traffic)

btw , folks , nsa was n't being given the keys. and the walker spy case
shows for some of the systems , the kgb did n't need them either.

on the contrary the walker spy case is one where the kgb was
given keys (as i recall)



allen j. baum apple computer baum@apple.com , abaum@armltd.co.uk

from graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
subject re the battle is joined
originator gtoal@pizzabox.demon.co.uk
nntp posting host pizzabox.demon.co.uk
reply to graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
organization cuddlehogs anonymous
lines 27

in article c5nn9i.d5q@news.claremont.edu ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt) writes
in article 1993apr16.181040.9381@qualcomm.com karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn) writes
it looks like dorothy denning 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the
administration even sooner than we feared.

i 'd lay long odds that it was the other way around. clinton did n't
just pull this plan out of any bodily orifices the nsa has to have
been working on it for years. while it 's possible that denning (and
other prominent people) just happened to start arguing for such a
system , it seems more likely that there was a suggestion involved.
if this guess is wrong , i apologize.

i'm sure dorothy denning is an honest person and would n't lie to us.
simply think up a question to ask her about her involvement , but be
very careful to phrase it in such a way that there can be no jesuitical
evasion or a true but wholly misleading answer.

in this country , mi5 are experts at answering these questions for
instance there was a british journalist (jonathon moyle) killed in south
america a couple of years ago. parliament asked was he an mi5 employee
no. turns out afterwards he was n't paid , therefore was n't an employee.
they could equally have said he was n't an agent he went abroad on his
private business with no brief from mi5 , but was interviewed and debriefed
at length only on his return .

g


from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject re macpgp 2.2 source problems
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 19

yes my error you will need the diff between the
standard console.h and console.c supplied with
symantec 's think c 5.0.4 and the specially modified
one that works with macpgp 2.2.

i added the two diffs to the end of the signature
file macpgp2.2srcsignature in pub grady of netcom.com

please download via anonymous ftp and , using sed (oops) ,
cutting and pasting , fix em up.

will one of you mac geniuses please port this to macapp
or appmaker , or... \?

grady


grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject new clipper chip proposal from the guv...
keywords encryption , privacy , individual rights , legalities , big brother
organization totally unorganized
lines 310

i saw this article posted in a local newsgroup. i have n't seen it ,
or any followup traffic relating to it in these groups or other groups
which i subscribe to. so , i am posting it here so others can read it ,
check it out , and comment on it , and provide ideas for handling these
sorts of things.

i have no verification to the accuracy or lack of accuracy of this
article , but if accurate , i find it extremely disturbing , especially in
light of various abuses of the ssn number regarding privacy , (i understand
it is now to be required in ca to renew a drivers license , or to register
a car) and other proposals regarding 'smart' national identity cards ,
wiretap proposals , and such. one simply wonders what other gems are in
the wings ready to be sprung on the people by our government. perhaps
suggestions and ideas for preventing this and other such proposals from
acquiring the force of law would be useful. the cost simply outweighs
any possible benefits , imo.

btw , reading this makes me think of some ideas a prof denning has been
promoting , in an even more disturbing form.

that said , with no further comment , the article follows

begin included article

note this file will also be available via anonymous file
transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory pub nistnews and
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717.


the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 16 , 1993


statement by the press secretary


the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has
been developed by government engineers. the chip represents a
new approach to encryption technology. it can be used in new ,
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans. each device containing the chip will have two unique


2


keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology
trends and explore new approaches (like the key escrow system) ,
the president has directed government agencies to develop a
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal
order , when necessary to protect our citizens

the effective and timely use of the most modern
technology to build the national information
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
the competitiveness of american industry in the global
marketplace and

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries , the congress and groups that advocate the
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.



3

the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.
the provisions of the president 's directive to acquire the new
encryption technology are also available.

for additional details , call mat heyman , national institute of
standards and technology , (301) 975 2758.




questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative




q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today. while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the
commerce department , and other key agencies were involved in
this decision. this approach has been endorsed by the
president , the vice president , and appropriate cabinet
officials.

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

q how do i buy one of these encryption devices \?

a we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
the clipper chip into their devices.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow
mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
encryption technology , which the administration is
developing.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
administration 's policy toward encryption will differ from
that of the bush administration \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the
same is true for other encryption devices. one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad. we plan
to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
of these products.

end included article


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from whmurray@dockmaster.ncsc.mil
subject licensing...
organization yale cs mail news gateway
lines 24


this actually supports bill 's speculation if there is a backdoor in
rsaref and if pkp is supported secretly by the nsa , then it is more
than natural that they will welcome any public key implementation that
uses rsaref and will strongly oppose themselves against any
implementation that does n't.

my speculation does not include or depend upon a trapdoor in rsaref. i
do not believe that rsa would consent to such.

however , there are other limitation in the concept of rsaref in which
nsa has an interest. it has an interest in a limited number of
implementations , i.e. , targets. it has an interest in fixed key or
maximum modulus size.

it has a legitimate (literally) right to pursue such interests. within
bounds , it probably has a right to pursue those interests by covert
means. at least it has the same right as the rest of us not to disclose
all of its motives and intentions. (institutions are not self aware
they do not know their intentions in any meaningful sense.)

william hugh murray , executive consultant , information system security
49 locust avenue , suite 104 new canaan , connecticut 06840
1 0 att 0 700 wmurray whmurray at dockmaster.ncsc.mil

from karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn)
subject re keeping your mouth shut (was hard drive security)
nntp posting host servo.qualcomm.com
reply to karn@chicago.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc
lines 37

in article c5k1ce.51a@sunfish.usd.edu , vkub@charlie.usd.edu (vince kub) writes
now ,
the original scheme as suggested here would be to have the key disappear if
certain threatening conditions are met. once the key is gone there is no
question of contempt of court as there is nothing to compell , the key is no
longer there to be produced.

getting rid of the keys is actually pretty easy to do automatically on
a communications link , as opposed to storage where the keys have to be
retained somehow as long as the owner wants to be able to retrieve the
data.

the right way to do communications security is to generate a random
session key with diffie hellman , use it for a while and then destroy
it. once it 's gone , there 's no getting it back , and no way to decrypt
recordings of the conversation.

to make sure you are n't being attacked by a man in the middle , you
have to authenticate your dh exchanges. the at t secure phone does
this by displaying the dh key so you can compare them verbally over
the phone. this is nice and simple , but it relies on user awareness
plus the inability of the man in the middle to duplicate the users'
voices.

a better way is to authenticate the exchanges with rsa. since you 'd
never use rsa for actual encryption , compromising your rsa secret key
would only allow someone to impersonate you in a future conversation ,
and even that only until you revoke your public key. they would still
not be able to decrypt recordings of prior conversations for which the
session keys have been destroyed.

i'm convinced that this is how the government 's own secure phones
(the stu iii) must work. neat , eh \?

phil



subject re clipper considered harmful
from yuan1@scws7.harvard.edu (nina yuan)
distribution inet
nntp posting host scws7.harvard.edu
lines 37

shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff) writes

it seems likely to me that that a large subset of encrypted communications
would be archived to tape so they could be read if sometime in the future
probable cause arises and a warrant is obtained. i can even imagine this
being found legal and constitutional , since nothing is actually listened to
until a valid warrant is issued and the keys are obtained.

imagine archiving all pay phone conversations , so if someone turns out
to be a drug dealer , you can listen to all their past drug deals. and
archive calls to from suspected mafia members , potential terrorists ,
radicals , etc. imagine the convenience for the police of being able to
get a warrant now and listening to all the calls the world trade center
bombers made in the past year.

imagine if this were available during the 1992 elections instead of
clumsily searching through the clinton passport file , they could have
just done a voice grep (as someone stated earlier) on his telephone
conversations for the last 10 years.

i'm not a lawyer and i do n't even play one on tv , but intuitively there 's
something wrong with having one 's words archived for possible future
use against you. this possibility frightens me more than any of the
talk about the clipper chip , right to cryptography , etc.

since archiving would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why
would n't it happen \?

i'm afraid it just might.

nhy



nina h. yuan it 's a miracle that curiosity
harvard college survives formal education.
yuan1@husc.harvard.edu albert einstein

from johnl@iecc.cambridge.ma.us (john r. levine)
subject why the clipper algorithm is secret
organization i.e.c.c.
lines 21

the cryptographic protocol , though , is another matter. i see no valid
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there
are a lot of ways to do things that are n't (quite) as bad.

it just occurred to me why the algorithm is secret. if it were
published , one could then build physically identical clone versions
of the chip that would interoperate with official clipper chips. but
the cloner would n't provide the keys to the escrow houses. hmmn.

or is there a technical hack that i 've missed \? e.g. how about if the
chips were made unprogrammed but serialized , and then shipped to the
two escrow houses who programmed in their halves of the keys , but
in a way that requires that secret keys known only to the escrow houses
be installed as well , without which clone versions would n't
interoperate \? this is getting awfully complicated , but that 's
crypto for you.


john r. levine , iecc , pob 349 , cambridge ma 02238 , 1 617 492 3869
johnl@iecc.cambridge.ma.us , ima spdcc world ! iecc ! johnl
time is money ! steal some today !

from jpb@calmasd.prime.com (jan bielawski)
subject re clipper chip. long follow up.
organization computervision , san diego , ca
lines 34

in article 1993apr20.030538.1@cc.curtin.edu.au zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi) writes

questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

i apologize for being so dense but this sentence reads as if it
was lifted from a luis bunuel screenplay. am i missing something \?
why on earth would drug smugglers even use the device then \?
obviously , they 'll be using something like triple encryption des instead.
as long as alternatives to clipper remain legal , clipper accomplishes
absolutely nothing , zero , as far as law enforcement is concerned.
the whole scheme is an absolute , total , incredible , waste of government
time and money as long as other encryption schemes that are any good
remain legal. in order for clipper to work as intended all strong
cryptosystems have to be outlawed.

jan bielawski
computervision , san diego
jpb@calmasd.prime.com


from brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood)
subject clipper considered harmful
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 48

if clipper comes to cellular phones along with legal proscriptions against
using other cipher systems on these phones , a new and potentially dangerous
class of crime is created.

criminals who very badly want inscrutable tactical communications (specifically
the terrorists and drug dealers who proponents of key escrow cite as threats)
will be highly motivated to steal the cipher phone of a legitimate user , and
to kill this person or hold them hostage so discovery of compromise of the
device will be delayed.

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate
with impunity (assuming the cipher system carries no trapdoors apart from
key escrow) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other means.

because life is cheap criminals are currently willing to kill people to steal
very large and conspicuous property (luxury cars) , it is reasonable to assume
that they will be willing to kill people to steal small and inconspicuous
property (a cipher cellular phone). just as we have seen in the past with
blue box technology , and in the present with modified cellular phones ,
we can expect to see among high stakes criminals a lucrative market for
stolen cipher phones which can be used for a few days. the high stakes
criminals will pay the life is cheap types substantial amounts for stolen
instruments.

because a person is typically discovered as missing or dead in a few days ,
a stolen instrument will be usable for only a few days. there will be a
continuing demand for fresh phones fresh bodies.

in other words , clipper and similar systems have the potential to turn a
current inconvenience to law enforcement into a direct , vicious , and
persistent threat to the general public.

on the other hand , if a criminal were to apply some arbitrary cipher to a
device in a mostly non ciphered network , the communication will at least
stand out as being unusual , and perhaps worthy of other means of investigation.

finally , because there is essentially no possibility of intercepting in
realtime the scrutable content of communications between stolen instruments ,
there will exist strong motivation to record and archive all communications
in the network for ex post facto scrutiny (once some criminal act is discovered ,
and the instruments involved have been identified). while recording and
archiving may not be feasible for wireline networks , it is probably feasible
across the more limited bandwidth of radio networks. the existence of these
recordings could open up vast potential for abuse.

brad yearwood brad@optilink.com uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! brad
petaluma , ca


from ray@ole.cdac.com (ray berry)
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
organization cascade design automation
lines 32

rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (ross anderson) writes

in article 1993apr2.050451.7866@ucsu.colorado.edu , cuffell@spot.colorado.edu
(tim cuffel) writes

this suggests a new pc security product design approach first fill the hard
drive with 50 random files and 50 files encrypted under a number of known
keys. then whenever a new secret file is created , you delete a random file and
replace it with real encrypted data. new non secret files are encrypted under
a known key.

better yet , instead of thrashing around on the dos file system , take
it a step further. write yourself a minimal file system program that
is used to create delete files , en decrypt them to ramdisk , list a
directory. put the util , password protected , on a floppy.

the catch is that the storage space used by this util is not part
of the dos file system. instead , defrag your disk , thus packing all
allocated clusters into clusters 0 n. then use the back end of the
partition to hold your 'stealth' file system. or , leave a small 2nd
partition on the disk that is not assigned to dos. another approach
might be to use a directory that contains a set of invariant files (dos
system files , for instance). due to dos allocating a minimum storage
unit of a cluster there is unused physical space on the disk between
the tail end of each file and the end of its associated cluster. these
dead spaces could be concatenated and used to hold your stealth file
system.

now you have a situation where no encrypted data appears on your
disk at all ).

ray berry kb7ht ray@ole.cdac.com rjberry@eskimo.com 73407.3152@compuserve.com

from hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 23
distribution na
nntp posting host alumni.caltech.edu

brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. they are
pushing to get a standard in place , a secret standard , and if they
get it as a standard then they will drive competitors out of the market.
it will be legal to sell better , untapable encryption that does n't have
registered keys , but it will be difficult , and thus not a plan for
most phone companies.

if brad 's analysis is correct , it may offer an explanation for why the
encryption algorithm is being kept secret. this will prevent competitors
from coming out with clipper compatible phones which lack the government
installed back door. the strategy brad describes will only work as long
as the only way to get compatible phones is to have ones with the government
chips.

(it would be nice , from the point of view of personal privacy , if brad
turns out to be right. as long as people still have the power to provide
their own encryption in place of or in addition to the clipper , privacy
is still possible. but the wording of several passages in the announcement
makes me doubt whether this will turn out to be true.)

hal finney

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re facinating facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed s1 and s2
lines 20

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)

denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu (vidkun abraham lauritz quisling) writes

each chip includes the following components

the skipjack encryption algorithm
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip

hmmm. a thirty bit serial number. and , we are told , the unit key u is
derived deterministically from this serial number. that means that
there are only one billion possible unit keys.

oh hell , it 's much worse than that. you think they 'll ever make
more than a million of them \? serial numbers are n't handed out at random
you know , they start at 1 and work up... call it a 20 bit space maybe.

g

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 22

it occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you , and the escrow
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure.

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are
good , their security will not be as good as the escrow houses.


what this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you ,
at the end of the wiretap , they should be obligated to inform you that
a tap was performed , and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your
cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the
escrow houses.

do the police normally reveal every tap they do even if no charges are
laid \? in many ways , it would be a positive step if they had to.
judges set time limits on warrants , i assume. at the end of the time
limit they should have to renew or replace your chip.


that 's if we go with this scheme , which i am not sure i agree with.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from mike@avon.demon.co.uk ( mike h. )
subject re another data hiding scheme...
distribution world
organization boring
reply to mike@avon.demon.co.uk
x mailer simple news 1.90 (ka9q dis 1.19)
lines 23

in article 1993apr13.225348.6511@colorado.edu bear@tigger.cs.colorado.edu writes

since the price of 1.44 m 3.5 floppies were still high until the last
few years. if you store old data , with old file times , in the public
filesystem the casual observer may miss the hd ... especially if you
accidently cover it with something).


bear giles
bear@cs.colorado.edu fsl.noaa.gov


it has been done already !

in the uk the atari st box was shipped with 360k disks in the first few
years and then later 720k disks. in order to make life less complicated ,
many freebie disks on mags were double formatted like this. side 0 of the
disk had 360k on it and could be read by any st. it also had a flip side
program. this would swap the sides around so that side 1 became side 0.



mike (mike@avon.demon.co.uk)

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re white house wiretap chip disinformation sheet
keywords big bubba is watching.
article i.d. qualcom.rdippold.735041031
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
lines 10
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com

wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705) writes
fascinating. most of the content of the white house announcements was
in what was not said. it gives us almost nothing of value , threatens to
take away a lot , and does it with a sincere smile on its face ,
and the nice friendly word management .

the computer , err , government , is your friend. have a nice day (under
penalty of law).

to refuse praise is to seek praise twice.

from bob@natasha.portal.com (bob cain)
subject re pgp , pem , and rfc 's (was cryptography patents)
organization oce graphics usa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7
lines 41

charles kincy (ckincy@cs.umr.edu) wrote

all i have to say is...yeah , right. if you 're willing to pay them
mucho big bucks and or use the routines they tell you to do.
does n't sound very reasonable to me.

all i have to say is this is full of shit. i have negotiated a license
and the bucks are incredibly reasonable with an upfront charge on a
sliding scale depending on your capitalization. if you are a startup
and ca n't afford it you ca n't afford to start up in the first place.
why do people insist on making unequivocal statements about that which
they know nothing.


but i do n't guess pkp and rsa are interested in big bucks. maybe
they have some other agenda \? secure communications only for
government agents , perhaps \?

have you considered treatment for paranoia \? the government is the
single biggest thorn in rsa 's side.


some limitation. let me guess do n't use the code in any way pkp or
rsa does n't like....such as...providing secure communications for the
average citizen.

that was exactly its purpose if you know anything about it. there is
nothing at all preventing the average citizen using it , only selling
it.


i hope my cynicism is misplaced here. go ahead...i'm not afraid to
be wrong every once in a while. but , i have an uneasy feeling that i
am right. (

it is and you are wrong yet you emotionally state a bunch of crap as fact
with a tiny disclaimer at the end. check your facts first and grow up.
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography
and immaturity i wonder.

bob cain (normally rcain@netcom.com)

from mkagalen@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (michael kagalenko)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 , usa
lines 19

in article c5nmb1.cof@news.claremont.edu ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt) writes

i probably should n't say this , but they could try to detect the use
of an illegal cypher by transmitting in the clear some statistical
properties of the plaintext. an old fashioned wiretap could then
detect the use of pre encryption , which would drastically increase
the measured entropy of the input. a countermeasure to this would
be to use steganographic techniques which put out voice.

this way to detect pre encryption may be defeated one can do
transformation of the spectrum of encrypted signal just by adding some
pre arranged (in the beginning of communication) function.
i think so. say , you can do fft of your encrypted signal.
just thinking ...



for pgp2.1 public key finger mkagalen@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu


from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject white house wiretap chip disinformation sheet
organization ministry of truth
in reply to clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 20 44 58 gmt
keywords big bubba is watching.
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 58

fascinating. most of the content of the white house announcements was
in what was not said. it gives us almost nothing of value , threatens to
take away a lot , and does it with a sincere smile on its face ,
and the nice friendly word management .

fact sheet
public encryption management

the first thing it does n't say is we 're giving you stronger encryption .
what it says is
the u. s. government has developed a microcircuit that not only
provides privacy through encryption that is substantially more robust
than the current government standard , but also permits escrowing of
the keys needed to unlock the encryption. the system for the
escrowing of keys will allow the government to gain access to
encrypted information only with appropriate legal authorization.
but des is strong enough that only the government can break it now ,
so the major effect is to make it easier for government to break !
at best it makes it more difficult for the nsa to break , since they
need to get one of the two escrowed keys to do a brute force search
for the other 40 bit key.

similarly , it did n't say we 're making encryption is commercially available.
because encryption is already commercially available , including
forms the nsa may not be able to break , like triple des or idea.
and phone companies could offer des based systems now if they were
convinced the government would let them and they could make enough money.

the next thing it did n't say is we 're making encryption legal ,
because of course encryption has always been legal , and the
president ca n't change the first amendment merely by decree.
what it did say was
in making this decision , i do not intend to prevent the
private sector from developing , or the government from approving ,
other microcircuits or algorithms that are equally effective in
assuring both privacy and a secure key escrow system.
which clearly means we 're making encryption illegal unless we get your keys.
soon. once business buys into this.

another thing it did n't say is we 're going to ask congress for money
to do lots more wiretapping , because of course , there 's a budget crisis ,
and congress might debate the policy issues or not give them the cash.
what it did say was
the attorney general will procure and utilize encryption devices to
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure
law enforcement communications. further , the attorney general
shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
super surplus fund to effect this purchase.
which means we 've got money congress ca n't control and we 're going to
buy lots of wiretapping equipment with it to detect non approved crypto
(that 's what preserve the government 's ability to conduct ... surveillance
means.)

pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from sommerfeld@apollo.hp.com (bill sommerfeld)
subject a little political philosophy worth reading.
lines 66
nntp posting host snarfblatt.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard

read this through once or twice. then replace prince with
government or president , as appropriate , and read it again.

from chapter xx of the prince , by n. macchiavelli , as translated by
daniel donno.

in order to keep their lands secure , some princes have
disarmed their subjects others have prompted division within the
cities they have subjugated. some have nurtured animosities against
themselves others have sought to win the approval of those they
initially distrusted. some have erected fortresses others have
destroyed them. now , although it is impossible to set down definite
judgements on all of these measures without considering the particular
circumstances of the states where they may be employed , i shall
nevertheless discuss them in such broad terms as the subject itself
will allow.

to begin with , there has never been a case of a new prince
disarming his subjects. indeed , whenever he found them disarmed , he
proceeded to arm them. for by arming your subjects , you make their
arms your own. those among them who are suspicious become loyal ,
while those who are already loyal remain so , and from subjects they
are transformed into partisans. though you cannot arm them all ,
nonetheless you increase your safety among those you leave unarmed by
extending privileges to those you arm. your different treatment of
the two categories will make the latter feel obligated to you , while
the former will consider it proper thoat those who assume added duties
and dangers should receive advantages.

when you disarm your subjects , however , you offend them , by
showing that , either from cowardliness or from lack of faith , you
distrust them and either conclusion will induce them to hate you.
moreover , since it is impossible for you to remain unarmed , you would
have to resort to mercenaries , whose limitations have already been
discussed. even if such troops were good , however , they could never be
good enough to defend you from powerful enemies , and doubtful
subjects. therefore , as i have said , a new prince in a newly acquired
state has always taken measures to arm his subjects , and history is
full of examples proving that this is so.

but when a prince takes posession of a new state which he
annexes as an addition to his original domain , then he must disarm all
the subjects of the new state except those who helped him to acquire
it and these , as time and occasion permit , he must seek to render
soft and weak. he must arrange matters in such a way that the arms of
the entire state will be in the hands of soldiers who are native to
his original domain.

...

and since the subject demands it , i will not fail to remind
any prince who has acquired a new state by the aid of its inhabitants
that he soundly consider what induced them to assist him if the
reason is not natural affection for him , but rather dissatisfaction
with the former government , he will find it extremely difficult to
keep them friendly , for it will be impossible to please them. if he
will carefully think the matter through in the light of examples drawn
from ancient and modern affairs , he will understand why it is much
easier to win the favor of those who were happy with their former
government , and hence were his enemies , than to keep the favor of
those who , out of dissatisfaction with the former rule , helped him to
replace it.





from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 29

in article 01050810.vkcsbl@mbeckman.mbeckman.com mbeckman@mbeckman.com writes


as an economist , i'm sure you can see the flaws in this logic. if the (naive)
market is flooded with proprietary , but weak , encryption , then truly strong
encryption will be unable to compete.

this is true for the mass market , but not for those who need strong crypto
and are willing to pay the price. after all , one can buy strong crypto today
if one is willing to spend enough.

thus the concern is not economic.

the issue most worth worrying about is that after the system takes hold , the
government will outlaw other systems , and something voluntary will become
the only system available. that is a political , not an economic issue.

as a separate matter , you may be making an implied advocacy for cheap secure
crypto for everyone. it 's true that the clipper chip would probably prevent
that except via clipper , but cheap , secure crypto for everyone is a
political discussion , not an economic one , and the whole point of clipper is
to resolve that political (policy) tension between securing legitimate
communications and tapping the crooks.


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 8
distribution na
nntp posting host access.digex.net

you 're drifting off topic. in any case , if you check on any of the
topics devoted to gun rights issues , you will find ample evidence that
the misinformation is your assertion that the term the people in
the second amendment has mysteriously taken on a meaning diametrically
opposite the meaning of the exact same term in the first and fourth
amendments.



from karn@unix.ka9q.ampr.org (phil karn)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
nntp posting host unix.ka9q.ampr.org
reply to karn@servo.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc
lines 19

in article 1993apr18.233112.24107@colnet.cmhnet.org , res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli) writes
sadly , it does not. suspects can be compelled to give handwriting and
voice exemplars , and to take blood and dna tests.

i am sure that mike is correct on this point. i am also pretty sure that
administering truth serum would be ruled a violation of your right
not to incriminate yourself. but , what is the salient difference \?

you can find the salient difference in any number of 5th amendment
related supreme court opinions. the court limits 5th amendment
protections to what they call testimonial evidence , as opposed to
physical evidence.

the whole question would hinge on whether a crypto key would be
considered testimonial evidence. i suppose arguments could be made
either way , though obviously i would hope it would be considered
testimonial.

phil

from amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization department of mathematics
lines 19
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu

in article 1r1otuinndb2@dns1.nmsu.edu
amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes

the 'plaintext' is digitized voice , and exists for a very short
time , probably in a couple inches of copper , tops. it 's flatly not
available your bug in my office can hear my voice , and even digitize
it , but it 's going to get a different bitstream.

i am an idiot. the plaintext that 's relevant is the session key.
if you know that , you probably do n't need a roomful of chips , do you \?
if you were going to brute force something interesting , that 'd be the
message stream , which is sort of approximately known by , say , a bug in
my office. then your roomful of chips could get the session key. which
i change every morning.

really , it 's just a whole lot easier for the illicit wiretappers
to stick a bug in your phone.

andrew molitor

from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject the wiretap chip , clones , and secure key exchange
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 33

u23590@uicvm.uic.edu writes
the cryptographic algorythm must be kept secret , or
private individuals could make clipperclones with
which they could transmit messages which the feds would not have
ready access to.

not necessarily. i 've been thinking about this , and if this chip scheme
is to provide any real security , there must be some sort of key exchange ,
either using a public key encryption scheme , or using a key exchange scheme
like diffie hellman. if there 's an out of band transmission of a shared
session key , then what protects that band from eavesdropping \? if the phone
company or some other online central authority generates a session key and
sends it to both users , then what 's the point of going to the trouble of
having some complicated key depositories \? just ask the phone company for
a copy of the session key for each call.

now , it 's probably not practical for each user to keep an online copy of
every public key used by anyone anywhere , right \? so , probably , there will
be some way of getting these keys verified. this might be a digitally
signed (by the chip manufacturer) copy of the public key in this unit ,
stored by this unit. it might also be an online directory with access to
everyone 's public keys. (this would introduce another weakness to the
security of the scheme , of course.) presumably , if you do n't use your
designated key , you ca n't get a verified connection to other standard chips.

it might be useful to have a modified chip , which would allow you to
use either the original public private key pair , or some other key pair
and verification scheme. unfortunately , this would not allow you to call
most people and establish secure communications....

john kelsey
i hope somebody starts doing this soon after the first
ones are released...

from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re pgp , pem , and rfc 's (was cryptography patents)
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 19

in article 1993apr16.001321.3692@natasha.portal.com bob@natasha.portal.com (bob cain) writes

i hope my cynicism is misplaced here. go ahead...i'm not afraid to
be wrong every once in a while. but , i have an uneasy feeling that i
am right. (

it is and you are wrong yet you emotionally state a bunch of crap as fact
with a tiny disclaimer at the end. check your facts first and grow up.
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography
and immaturity i wonder.

oh , i see , flame someone , tell them that they are immature , tell them
they are wrong , and then do n't offer any proof for your assertions.

you really are a putz. put up or shut up.

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
article i.d. rwing.2073
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 202

in article 1993apr17.061326.16130@clarinet.com brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes
getting the court order to reveal the key also makes decipherable
all past conversations (which may be on tape , or disk , or whatver) ,
as i understand the proposal. i could be wrong , but i 've seen no
mention of session keys being the escrowed entities.

true in theory. in practice \? the technology of cellular phones will
probably be spread spectrum and quite difficult to record the crypttext
without the key. if the frequency path depends on they key , as i
understand it to , it could be made effectively impossible to record.

i am not an expert in the cryptography science , but some basic things
seem evident to me , things which this clinton clipper do not address.
the all pertain to opportunites for abuse , and conclusions based on what
i have seen the membership of this group (except for two notable persons)
agree to. if anything bad is possible by the government in theory , it
almost always ends up happening in fact. so the key is to make abuse
impossible. question authority , and remember power does corrupt.

i think one has to regard this whole idea in the sense that it will be
expanded to include other data forms , such as data transfer and stored
data. and as such should be treated as if it were expanded (or such
expansion will be almost impossible to stop , using clipper as a precident).
there was a hint of that in the proposal , remember. that said , please
bear with me , i am not very articulate , so i take more words to say
what others could say much more briefly. thank you.

once it hits land you can record it if you have telco access. the
telco is n't supposed to give that without a warrant. that 's the rule
today.

as i suggested this is now. the hint is in the proposal that this or
similar proposals are being considered for other forms of encryptions
such as data transfer , data files , and such , largely dependent on how
this thing is accepted or flies. i think one would be wise to treat
this in the manner one would when (not if) it gets expanded to other
areas than cellular phones. i think this is guaranteed to happen , if
this proposal gets by. salami politics. it has been and is used in
several other areas , it is certain to be used here. government is not
going to easily give up on the idea that they should be able to eavesedrop
whenever they want to. 'court order required' has proven to be a rather
flimsy guarantee. if the case warrants , they can always sieze the
material , and force one to give the key , or sit in jail forever on
periodically renewed contempt charges. so it is not denying the justice
system the information , nor the ability to lock someone up if guilty
(or refuses to divulge the means to access the info this is not
protected under the fifth one can be forced to perform acts that would
result in divulging incriminating evidence). so , blocking restrictions
on private encryption is not preventing legitimate law enforcement it
does make illegitimate law enforcement a bunch more difficult. especially
fishing expeditions without the target 's knowlege. do n't give up the
right to be safe from that that should be non negotiable , and clinton
and co. know it (which is probably why they quietly developed this thing ,
figuring if they get it this far , they can ram it on through). how come
those consulted could be roughly described as us insiders \? they cannot
quietely impliment it though , when they ban other schemes to ensure its
exclusive use. hence the nice pr document to try and reassure everyone.
do n't buy into it. has government really earned that kind of trust ,
past or future \? to be secure and free , one must keep government honest
and the only way to do that is to make abuse impossible , not 'unlikely'
or 'difficult'.

but even so , the evidence would not be admissible , i think , unless the
judge so ordered. i think that even interception of the crypttext
without a warrant would be illegal. cops ca n't record today 's plain
cellular calls and then ask a judge , hey , can we have permission to
listen to those tapes \? can they \?

so what \? one could use information gained by re use of the keys (saved
after the last case was finished) or other means (master key , backdoor ,
easily broken algorithm) to find other evidence which , given to a judge ,
would authorize a tap which would n't have been possible otherwise. this
has been the more common manner of abuse of wiretaps in the past... for
local cops , this might be workable to keep them honest , but the feds
have a workaround somehow , bet on it. does anyone really believe
for example , that the government will use a scheme nsa cannot listen
in on scanning for keywords either easily defeated in realtime or
via a 'master key' \? i sure do n't.

this whole thing sounds like something to eliminate the need to use
old fashioned police work to build a case. in the past , eavesdropping
was rather easy (with or without a court order). i think the law
enforcement community has become a bit spoiled , and will resist changes
that require them to revert to using old fashioned detective work. i
just find it somewhat surprising coming from a bunch that cares so much
about civil and individual rights , that puts people first . the question
is put people first to where \?

with the innards not being revealed , how is one to be sure there doesn't
exist a 'master key' for use by nsa , etc (so they can do their keyword
scan , etc on conversations they routinely monitor , without a specific
court order) \? remember , the cellular phone limitiation is only temporary.
bet on it. and so far i have not heard about police telling people that
they have been tapped and nothing incriminating was found. what is to
keep them from simply keeping the keys on file for 'next time' \? after
awhile , they would have quite a collection. kept especially for folks
they deem 'disruptive'. and if they get only one key , that would
reduce the search space a lot , unless it is an rsa scheme. remember
nixon years \? need for court orders really slowed them down , did n't it \?

and unless the escrow accounts are not government controlled (fat chance !
i see one ending up being under , say treasury , the other under justice
)) it could be worth some serious bucks to some folks to get keys to
a competitor 's clinton clipper (or descendent when this idea is expanded
to be used for all non government encryption). enough bucks would get
one the keys or the innards for this algorithm. perhaps not an important
concern , but given past government behavior and the other problems...

worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

yes , that is a major concern , but i think that they think they can
win just by having 99.5 of the usa use this system. they do n't even
have to care about the cautious .5 that 's left. they do n't catch the
really smart crooks anyway. john gotti , who would have to be retarded
not to realize he was likely to be wiretapped , glibly chatted away
on his tapped phone about murder plans. that 's why he 's in jail now.
hard to believe , but true.

what will one do when it is expanded to data storage encryption \? you
can bet that if clipper is accepted , that will be next on the agenda.
it is even hinted at in the proposal read it carefully... expect the
argumet well , if you got nothing to hide... fine. then using that
argument , one should not object to video cameras being installed in
every room of one 's home. granted an exteme expansion of the idea but
the principle holds. private stuff should remain private , even from a
govt fishing expedition. and laws rules may change in the future as
to 'safeguards'. when it comes to the fed government , safeguards are
pretty meaningless , if they want to do get something.

do n't work so hard to give up some rather treasured rights , or establish
bad precidents , please. the price could be hell to pay , later.

this scheme can succeed without laws forbidding more , which people would
fight a lot harder. they like this enough that they are dropping the so
called digital telephony proposal , according to rumours. however the
meaning of that is complex , since they still want to get at the crypttext
on telco systems , and that requires a bit of work.

people would fight laws forbidding more now , but in , say two years ,
because we have this 'crisis' situation which must be addressed by some
'drastic action' , just this added reasonable restriction will only bother
those who have someting to hide... etc. please do n't buy into it.

if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its algrithm public
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few
isolated 'respected experts' (respected by whom \? for what \? perhaps a
certain professor who likes key banks would be one of the selected
experts... this does seem to expand on some ideas the person was
advocating , if i recall ). how would anybody know that what the
experts examine is the same as what will end up being used in the clipper
chip , if it is kept secret \? perhaps the clipper will use a crippled
version (with a 'master key' provision) , or features not present in the
version subjected for study and evaluation by the experts. and who
chooses the expertes \? the government \? no conflict of interest there...
)

and is n't it a requirement for any decent encryption scheme that it not
have its effectiveness reduced by having the algrorithm widely known \?
i was lead to believe that one should assume the other side has everything
you have , except for the key(s)... i recall ideas presented to this
group are rejected if a requirement exists the algorithm be secret...

another question since it is a safe bet this clipper thing would not
be used for government security , they are regarding it as not real secure
but good enough for common folk. i think i would like to see a full
description (not a pr non statement) of just what good enough means \?
i think when saying how strong it is , good enough really means not
very . the excuse that other countries have these restrictions is not
acceptable other countries do not have our bill of rights and
constitution (which the people , not the governments , of those other
countries often regard with envy what we have as rights they have as
revokable privileges). and if we expect to retain those rights and
protections , we must not allow them to be gutted because we just gotta
have this thing to 'fight crime'. we have allready have our bill of
rights pretty much torn to shreds. we should not permit more weakining
for yet another 'noble cause' , instead we should be trying to repair
the damage. our crime problem may have a number of causes , but too
many rights and safeguards is not a signifigant one. a broken court
system and poor police work are a much more signifigant cause as having
too many rights (disregarding addressing the root causes for crime ,
etc).

btw those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton , believe
this i would be going ballistic reagardless who seriously proposed
this thing. it is just another step in a gradual erosion of our rights
under the constitution or bill of rights. the last couple of decades
have been a non stop series of end runs around the protections of the
constitution. it has to stop. now is as good a time as any , if it
is n't too late allready.


brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366



pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie)
subject would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
originator kadie@eff.org
nntp posting host eff.org
organization the electronic frontier foundation
lines 26

clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another layer of
encryption.

currently , when you send an encrypted message , an opponent can usually
tell 1) that you are using encryption 2) which encryption method you
are using because that information is usually in the clear .

with clipper , most opponents will only know that you are sending
clipper text , they wo n't know that your clipper text is itself
encoded.

only those few opponents who get your clipper keys will know
that your message is double encrypted.

... kind of like a safety deposit box containing a lock box.

so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front
ends.

carl




carl kadie i do not represent eff this is just me.
kadie@eff.org , kadie@cs.uiuc.edu

from arc@leland.stanford.edu (andrew richard conway)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 94

in article 1qmugcinnpu9@gap.caltech.edu hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney) writes
the key question is whether non clipper encryption will be made illegal.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every

does anyone know what countries are these \?

american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

the clear middle ground implied by these statements is to say that americans
have the right to clipper encryption , but not to unbreakable encryption.
this implies that , ultimately , non clipper strong encryption must become
illegal.

with the following logical consequences
(a) using any code designed to obscure informatio which is
not easily breakable will be illegal , including
(i) using code words such as ``project p5''
(ii) speaking a language other than english
(iii) ever refering implicitly to events not known to
everyone , eg
hi john. how was last night \?
for all the listener knows , this may be a code for
did you pick up the drugs ok last night \?
of be a code for
ok. we blow up the pentagon at midnight.
(iv) mentioning anything that could not be perfectly
understood by an average person with no education.
(v) words with more than one syllable.
(vi) speaking with a heavy accent that could bemisunderstood
by people not used to it.
(vii) books with an inner meaning ...such
as animal farm .

(as an aside , is n't the language here jarring \? all this talk about
harmonious balance when they 're talking about taking away people 's
right to communications privacy \? )

yes.

it looks like the worst nightmares raised by dorothy denning 's proposals
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal. encryption programs
for disk files and email , as well as software to allow for encrypted
voice communications , will be distributed only through the
underground . people will have to learn how to hide the fact that
they are protecting their privacy.

i have a wonderful encrypter you can borrow that converts a message
eg meet me at 11 30 to bomb the white house. bring some dynamite
to an apparently (relatively) innoculous message. this message
here is an example of the output for the above message ).

it 's shocking and frightening to see that this is actually happening here.

it is shockiong that it could happen anywhere.
it is shocking that it could happen in a country
that has the arrogance to call itself free.

what you can do
(1) write to your congress person in plain text.
(2) write to your congress person in encrypted text.
(decrypter optional)
(3) send some random keystroked to your congressperson
(4) send some random keystrokes accross the us boundaries ,
and keep the spooks busy trying to decode it.
(5) write your own encryption algorithms.
(6) do n't buy clipper products.

p.s. i ca n't work out why the us government does n't want to sell
them overseas. after all , they are rather easy for us interests to decode ,
so make a perfect tool for industrial military espionage...lulling
anyone stupid enough to buy it into a false sense of security. you will
notice that there is no mention anywhere about safety for non americans.

disclaimer my opinions are mine alone , and do not represent anyone elses.
i have nothing that i particularly want to hide at the moment...though i
consider the right
to be able to use whatever method of coding data i like to be high on my
list of priorities.



andrew conway arc@leland.stanford.edu phone usa 415 497 1094


from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 5
distribution na
nntp posting host access.digex.net

i wonder if she landed such a fat fee from cooperation with the nsa in
the design and propoganda stages that she does n't care any more \?

which is to say is the nsa totally perfidious , or does it at least
have the redeeming virtue of taking care of its own \? g

from lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization itc uva community access unix internet project
lines 16

in article 1993apr22.065357.9667@cs.aukuni.ac.nz pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (peter gutmann) writes
article deleted

just doing a quick reality check here is this for real or did someone
invent it to provoke a reaction from people \? it sounds more like the
sort of thing you 'd have heard , suitably rephrased , from the leader of a
certain german political party in the 1930 's....

it sounds like a joke (but then the war on drugs has always been a joke...).


join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .


from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 35

i guess the cryptowranglers read this group too. but of
course i knew that because it is so easy to do. there is
not a single doubt in my mind that every byte that passes
every significant gateway or 'bone is captured for the
colligation of data about \? (maybe your name is here).

maybe we should start a newsgroup for the distribution of encrypted
posts intended of members of affinity groups with a shared private
key. for example at the coming up cypherpunks meeting , a private
key corresponding to that particular meeting could be passed out
by a moderator. minutes , followup comments to other participants ,
and so on could be posted to the alt.encrypted group for the use
of the people who attended. communiques intended by the group for
non attendees could of course just be signed using the private key
but otherwises not encrypted.

starting a alt.encrypted newsgroup rather than just maintaining
mailing lists is better for several reasons. first , it would be
easier to archive for people who might join a group late and
who might like to easily read earlier posts second , traffic analysis
to know exactly to whom an affinity message is directed would be foiled
three , a newsgroup is much more public and would serve to publicize
available privacy measures on the internet.

and it would be fun to accumulate a secret keyring full of such
keys it beats giving out t shirts as a door prize.

we could send a copy of alt.encrypted directly to judge william
sessions or admiral studeman to save them the time of having it
collected for them.



grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
in reply to amanda@intercon.com 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 23 50 03 0500
reply to pmetzger@lehman.com
organization lehman brothers
lines 36


in article 1qnupd jpm@news.intercon.com amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)

jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse) writes
oh great. wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds.

hey , it 's better than the status quo.

i am far less worried about the feds tapping my phone than high school
scanner surfers who get their kicks out of eavesdropping on cellular and
cordless phone calls.

i'm a political dissident. i'm scared shitless of the feds listening
in on my calls. my opinions are the sort that would get me
disappeared in a slightly less free society and who knows what
sort of society we will be in in five or ten years \? i have friends who
have had their phones tapped none of this is theoretical to me.

as for its better than the status quo , well , first of all , you can
get a cryptophone from companies like cylink today and they work
well. in addition , a number of groups are now working on building
software to turn any pc into a privacy enhanced phone right now and
they are all working in overdrive mode.

and yes , i 'd rather just see all crypto restrictions lifted , but this is at
least an incrememental improvement for certain applications...

there are no crypto restrictions... yet. you can use anything you want
right now. the point is to maintain that right.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization little to none
lines 20

i am postive someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the fifth
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self incriminating \?

from mike godwin mnemonic@eff.org , posted with permission carl

sadly , it does not. suspects can be compelled to give handwriting and
voice exemplars , and to take blood and dna tests.

i am sure that mike is correct on this point. i am also pretty sure that
administering truth serum would be ruled a violation of your right
not to incriminate yourself. but , what is the salient difference \?
both drawing blood and injecting truth serum incapacitate you for
a while , but do no permanent damage. is it simply that we have come to
view one as acceptable , while the other is viewed as a fundamental
violation of one 's rights \? if this is the case , how do we expand the
protections of the 5th amendment to incorporate new technologies without
the results being a hodgepodge of different judges personal opinions \?

rob stampfli rob@colnet.cmhnet.org the neat thing about standards
614 864 9377 ham radio kd8wk@n8jyv.oh there are so many to choose from.

from denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
subject the clipper chip a technical summary
distribution world
organization georgetown university
lines 139

the following document summarizes the clipper chip , how it is used ,
how programming of the chip is coupled to key generation and the
escrow process , and how law enforcement decrypts communications.
since there has been some speculation on this news group about my
own involvement in this project , i 'd like to add that i was not in
any way involved. i found out about it when the fbi briefed me on
thursday evening , april 15. since then i have spent considerable
time talking with the nsa and fbi to learn more about this , and i
attended the nist briefing at the department of commerce on april 16.
the document below is the result of that effort.

dorothy denning


the clipper chip a technical summary

dorothy denning

april 19 , 1993


introduction

on april 16 , the president announced a new initiative that will bring
together the federal government and industry in a voluntary program
to provide secure communications while meeting the legitimate needs of
law enforcement. at the heart of the plan is a new tamper proof encryption
chip called the clipper chip together with a split key approach to
escrowing keys. two escrow agencies are used , and the key parts from
both are needed to reconstruct a key.


chip structure

the clipper chip contains a classified 64 bit block encryption
algorithm called skipjack. the algorithm uses 80 bit keys (compared
with 56 for the des) and has 32 rounds of scrambling (compared with 16
for the des). it supports all 4 des modes of operation. throughput is
16 mbits a second.

each chip includes the following components

the skipjack encryption algorithm
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip


encrypting with the chip

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t
telephone security device (as it will be). suppose i call someone and
we both have such a device. after pushing a button to start a secure
conversation , my security device will negotiate a session key k with
the device at the other end (in general , any method of key exchange can
be used). the key k and message stream m (i.e. , digitized voice) are then
fed into the clipper chip to produce two values

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and
e e k u n f , a law enforcement block.

the law enforcement block thus contains the session key k encrypted
under the unit key u concatenated with the serial number n , all
encrypted under the family key f.


chip programming and escrow

all clipper chips are programmed inside a scif (secure computer
information facility) , which is essentially a vault. the scif contains
a laptop computer and equipment to program the chips. about 300 chips
are programmed during a single session. the scif is located at
mikotronx.

at the beginning of a session , a trusted agent from each of the two key
escrow agencies enters the vault. agent 1 enters an 80 bit value s1
into the laptop and agent 2 enters an 80 bit value s2. these values
serve as seeds to generate keys for a sequence of serial numbers.

to generate the unit key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1.
s1 and s2 are then used as keys to triple encrypt n1 , producing a
64 bit block r1

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1 .

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce n2 and
n3 , and two additional 64 bit blocks r2 and r3 are computed

r2 e d e n2 s1 s2 s1
r3 e d e n3 s1 s2 s1 .

r1 , r2 , and r3 are then concatenated together , giving 192 bits. the
first 80 bits are assigned to u1 and the second 80 bits to u2. the
rest are discarded. the unit key u is the xor of u1 and u2. u1 and u2
are the key parts that are separately escrowed with the two escrow
agencies.

as a sequence of values for u1 , u2 , and u are generated , they are
written onto three separate floppy disks. the first disk contains a
file for each serial number that contains the corresponding key part
u1. the second disk is similar but contains the u2 values. the third
disk contains the unit keys u. agent 1 takes the first disk and agent
2 takes the second disk. the third disk is used to program the chips.
after the chips are programmed , all information is discarded from the
vault and the agents leave. the laptop may be destroyed for additional
assurance that no information is left behind.

the protocol may be changed slightly so that four people are in the
room instead of two. the first two would provide the seeds s1 and s2 ,
and the second two (the escrow agents) would take the disks back to
the escrow agencies.

the escrow agencies have as yet to be determined , but they will not
be the nsa , cia , fbi , or any other law enforcement agency. one or
both may be independent from the government.


law enforcement use

when law enforcement has been authorized to tap an encrypted line , they
will first take the warrant to the service provider in order to get
access to the communications line. let us assume that the tap is in
place and that they have determined that the line is encrypted with
clipper. they will first decrypt the law enforcement block with the
family key f. this gives them e k u n. they will then take a
warrant identifying the chip serial number n to each of the key escrow
agents and get back u1 and u2. u1 and u2 are xored together to produce
the unit key u , and e k u is decrypted to get the session key k.
finally the message stream is decrypted. all this will be accomplished
through a special black box decoder operated by the fbi.


acknowledgment and distribution notice. all information is based on
information provided by nsa , nist , and the fbi. permission to
distribute this document is granted.




from jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 34

in article 1qnupd jpm@news.intercon.com amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes
jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse) writes
oh great. wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds.

hey , it 's better than the status quo.

i am far less worried about the feds tapping my phone than high school
scanner surfers who get their kicks out of eavesdropping on cellular and
cordless phone calls.


really \? why are so you worried about high school kids getting their kicks
with scanners , as compared to what the feds can do , and have done , to their
targets \?

better than the status quo is n't good enough , i 'd say. the same
technology could be implemented without a back door open to the state.

we all know about power and corruption. but we all know that abuse is
something that only happens to the other guy.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation






john hesse a man ,
jhesse@netcom.com a plan ,
moss beach , calif a canal , bob.


from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization clarinet communications corp.
distribution na
lines 37

the stragegy of the government is interesting. the real fear comes from
them doing more than this.

this is a voluntary program , and thus harder for us to object to on
the surface.

their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. they are
pushing to get a standard in place , a secret standard , and if they
get it as a standard then they will drive competitors out of the market.
it will be legal to sell better , untapable encryption that does n't have
registered keys , but it will be difficult , and thus not a plan for
most phone companies.

you see , with clipper chip phones you 'll be able to talk to any
cellular company , or other phones or ports because they will follow
the standard. at t has already announced a clipper chip encryption
product. the government has marketed hard to get major vendors to
use these chips. if they get enough market share , they will rule.

and thus there will be very little market for systems that ca n't be
tapped by the police. the public is n't that concerned about it now ,
after all. they freely do calls that anybody with an old tv can listen
to today ! they wo n't pay big extra bucks for proprietary phones that secure
them only from the police.

well , some people will buy these phones , but they will only work with
other proprietary phones , so the market will be small and the phones
expensive. unless they are made in numbers large enough to sell them
cheap , only the mob will buy them.

and this means that the fbi will want to track the customer lists of
better encryption phones , because the only reason a person would want
one is to evade the police.

interesting.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks
only
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 35
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

jhart@agora.rain.com (jim hart) writes
you do n't care that people are being lied to , fooled into believing the
chip gives privacy when it fact it allows wiretaps \?

it does give privacy , just not absolute privacy. the announcement was very
up front about this , and about allowing wiretaps. how is this fooling
anyone \?

are you so smart that you know when you 're talking
to somebody who has a wiretap chip on their phone instead of a privacy
chip with private keys \? )

sure. the two do n't interoperate. you could n't talk to , say , a cylink phone
from a clipper phone. i would expect even multiprotocal phones to come with
indicators saying which kind of link encryption is in use...

we do need an alternative to nsa bugged telephones , but
we 're talking inexpensive telephones here , including hand sized
cellulars , that need strong crypto , real privacy.

so start a company and build them. this is still mostly a capitalist
economy...

what we need is a true privacy chip . for example , a real time
voice encryption rsa , put it into a silicon compiler and spit out
asic. put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for
international business , diplomats , and private communications.

i agree. go for it.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization partnership for an america free drug
lines 17

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to attach any crypto device
to the phone network. (anything that plugs in to our bt phone sockets
must be approved for some reason crypto devices just never are...)


whats the difference between a v.32bis modem and a v.32bis modem \?

i'm not being entirely silly here what i'm pointing out is that the
modems that they have already approved for data transmission will work
just fine to transmit scrambled vocoded voice.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re the source of that announcement
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 37

marc horowitz n1nzu (marc@mit.edu) wrote
the message from the nist about the clipper chip comes from the
following address

clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)

just who is that , i asked myself , or rather , i asked the computer.

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 25
...list of name elided for brevity......

well , is n't that interesting. dorothy denning , mitch kapor , marc
rotenberg , ron rivest , jim bidzos , and others. the government , rsa ,
tis , cpsr , and the eff are all represented. i do n't suppose anybody
within any of these organizations would care to comment \? or is this
just the white house 's idea of a cruel joke on these peoples' inboxes \?

i know that at least one person on that list says the first he heard
of clipper was in the friday morning newspaper ! and another has
already fired off a letter of protest to nist.

my point \? i suspect this list , interesting as it is for various
reasons , does not represent the cabal that put this proposal together.
some of them , yes. others , no.

this may be nothing more than a mailing list of people who get
crypto related announcements from nsa , er , i mean nist.

tim may

..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject facinating facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed s1 and s2
in reply to denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu 's message of 19 apr 93 18 23 27 0400
reply to pmetzger@lehman.com
organization lehman brothers
lines 102


denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu (vidkun abraham lauritz quisling) writes

each chip includes the following components

the skipjack encryption algorithm
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip

hmmm. a thirty bit serial number. and , we are told , the unit key u is
derived deterministically from this serial number. that means that
there are only one billion possible unit keys.

to generate the unit key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1.
s1 and s2 are then used as keys to triple encrypt n1 , producing a
64 bit block r1

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1 .

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce n2 and
n3 , and two additional 64 bit blocks r2 and r3 are computed

r2 e d e n2 s1 s2 s1
r3 e d e n3 s1 s2 s1 .

r1 , r2 , and r3 are then concatenated together , giving 192 bits. the
first 80 bits are assigned to u1 and the second 80 bits to u2. the
rest are discarded. the unit key u is the xor of u1 and u2. u1 and u2
are the key parts that are separately escrowed with the two escrow
agencies.

hmmm. we must assume that generating the unit key u from the serial
number n rather than generating it from a randomly selected u1 and u2
is an intentional way of assuring a fail safe for the government
u is completedly determined given s1 , s2 and n. if s1 and s2 do not
change they constitute effective master keys (along with f) , the
theft of which (or the possession of which by various authorities)
completely obviates the security of the system. however , more
interestingly , we know , for a fact that if s1 and s2 are fixed no
matter what the keyspace for u is no more than 2 30. why not pick u1
and u2 at random \? why this interesting restriction of they key space
if it not to provide an additional back door \?

i find it disturbing that at the very best my security is dependant on
approximately 30 bytes worth of information that could be written on
the back of a napkin.

even if s1 and s2 change periodically , the rationale behind this
restriction in the size of the keyspace seems strange if one is
assuming that the goal is security and makes perfect sense if the
goal is an illusion of security.

if s1 and s2 do not change , even if they remain secret i wonder if
they can somehow be back derived given enough unit key serial number
pairs. we are assured that this cannot happen but no one
understands how skipjack works outside of government officials and ,
soon , foreign intelligence services that gain the information via
espionage. presumably we will eventually have the information as well
reverse engineering gets more and more advanced every year but
by the time we know it may be too late.

as a sequence of values for u1 , u2 , and u are generated , they are
written onto three separate floppy disks. the first disk contains a
file for each serial number that contains the corresponding key part
u1. the second disk is similar but contains the u2 values. the third
disk contains the unit keys u. agent 1 takes the first disk and agent
2 takes the second disk. the third disk is used to program the chips.
after the chips are programmed , all information is discarded from the
vault and the agents leave. the laptop may be destroyed for additional
assurance that no information is left behind.

none of this makes me feel the least bit secure. the silly notion of
destroying the laptop appears to be yet another bizarre distraction.
we all know that you ca n't read data from dram that has been turned
off for more than a few moments. on the other hand , what we do n't know
is why there is a need to generate the unit keys from s1 and s2 in the
first place other than to weaken the system. we do n't know if the
agents in question would resist a million in cash a piece for their
information its probably worth hundreds of million , so you can make
the bribe arbitrarily hard to resist. and to tell you the truth , doing
this in a vault rather than in joe random tempest shielded room
with a laptop computer seems like melodrama designed to make
high school dropouts from peoria impressed but it does very little
for most of the rest of us.

the protocol may be changed slightly so that four people are in the
room instead of two. the first two would provide the seeds s1 and s2 ,
and the second two (the escrow agents) would take the disks back to
the escrow agencies.

what would this provide \? lets say the escrow agencies are the aclu and
the nra and their agents personally take back the disks and are always
honest. who cares \? the nsa must be laughing out loud , because they
have the algorithm to regenerate u given n and likely do n't need to
steal they keys as they effectively already have them.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from robichau@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov (paul robichaux)
subject suggestions for escrow agencies (was re more technical details)
reply to robichau@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov
organization new technology , inc.
lines 53

( below is my response to dr. denning 's letter to steven bellovin. comments
are invited. paul )

in alt.privacy.clipper , steve bellovin posted your message to
him , which included a brief passage concerning selection of agencies
as escrow agencies.

i am glad to see that the proposal as written states that the escrow
agencies wo n't be law enforcement agencies. i would argue , however ,
that one of the escrow agencies should n't be federal at all.

as a private citizen , i would feel much more secure in my person and
papers knowing that an organization committed to individual civil
liberties the aclu and the nra come to mind was safeguarding half of
my key. both the aclu and the nra are resistent to government pressure
by the simple expedient fact that they are not supported , funded , or
overtly controlled by the government.

of those federal and federally funded candidate agencies that you
mentioned , i have the following comments

sri , rand , mitre , and national labs i agree that they have
great experience safeguarding sensitive information. i am not
convinced that they would adequately safeguard this
information , since in any case requiring disclosure , there 's
likely to be sigificant pressure for disclosure possibly
wrongful disclosure.

gao perhaps. i would like to see more concrete evidence of
their fidelity and ability.

treasury \? surely you 're joking. perhaps you 'd ask batf
to safeguard keys. maybe the federal reserve would be a
better choice.

ever since last fall 's trial balloon was posted in sci.crypt , your
name has been synonymous with those who place a great deal of trust in
the ability of government agencies and agents to act within the law.

i agree with you in part those agencies and agents almost always
act properly. however , there have been enough cases where sworn
agents of the federal government have acted wrongly to make me feel
that having two federal agencies as key repositories is unacceptable.


respectfully ,
paul robichaux
(not speaking for nti , bcss , or nasa)



paul robichaux , kd4jzg help stop the big brother chip !
nti mission software development div. ripem key on request.

from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 22

in article 1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes
clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another layer of
encryption.

could somebody provide an overview of the proposed systems using the
chip \? (ought to see if att has a spec sheet) skipjack sounds like a
normal digital encryption algorithm , so the data path will have to be
voice digitize compress encrypt
compression will be necessary to fit the data on the wire , unless
they want to wait for isdn (that we should be so lucky...). feeding
pre encrypted data into the compressor will cause it to chuckle at
you you 'd have to tap into the guts of the phone and hack either
the compressed data stream , or selected parts of the output stream
before it hits the modem. unless you want to pay for two fast
modems on top of the encryption , and just plug the box in between
your phone and the wall.

carl

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu


from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 7
nntp posting host access.digex.net

er , excuse me but since the escrow agencies are n't yet chosen , how can you
say they have a history of untrustworthy behavoir sic \?

i refer to the federal law enforcement apparatus (which is ultimately in
charge of this) generally.



from tuinstra@sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra)
subject re wh announcement
reply to tuinstra@sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu.soe
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 70
nntp posting host sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu
cc tuinstra


q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

congress \? \? so we 're playing politics before we talk to cpsr , academia ,
the public , internet users \? i`ve heard of top down design , but top down
democracy \? \? just whose state district are the chip manufacturers in \?

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. ...bs about
the wonderfulness of the key escrow system...

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done)

they 'll just provide an easily compromised version to jq public.

nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product.

maybe we need a cra cryptographic rights amendment.

there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

nice lullaby. but why am i not soothed \?


also ,

in article 15472@leland.stanford.edu , arc@leland.stanford.edu (andrew richard conway) writes
p.s. i ca n't work out why the us government does n't want to sell
them overseas. after all , they are rather easy for us interests to decode ,
so make a perfect tool for industrial military espionage...lulling
anyone stupid enough to buy it into a false sense of security. you will
notice that there is no mention anywhere about safety for non americans.


why repeat themselves \? it appears to some (and the story looks pretty
convincing to me , too) that the justice department stole a case tracking
system , modified it , and distributed it to friendly police and suchlike
agencies around the world , eg. the canadian mounties. of course , i have
no doubt they swore scout 's honor that there were no backdoors.

with that kind of intelligence , who 'd want to be swamped with terabytes
of commercial traffic \?


dwight tuinstra best tuinstra@sandman.ece.clarkson.edu
tolerable tuinstrd@craft.camp.clarkson.edu

homo sapiens planetary cancer \? \? ... news at six


from grant@dockmaster.ncsc.mil (lynn r grant)
subject re key registering bodies
organization yale cs mail news gateway
lines 22

if we do not trust the nsa to be a registrar of clipper chip key halves ,
i would not trust mitre either. mitre does lots of work for nsa , at least
in the trusted product evaluation program (evaluation of commercial off the
shelf software for its efficacy in safeguarding classified information) , and
i assume in other , less open , programs.

there are at least two other ffrdcs (federally funded research and development
corporations) that work for nsa aerospace corporation and the institute for
defense analysis. now , if nsa were to be untrustworthy (a position that i
am neutral about , for purposes of this posting) , it would be in a position to
exert economic pressure upon mitre to release key halves on demand. it could
just say , if you do n't cooperate with us , we 'll place all our evaluation
contracts with aerospace and ida.

i am not saying that people at nsa , mitre , aerospace , or ida are dishonest
folk. but since they are people , and people occasionally go bad , the
system works better if organizations that you are depending upon to be
independent really are.

and , of course , i speak for myself , not my employer.

lynn grant

from warlord@mit.edu (derek atkins)
subject re disk safety measure \?
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 33
1pq0re gc2@network.ucsd.edu
nntp posting host steve dallas.mit.edu
in reply to loki@sdphu3.ucsd.edu 's message of 5 apr 93 19 21 18 gmt

begin pgp signed message

in article 1pq0re gc2@network.ucsd.edu loki@sdphu3.ucsd.edu (lance m cottrell) writes

btw i have not been able to get pgp to produce a signature
that i can attatch to the end of this message. what is
the procedure \? thanks.

try
pgp sat clearsig on

this will do the clearsig signing...

enjoy !

derek

pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server
pgp public keys@toxicwaste.mit.edu

begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqbuagubk8dnazh0k1zbsgrxaqfozqlec xkxmodhcpf az3aoqslfz 6w400udk
ng6prxnpueuszqeiiusmcvcrcgnwbavrxfja1o4yubh01czcg3zc9wljolxlxjn7
isjh etzxmjnnynjxlgs0ao
4ezb
end pgp signature

derek atkins , mit '93 , electrical engineering and computer science
secretary , mit student information processing board (sipb)
mit media laboratory , speech research group
warlord@mit.edu pp asel n1nwh

from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 17
nntp posting host access.digex.net

thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys.

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count.

that does n't worry me at all they 're not going to cheat at something
they can get caught at. and key size is one of the things that can be
verified externally. feed lots of random key input pairs into the
chip , then see what happens to the output....

if the device is designed to use the key that 's registered with the feds ,
i do n't see how you can feed it a different key. if the user can change
the key to any of the 2 80 possibilities , the main reason for regarding
this proposal as unacceptable disappears.




from jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 25

in article brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

...
the greatest danger of the escrow database , if it were kept on disk ,
would be the chance that a complete copy could somehow leak out. you
...
of course then it 's hard to backup. however , i think the consequences
of no backup the data is not there when a warrant comes are worse
than the consequences of a secret backup.

if the data is n't there when the warrant comes , you effectively have
secure crypto. if secret backups are kept...then you effectively have
no crypto. thus , this poster is essentialy arguing no crypto is better
than secure crypto.

if the data is n't there when the warrant comes , then the government will
just have to use normal law enforcement techniques to catch crooks. is
this so bad \? btw , bugging is n't yet a normal law enforcement technique.
with the privacy clipper , it will become a normal technique.
jim

information farming at... for addr phone finger a a
the ohio state university jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ((0 0))
jim ebright e mail jre @osu.edu
( )

from rjq@phys.ksu.edu (rob quinn)
subject stray thought (was re more technical details
organization kansas state university
lines 18
nntp posting host bohr.phys.ksu.edu

in 1993apr19.134346.2620@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
date sun , 18 apr 93 07 56 39 edt
from denning@cs.georgetown.edu (dorothy denning)
the clipper chip will have a secret crypto algorithm embedded in
the algorithm operates on 64 bit blocks (like des) and the chip supports
all 4 des modes of operation. the algorithm uses 32 rounds of scrambling
compared with 16 in des.

so in a few years there could be millions of these chips in the usa , all
networked together \? sounds like a good science fiction story the government
wants to crack foreign des (or whatever) messages , so they con the public into
individually buying all of the components and installing them. soon the us
could be covered by the largest parallel computer in the world , built on top of
our current phone net.

those who suppress freedom always rob quinn
do so in the name of law rjq@phys.ksu.edu
and order. john lindsay quinnbob@ksuvm.bitnet

from rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu
subject re is there any security in the clipper \?
organization cold media
lines 13

zeev@ccc.amdahl.com (ze'ev wurman) writes

but do we really believe that the various governments
(including ours) wo n't have the full lists of all the keys ever manufactured \?

yes , but they 'll be encrypted with cripple chip encryption , the
encryption algorithm so great it 's top secret and so unbreakable
they won't even let you look at it !

does n't that make you feel secure \?

robert w. clark just say no ! to the
rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu big brother chip

from rob shirey shirey@mitre.org
subject isoc symposium on net security
x xxmessage id a7f43aaa5a058c64@shirey mac.mitre.org
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 15 27 54 gmt
nntp posting host shirey mac.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation , mclean , virginia , usa
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 94


call for papers
the internet society symposium on
network and distributed system security

3 4 february 1994 , catamaran hotel , san diego , california

the symposium will bring together people who are building software and
hardware to provide network or distributed system security services.
the symposium is intended for those interested in practical aspects of
network and distributed system security , rather than in theory. symposium
proceedings will be published by the internet society. topics for the
symposium include , but are not limited to , the following

design and implementation of services access control , authentication ,
availability , confidentiality , integrity , and non repudiation
including criteria for placing services at particular protocol
layers.

design and implementation of security mechanisms and support
services encipherment and key management systems , authorization
and audit systems , and intrusion detection systems.

requirements and architectures for distributed applications and
network functions message handling , file transport , remote
file access , directories , time synchronization , interactive
sessions , remote data base management and access , routing , voice and
video multicast and conferencing , news groups , network management ,
boot services , mobile computing , and remote i o.

special issues and problems in security architecture , such as
very large systems like the international internet , and
high speed systems like the gigabit testbeds now being built.

interplay between security goals and other goals efficiency ,
reliability , interoperability , resource sharing , and low cost.

general chair
dan nessett , lawrence livermore national laboratory

program chairs
russ housley , xerox special information systems
rob shirey , the mitre corporation

program committee
dave balenson , trusted information systems
tom berson , anagram laboratories
matt bishop , dartmouth college
ed cain , u.s. defense information systems agency
jim ellis , cert coordination center
steve kent , bolt , beranek and newman
john linn , independent consultant
clifford neuman , information sciences institute
michael roe , cambridge university
rob rosenthal , u.s. national institute of standards and technology
jeff schiller , massachusetts institute of technology
ravi sandhu , george mason university
peter yee , u.s. national aeronautics and space administration

submissions the committee seeks both original technical papers and
proposals for panel discussions on technical and other topics of general
interest. technical papers should be 10 20 pages in length. panels
should include three or four speakers. a panel proposal must name the
panel chair , include a one page topic introduction authored by the chair ,
and also include one page position summaries authored by each speaker
both the technical papers and the panel papers will appear in the
proceedings.

submissions must be made by 16 august 1993. submissions should be made
via electronic mail to

1994symposium@smiley.mitre.org.

submissions may be in either of two formats ascii or postscript. if
the committee is unable to read a postscript submission , it will be
returned and ascii requested. therefore , postscript submissions should
arrive well before 16 august. if electronic submission is absolutely
impossible , submissions should be sent via postal mail to

robert w. shirey , mail stop z202
the mitre corporation
mclean , virginia 22102 3481 usa

all submissions must include both an internet electronic mail address and
a postal address. each submission will be acknowledged through the
medium by which it is received. if acknowledgment is not received within
seven days , please contact either rob shirey shirey@mitre.org or
russ housley housley.mclean csd@xerox.com , or telephone mana weigand at
mitre in mclean , 703 883 5397.

authors and panelists will be notified of acceptance by 15 october 1993.
instructions for preparing camera ready copy for the proceedings will be
postal mailed at that time. the camera ready copy must be received by
15 november 1993.

from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
distribution na
lines 21


well , it now seems obvious what professor denning was doing last fall
when this key escrow trial balloon was raised !

all the more need for end to end encryption schemes that bypass the
government approved system.

by the way , the clipper name...is n't this already used for the
clipper processor from intergraph \? i doubt they 're the ones making the
chip , so a name conflict may be present.

tim may


..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
nntp posting host bistromath.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation
lines 41

in article strnlghtc5t4o3.k5p@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
actually the govrnment is telling you that if you want to use their
product the manufacturer (actually better yet , some trusted pair
of escrow agencies) has to have the key.

most of us already are in this situation our car makers have keys to our
cars (or can get them quickly from the vin number) , and i have no doubt
that if presented with a court order , they 'd surrender copies to the
government.

chances are that many locksmiths have the code numbers for house locks
they 've installed , and in an emergency can cut keys thus they 'd also
provide such keys to the government pursuant to a court order.

of course , nothing prevents you from buying a new lock with cash
and installing it yourself. even modifying the core to match some
arbitrary key is not difficult to do at home. i once knew someone who
had fixed his locks in this way his house , office and cars all took
the same key (which he took good care of )

the state has no difficulty gaining access to your safe deposit box if they
have a court order.

bad analogy.

very bad (yours , that is). have you ever had a safety deposit box \?
they work on a two key system. the bank clerk has one , and you have
the other (they are different keys). the bank does not keep a copy of
your key. if you lose it , they have to drill out the lock , and replace
the door. this is a time consuming and expensive process (which they
will be happy to charge to your account ).

this process is exactly analogous to having a private key which
is not in a escrow system , and the state having to crack your cipher
to get the data.

please do not use false analogies.

peter trei
ptrei@mitre.org


from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject s1 , s2
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 13
nntp posting host access.digex.net

second question why ! \? ! \? why is such a strange procedure used , and not
a real rng \? this turns those s1 , s2 in a kind of bottleneck for system
security.

the only theory that makes any sense is that s1 and s2 are either the
same for all chips , or vary among very few possibilities , so that anyone
trying to break the encryption by brute force need only plow through the
possible serial numbers (2 30 , about one billion) , multiplied by the number
of different s1 , s2 combinations.





from pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
reply to pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
organization edinburgh university
lines 17

quoting strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) in article strnlghtc5t3nh.is1@netcom.com
in article 1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front
ends.

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non escrowed
encryption schemes. otherwise , why not just use the front end without
clipper \?

because that will make private encryption stick out like a sore thumb
and the government will start to take a sharp interest in everything you
do.

o paul crowley pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus !

from eldar@fraser.sfu.ca (danny eldar)
subject need help ! !
keywords firewall gateway model , kerberos
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 14

i am currently writing a paper on computer protocols security. i would
appreciate your help. i currently have no insight into these topics except
that they relate to security in multilevel security network. please semd me
any references , books , faqs or contact persons names and internet addresses.
the topics i am interested in
1. the firewall gateway model as implemented in internet gateways.
2. kerberos authentication service

please send me a private e mail at eldar@sfu.ca and or post it on the board.

thanks a lot ,

danny


from srt@duke.cs.duke.edu (stephen r. tate)
subject re why the clipper algorithm is secret
organization duke university computer science dept. durham , n.c.
lines 31

in article 1993apr18.225502.358@iecc.cambridge.ma.us johnl@iecc.cambridge.ma.us (john r. levine) writes
it just occurred to me why the algorithm is secret. if it were
published , one could then build physically identical clone versions
of the chip that would interoperate with official clipper chips. but
the cloner would n't provide the keys to the escrow houses. hmmn.

not necessarily they could release the details of the algorithm
without releasing the system key (called sk by hellman). that would
make most people happy , and with some sort of verification procedure
before key exchange , the official chips would only work with other
official chips. in other words , secrecy of sk makes physically
identical clone versions impossible secrecy of the algorithm should n't
be necessary.

of course , revealing the algorithm opens them up to attacks on sk
since all units share this key , compromising it may be a big deal.
personally , i would n't feel too comfortable knowing that one secret
80 bit number held in many places was all that guaranteed my security.
of course , compromise of sk does n't necessarily mean that the system
is compromised , but it 's impossible to tell whether or not that 's true
with a secret algorithm.

incidentally , what 's to keep a secret algorithm from using the secret
sk as the main key , with uk being only marginally important. then
a court order for uk may not even be necessary to do a wiretap.


steve tate srt@cs.duke.edu the reason why mathematics enjoys special esteem ,
dept. of computer science above all other sciences , is that its laws are
duke university absolutely certain and indisputable , while those of all
durham , nc 27706 other sciences are to some extent debatable. (einstein)

from ariel@world.std.com (robert l ullmann)
subject re why the algorithm is secret
organization the world in boston
distribution na
lines 27

exactly.

but i 'll add another observation if the chip does become a standard ,
the algorithm wo n't remain secret.

leaving the government with the only remaining option to make use
of un escrowed keys illegal. which wo n't begin to bother the terrorists
and child abusers the government is so fond of referring to.

note that the federalist papers stress one reason for the right
of citizens to bear arms to defend themselves against the army.
our army.

imho the primary purpose of private crypto is defend ourselves
against the government. the odd terrorist i'm not worried about
the goverment damages my quality of life every day.

rob

robert ullmann ariel@world.std.com 1 508 879 6994 x226
quand maigret poussa la porte du tabac fontaine , vers une heure et demie ,
le patron du bar , qui venait de se lever , descendait lentement un escalier
en colima on qui s'amor ait dans l'arri re salle. ... arriv derri re le
comptoir , il repousa le gar on d'un geste n gligent de la main , saisit
une bouteille de vin blanc , un verre , m langea au vin de l'eau min rale et ,
la t te renvers e en arri re , se gargarisa. simenon
text is iso 10646 utf 1 universal character set

from reeds@alice.att.com (jim reeds)
subject re patents (was rc2 rc4)
summary pop patent law
article i.d. alice.25313
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill nj
lines 13

in article matt 160493203627@wardibm2.med.yale.edu , matt@wardsgi.med.yale.edu (matt healy) writes
and
bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev) wrote
and
ahaley@eoe.co.uk (andrew haley) writes

about coca cola and pepsi cola and what they can teach us.


surely , if we must use pop patent law examples to discuss rc2 and rc4 ,
it would make more sense to consider the case of rc cola \?

jim reeds

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 21
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

gtoal@news.ibmpcug.co.uk (graham toal) writes
try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there
that they 're angling for nren next ,

where \? i honestly did n't see any...

and the only conceivable meaning of
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of encryption.

i disagree , if for no other reason than that there are already other
standards in place. besides , even if they restrict encryption on the nren ,
who cares \? most of the internet is commercial anyway. the nren is only for
geovernment and university research (read the proposals it 's a data
superhighway for cray users , not anything having to do with the internet).


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from davidc@montagar.com (david l. cathey)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization montagar software concepts , plano tx
lines 19

in article gradyc5uamw.bng@netcom.com , grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221) writes
maybe we should start a newsgroup for the distribution of encrypted
posts intended of members of affinity groups with a shared private
key. for example at the coming up cypherpunks meeting , a private
key corresponding to that particular meeting could be passed out
by a moderator. minutes , followup comments to other participants ,
and so on could be posted to the alt.encrypted group for the use
of the people who attended. communiques intended by the group for
non attendees could of course just be signed using the private key
but otherwises not encrypted.

i like it. pgp would be useful , i guess. although i do n't have
a working version for vms yet... (

grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f

david l. cathey inet davidc@montagar.com
montagar software concepts uucp ... ! montagar ! davidc
p. o. box 260772 , plano tx 75026 0772 fone (214) 618 2117

from croley@magic.mcc.com (david croley)
subject re new encryption
organization mcc experimental systems lab
lines 48

in article 1993apr21.225435.6292@wam.umd.edu , psionic@wam.umd.edu (haywood j. blowme) writes
as promised , i spoke today with the company mentioned in a washington
times article about the clipper chip announcement. the name of the company
is secure communications technology (information will be given at the end
of this message on how to contact them).

...

his belief is that at t was made known of the clipper well before the
rest of the industry. this is for several reasons , several of which are

this is a very good point. at t obviously knew and participated in the
development of the clipper chip. this amounts to unfair business practice and
gives at t an early monopoly on the market hopefully a non existant market .
other companies that compete with at t in the cellular market (motorola , nec , etc)
have grounds to file a complaint over this.


right now the company is afraid that the new clipper chip will put them out
of business. this is a very real possibility. so they really need help in
stopping the clipper chip from becoming a standard. if you want to contact
them , they can be reached at..

secure communications technology
8700 georgia ave. suite 302
silver spring , md

(301) 588 2200

...

it would seem that the one fact that the government has overlooked in this
whole fiasco is the economic standpoint. as others have mentioned , the most
difficulty the clipper chip faces is an economic one. let 's face it , the
average consumer does n't care or know that the clipper is a bad idea. if
there is a perceived need for cellular encryption , then the companies will
provide one. most likely , a standard will emerge. but if the clipper is
too expensive (and 25 a chip is way too much) then they will develope their
own or buy a cheaper one. i give sct my full support , and hope the
clipper chip goes the way of the beta video tape format.

also hope they get sued over re using the name clipper.


cyberspace
david t. croley mcc exp sys lab a place not real , no stone , no steel.
croley@mcc.com ut austin , texas a ghost unseen...the world between .


from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
lines 16

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)

let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless
you get both halves of the encryption key from the two independent
escrow houses. let 's say you even trust the escrow houses one is
the aclu and the other is the eff. (and i'm not entirely joking about
those two names)

i'm really not entirely sure i trust eff any more to be honest.

anyway , any organisation can be deeply infiltrated. look at cnd in britain
a dozen years ago one of their top members was an sis spy who stole their
complete address list. how hard would it be to get one person to sneak in
and copy the escrow data to disk \?

g

from ameline@vnet.ibm.com (ian ameline)
subject facinating facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed s1 and s2
organization c set 2 development , ibm canada lab.
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm
lines 106

hmmm. we must assume that generating the unit key u from the serial
number n rather than generating it from a randomly selected u1 and u2
is an intentional way of assuring a fail safe for the government
u is completedly determined given s1 , s2 and n. if s1 and s2 do not
change they constitute effective master keys (along with f) , the
theft of which (or the possession of which by various authorities)
completely obviates the security of the system. however , more
interestingly , we know , for a fact that if s1 and s2 are fixed no
matter what the keyspace for u is no more than 2 30. why not pick u1
and u2 at random \? why this interesting restriction of they key space
if it not to provide an additional back door \?

i find it disturbing that at the very best my security is dependant on
approximately 30 bytes worth of information that could be written on
the back of a napkin.

even if s1 and s2 change periodically , the rationale behind this
restriction in the size of the keyspace seems strange if one is
assuming that the goal is security and makes perfect sense if the
goal is an illusion of security.

if s1 and s2 do not change , even if they remain secret i wonder if
they can somehow be back derived given enough unit key serial number
pairs. we are assured that this cannot happen but no one
understands how skipjack works outside of government officials and ,
soon , foreign intelligence services that gain the information via
espionage. presumably we will eventually have the information as well
reverse engineering gets more and more advanced every year but
by the time we know it may be too late.

perhaps the trusted escrow agencies can be the ones who come up with
s1 and s2 , and if these agencies are really trusted (aclu nra is an
interesting example) , we can hope that they 'll use some physical
process to come up with truly random numbers. if the nsa comes up with
the numbers , that 's a trap door you could drive a truck through.

none of this makes me feel the least bit secure.

me either.

it seems from the following that the cpsr is atleats starting to
question this bogosity


april 16 , 1993
washington , dc

computer professionals call for public
debate on new government encryption initiative

computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr)
today called for the public disclosure of technical data
underlying the government 's newly announced public encryption
management initiative. the new cryptography scheme was
announced today by the white house and the national institute
for standards and technology (nist) , which will implement the
technical specifications of the plan. a nist spokesman
acknowledged that the national security agency (nsa) , the super
secret military intelligence agency , had actually developed the
encryption technology around which the new initiative is built.

according to nist , the technical specifications and the
presidential directive establishing the plan are classified. to
open the initiative to public review and debate , cpsr today
filed a series of freedom of information act (foia) requests
with key agencies , including nsa , nist , the national security
council and the fbi for information relating to the encryption
plan. the cpsr requests are in keeping with the spirit of the
computer security act , which congress passed in 1987 in order to
open the development of non military computer security standards
to public scrutiny and to limit nsa 's role in the creation of
such standards.

cpsr previously has questioned the role of nsa in
developing the so called digital signature standard (dss) , a
communications authentication technology that nist proposed for
government wide use in 1991. after cpsr sued nist in a foia
lawsuit last year , the civilian agency disclosed for the first
time that nsa had , in fact , developed that security standard.
nsa is due to file papers in federal court next week justifying
the classification of records concerning its creation of the
dss.

david sobel , cpsr legal counsel , called the
administration 's apparent commitment to the privacy of
electronic communications , as reflected in today 's official
statement , a step in the right direction. but he questioned
the propriety of nsa 's role in the process and the apparent
secrecy that has thus far shielded the development process from
public scrutiny. at a time when we are moving towards the
development of a new information infrastructure , it is vital
that standards designed to protect personal privacy be
established openly and with full public participation. it is
not appropriate for nsa an agency with a long tradition of
secrecy and opposition to effective civilian cryptography to
play a leading role in the development process.

cpsr is a national public interest alliance of computer
industry professionals dedicated to examining the impact of
technology on society. cpsr has 21 chapters in the u.s. and
maintains offices in palo alto , california , cambridge ,
massachusetts and washington , dc. for additional information on
cpsr , call (415) 322 3778 or e mail cpsr@csli.stanford.edu .

regards ,
ian ameline.

from clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)
subject text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization national institute of standards technology
distribution na
lines 282


note this file will also be available via anonymous file
transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory pub nistnews and
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717.


the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 16 , 1993


statement by the press secretary


the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has
been developed by government engineers. the chip represents a
new approach to encryption technology. it can be used in new ,
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans. each device containing the chip will have two unique


2


keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology
trends and explore new approaches (like the key escrow system) ,
the president has directed government agencies to develop a
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal
order , when necessary to protect our citizens

the effective and timely use of the most modern
technology to build the national information
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
the competitiveness of american industry in the global
marketplace and

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries , the congress and groups that advocate the
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.



3

the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.
the provisions of the president 's directive to acquire the new
encryption technology are also available.

for additional details , call mat heyman , national institute of
standards and technology , (301) 975 2758.




questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative




q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today. while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the
commerce department , and other key agencies were involved in
this decision. this approach has been endorsed by the
president , the vice president , and appropriate cabinet
officials.

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

q how do i buy one of these encryption devices \?

a we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
the clipper chip into their devices.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow
mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
encryption technology , which the administration is
developing.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
administration 's policy toward encryption will differ from
that of the bush administration \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the
same is true for other encryption devices. one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad. we plan
to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
of these products.




from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 76

in article 1qnpjuinn8ci@gap.caltech.edu hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney) writes
brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. they are
pushing to get a standard in place , a secret standard , and if they
get it as a standard then they will drive competitors out of the market.
it will be legal to sell better , untapable encryption that does n't have
registered keys , but it will be difficult , and thus not a plan for
most phone companies.

if brad 's analysis is correct , it may offer an explanation for why the
encryption algorithm is being kept secret. this will prevent competitors
from coming out with clipper compatible phones which lack the government
installed back door. the strategy brad describes will only work as long
as the only way to get compatible phones is to have ones with the government
chips.

(it would be nice , from the point of view of personal privacy , if brad
turns out to be right. as long as people still have the power to provide
their own encryption in place of or in addition to the clipper , privacy
is still possible. but the wording of several passages in the announcement
makes me doubt whether this will turn out to be true.)

even if what brad says turns out to be accurate , you can bet that the
administration will have made it very clear to the vendors that it
would very much be in their best interests to institute a voluntary
policy of refusing to sell anything but clinton cripple equipped equipment
to anyone other than authorized government agencies and law enforcement ,
or individuals and corporations who have been been determined by the
administration to have a valid need on a case by case basis for an
effective system.

note that this is very much like the language used in many gun control
bills laws the administration is pushing for , or otherwise supporting.
the logic and actual rationale (as opposed to the excuses that get fed
to the media) is the same in both cases , only the items or technology
in question are different.

i think this is no accident. it comes from the same philosophy that
the government rules controls the people , not the people controlling
the government , that the unconnected citizens are not sophisticated enough
to know what is best for them , so the government must tell the people
what they need or do not need ... we know best... . and the idea that
that a commoner can defend himself against government eavesdropping
or unlawful attack is totally unacceptable to people with this outlook.


hal finney

combine this all with pushing for national identity cards with 'smart
chips' to encode anything they please (internal passport) under the
guise of streamlining the state people 's health care system , and with
(you can be certain) more jewels yet to come , and one sees an extremely
ominous trend. so what if 1984 will be ten years late... it still is
turning out to be an amazingly accurate prophecy... unless a lot of
people wake up , and in a hurry.

one should always have every red warning light and bell and danger flag
come up when the government seeks to set itself apart in regard to
rights , etc. from the unconnected unprivileged citizen (or should we
now be saying 'subject' instead \? )... why shouldn't the average person
have a good , secure system of data security , not dependent on nebulous
'safeguards' for maintaining that security \? why shouldn't the average
person be able to defend himself from an agency gone rogue \? 0i am sure
the feds could break into any data they really wanted to (but it would
take some work) , and using the same logic , one should not be allowed to
have a good safe , unless a duplicate of the key(s) or combination are
submitted for 'safekeeping' by the government \? i do n't really see a
difference , philosophically. encrypted data sure wo n't evaporate , not
with such high tech tools as a tape recorder...


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from philip@charon.cto.citicorp.com (philip gladstone)
subject more clipper stuff
organization citicorp
lines 15
nntp posting host charon.cto.citicorp.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

as of yet , there has been no description of the general principles
behind the clipper proposal. for example , is this a public key system
or a private key system \? if the latter , then i do n't see how the
system could work (given that the keys are tied to the device and
not the person).

further , the escrowed 80 bit keys are split into two 40 bit chunks.
i would guess that the availability of one of these 40 bit chunks
and a reasonable key search machine , would allow you to read the traffic.
i'm not suggesting that this is a deliberate weakness of the system ,
but it does make you think. of course , this is easily fixable by
giving out two 80 bit chunks which could be x ored to generate the
real 80 bit key.

philip

from lbrintle@news.weeg.uiowa.edu (lee brintle)
subject re re inventing crypto policy \? an eff statement
summary 40 bit key half is way too small
organization project panda , inc.
lines 23

in article 1993apr16.204207.24564@eff.org danny weitzner djw@eff.org
writes
the 80 bit key will be divided between two escrow agents , each of whom
hold 40 bits of each key.

presumably , the key split is so that no one group controls the privacy
of the key , and that it would be infeasible to illicitly gain access from
both agents.

however , if one agent wishes to break the crypto without the cooperation
of the other agent , a 40 bit key is not going to stand in the way of a
brute force attack. if an agency (for example , the nsa) were to hold one
of the two key halves , then i do n't imagine they really need the other half of
the key to start listening in.

or was that the point \? grin


(this is not to imply , at all , that i like the idea of the rest of the
system.)

lee brintle ``and so , i leave you with this final word
director , project panda twang.''

from jyork@iastate.edu (justin york)
subject clipper chip how would it work \?
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 18


with all the talk about this clipper chip , i have developed one question...

how does it work \? \? \?

if you use this , then how does it get decrypted on the other end \? does the
other party (receiving the phone call mail etc) have to know some code to
undo it \? do i use a different method for calling one party than i would for
another \? . if the other party can decrypt it , does n't that mean that someone
else could also \? i assume that if everyone has a different key , the only use
would be storing secure data for later retrieval by the same key. this seems
like a fundamental question to me , but i have very little experience with
cryptosystems , other than des. if someone could give me an explanation as
to how it would be used (remember that i have had little experience with
this sort of thing) it would be very much appreciated.

justin york
jyork@iastate.edu

from jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright)
subject re 80 bit keyseach machine
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 47

in article 16bb71018.c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey) writes
in article 1993apr21.001230.26384@lokkur.dexter.mi.us
scs@lokkur.dexter.mi.us (steve simmons) writes

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the
machine that does 1 trial nanosecond , we can imagine the storage medium
that could index and archive it.

hmmmm. i think , with really large keyspaces like this , you need to
alter the strategy discussed for des. attempt decryption of several
blocks , and check the disctribution of the contents. i do n't think it 's
at all feasible to keep 2 80 encryptions of a known plaintext block on
any amount of tape or cd rom. and certainly not 2 128 such encrypted
blocks. (anyone know a cheap way of converting every atom in the solar
system into a one bit storage device \? )
...

i do n't claim to be a crypto analyist... there is n't a whole lot of good
literature on the subject , and the best people do n't seem to publish
their work ) but i rather doubt the approach such folks use is brute
force (sorry to have implied that in my previous post). the history
of these things is folks find clever ways of limiting the search and
bang from there.

i guess my real problem with skipjack is i can not believe nsa would
make publicly available a system they could n't break if they wanted...
it just is n't in their charter. remember des came from ibm , not nsa
and , when first published , was given a useful life of 20 years... i think
we are well past that point now (

remember , based on the size of the nsa budget , they spend a lot more
on the technology of decryption than most computer companies spend on
r d. i have to imagine their stuff is real interesting...

a friend who once worked for them (he is dead now) said he always enjoyed
monitoring sac 's (strategic air command) crypto traffic ) and i rather
suspect that stuff is a bit more complex than skipjack (or was it the
military got the stuff from the nsa just like we get skipjack from them )
btw , folks , nsa was n't being given the keys. and the walker spy case
shows for some of the systems , the kgb did n't need them either.


information farming at... for addr phone finger a a
the ohio state university jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ((0 0))
jim ebright e mail jre @osu.edu
support privacy support encryption ( )

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
lines 9

i think i should also point out that the mystical des engines
are known plaintext engines (unless you add a ton of really smart
hardware \? )

assume the ton of smart hardware. it does n't really have to be that smart.

g



from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 05 10 product ciphers
organization the crypt cabal
lines 435
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 5 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , product ciphers.
theory and security of product ciphers. differential cryptanalysis.
des encryption standard. nsa role in des design. des hardware and
software availability.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part05
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 5 product ciphers

this is the fifth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

what is a product cipher \?
what makes a product cipher secure \?
what are some group theoretic properties of product ciphers \?
what can be proven about the security of a product cipher \?
how are block ciphers used to encrypt data longer than the block size \?
can symmetric block ciphers be used for message authentication \?
what exactly is des \?
what is triple des \?
what is differential cryptanalysis \?
how was nsa involved in the design of des \?
is des available in software \?
is des available in hardware \?
can des be used to protect classified information \?
what are ecb , cbc , cfb , and ofb encryption \?


what is a product cipher \?

a product cipher is a block cipher that iterates several weak
operations such as substitution , transposition , modular
addition multiplication , and linear transformation. (a ``block
cipher'' just means a cipher that encrypts a block of data 8 bytes ,
say all at once , then goes on to the next block.) the notion of
product ciphers is due to shannon sha49 . examples of modern
product ciphers include lucifer sor84 , des nbs77 , sp networks
kam78 , loki bro90 , feal shi84 , pes lai90 , khufu and khafre
me91a . the so called feistel ciphers are a class of product
ciphers which operate on one half of the ciphertext at each round ,
and then swap the ciphertext halves after each round. lucifer ,
des , loki , and feal are examples of feistel ciphers.

the following table compares the main parameters of several product
ciphers

cipher block length key bits number of rounds
lucifer 128 128 16
des 64 56 16
loki 64 64 16
feal 64 128 2 x , x 5
pes 64 128 8

what makes a product cipher secure \?

nobody knows how to prove mathematically that a product cipher is
completely secure. so in practice one begins by demonstrating that the
cipher ``looks highly random''. for example , the cipher must be
nonlinear , and it must produce ciphertext which functionally depends
on every bit of the plaintext and the key. meyer mey78 has shown
that at least 5 rounds of des are required to guarantee such a
dependence. in this sense a product cipher should act as a ``mixing''
function which combines the plaintext , key , and ciphertext in a
complex nonlinear fashion.

the fixed per round substitutions of the product cipher are
referred to as s boxes. for example , lucifer has 2 s boxes , and des
has 8 s boxes. the nonlinearity of a product cipher reduces to a
careful design of these s boxes. a list of partial design criteria
for the s boxes of des , which apply to s boxes in general , may be
found in brown bro89 and brickell et al. bri86 .

what are some group theoretic properties of product ciphers \?

let e be a product cipher that maps n bit blocks to n bit blocks.
let e k(x) be the encryption of x under key k. then , for any fixed k ,
the map sending x to e k(x) is a permutation of the set of n bit
blocks. denote this permutation by p k. the set of all n bit
permutations is called the symmetric group and is written s 2 n .
the collection of all these permutations p k , where k ranges over all
possible keys , is denoted e(s 2 n ). if e were a random mapping from
plaintexts to ciphertexts then we would expect e(s 2 n ) to generate
a large subset of s 2 n .

coppersmith and grossman cop74 have shown that a very simple
product cipher can generate the alternating group a 2 n given a
sufficient number of rounds. (the alternating group is half of the
symmetric group it consists of all ``even'' permutations , i.e. , all
permutations which can be written as an even number of swaps.)
even and goldreich eve83 were able to extend these results to show
that feistel ciphers can generate a 2 n , given a sufficient number
of rounds.

the security of multiple encipherment also depends on the
group theoretic properties of a cipher. multiple encipherment is an
extension over single encipherment if for keys k1 , k2 there does
not exist a third key k3 such that

e k2(e k1(x)) e (k3)(x) ( )

which indicates that encrypting twice with two independent keys
k1 , k2 is equal to a single encryption under the third key k3. if
for every k1 , k2 there exists a k3 such that eq. ( ) is true then
we say that e is a group.

this question of whether des is a group under this definition was
extensively studied by sherman , kaliski , and rivest she88 . in their
paper they give strong evidence for the hypothesis that des is not a
group. in fact des is not a group cam93 .

what can be proven about the security of a product cipher \?

recall from above that p k is a permutation produced by e under
some key k. the goal of the designer of e is to ensure that p k
appears to be a random element of s 2 n , the symmetric group.
let r be an element of s 2 n selected randomly. we will say that p k
and r are indistinguishable if an observer given p k and r in some
order cannot distinguish between these two permutations in polynomial
time. that is , with time bounded resources , the observer cannot
determine which of the permutations is produced by e the optimal
decision is no better than simply guessing.

luby and rackoff lub88 have shown that a class of feistel ciphers
are secure in this sense when the round mapping is replaced by
random boolean functions.

how are block ciphers used to encrypt data longer than the block size \?

there are four standard modes of operation (and numerous non standard
ones as well). the standard modes of operation are defined in the u.s.
department of commerce federal information processing standard (fips) 81 ,
published in 1980. see the question about ecb below for more details.

although they are defined for the des block cipher , the modes of
operation can be used with any block cipher.

can symmetric block ciphers be used for message authentication \?

one may use a symmetric cryptosystem block cipher to prove to himself
that he did or did not generate a message , and to prove to himself
whether his message was altered or unaltered since generation. but one
cannot prove these things to another without revealing the key , and
thereafter that key cannot be used to prove anything about any messages
that were authenticated using that key.

see ansi x3.106 1983 and fips 113 (1985) for a standard method of message
authentication using des.

what exactly is des \?

des is the u.s. government 's data encryption standard a product
cipher that operates on 64 bit blocks of data , using a 56 bit key.

it is defined in fips 46 1 (1988) which supersedes fips 46 (1977) .
fips are federal information processing standards published by ntis.
des is identical to the ansi standard data encryption algorithm (dea)
defined in ansi x3.92 1981.

what is triple des \?

triple des is a product cipher which , like des , operates on 64 bit
data blocks. there are several forms , each of which uses the des
cipher 3 times. some forms use two 56 bit keys , some use three.
the des modes of operation may also be used with triple des.

some people refer to e(k1 , d(k2 , e(k1 , x))) as triple des.

this method is defined in chapter 7.2 of the ansi standard x9.17 1985
financial institution key management and is intended for use in
encrypting des keys and ivs for automated key distribution . its
formal name is encryption and decryption of a single key by a key
pair , but it is referenced in other standards documents as ede.

that standard says (section 7.2.1) key encrypting keys may be a single
dea key or a dea key pair. key pairs shoud be used where additional
security is needed (e.g. , the data protected by the key(s) has a long
security life). a key pair shall not be encrypted or decrypted using a
single key.

others use the term triple des for e(k1 , d(k2 , e(k3 , x))) or
e(k1 , e(k2 , e(k3 , x))).

one of us (carl ellison) keeps advocating des triple use in the form
e(k1 , tran( e(k2 , tran( e(k3 , compress( x )))))) , where each des instance
has its own key and iv (for cbc mode) and tran has been posted on
sci.crypt. (it is a large block transposition program taking its key
from the data stream itself , so that it is not an encryption program on
its own part.)

what is differential cryptanalysis \?

differential cryptanalysis is a statistical attack that can be
applied to any iterated mapping (ie. any mapping which is based on
a repeated round function). the method was recently popularized by
biham and shamir bih91 , but coppersmith has remarked that the
s boxes of des were optimized against this attack some 20 years ago.
this method has proved effective against several product ciphers ,
notably feal bi91a .

differential cryptanalysis is based on observing a large number of
ciphertexts y , y' whose corresponding plaintexts x , x' satisfy a
known difference d x x' , where is componentwise xor. in the
basic biham shamir attack , 2 47 such plaintext pairs are required
to determine the key for des. substantially fewer pairs are required
if des is truncated to 6 or 8 rounds. in these cases , the actual key
can be recovered in a matter of minutes using a few thousand pairs.
for full des this attack is impractical because it requires so many
known plaintexts.

the work of biham and shamir on des revealed several startling
observations on the algorithm. most importantly , if the key
schedule was removed from des and a 16 48 768 bit key was used ,
the key could be recovered in less than 2 64 steps. thus
independent subkeys do not add substantial security to des.
further , the s boxes of des are extremely sensitive in that
changing even single entries in these tables yields significant
improvement in the differential attack.

adi shamir is quoted to say (nytimes oct 13 1991) , ``i would say
that , contrary to what some people believe , there is no evidence
of tampering with the des so that the basic design was weakened.''

how was nsa involved in the design of des \?

according to kinnucan kin78 , tuchman , a member of the group that
developed des at ibm is quoted as saying , ``we developed the des
algorithm entirely within ibm using ibmers. the nsa did not
dictate a single wire ! '' tuchman and meyer (another developer of
des) spent a year breaking ciphers and finding weaknesses in
lucifer. they then spent two years strengthening lucifer. ``their
basic approach was to look for strong substitution , permutation ,
and key scheduling functions ... ibm has classified the notes
containing the selection criteria at the request of the nsa....
`the nsa told us we had inadvertently reinvented some of the deep
secrets it uses to make its own algorithms , ' explains tuchman.''

on the other hand , a document called ``involvement of the nsa in
the development of des unclassified summary of the united states
select committee on intelligence'' , printed in the ieee
communications magazine , p53 55 , 1978 , states ``in the development
of des , nsa convinced ibm that a reduced keysize was sufficient
indirectly assisted in the development of the s box structures and
certified that the final des algorithm was , to the best of their
knowledge , free from any statistical or mathematical weakness.''

clearly the key size was reduced at the insistence of the nsa.
the article further states that the nsa did not tamper with the
algorithm itself , just the parameters , which in some sense
resolves the apparent conflict in the remarks of meyer and tuchman
presented above.

is des available in software \?

several people have made des code available via ftp (see part 10 for
pathnames) stig ostholm ftpso bsd ftpbk eric young ftpey
dennis furguson ftpdf mark riordan ftpmr phil karn ftppk .
a pascal listing of des is also given in patterson pat87 .

fips 46 1 says the algorithm specified in this standard is to be
implemented ... using hardware (not software) technology. ...
software implementations in general purpose computers are not in
compliance with this standard. despite this , software
implementations abound , and are used by government agencies.

is des available in hardware \?

the following paragraphs are quoted from messages sent to the editors.
we do n't vouch for the quality or even existence of the products.

chip rosenthal says ``dallas semiconductor makes a des
encryption decryption device for use on standard , digital 64kbps pcm
telecom data streams. it is capable of processing data in real time ,
e.g. one sample frame. it is the ds2160. their phone number is
214 450 0400. you would probably need to talk with dewight in telecom
marketing.''

christian franke , franke@informatik.rwth aachen.de , says ``1.
cryptech cry12c102 22.5mbit s according to data sheet , with 32 bit
interface. we use this one , because it was the only one available when
we started the project. no problems ! 2. pijnenburg pcc100 20mbit s
according to data sheet. address pijnenburg b.v. , boxtelswweg 26 ,
nl 5261 ne vught , the netherlands. 3. infosys des chip (germany)
s boxes must be loaded by software. so you can modify the algorithm.
sorry , i do n't have the data sheet handy. please e mail me if you need
further information.''

mjr@tis.com (marcus j ranum) says supercrypt 100mb sec and faster
des and proprietary storage for 16 56 bit keys key stream generator
integrated hardware des3 procedure extended mode with 112 bit keys
computer elektronik infosys 512 a herndon parkway , herndon , va
22070 (800)322 3464

thember@gandalf.ca (tim hember) says newbridge microsystems sells
an am9568 compatible des chip that operates at 25mhz , performs a
round of encryption in 18 clocks , has a three stage pipeline ,
supports ecb , cbc , cfb 8 and cfb 1 . further it is very
reasonable priced as opposed to other high end des chips. call
newbridge microsystems , ottawa , (613) 592 0714. (... there are no
import export issues with canada and the us). if you require custom
des or public key ics then timestep engineering developed
newbridge 's crypto chips and ics for other commercial and
educational establishments. they can be reached at (613) 820 0024.

can des be used to protect classified information \?

des is not intended to protect classified data. fips 46 1 says
this standard will be used by federal departments and agencies for
the cryptographic protection of computer data when the following
conditions apply 1. ... cryptographic protection is required and
2. the data is not classified according to the national security act
of 1947 , as amended , or the atomic energy act of 1954 , as amended.

what are ecb , cbc , cfb , and ofb encryption \?

these are methods for using block ciphers , such as des , to encrypt
messages , files , and blocks of data , known as modes of operation.
four modes of operation are defined in fips 81 (1980 december 2) ,
and also in ansi x3.106 1983.

fips 81 specifies that when 7 bit ascii data is sent in octets , the
unused most significant bit is to be set to 1.
fips 81 also specifies the padding for short blocks.

the four des modes of operation are
electronic code book (ecb) ,
cipher block chaining (cbc) ,
k bit cipher feedback (cfb) , and
k bit output feedback (ofb).

these methods are explained below in a c language like notation.

some symbols

p n the n'th block of plaintext , input to encryption , output from
decryption. size of block determined by the mode.

c n the n'th block of ciphertext , output from encryption , input to
decryption. size of block determined by the mode.

e(m) the des encryption function , performed on 64 bit block m , using
the 16 key schedule derived from some 56 bit key.

d(m) the des decryption function , performed on 64 bit block m , using
the same key schedule as in e(m) , except that the 16 keys
in the schedule are used in the opposite order as in e(m).

iv a 64 bit initialization vector , a secret value which , along with
the key , is shared by both encryptor and decryptor.

i n the n'th value of a 64 bit variable , used in some modes.
r n the n'th value of a 64 bit variable , used in some modes.

lsb(m , k) the k least significant (right most) bits of m.
e.g. m ((1 k) 1)

msb(m , k) the k most significant (left most) bits of m.
e.g. (m (64 k)) ((1 k) 1)

operators as defined in the c langage.


electronic code book (ecb)

p n and c n are each 64 bits long.

encryption decryption
c n e(p n ) p n d(c n )


cipher block chaining (cbc)

p n and c n are each 64 bits long.

encryption decryption
c 0 e(p 0 iv) p 0 d(c 0 ) iv
(n 0) c n e(p n c n 1 ) p n d(c n ) c n 1


k bit cipher feedback (cfb)

p n and c n are each k bits long , 1 k 64.

encryption decryption
i 0 iv i 0 iv
(n 0) i n i n 1 k c n 1 i n i n 1 k c n 1
(all n) r n msb(e(i n ) , k) r n msb(e(i n ) , k)
(all n) c n p n r n p n c n r n

note that for k 64 , this reduces to

i 0 iv i 0 iv
(n 0) i n c n 1 i n c n 1
(all n) r n e(i n ) r n e(i n )
(all n) c n p n r n p n c n r n

cfb notes since i n depends only on the plain or cipher text from the
previous operation , the e() function can be performed in parallel with
the reception of the text with which it is used.


k bit output feedback (ofb)

p n and c n are each k bits long , 1 k 64.

encryption decryption
i 0 iv i 0 iv
(n 0) i n i n 1 k r n 1 i n i n 1 k r n 1
(all n) r n msb(e(i n ) , k) r n msb(e(i n ) , k)
(all n) c n p n r n p n c n r n

note that for k 64 , this reduces to

i 0 iv i 0 iv
(n 0) i n r n 1 i n r n 1
(all n) r n e(i n ) r n e(i n )
(all n) c n p n r n p n c n r n

ofb notes encryption and decryption are identical. since i n is
independent of p and c , the e() function can be performed in advance of
the receipt of the plain cipher text with which it is to be used.


additional notes on des modes of operation

ecb and cbc use e() to encrypt and d() to decrypt , but the feedback modes
use e() to both encrypt and decrypt. this disproves the erroneous claim
that systems which feature e() but not d() cannot be used for data
confidentiality , and therefore are not subject to export controls.

from borut.b.lavrencic@ijs.si
subject re cryptology in the world
reply to borut.b.lavrencic@ijs.si
organization j. stefan institute , lj , slovenia
lines 25

in article 1993apr21.031524.11080@news.weeg.uiowa.edu ,
holthaus@news.weeg.uiowa.edu (james r. holthaus) writes

what is the status of cruptology for private citizens throughout the
world \? or , more clearly , is there a listing of countries and their
policies on citizens encrypting electronic data \?

i'm curious how the europeans handle this , for instance.


good question. i also wanted to find out and i did a while ago.

in our former communist times such activity (i.e. sending crypto emails)
would be prevented sooner ot later , law or no law. but now there is no law
against it. so we are free to use it. we now have an ec conformant law for
protection and registration of personal files. you must remember that the
situation in small countries is vastly different from the big ones.

borut b. lavrencic , d.sc. x.400 c si a mail p ac o ijs s lavrencic
j. stefan institute internet borut.b.lavrencic@ijs.si
university of ljubljana , phone 386 1 159 199
si 61111 ljubljana , slovenia pgp public key available on request

dolgo smois kalis ovraz nikei njihk ocnoo dkril ivseb ipika


from gregb@den.mmc.com (gregb)
subject looking for crypto paper
distribution usa
organization martin marietta astronautics , denver
lines 17
nntp posting host tosgcla.den.mmc.com

looking for postscript or tex version of a paper called
public key cryptography

written by
james nechvatal
security technology group
national computer systems laboratory
national institute of standards and technology
gaithersburg , md 20899

december 1990

the version i obtained is plain text and all symbolic character
formatting has been lost.


gregb@tosgcla.den.mmc.com

from arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization johns hopkins university cs dept.
lines 18

in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in
the fbi decide they want to persecute you , they 're gonna , and you 're
gonna hate it. fact is , the fbi does n't want to listen to your phone
calls , and if they do , and if you 're using triple des , they 'll just
get a parabolic microphone and point it at your head.

just because they can do it anyway , somehow , does not mean it is smart to make
the job easier for them.

on the first day after christmas my truelove served to me... leftover turkey !
on the second day after christmas my truelove served to me... turkey casserole
that she made from leftover turkey.
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming turkey wings ! ...
pizza hut commercial (and m tlu a gic bait)

ken arromdee (arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu)

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 44
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev) writes
if there are many as... , er , people in the usa who reason like the
above , then it should not be surprising that the current plot has been
allowed to happen...

the willingness of the majority of the people to give up their freedom in
exchange for a sense of safety is hardly limited to the usa , and is an
endemic problem in any human society of any appreciable size. the structure
of the us government does try to combat this tendency to some extent , but
fighting entropy is always a losing battle. most people would rather have
comfort than freedom. the paradox is that you ca n't really have the former ,
in the long term , unless you have the latter.

one of the reasons that i probably come across to some people as a weird
cross between a libertarian and an establishment tool is that i end up
taking an utterly pragmatic view of government. i do n't get up in arms when
the government fails to protect the interests of the people , because in my
lifetime it never has therefore , i have no expectation that it will.

as a result , i protect my own interests rather than expecting the government
to be fair . i will use strong cryptography when i think it is needed ,
whether or not it is legal at the time. same thing with anything else the
government would rather not see in private hands that 's their problem.
what 's important to me is using the right tool for the job. if it 's legal ,
so much the better. if it is not , but does not violate my (very strong)
sense of personal ethics , i will use it anyway as long i think it is worth
it. expecting the government to actually protect the interests of its
citizens , except by accident , is utter folly. even jefferson , one of the
major architects of the american system of government , figured that in a
couple hundred years it would become so corrupt and self serving that it
would be time dismantle it and try again , by revolution if necessary. i
agree , and while i do n't go around trying to spark one , i 'll certainly
participate if it happens when i'm around. there is a reason i am such a
strong supporter of individual rights while being so cynical about politics.
i 've already written off politics.

and yes , this may get me in trouble some day. if so , so be it. i drive
faster than 55 mph , too.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from aj@sage.cc.purdue.edu (john dormer)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
summary misinterretation got us here today
keywords constitution , misinterpretation , law
organization purdue daemons
distribution na
lines 26

misinterpretation , though it should be a crime in itself , is what
united states lawyers use to make their bread and butter.

in manchester , ct a few years ago , a small company wanted to run a
game system galled lasergames , similar in many aspects to photon
(tm). three lawyers and about a hundred citizens found an ancient law
in manchester 's books which clearly from context was designed to
prohibit travelling carnivals by enumerating the features of a carnival
which they felt at the time made the prohibition obvious. among these
things was shooting galleries , which is what the lawyers for the
opposition to lasergames wanted to harp upon. the judge took the two
words from this law , completely out of context , and ruled that
lasergames could not operate in manchester.

keep in mind that most travelling carnivals use projectile weapons in
their shooting galleries , and not light beams. clearly from context ,
lasergames got shafted , but if the two words are applied , their denial
of operating permission was justified.

if i had the text of the law i 'd post it , but i'm afraid i do n't
remember it all well enough to even try. that little bit with the two
words stuck well , though.

john dormer
jad@expert.cc.purdue.edu


from ricktait@bnr.co.uk (rick tait)
subject re what the clipper nay sayers sound like to me.
nntp posting host 47.20.192.158
organization network management systems , bell northern research.
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
distribution na
lines 45

nathaniel sammons (ns111310@lance.colostate.edu) wrote on mon , 19 apr 1993 02 36 36 gmt
if the gov establishes a cryptography standard that has to be used by
everyone , and everyone 's personal key is divided into two segments
and stored at two separate , albeit easy to find places , and that key is
only 80 bits to begin with , we are screwed (pardon the allusion to the
affore mentioned article) !

the gov , i believe , as do many others probably already have the cracking chips
for this clipper chip made. hell , they probably based the encoder on the
chip that cracks it , that way it 's easier to break the code , but since it is a
classified algorythm , no one knows that they can crack it so easily.

agreed. no agency such as the nsa (or whoever) would approve the public
release of a crypto system , if they did n't already have the technical
means or the know how to decrypt everything at their whim. surely the whole
point of all this madness is to make joe public think that his her
communications will be kept safe , while james bond at the nsa can , if need
be , have full , decrypted access to someone 's communications \? that 'll be
quite a heist , if they can pull it off.


i thought that the us government were going to release the algorithm to a
panel of carefully chosen experts , who would then study it deeply , and
report their findings \? exactly who will these people be \? academics \? or
government sponsored researchers \? tiny toons \?

i , for one , and quite scared of this kind of thing , and plan to support
organizations (and even disorganizations) who are fighting against this
clipper chip in any way that i can.

i can only hope that the same sort of thing does n't start filtering over
into the ears of the uk government , and if the european parliament gets
wind of it , well , we can kiss goodbye to any form of democracy in europe
at all.

i do not want the government to be able to have access , even with a search
warrant , to my keys... and i do n't want those keys to be only 80 bits long
to begin with !

hallelujah ! )

rick m. tait bell northern research europe
tel 44 81 945 3352 , fax 44 81 945 3352 network management systems
pgp 2.2 public key available on request new southgate , london. uk
email ricktait@bnr.co.uk rt@cix.compulink.co.uk ricktait@bnr.ca

from ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au (ian farquhar)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization macquarie university , sydney australia
lines 35
nntp posting host laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au

in article 19930419.155204.305@almaden.ibm.com ameline@vnet.ibm.com (ian ameline) writes
i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip ,
and knowlege of the algorithm will likely be fairly widespread. any back
doors or weaknesses would further discredit the scheme , and help grow
the market demand for a secure alternative.

i must admit that this point has been running through my mind for most of
the discussion one the dice are out there , it wo n't be long before someone
decaps it and , after a bit of work , has full details of the clipper
algorythm. this is n't trivial to do , but then again , it is not impossibly
difficult either. any half way decent vlsi design student should be able
to take a photograph of a technology s he is familiar with , and given a
description of the input , output , control and supply lines , figure out
the function of various subsystems on the die. indeed , this is not an
uncommon exercise performed during training (because it makes you think
about design decisions made by other designers.

i could speculate that these chips are going to be manufactured using
tamperproof carriers (unlikely such techniques are very expensive
and this thing is supposed to be relatively cheap to produce) , or that
there will be some legal or legislative framework to prevent publication
of the algorythm (unlikely please correct me if i am wrong but are n't these
supposed to be sold internationally \? ). i suppose that the most likely
reason the algorythm is remaining secret for the moment is that some idiot
bureaucrat , untrammeled by the realities of the situation , decided that
well , we should keep it a secret because it is supposed to be secret ,
is n't it \?

just some random thoughts...


ian farquhar phone 61 2 805 9400
office of computing services fax 61 2 805 7433
macquarie university nsw 2109 also 61 2 805 7420
australia email ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au.

from marc@tanda.isis.org (marc thibault)
subject re pem and mime
reply to marc@tanda.isis.org
distribution world
organization thibault friends
lines 34

in article 1qg8m2 2e5@nigel.msen.com
(edward vielmetti) writes

i would suggest that 50 attractive mime formatted news messages a day would be
sufficient to get a few people thinking about adding mime support to news
readers , esp if the content is really worth it.

but that 's just the problem. there is no such thing as
mime formatted . by analogy , mime is a content labelling
standard for the box , not a specification for the contents
themselves. it provides a standard for like minded
individuals to exchange mail containing an agreed upon data
format.

you say tomahto , i say tomaeto you say postscript , i say
sgml...

cheers ,
marc


marc thibault cis 71441 , 2226 put another log
marc@tanda.isis.org nc freenet aa185 on the fire.

begin pgp public key block
version 2.0

mqbnaiqxytkaaaecalfehyp0yc80s1scfvjspj5escao hihtnefrrn vuecsavh
aauwpiugyv2n8n lftpnnlc42ms c8pjupykvi8abrg0i01hcmmgvghpymf1bhqg
pg1hcmnadgfuzgeuaxnpcy5vcmc
hlnv
end pgp public key block



from rj@ri.cadre.com (rob defriesse)
subject can des code be shipped to canada \?
article i.d. fripp.1993apr22.125402.27561
reply to rj@ri.cadre.com
organization cadre technologies inc.
lines 13
nntp posting host 192.9.200.19

someone in canada asked me to send him some public domain des file
encryption code i have. is it legal for me to send it \?

thanx.

eschew obfuscation

rob defriesse mail rj@ri.cadre.com
cadre technologies inc. phone (401) 351 5950
222 richmond st. fax (401) 351 7380
providence , ri 02903

i do n't speak for my employer.

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject clipper some new thoughts
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 55

i 'd desparately prefer it if we did n't rehash the same arguments
that went on ad infinitum last time. that 's especially true for
sci.crypt. for that matter , i 've created alt.privacy.clipper , since
the traffic is appearing in many different groups right now.

i'm going to focus here on some technical aspects of the plan , hence my
followup to sci.crypt. frankly , if you 're not an absolutist , your
feelings may turn on some of these issues. for example with an
80 bit key , simply splitting it into two 40 bit pieces is much less
acceptable than other schemes , because it means that if just one
repository is , shall we say , overly pliable , a would be eavesdropper
would need to recover just 40 more bits of key. i need not point out
in this newsgroup that that 's pretty easy to do by exhaustive search.
a slightly more complex scheme xor ing the key with a random number ,
and then with its complement would produce two 80 bit subkeys ,
neither of which is useful alone. that variant is much more resistant
to attack. clearly , one can get even more sophisticated , to protect
the subkeys even more.

other thoughts... some people have noted the size and complexity of
the databases necessary. but the id strings the phones emit could be
their back door key , double encrypted with the escrow repositories'
public keys. for that matter , they could do that only with session
keys , and have no back door at all. in that case , the fbi would have
to bring every intercept to the repositories to be decrypted. this
would answer many of the objections along the lines of ``how do you
make sure they stop''.

we can even combine that with a variant of the digital telephony back
door have the switch do the tap , but with a digitally signed record
of the time , phone number , etc , of the call. that provides proof to
the escrow agents that the tap was done in compliance with the terms of
the warrant.

i can suggest other variations , too. suppose each clipper chip had 100
public key pairs. each would be used 10 times , after which you 'd need
more keying material. (not a bad idea in any event.) this could be
used to enforce time limits , or rather , usage limits , on each warrant
the keys the repository agents would deliver would n't last for very
long.

i suspect that the cryptographic algorithm itself is secure. apart from
the obvious why push a weak algorithm when you 've already got the
back door \? i think that the government is still genuinely concerned
about foreign espionage , especially aimed at commercial targets. this
scheme lets the spooks have their cake and eat it , too. (i 've heard
rumors , over the years , that some factions within nsa were unhappy with
des because it was too good. not that they could n't crack it , but it
was much too expensive to do so as easily as they 'd want.) they 're keeping
the details secret so that others do n't build their own implementations
without the back door.

the cryptographic protocol , though , is another matter. i see no valid
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there
are a lot of ways to do things that are n't (quite) as bad.

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip
encryption
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 12
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

in article 115713@bu.edu , uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt) writes
more than shocking. what this says to me is no less than that
government is very interested in monitoring the public. this does more
than scare me , it mortifies me.

if this is any surprise to you , i'm shocked.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn)
subject the battle is joined
nntp posting host servo.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc
lines 290

it looks like dorothy denning 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the
administration even sooner than we feared. it 's time to make sure they
hear the other side of the story , and hear it loudly !

phil



forwarded message

subject text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption

note this file will also be available via anonymous file
transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory pub nistnews and
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717.


the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 16 , 1993


statement by the press secretary


the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has
been developed by government engineers. the chip represents a
new approach to encryption technology. it can be used in new ,
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans. each device containing the chip will have two unique


2


keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology
trends and explore new approaches (like the key escrow system) ,
the president has directed government agencies to develop a
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal
order , when necessary to protect our citizens

the effective and timely use of the most modern
technology to build the national information
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
the competitiveness of american industry in the global
marketplace and

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries , the congress and groups that advocate the
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.



3

the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.
the provisions of the president 's directive to acquire the new
encryption technology are also available.

for additional details , call mat heyman , national institute of
standards and technology , (301) 975 2758.




questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative




q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today. while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the
commerce department , and other key agencies were involved in
this decision. this approach has been endorsed by the
president , the vice president , and appropriate cabinet
officials.

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

q how do i buy one of these encryption devices \?

a we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
the clipper chip into their devices.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow
mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
encryption technology , which the administration is
developing.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
administration 's policy toward encryption will differ from
that of the bush administration \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the
same is true for other encryption devices. one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad. we plan
to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
of these products.

from sethf@athena.mit.edu (seth finkelstein)
subject re the source of that announcement
organization massachvsetts institvte of technology
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host frumious bandersnatch.mit.edu

also note (from branstad@tis.com and walker@tis.com )

whois h rs.internic.net tis dom
trusted information systems , inc. (tis dom)
3060 washington road , route 97
glenwood , md 21738

domain name tis.com

administrative contact
walker , stephen t. (stw3) walker@tis.com
(301) 854 6889
technical contact , zone contact
dalva , david i. (did1) dave@tis.com
(301) 854 6889

record last updated on 02 jul 92.

domain servers in listed order

tis.com 192.33.112.100
la.tis.com 192.5.49.8

and dockmaster is an infamous address ...


seth finkelstein sethf@athena.mit.edu
the road to hell is paved with good intentions

from mbeckman@mbeckman.mbeckman.com (mel beckman)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization beckman software engineering
reply to mbeckman@mbeckman.com
distribution na , world
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.5v5
lines 47


in article 1993apr17.032022.14021@clarinet.com (sci.crypt , alt.security , comp.org.eff.talk , comp.security.misc , comp.org.acm , comp.org.ieee) , brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless
you get both halves of the encryption key from the two independent
escrow houses. let 's say you even trust the escrow houses one is
the aclu and the other is the eff. (and i'm not entirely joking about
those two names)

the problem with let 's assume reasoning is that , taken to the extreme
(and you 're close) , you arrive at let 's assume this is perfectly ok.

the assumptions you make are big ones. if the system is really secure , then
why does the government have to keep the algorithm secret \? there are plenty
of encryption algorithms that do n't depend upon nondisclosure to be secure ,
so why in the world use one that does \? there are reasons , of course , but
i certainly ca n't think of any honest ones.

next , you assume we can trust the escrow houses. but the last time i checked ,
every single branch of government has experienced unauthorized disclosure ,
corruption , and even fabrication , of supposedly secure data. the govt is
saying yeah , but now we 're serious , so you can trust us. bullcrypt.

and finally , although you did n't state it explicitly , you implicitly assume
that the warrant mechanism in this country is safe and reasonable. the case
in ventura county of a man shot and killed by officers serving a deliberately
fraudulant warrant tells me that the govt has a long ways to go on this
score.

remember that all this is to catch the drug dealers , right \? as others
have pointed out , the current proposal will , if deployed , render truly secure
encryption much more expensive and inconvenient than uncle sam 's brand.
who will be able to afford , and be sufficiently motivated , to purchase this
expensive , inconvenient higher protection \? somebody with lots of extra
cash...

the following is more true than ever

when strong encryption is outlawed , only outlaws will have strong
encryption.



mel beckman internet mbeckman@mbeckman.com
beckman software engineering compuserve 75226 , 2257
ventura , ca 93003 voice fax 805 647 1641 805 647 3125

you can observe a lot just by watching. yogi bera

from gthomas@fraser.sfu.ca (guy thomas)
subject re what is going on \? ...
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
distribution inet
lines 13

zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi) writes

in article 1993apr16.055100.1@cc.curtin.edu.au , zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi) writes
...
if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent .


in reply to mail queries i do n't know if a video is available yet. i asked
about a month ao and was told rsn.

yes it is. from the national film board of canada.
guy
gthomas@native ed.bc.ca

from ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei)
subject re the battle is joined
nntp posting host bistromath.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation
lines 15

in article c5nn9i.d5q@news.claremont.edu ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt) writes
in article 1993apr16.181040.9381@qualcomm.com karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn) writes
it looks like dorothy denning 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the
administration even sooner than we feared.

i 'd lay long odds that it was the other way around. clinton did n't
just pull this plan out of any bodily orifices the nsa has to have
been working on it for years.


i first heard rumors of a similar government proposal (in risks
digest \? \? \? ) in 1987 or 1988.

peter trei
ptrei@mitre.org

from amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization department of mathematical sciences
lines 58
distribution na
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu

al@escom.com (al donaldson) writes
amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in
the fbi decide they want to persecute you , they 're gonna , ...

and if richard nixon had had this kind of toy , he would n't have had
to send people into the watergate.


this appears to be generic calling upon the name of the anti christ.
just for the hell of it , let 's destroy this remark. let us imagine that
the executive branch actually could extract keys from the escrow houses
without anyone knowing , or telling. now what \? dick has 80 bits of data.
what the hell 's he gonna do with it \?

1) trot around to the telco and say 'we 'd like an unauthorised
decrypting tap'. uh huh.
2) break in to watergate and install his own tap (so his people still
do have to break in , neat , huh \? ) record some noise , then get the executive
branch phone decryption box (huh \? they 've got one \? goodness , wait 'til the
washington post gets hold of this) and decrypt the noise.
3) more likely , stare at the key , and say 'oh , hell it 's not
worth all this bloody hassle'

truth is , even granted lots of covert power on the part of
the executive branch , this system is more difficult to tap with than
pots gear. the fact that it is easier to tap than some hypothetical
system neither you nor i am going to place on our phones is neither
here nor there.

the only rational concerns i am seeing raised are

a) is the key really just chopped in half , and not some xor
arrangement \? that is , has some egregious technical error been built
in to the plan \?
b) is this is the first step toward strict regulation of strong
encryption \?


but that 's not really the issue. the real issue is whether this
will be used to justify a ban against individuals' use of private
(i.e. , anything else) encryption methods.

this is b) , of course. i suspect not. if the government actually
wanted to make such regs , they 'd just do it. a few hundred people on usenet
yelling about it would n't even slow the machine down.

besides , who is this mysterious 'they' who 's going to take away
all our rights the instant we let our guard down \? congress \? that gang
of buffoons ca n't even balance their checkbooks. the fbi \? but.. they
do n't make the laws. the nsa \? ditto. the white house \? bill clinton
is probably still looking for the bathroom. it 's a big place , after all.

andrew


al

from matt@wardsgi.med.yale.edu (matt healy)
subject re patents (was rc2 rc4)
nntp posting host wardibm2.med.yale.edu
organization yale u. genetics
lines 30

in article bontchev.734787730@fbihh ,
bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev) wrote

ahaley@eoe.co.uk (andrew haley) writes

coca cola has always understood it.

coca cola is made under licence in dozens of countries around the
world. you 're crazy if you think pepsico does n't know the recipe.

in all those countries coca cola is distributed in a form of
concentrate what the local producers simply mix with water and other
simple ingredients. the trick is to know what is in the concentrate...


i do n't know if this is still true , but at one time coca cola
took elaborate measures to keep the formula secret. for instance ,
several plants in different cities each made one of six partial
concentrates , which were then shipped back and forth and remixed
in a complicated scheme so that no single plant made the whole
formula. by now , i would guess that pepsico 's chemists would have
reverse engineered it ca n't be all that exotic. actually i
prefer pepsi anyhow in about 3 minutes i'm gonna put money
into a pepsi vending machine...

matt healy
i pretend to be a network administrator
the lab net pretends to work

matt@wardsgi.med.yale.edu

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization partnership for an america free drug
lines 32

jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr) writes
in article 19930419.155204.305@almaden.ibm.com
ameline@vnet.ibm.com (ian ameline) writes

i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip ,
and knowlege of the algorithm will likely be fairly widespread.

the chip and algorithm are classified. if you reverse engineer it and
tell people , you are likely to go to jail.

well , i'm not a lawyer , but from what i can tell this is completely
and utterly untrue.

you see , this country has this thing called a constitution .

if you legitimately aquire the device , and you yourself are
not a government employee or otherwise encumbered , i do n't think they
can stop you from revealing anything about the device you can
determine. remember the pentagon papers precedent \? the first amendment
applies here.

the u.s. does not have an official secrets act. we do have laws that
will punish you for revealing what classified information you learned
in your capacity as a government official , contractor , etc , and we
have laws that prohibit stealing such information. however , if they
sell you the chip , i ca n't see that they can make reverse engineering
it and revealing the details illegal.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from ted@nmsu.edu (ted dunning)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization computing research lab
lines 36
1993apr21.001230.26384@lokkur.dexter.mi.us
c5uvn4.mf7@austin.ibm.com strnlghtc5wcmo.fx5@netcom.com
nntp posting host lole.nmsu.edu
in reply to strnlght@netcom.com 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 17 59 12 gmt


in article strnlghtc5wcmo.fx5@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david
sternlight) writes

at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was
des encryped and the person that had sent it , went on vaction.
rather than wait two weeks i set up a straight frontal attack with
one key at a time. it only took two(2) days to crack the file.
no , i do n't have any faith in des.


taking this at face value (though it seems quite dissonant with
much else that has been published here about brute force des
cracking , unless russell was lucky with respect to the key) , i 'd be
very interested in whether the program russell used is available \?

key search is very practical in many real situations since people use
such stupid keys on the average. password crackers know this well.

depending on his answer , this could be an appalling development
calling into question both des and rsa des.

not really. in fact , public key based communication systems very
often pick keys automatically which are much better than passwords or
pass phrases.

if any bright programmer with a little idle machine time can crack
a single des message in a couple of days (assuming no tricks that
are message specific) ,

if a person picked the password or pass phrase , then the key search is
pretty straightforward. in running english text , the average content
of a single word is about 8 bits. in pass phrases , this may increase
to 10 bits or so. searching 30bit spaces is semi practical even in
software and searching 40bit spaces is n't outrageous to imagine with
hardware assists of moderate size.

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re clipper considered harmful
lines 12

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)

you obviously have n't read the information about the system. the chips
put out serial number infomation into the cypher stream to allow
themselves to be identified. the system does not rely on registering
people as owning particular phone units.

and probably as a back door to allow re generation of the secret key.

have we determined yet that s1 and s2 do n't ever change \?

g

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
distribution na
lines 29


geoff@ficus.cs.ucla.edu (geoffrey kuenning) writes
bullshit. the bush administration and the career gestapo were
responsible for this horror , and the careerists presented it to the
new presidency as a fait accompli. that does n't excuse clinton and
gore from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's lay
the body at the proper door to start with.

the final stages of denial... i can hardly imagine what the result
would have been if the clinton administration had actually supported
this plan , instead of merely acquiescing with repugnance as they 've so
obviously doing. i do n't believe the chip originated with the clinton
administration either , but the clinton administration has embraced it
and brought it to fruition.

both of the major parties have what they consider excellent reasons
for limiting your freedoms and violating your privacy , and even seem
to feel that they 're doing you a favor. if this is really surprising
to anyone it means they 've been willfully ignoring quite a bit of
previous evidence. there 's only one political party (not calling
anarchists a party) that considers your freedom and privacy goals
worthy in and of themselves. if you 're voting for the big two , you 're
supporting a reduction of those rights (given their goals and their
histories) , regardless of whether you personally support that
reduction. to paint clinton and gore as unwitting tools is really
stretching things.


when you have to kill a man it costs nothing to be polite. churchill

from andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson)
subject sorry folks (read this)
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 32

in article 1993apr21.001707.9999@ucsu.colorado.edu andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson) writes
...

(the date i have for this is 1 26 93)

note clinton 's statements about encryption in the 3rd paragraph.. i guess
this statement doese n't contradict what you said , though.

cut here

washington (upi) the war on drugs is about to get a fresh
start , president clinton told delegates to the national federation
of police commisioners convention in washington.
in the first speech on the drug issue since his innaugural ,
clinton said that his planned escalation of the drug war ``would make
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical
...

i just found out from my source that this article was a joke. heh heh..
it seemed pretty damn convincing to me from the start i just did n't
notice the smiley at the end of the article , and there were a few other
hints which i should of caught.

anyway i guess this 'joke' did turn out to resemble clinton 's true
feelings at least to some extent.

sorry about that...

marc
andersom@spot.colorado.edu



from amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization department of mathematics
lines 28
nntp posting host moink.nmsu.edu

in article 1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com
smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes

responding to claims about skipjack cracking engines

thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys. let 's assume a brute force engine like that
hypothesized for des 1 microsecond per trial , 1 million chips. that 's
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials. well ,
maybe they can get chips running at one trial per nanosecond , and build
a machine with 10 million chips. sure only 3.8 years for each solution.


i think i should also point out that the mystical des engines
are known plaintext engines (unless you add a ton of really smart
hardware \? )

the 'plaintext' is digitized voice , and exists for a very short
time , probably in a couple inches of copper , tops. it 's flatly not
available your bug in my office can hear my voice , and even digitize
it , but it 's going to get a different bitstream.

it is horribly naive to suppose that regular folks can figure
out how to crack skipjack , or clipper based telephones. i'm certainly
not devoting a great deal of thought to it.

andrew molitor


from duck@nuustak.csir.co.za (paul ducklin)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization csir , south africa
lines 27
nntp posting host nuustak.csir.co.za
x disclaimer none of the opions expressed herein are the official
x disclaimer opinions of the csir or any of its subsidiaries.
x disclaimer so do n't freak out at us about anything


gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes

can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

it 's all easy with a dsp. the olivetti quaderno , for example great 1kg
subnotebook palmtop pc sorry for the plug , folks , but olivetti do n't
seem to be doing a good job marketing it themselves ) includes sound
digitisation hardware they provide vocoders for their dsp which produce
varous bit rates. there 's one which gives pretty acceptable voice
quality at 13kbit sec , just right for a v.32bis modem.

their dsp can play and record at the same time , too so you would n't
need to play two way radio . you can also download code to the dsp
subunit , though you 'd need a software development kit for the dsp in
question dunno which it is... if you wanted to produce your own
vocoder for , say , v.32 speeds.

paul


paul ducklin duck@nuustak.csir.co.za
csir computer virus lab box 395 pretoria 0001 s africa


from mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu (marc vanheyningen)
subject ripem frequently noted vulnerabilities
article i.d. usenet.c4qoh8.che
expires thu , 20 may 1993 00 00 00 gmt
organization computer science , indiana university
lines 163
content type text x usenet faq version 1.0 title ripem attacks
originator mvanheyn@silver.ucs.indiana.edu
supersedes c3jvk9.ey1@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
mime version 1.0

archive name ripem attacks
last update 31 mar 93 21 00 00 0500

some possible attacks on ripem


this is a living list of potential weaknesses to keep your eyes open
for when using ripem for secure electronic mail. it does not go into
great detail , and is almost certainly not exhaustive. obviously , many
of the weaknesses are weaknesses of cryptographically secured mail in
general , and will pertain to secure mail programs other than ripem.
it is maintained by marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu . it
is posted monthly to a variety of news groups followups pertaining
specifically to ripem should go to alt.security.ripem.

cryptanalysis attacks


breaking rsa would allow an attacker to find out your private key ,
in which case he could read any mail encrypted to you and sign
messages with your private key.

rsa is generally believed to be resistant to all standard
cryptanalytic techniques. even a standard key (about 516 bits with
ripem) is long enough to render this impractical , barring a
huge investment in hardware or a breakthrough in factoring.

breaking des would allow an attacker to read any given message ,
since the message itself is encrypted with des. it would not allow
an attacker to claim to be you.

des has only 56 bits in its key , and thus could conceivably be
compromised by brute force with sufficient hardware , but few agencies
have such money to devote to simply read one message. since each
message has a different des key , the work for each message would
remain high.

key management attacks


stealing your private key would allow the same benefits as breaking
rsa. to safeguard it , it is encrypted with a des key which is derived
from a passphrase you type in. however , if an attacker can get a copy
of your private keyfile and your passphrase (by snooping network
packets , tapping lines , or whatever) he could break the whole scheme.

the main risk is that of transferring either the passphrase or the
private key file across an untrusted link. so do n't do that. run
ripem on a trusted machine , preferably one sitting right in front of
you. ideally , your own machine in your own home (or maybe office)
which nobody else has physical access to.

fooling you into accepting a bogus public key for someone else could
allow an opponent to deceive you into sending secret messages to him
rather than to the real recipient. if the enemy can fool your
intended recipient as well , he could re encrypt the messages with
the other bogus public key and pass them along.

it is important to get the proper public keys of other people.
the most common mechanism for this is finger assuming the opponent
has not compromised routers or daemons or such , finger can be
given a fair amount of trust. the strongest method of key
authentication is to exchange keys in person however , this is
not always practical. having other people vouch for you by
signing a statement containing your key is possible , although
ripem does n't have features for doing this as automatically as
pgp. ripem does generate and check md5 fingerprints of public keys
in the key files they may be exchanged via a separate channel for
authentication.

playback attacks


even if an opponent cannot break the cryptography , an opponent could
still cause difficulties. for example , suppose you send a message
with mic only (a pem mode which does not provide disclosure protection)
to alice which says ok , let 's do that. your opponent intercepts
it , and now resends it to bob , who now has a message which is
authenticated as from you telling him to do that. of course , he may
interpret it in an entirely different context. or your opponent
could transmit the same message to the same recipient much later ,
figuring it would be seen differently at a later time. or the
opponent could change the originator name to himself , register
your public key as his , and send a message hoping the recipient
will send him return mail indicating (perhaps even quoting ! ) the
unknown message.

to defeat playback attacks , the plaintext of each message should
include some indication of the sender and recipient , and a unique
identifier (typically the date). a good front end script for ripem
should do this automatically (imho). as a recipient , you should be
sure that the originator name header and the sender indicated within
the plaintext are the same , that you really are a recipient , and that
the message is not an old one. some this also can and should be
automated. the author of this faq has made a modest attempt at
automating the process of generating and checking encapsulated
headers the programs are included in the standard distribution in
the utils directory.

local attacks


clearly , the security of ripem cannot be greater than the security of
the machine where the encryption is performed. for example , under
unix , a super user could manage to get at your encrypted mail ,
although it would take some planning and effort to do something like
replace the ripem executable with a trojan horse or to get a copy of
the plaintext , depending how it 's stored.

in addition , the link between you and the machine running ripem is
an extension of that. if you decrypt with ripem on a remote machine
which you are connected to via network (or , worse yet , modem) , an
eavesdropper could see the plaintext (and probably also your
passphrase.)

ripem should only be executed on systems you trust , obviously. in
the extreme case , ripem should only be used on your own machine ,
which you have total control over and which nobody else has access
to , which has only carefully examined software known to be free of
viruses , and so on. however , there 's a very real trade off between
convenience and security here.

a more moderately cautious user might use ripem on a unix workstation
where other people have access (even root access) , but increase
security by keeping private keys and the (statically linked , of
course) executable on a floppy disk.

some people will keep ripem on a multi user system , but when dialing
in over an insecure line , they will download the message to their
own system and perform the ripem decryption there. however , the
security provided by such a mechanism is somewhat illusory since
you presumably type your cleartext password to log in , you 've just
given away the store , since the attacker can now log in as you and
install traps in your account to steal your private key next time
you use it from a less insecure line. this will likely remain the
situation as long as most systems use the rather quaint mechanism of
cleartext password authentication.

i find it nice to put a brief statement of how carefully i manage my
security arrangement in my .plan next to my public key , so that
potential correspondents can be aware what level of precautions are
in place. some people use two keys , a short one which is not
carefully managed for ordinary use and a longer one which is treated
with greater care for critical correspondence.

untrusted partner attacks


ripem 's encryption will ensure that only a person with the private key
corresponding to the public key used to encrypt the data may read the
traffic. however , once someone with that key gets the message , she
may always make whatever kind of transformations she wishes. there
exist no cryptographic barriers to a recipient , say , taking an
encrypted message and converting it to a mic only message , signed by
you and readable by anyone , although ripem does not provide this
functionality. indeed , the latest pem draft i have seen specifically
states that such transformations should be possible to allow
forwarding functions to work.

including the recipients in the plaintext , as mentioned above , will
make it possible for recipients of a redistributed message to be aware
of its original nature. naturally , the security of the cryptography
can never be greater than the security of the people using it.

from bear@kestrel.fsl.noaa.gov (bear giles)
subject re why the clipper algorithm is secret
organization forecast systems labs , noaa , boulder , co usa
lines 25

in article c5pstr.lu2@panix.com dfl@panix.com (danny o'bedlam) writes
the algorithm is classified because a military contract (or similar
government equivalent to military) has been let for this proprietary
design that the feds say that nsa developed. is there a patent \? is that
patent publicly available \? my betting is that that too is classified.

unless there has been a major change in the law , there 's no such beast
as a classified patent. patents exist to encourage communications and
develop the state of the art.

(the 17 year lock is a nuisance , but historically has been pretty trivial.
it 's only in an industry which doubles performance every three years (or
18 months , for some hardware) that 17 years is an eternity).

the same thing applies in civilian development you ca n't patent something
and declare it a trade secret. however , you can (and should) mark all
software (including proprietary code) unpublished copyright so that it
ever does get exposed you still have some legal protection.

(post berne this is n't required , since everything is born copyrighted.
but it takes a while for people to learn the new rules).


bear giles
bear@fsl.noaa.gov

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 41

in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes
getting the court order to reveal the key also makes decipherable
all past conversations (which may be on tape , or disk , or whatver) ,
as i understand the proposal. i could be wrong , but i 've seen no
mention of session keys being the escrowed entities.

true in theory. in practice \? the technology of cellular phones will
probably be spread spectrum and quite difficult to record the crypttext
without the key. if the frequency path depends on they key , as i
understand it to , it could be made effectively impossible to record.

once it hits land you can record it if you have telco access. the
telco is n't supposed to give that without a warrant. that 's the rule
today.

but even so , the evidence would not be admissible , i think , unless the
judge so ordered. i think that even interception of the crypttext
without a warrant would be illegal. cops ca n't record today 's plain
cellular calls and then ask a judge , hey , can we have permission to
listen to those tapes \? can they \?

worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

yes , that is a major concern , but i think that they think they can
win just by having 99.5 of the usa use this system. they do n't even
have to care about the cautious .5 that 's left. they do n't catch the
really smart crooks anyway. john gotti , who would have to be retarded
not to realize he was likely to be wiretapped , glibly chatted away
on his tapped phone about murder plans. that 's why he 's in jail now.
hard to believe , but true.


this scheme can succeed without laws forbidding more , which people would
fight a lot harder. they like this enough that they are dropping the so
called digital telephony proposal , according to rumours. however the
meaning of that is complex , since they still want to get at the crypttext
on telco systems , and that requires a bit of work.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 45
distribution na
nntp posting host alumni.caltech.edu

the key question is whether non clipper encryption will be made illegal.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

the clear middle ground implied by these statements is to say that americans
have the right to clipper encryption , but not to unbreakable encryption.
this implies that , ultimately , non clipper strong encryption must become
illegal.

(as an aside , is n't the language here jarring \? all this talk about
harmonious balance when they 're talking about taking away people 's
right to communications privacy \? )

although the article emphasizes voice communication , data and mail encryption
is mentioned as well

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files.

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

it looks like the worst nightmares raised by dorothy denning 's proposals
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal. encryption programs
for disk files and email , as well as software to allow for encrypted
voice communications , will be distributed only through the
underground . people will have to learn how to hide the fact that
they are protecting their privacy.

it 's shocking and frightening to see that this is actually happening here.

hal finney
hal@alumni.caltech.edu

from graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
originator gtoal@pizzabox.demon.co.uk
nntp posting host pizzabox.demon.co.uk
reply to graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
organization cuddlehogs anonymous
lines 9

in article 1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys.

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count. anyway , its looking like the
keys and escrow arrangements are smoke and mirrors to cover the way the nsa
can regenerate the key from the transmitted serial number.

g

from carl@lvsun.com (carl shapiro)
subject re estimating wiretap costs benefits
summary benefits probably greater than thought
organization las vegas sun
lines 16

in article 1993apr20.203756.20667@kronos.arc.nasa.gov hanson@kronos.arc.nasa.gov (robin hanson) writes
a rough estimate suggests that wiretaps are worth about five million
dollars per year to u.s. law enforcement agencies. (in 1990 , 872 u.s.
wiretaps led to 2057 arrests , while total police expenditures of 28
billion led to 11.25 million arrests ref us statistical abstracts .)
i'm working on estimating this wiretap benefit more accurately , but

you seem to be assuming that all arrests are of equal value , and that
the use of wiretaps is spread uniformly among them.

given this comparatively tiny number of wiretaps , and the associated
difficulty and cost involved (judges , technicians , etc) i expect that
law enforcement reserves the use of wiretaps for the most valuable
cases. since the value of an arrest can vary over an enormous range
(eg. jaywalking mass murder) i think your 5 million estimate may
be too low by a couple of orders of magnitude.

from tom van vleck@taligent.com (tom van vleck)
subject re looking for one way (trap door , password encryption , etc.) algorithms
organization
distribution usa
lines 21

michael levin wrote
i am looking for references to algorithms which can be used for
password encryption. i.e. , someone has a clear text word , runs it
through the algorithm , and it becomes some other sequence of symbols.
i want this algorithm to have the property that it is a) next to
impossible to reverse , and b) would take too long to try all possible
words to see which one works (even by use of a high speed computer).
please send references or ideas to mlevin@husc8.harvard.edu.

the original one way encryption i put into multics about 1968 (as suggested

by joe weizenbaum) was invertible. an air force tiger team demonstrated
this to me in may 1973. i then asked an expert (who requested anonymity)
what i should use instead the expert 's suggestion was to treat the
8 byte password as both key and data for the lucifer encryption algorithm ,
which is similar or identical to des. this method or something stronger
should take care of (a). issue (b) is discussed in comp.security.misc
longer passwords and quality control on what users can choose as passwords
are the common tactics.

tom vanvleck@taligent.com

from sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (shaun p. hughes)
subject who should be hearing my views on clipper \?
organization san francisco state university
distribution na
lines 18


being a browser of this group for some time ,
and being very concerned about the clipper chip proposal ,
i am hoping someone with more knowledge can help out.

who would be the most influential people to write to , protesting
the obvious next step hinted at by this proposal \?
(heads of what committees , etc.)

what are the major flaws in the plan \?
(from a cryptological standpoint)



shaun p. hughes facts are stupid things.
sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu ronald reagan
republican national
finger for pgp 2.2 public key convention 1988

from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 07 10 digital signatures
organization the crypt cabal
lines 85
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 7 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , digital signatures and
hash functions. theory of one way hash functions , distinctions of
terms. md4 and md5. snefru.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part07
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 7 digital signatures and hash functions

this is the seventh of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

what is a one way hash function \?
what is the difference between public , private , secret , shared , etc. \?
what are md4 and md5 \?
what is snefru \?


what is a one way hash function \?

a typical one way hash function takes a variable length message and
produces a fixed length hash. given the hash it is computationally
impossible to find a message with that hash in fact one ca n't
determine any usable information about a message with that hash , not
even a single bit. for some one way hash functions it 's also
computationally impossible to determine two messages which produce the
same hash.

a one way hash function can be private or public , just like an
encryption function. here 's one application of a public one way hash
function , like md5 or snefru. most public key signature systems are
relatively slow. to sign a long message may take longer than the user
is willing to wait. solution compute the one way hash of the message ,
and sign the hash , which is short. now anyone who wants to verify the
signature can do the same thing.

another name for one way hash function is message digest function.

what is the difference between public , private , secret , shared , etc. \?

there is a horrendous mishmash of terminology in the literature for a
very small set of concepts. when an algorithm depends on a key which
is n't published , we call it a private algorithm otherwise we call it
a public algorithm. we have encryption functions e and decryption
functions d , so that d(e(m)) m for any message m. we also have
hashing functions h and verification functions v , such that v(m , x) 1
if and only if x h(m).

a public key cryptosystem has public encryption and private
decryption. checksums , such as the application mentioned in the
previous question , have public hashing and public verification.
digital signature functions have private hashing and public
verification only one person can produce the hash for a message ,
but everyone can verify that the hash is correct.

obviously , when an algorithm depends on a private key , it 's meant to
be unusable by anyone who does n't have the key. there 's no real
difference between a ``shared'' key and a private key a shared key
is n't published , so it 's private. if you encrypt data for a friend
rather than ``for your eyes only'' , are you suddenly doing
``shared key encryption'' rather than private key encryption \? no.

what are md4 and md5 \?

md4 and md5 are message digest functions developed by ron rivest.
definitions appear in rfc 1320 and rfc 1321 (see part 10). code is
available from ftpmd .

note that a transcription error was found in the original md5 draft
rfc. the corrected algorithm should be called md5a , though some
people refer to it as md5.

what is snefru \?

snefru is a family of message digest functions developed by ralph
merkle. snefru 8 is an 8 round function , the newest in the family.
definitions appear in merkle 's paper me91a . code is available from
ftpsf .

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
article i.d. rwing.2075
organization totally unorganized
lines 66

in article strnlghtc5pucl.6kp@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
in article apr18.204843.50316@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your
crypto keys \? i would n't.

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon. sure.
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon .

i am sure you did n't miss the implication that we could have another
richard nixon type president in the future (perhaps not too distant
future , acutally). with that in mind , then i take it you also would
not object to the gov coming up with a decision (not proposal just
like clinton cripple is a decision , not a proposal) sprung on us to
start placing video cameras with sound in every room of your house ,
which could be activated without your knowlege. they would be well
concealed so you would n't know the location , to prevent you from covering
the lens opening. after all , nothing you 're doing would be of the
slightest interest to a government official , right \? so , you surely
should not object to such a proposal...

not the best anology , but the principle is pretty close the ability
to eavesdrop on your activity with little or no effort , without your
knowlege , protected by entirely by government safeguards . you can
still draw your curtains , so you can still have your privacy from everyone
else (except big brother) ! ! after all we need this for protection from
drug dealers and terrorists and other criminals (like 'enemies of the
state')... and you do n't really have a right to unbreakable privacy
anyway , sort of as the press release of the clinton cripple decision
puts it...

i find it curious they use the word unbreakable when the term really
should be difficult to break without proper authorization (which the
government most certainly has at their disposal , right \? they would n't
want to be able to break it illegally , would they \? )... nawww , not
for the people clinton....

can you , while my mind is on it , give us one good reason that the
algorithm should be a secret algorithm , unless this encryption scheme
either is a joke , or contains features like a 'master key' or other back
door for unauthorized eavesdropping \? if it was really even moderately
secure , and the government really meant to require the proper court
order and the keys that are in the escrow accounts to be able to decipher
the traffic , what is the need to keep the algorithm secret \? seems i
hear rather often that if an encryption scheme requires the algorithm
to remain a secret to be effective , it is not a worthwhile scheme... is
this just idle talk , or is the administration bullshitting everyone \?

with great skepticism , and many doubts on our administrations intentions...

and wait ! ! we have n't been told the next gem the administration has in
mind for e mail and datafile security. the press release does say that
this is part of a comprehensive thing on data security for us unprivileged
citizens. perhaps 'subjects' would be the better term 'citizens'
somehow does not seem appropriate... that implies a free people , 'subjects'
better fits a population who serve at the pleasure of their rulers.
one thing for certain the government no longer regards the citizens
as their bosses anymore , but the other way around...


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re (new) reason for clipper alg'm secrecy
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 31

in article 1993apr20.155924.29995@news.clarkson.edu , tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra) writes
first , note that the experts will only look at details , and of just
the algorithm

in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

why not the chip design \? well , here 's the possiblity in addition to
encryption , the chip pre processes voice signals to make them easier
to analyze transcribe electronically. the chip , once widespread , might
effectively be part of a massively parallel computer for voice
grepping the us phone network (or the criminal wrong thinking patrons
thereof).

first of all , the chip does n't do that. it runs at 16 megabits second ,
which is far beyond what you need for voice. it 's obviously intended
for data as well , and on high speed lines at that.

second what advantage is there to doing the processing in the phone \?
i do n't care how fancy that chip is it 's not as fancy as the roomful
of analyzers at fort meade running the program they 'll have 5 years from
now. they ca n't update every clipper chip that 's out there.

third if they did do this preprocessing in the chip , it would probably
have a serious effect on recognizability of the voice patterns. if
nothing else , that would hurt the acceptability of the product. the
v.32bis modems are just barely fast enough to do a good job on properly
massaged voice as is add any more to the mix , and you 're completely out
of the ballpark.

from hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney)
subject re how does it really work \? (was re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption)
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 41
distribution na
nntp posting host alumni.caltech.edu

marc vanheyningen mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu writes

the main thing i just do n't get is whether this chip implements
symmetric or asymmetric cryptographic techniques. anybody know \?

i do n't know , but i'm as willing to speculate as anyone.

several people have suggested that the chips use public key cryptography.
another possibility is to use diffie hellman key exchange , or some other
algorithm which has a similar effect. dh allows both ends to agree on
a session key which they use with symmetric cryptography (something
like des) for the encryption.

how could the back door keys work in this system \? i can see a few
possibilities. one is that the dh like algorithm has the property that
the session key can be deduced by an eavesdropper who knows the back door
keys for one (or possibly both) communicants. perhaps the random numbers
used in the dh are seeded by the back door key , or some such.

another possibility , as was suggested here earlier , is that the chips
simply broadcast the session key , encrypted with the chip 's own
internal secret key. in this system the back door keys are secret keys
usable for decrypting this session key broadcast. actually the chip 's
secret key does n't need to be a public key in this usage , but can be
identical to the secret back door key. (this proposal seems most
straightforward to me.)

still another possibility is that the encryption algorithm used for the
message itself has a dual key property , that possession of either of
two keys can be used to decrypt it. one key would be the session key from
the dh exchange , and the other would be the back door key for the chip.

it 's worth noting that one of the proposals dorothy denning raised
during her amazingly prescient on line discussion last november and
december was a variation on diffie hellman in which a third party would
participate in deriving the session keys. this does n't quite fit into
what we know of how clipper works but it hints that those who had early
knowledge of clipper (or whose thinking was somehow synchronized with
clipper designers) may have had diffie hellman on their minds.

hal finney

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re the old key registration idea...
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 19

in article rlglendec5lrwc.95c@netcom.com , rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning) writes
i have been chided for stating that dorthy denning was intellectually
dishonest in the acm debate and in this newsgroup. i have previously
refrained from suggesting that she is arguing on behalf of consulting
clients.

now , i say that it is clear that dorthy denning has been functioning
as a lobbyist , not a computer scientist. she has used legal ethics
(truth is what you can convince anyone of) , not scientific ethics
(truth is understanding the external world).

maybe we can revoke her acm membership \? 8)

i suggest that you refrain from such insults unless and until you can
produce some evidence to back up that claim. given the measures proposed
or passed in the last year or so , such as s.266 and the scanner ban ,
her proposal need not be any more than her own attempt at a technical
solution. it 's entirely possible , in fact , that it was the notion of
splitting the key , which came up in the debate , that softened this proposal.

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject idea vectors \?
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 11

i am testing idea block cipher implementations for correctness
and needs some golden test vectors. i 've looked through
the postscript idea chapter but the single example gives me
zero degrees of freedom. i 'll contact the inventor if necessary
but since we are not paying him money for use of his invention ,
i 'd like to offload this from him. anybody got vectors \?
(no disease vectors , please).


grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu (marc vanheyningen)
subject ripem frequently asked questions
article i.d. usenet.c4qoa0.ca6
expires thu , 20 may 1993 00 00 00 gmt
organization computer science , indiana university
lines 360
content type text x usenet faq version 1.0 title ripem faq
originator mvanheyn@silver.ucs.indiana.edu
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
mime version 1.0

archive name ripem faq
last update 31 mar 93 22 00 00 0500

about this posting

this is a listing of likely questions and information about ripem , a
program for public key mail encryption. it (this faq , not ripem) was
written and will be maintained by marc vanheyningen
mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu . it will be posted to a variety of
newsgroups on a monthly basis follow up discussion specific to ripem
is redirected to the group alt.security.ripem.

what's new

i am now running a world wide web archive of ripem information. it
does not contain much of anything that is n't available elsewhere , but
it has convenient pointers to the most current version of this faq and
some other stuff. the url is http cs.indiana.edu ripem dir.html .

this month 's version has a fair amount of new pointers to information
on patents and stuff like that. i 've also reordered a few things to
have a more sensible ordering. i hope i do n't have to edit this again
soon. )

disclaimer

nothing in this faq should be considered legal advice , or anything
other than one layperson 's opinion. if you want real legal advice ,
talk to a real lawyer , preferably one with experience in patent law ,
export regulations , or whatever area of law is in question.

list of questions

1) what is ripem \?
2) how can i get ripem \?
3) will ripem run on my machine \?
4) will ripem work with my mailer \?
5) what is rsa \?
6) what is des \?
7) what is a fingerprint , like md5 \?
8) what is pem \?
9) what 's this about distributing and authenticating keys \?
10) is n't it a bad idea to use patented algorithms in standards like pem \?
11) what about rsadsi pkp \?
12) why do all ripem public keys look very similar \?
13) what is pgp \?
14) what about rpem \?
15) what is mime \?
16) what is tis pem \?
17) i have this simple way to defeat the security of ripem...

questions and answers


1) what is ripem \?

ripem is a (not yet complete , but useful) implementation of privacy
enhanced mail (pem). ripem allows your electronic mail to have the
four security facilities provided by pem disclosure protection
(optional) , originator authenticity , message integrity measures , and
non repudiation of origin (always). (see what is pem \? )

ripem was written primarily by mark riordan mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu .
most of the code is in the public domain , except for the rsa routines ,
which are a library called rsaref licensed from rsa data security inc.

the current version of ripem is 1.0.5 the current version of the
macintosh port of ripem is 0.7.

2) how can i get ripem \?

ripem uses the library of cryptographic routines rsaref , which is
considered munitions and thus is export restricted from distribution
to persons who are not citizens or permanent residents in the u.s or
canada without an export license. no such license has been obtained
(nor would one likely be granted unless the rsa key exchange were
shortened to 512 bits and the symmetric cipher changed to something
weaker than des. there are some suggestions that this situation may
change now that clinton is in office.) the author requests in the
readme file that this law not be violated

please do not export the cryptographic code in this distribution
outside of the usa or canada. this is a personal request from me ,
the author of ripem , and a condition of your use of ripem.

note that rsaref is not in the public domain , and a license for it is
included with the distribution. you should read it before using
ripem.

ripem is available via anonymous ftp to citizens and permanent
residents in the u.s. from rsa.com cd to rsaref and read the readme
file for info. note that the non rsaref portion of ripem is not a
product of rsa data security , incorporated they merely are helping
distribute it.

ripem , as well as some other crypt stuff , has its home site on
ripem.msu.edu , which is open to non anonymous ftp for users in the
u.s. and canada who are citizens or permanent residents. to find out
how to obtain access , ftp there , cd to pub crypt , and read the file
getting access. for convenience , binaries for many architectures are
available here in addition to the full source tree.

3) will ripem run on my machine \?

probably. it has already been ported to ms dos and most flavors of
unix (sunos , next , linux , aix , ultrix , solaris , etc.) ports to
macintosh include a standard unix style port and a rather nice
mac like port written by raymond lau , author of stuffit. more ports
are expected , and help of users is invited.

4) will ripem work with my mailer \?

probably. how easy and clean the effective interface is will depend
on the sophistication and modularity of the mailer , though. the users
guide , included with the distribution , discusses ways to use ripem
with many popular mailers , including berkeley , mush , elm , and mh.
code is also included in elisp to allow easy use of ripem inside gnu
emacs.

if you make a new interface for ripem or create an improvement on one
in the distribution which you believe is convenient to use , secure ,
and may be useful to others , feel free to post it to alt.security.ripem.

5) what is rsa \?

rsa is a crypto system which is asymmetric , or public key. this means
that there are two different , related keys one to encrypt and one to
decrypt. because one cannot (reasonably) be derived from the other ,
you may publish your encryption , or public , key widely and keep your
decryption , or private , key to yourself. anyone can use your public
key to encrypt a message , but only you hold the private key needed to
decrypt it. note that the message sent with rsa is normally just
the des key to the real plaintext. (see what is des \? )

note that the above only provides for disclosure protection. for
originator authenticity , message integrity , and non repudiation of
origin services to be implemented , the fingerprint of the message
(see what is a fingerprint , like md5 \? ) is encrypted with the
sender 's private key. the recipient , or a dispute resolving
authority , can use the sender 's public key to decrypt it and confirm
that the message must have come from the sender and was not altered.

rsa was named for the three men (rivest , shamir and adleman) who
invented it. to find out lots more about rsa and modern cryptography
in general , ftp to rsa.com and look in pub faq . some information
also may be in sci.crypt.

6) what is des \?

des is the data encryption standard , a widely used symmetric , or
secret key , crypto system. unlike rsa , des uses the same key to
encrypt and decrypt messages. however , des is much faster than rsa.

ripem uses both des and rsa it generates a random key and encrypts
your mail with des using that key. it then encrypts that key with the
recipient 's public rsa key and includes the result in the letter ,
allowing the recipient to recover the des key.

des is sometimes considered weak because it is somewhat old and uses a
key length considered too short by modern standards. however , it
should be reasonably safe against an opponent smaller than a large
corporation or government agency. it is not likely that the pem
standard will incorporate support for other symmetric ciphers in the
near future , because there is a strong feeling that pem should be
stable so it can become utilized widely without early problems with
interoperability.

7) what is a fingerprint , like md5 \?

md5 is a message digest algorithm produced by rsa data security inc.
it provides a 128 bit fingerprint , or cryptographically secure hash ,
of the plaintext. it is cryptographically secure because it is not
possible (in a reasonable amount of computation) to produce a
different plaintext which produces the same fingerprint. thus ,
instead of signing the entire message with the sender 's private key ,
only the md5 of the message needs to be signed for authentication.

md5s can also be exchanged directly for authentication for example ,
ripem public keys include an md5 of the public key in the file , so
parties wishing to confirm their keys are authentic via a separate
channel merely need exchange md5s of keys and verify their accuracy.

md5 is sometimes used for other purposes for example , it is often
used to map an input of arbitrary length to 128 bits of data , as a
passphrase interpreter or cookie generator.

md5 is described in its entirety (including an implementation in c) in
rfc 1321.

there have been some recent suggestions that md5 may not be as strong
a hash as was originally believed presumably some other hash
function will be used if this is accepted as true.

8) what is pem \?

pem is privacy enhanced mail , a standard for allowing transfer of
encrypted electronic mail generated over a long period of time by a
working group of experts. it is described in rfcs 1421 1424 these
documents have been approved and obsolete the old rfcs 1113 1115.

ripem is not really a complete implementation of pem , because pem
specifies certificates for authenticating keys , which ripem does not
handle at this time. their addition is planned.

9) what 's this about distributing and authenticating keys \?

for a remote user to be able to send secure mail to you , she must know
your public key. for you to be able to confirm that the message
received came from her , you must know her public key. it is important
that this information be accurate if a bad guy convinces her that
his key is in fact yours , she will send messages which he can read.

ripem allows for three methods of key management a central server ,
the distributed finger servers , and a flat file. all three are
described in the ripem users guide which is part of the distribution.
none of them provide perfect security. the pem standard calls for
key management by certificates the addition of this feature to ripem
is planned , but chicken egg issues still exist.

10) is n't it a bad idea to use patented algorithms in standards like pem \?

this issue has been considered in the standards process. rfc 1310 ,
the specification for internet standards , has a discussion (section
6) on what specifications for nondiscriminatory availability must be
met for a patented method to be included in a standard. rfc 1421
addresses this issue with regard to the patents covering public key
cryptography.

this does not , of course , mean that all questions are settled or that
everyone is in agreement. an interesting exchange on the use of
patented algorithms in standards with regard to public key
cryptography is in the league for programming freedom archive
(available via ftp ftp.uu.net doc lpf) in the files bidzos.letter
and bidzos.response. (amusingly , the lpf files on ftp.uu.net are
compressed with a patented algorithm.)

11) what about rsadsi pkp \?

rsa data security , inc. (rsadsi) is a california based company
specializing in cryptographic technologies. public key partners is a
firm which holds exclusive sub licensing rights of the following u.s.
patents and all of their corresponding foreign patents

cryptographic apparatus and method
( diffie hellman )............................... no. 4 , 200 , 770

public key cryptographic apparatus
and method ( hellman merkle ).................... no. 4 , 218 , 582

cryptographic communications system and
method ( rsa )................................... no. 4 , 405 , 829

exponential cryptographic apparatus
and method ( hellman pohlig ).................... no. 4 , 424 , 414

pkp claims these four patents cover all known methods of public key
cryptography. the two businesses are rather closely related (for
example , the same person , jim bidzos , is president of both of them.)
pkp has licensed this technology to a considerable number of
companies (ibm , dec , motorola , at t , lotus...) for use in their
products. pkp has also threatened and filed lawsuits defending their
patents.

ripem was originally created with no connection to rsadsi other than
its use of the rsaref library , and for no reason other than its
author 's desire to see widespread use of public key cryptography.
however , after the ball started rolling , people at rsadsi got
interested. rsadsi decided to carry ripem on its ftp site , and some
people there started making their own ripem keys and contributing
code. ripem even won the best application built on rsaref in 1992
award.

12) why do all ripem public keys look very similar \?

ripem public keys begin with a pkcs (public key cryptography
standards) identifier describing various characteristics about the
key , so the first bunch of characters in your key may be the same as
those of lots of other people 's keys. this does not mean your keys
are similar , but only that they are the same class of key , were
generated with the same program , are of the same length , etc.

13) what is pgp \?

pgp is another cryptographic mail program called pretty good privacy.
pgp has been around longer than ripem , and works somewhat differently.
pgp is not compatible with ripem in any way , though pgp does also use rsa.

a few major differences between pgp and ripem

pgp has more key management features , particularly for users without
a direct network connection.

ripem conforms to the pem rfcs and thus has a greater probability
of working with other pem software. pgp makes no attempt to be
compatible with anything other than itself.

ripem uses rsaref , a library of rsa routines from rsadsi which
comes with a license allowing noncommercial use. pgp uses its own
implementation of rsa. pkp claims that it is a violation of its
patents to make , use or sell pgp in the u.s. or canada without
either a license or written permission. (see disclaimer )
(see what about rsadsi pkp \? ) phil zimmermann , the author of
pgp , stopped distributing it after being threatened with legal
action he believed that a licensing scheme could be arranged , but
it has n't happened and there seems little prospect of it happening
in the future. he acknowledges in the pgp user 's guide

in fact , if you live in the usa , and you are not a federal agency ,
you should n't actually run pgp on your computer , because public
key partners wants to forbid you from running my software. pgp is
contraband.

both pgp and ripem are export restricted , and cannot be sent outside
the u.s. and canada without an export license. however , pgp
already exists on many ftp sites in europe and other places.

whether you use pgp or ripem or whatever , the documentation to pgp is
recommended reading to anyone interested in such issues.
unfortunately , it 's not distributed separately from the program ,
which can be difficult to find in the u.s. on ftp sites due to
liability concerns.

14) what about rpem \?

rpem stands for rabin privacy enhanced mail. it was similar to ripem ,
but used a public key cipher invented by rabin (which is not rsa) in
an attempt to avoid the patents on public key systems. it was
written by mark riordan , who later wrote ripem.

its distribution was halted when , contrary to the beliefs of many
(including rabin) , pkp claimed that their patents were broad enough
to cover the cipher employed. this claim is not universally
accepted , but was not challenged for pragmatic reasons.

rpem is not really used anymore. it is not compatible with ripem or pgp.

15) what is mime \?

mime stands for multipurpose internet mail extensions , and is
described in rfc 1341. you can find out about it in the newsgroup
comp.mail.mime a faq exists on it. how pem should interact with
mime is not yet entirely clear some people use the stopgap solution
of having a mime type application x ripem in order to send ripem
messages as mime ones. i hope some standards will emerge. draft
internet documents exist on the matter.

16) what is tis pem \?

trusted information systems is working on a version of privacy
enhanced mail for general availability. last i heard , it was
rumored to be integrated into an existing mail user agent (mh)
rather than a stand alone system , and in beta test. i do n't know
much more than that.

17) i have this simple way to defeat the security of ripem...

you may wish to check the companion post ripem attacks which
discusses some of the more obvious attacks on ripem 's security and
what procedures will minimize the risk. ripem 's main weak area is
probably key distribution.

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 57


though some may argue about the nose of the camel , it 's worth noting that
the government proposal is limited to scrambled telephony. if it is only
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file
encryption , then it is an improvement over the current mass produced
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to
easy to break inverters.

note that the big issue for the feds is the continued ability to wiretap.
before we go off the deep end with long discusions about secure crypto for
e mail and files , let 's focus on this.

one question that was not asked in the release is whether this proposal is
limited to telephony , or if the government intends to expand it.

though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no
secure telephony , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a goat can
eavesdrop. this would also plug up the security hole in cellular and
cordless phones.



reading between the lines , i infer that the system is highly secure
without access to the keys. this would meet the needs of u.s. businesses
confronted by rich and powerful adversaries , including french and japanese
security services and rich japanese companies. it allows the nsa to make
available some of its better stuff while protecting law enforcement needs.

most legitimate u.s. corporations trust the nsa , and would be delighted to
have a high security system certified by them , even at the price of
depositing keys in escrow. i see no difficulty in creating a reliable
escrow. corporations entrust their secrets to attorneys every day of the
week , and that system has worked pretty well.

from my point of view this is a fair starting point. there are concerns that
need to be addressed , including the reliability of the escrows. but in
return we get access to high security crypto. many have suggested that des
and other systems may be breakable by the nsa and hence others similarly
skilled and endowed. there is at least a good possibility (which should be
checked) that the proposed system is not so breakable. it does n't have to
be , nor does it have to have trapdoors , if the government can get the keys
pursuant to a legitimate court order. thus they can protect legitimate
communications against economic adversaries , while still being able to
eavesdrop on crooks pursuant to a court order.



in discussing this , let 's try to avoid the nastiness , personal attacks and
noise of some previous threads. this is a substantive and technical issue ,
and personal remarks have no place in such a discussion.


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from elee9sf@menudo.menudo.uh.edu (karl barrus)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization university of houston
lines 27
distribution na
strnlghtc5nrhw.1qb@netcom.com
nntp posting host menudo.uh.edu
in reply to strnlght@netcom.com 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 02 41 55 gmt


david sternlight writes

i 'd trust something from the nsa long before i 'd trust something from
some swiss or anbody japanese.

what \? \? \? this is an incredible statement ! the nsa tried to suppress
public key crypto and rsa , and yet they claim to encourage use of
strong crypto for us citizens.

would you trust a black box from the nsa versus an open system from
elsewhere \?


karl l. barrus
elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu preferred address
barrus@tree.egr.uh.edu (nextmail)






karl l. barrus
elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu preferred address
barrus@tree.egr.uh.edu (nextmail)


from pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
reply to pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley)
organization edinburgh university
lines 12

quoting pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) in article 1993apr21.012011.27470@shearson.com
whats the difference between a v.32bis modem and a v.32bis modem \?

how fast do the fastest modems go \?

how far can voice be compressed \?

i 've seen various assertions about this , but anyone with the
straightforward bits per second figures will be my friend forever...

o paul crowley pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x fold a fish for jesus !

from ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu (l. detweiler)
subject privacy anonymity on the internet faq (2 of 3)
supersedes net privacy part2 733153240@gza.com
organization tmp enterprises
lines 1543
expires 21 may 1993 04 00 06 gmt
reply to ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary email and account privacy , anonymity , file encryption ,
academic computer policies , relevant legislation and references ,
eff , and other privacy and rights issues associated with use of the
internet and global networks in general.
x last updated 1993 03 04

archive name net privacy part2
last modified 1993 3 3
version 2.1


identity , privacy , and anonymity on the internet


(c) 1993 l. detweiler. not for commercial use except by permission
from author , otherwise may be freely copied. not to be altered.
please credit if quoted.

summary


email and account privacy , anonymity , file encryption , academic
computer policies , relevant legislation and references , eff , and
other privacy and rights issues associated with use of the internet
and global networks in general.

(search for . for exact section. search for ' ' (underline) for
next section.)

part 2
(this file)

resources


4.1 what unix programs are related to privacy \?
4.2 how can i learn about or use cryptography \?
4.3 what is the cypherpunks mailing list \?
4.4 what are some privacy related newsgroups \? faqs \?
4.5 what is internet privacy enhanced mail (pem) \?
4.6 what are other request for comments (rfcs) related to privacy \?
4.7 how can i run an anonymous remailer \?
4.8 what are references on privacy in email \?
4.9 what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies \?
4.10 what is the mit ``crosslink'' anonymous message tv program \?

miscellaneous


5.1 what is ``digital cash'' \?
5.2 what is a ``hacker'' or ``cracker'' \?
5.3 what is a ``cypherpunk'' \?
5.4 what is `steganography' and anonymous pools \?
5.5 what is `security through obscurity' \?
5.6 what are `identity daemons' \?
5.7 what standards are needed to guard electronic privacy \?

issues


6.1 what is the electronic frontier foundation (eff) \?
6.2 who are computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr) \?
6.3 what was `operation sun devil' and the steve jackson game case \?
6.4 what is integrated services digital network (isdn) \?
6.5 what is the national research and education network (nren) \?
6.6 what is the fbi 's proposed digital telephony act \?
6.7 what other u.s. legislation is related to privacy on networks \?
6.8 what are references on rights in cyberspace \?
6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom (caf) archive \?

footnotes


7.1 what is the background behind the internet \?
7.2 how is internet `anarchy' like the english language \?
7.3 most wanted list
7.4 change history





resources




4.1 what unix programs are related to privacy \?

for more information , type `man cmd ' or `apropos keyword ' at the
unix shell prompt.

passwd change password
finger obtain information about a remote user
chfn change information about yourself obtainable by remote
users (sometimes `passwd f')
chmod change the rights associated with a file or directory
umask (shell) change the default (on creation) file access
rights
ls list the rights associated with files and directories
xhost allow or disable access control of particular users to an
xwindow server
last list the latest user logins on the system and their
originations
who list other users , login idle times , originations
w list other users and what they are running
xhost access control list for x window client use
xauth control x window server authentication

.signature file in the home directory appended to usenet posts
.forward file used to forward email to other accounts
.xauthority file used for x window server authentication keys
signature variable used for name in email and usenet postings

the 'tcpdump' packet tracing program is loosely based on smi 's
etherfind although none of the etherfind code remains. it was
originally written by van jacobson , lawrence berkeley laboratory ,
as part of an ongoing research project to investigate and improve
tcp and internet gateway performance. a current version is
available via anonymous ftp from host ftp.ee.lbl.gov (currently at
address 128.3.254.68) file tcpdump.tar.z (a compressed unix tar
file). this program is subject to the 'standard' berkeley network
software copyright.


4.2 how can i learn about or use cryptography \?

a general introduction to mostly theoretical cryptographic issues ,
especially those frequently discussed in sci.crypt , is available
in faq form

compiled by
cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison)
gwyn@brl.mil (doug gwyn)
smb@ulysses.att.com (steven bellovin)

nist (u.s. national institute for standards and technology)
publishes an introductory paper on cryptography , special
publication 800 2 ``public key cryptograhy'' by james nechvatal
(april 1991). available via anonymous ftp from
csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (129.6.54.11) , file pub nistpubs 800 2.txt.
also via available anonymous ftp from wimsey.bc.ca as crypt.txt.z
in the crypto directory. covers technical mathematical aspects
of encryption such as number theory.

more general information can be found in a faq by paul fahn of rsa
labortories via anonymous ftp from rsa.com in pub faq.ps.z. see
the `readme' file for information on the `tex' version. also
available as hardcopy for 20 from rsa laboratories , 100 marine
parkway , redwood city , ca 94065. send questions to
faq editor@rsa.com.

phil zimmerman 's pgp (pretty good privacy) public domain package
for public key encryption is available at numerous sites , and is
in widespread use over the internet for general unix based file
encryption (including email). consult the archie ftp database.
also see the newsgroup alt.security.pgp. mailing list requests
to info pgp request@lucpul.it.luc.edu.

from the ripem faq by marc vanheyningen
mvanheyn@whale.cs.indiana.edu on news.answers

ripem is a program which performs privacy enhanced mail (pem)
using the cryptographic techniques of rsa and des. it allows
your electronic mail to have the properties of authentication
(i.e. who sent it can be confirmed) and privacy (i.e. nobody can
read it except the intended recipient.)

ripem was written primarily by mark riordan
mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu . most of the code is in the public domain ,
except for the rsa routines , which are a library called rsaref
licensed from rsa data security inc.

ripem is available via anonymous ftp to citizens and permanent
residents in the u.s. from rsa.com cd to rsaref and read the
readme file for info.

ripem , as well as some other crypt stuff , has its `home site' on
rpub.cl.msu.edu , which is open to non anonymous ftp for users in
the u.s. and canada who are citizens or permanent residents. to
find out how to obtain access , ftp there , cd to pub crypt , and
read the file getting access.

note cryptography is generally not well integrated into email yet
and some system proficiency is required by users to utilize it.


4.3 what is the cypherpunks mailing list \?

eric hughes hughes@toad.com runs the `cypherpunk' mailing list
dedicated to ``discussion about technological defenses for privacy
in the digital domain.'' send email to
cypherpunks request@toad.com to be added or subtracted from the
list. from the charter

the most important means to the defense of privacy is encryption.
to encrypt is to indicate the desire for privacy. but to encrypt
with weak cryptography is to indicate not too much desire for
privacy. cypherpunks hope that all people desiring privacy will
learn how best to defend it.


4.4 what are some privacy related newsgroups \? faqs \?

newsgroups


alt.comp.acad freedom.news
alt.comp.acad freedom.talk

moderated and unmoderated issues related to academic freedom and
privacy at universities. documented examples of violated
privacy in e.g. email. documented examples of `censorship' as
in e.g. limiting usenet groups local availability.

alt.cyberpunks

virtual reality , (science) fiction by william gibson and bruce
sterling , cyberpunk in the mainstream.

alt.hackers

usenet network news transfer protocol (nntp) posting mechanisms ,
simple mail transfer protocol (smtp) , `obligatory hack' reports.

alt.privacy

general privacy issues involving taxpaying , licensing , social
security numbers , etc.

alt.security
comp.security.misc

computer related security issues. faq in news.answers below.

alt.security.pgp
alt.security.ripem

dedicated to discussing public domain cryptographic software
packages pgp , or ``pretty good privacy'' software developed by
phil zimmerman for public key encryption , and ripem by mark
riordan for public key and des encryption.

comp.society.privacy

privacy issues associated with computer technologies. examples
caller identification , social security numbers , credit
applications , mailing lists , etc. moderated.

comp.eff.news
comp.eff.talk

moderated and unmoderated groups associated with the electronic
frontier foundation started by mitch kapor for protecting civil
and constitutional rights in the electronic realm.

news.admin
news.admin.policy

concerns of news administrators. nntp standards and mechanisms.

news.lists

usenet traffic distributions. most frequent posters , most
voluminous groups , most active sites , etc.

sci.crypt

considers scientific and social issues of cryptography.
examples legitimate use of pgp , public key patents , des ,
cryptographic security , cypher breaking , etc.


faqs


faqs or ``frequently asked questions'' are available in the
newsgroups .answers or via anonymous ftp to pit manager.mit.edu
18.172.1.27 (also rtfm.mit.edu) from the directory
pub usenet news.answers x where x is the archive name. this
faq is archived in the file `net privacy'. others are

network info part1

sources of information about the internet and how to connect to
it , through the nsf or commercial vendors.

alt security faq

computer related security issues arising in alt.security and
comp.security.misc , mostly unix related.

ssn privacy

privacy issues associated with the use of the u.s. social
security number (ssn).

pdial

public dialup internet accounts list.

college email part1

how to find email addresses for undergraduate and graduate
students , faculty and staff at various colleges and
universities.

ripem faq

information on ripem , a program for public key mail encryption
officially sanctioned by public key partners inc. , the company
that owns patents on public key cryptography.

unix faq faq part1

frequently asked questions about unix , including information on
`finger' and terminal spying.

distributions

known geographic , university , and network distributions.


4.5 what is internet privacy enhanced mail (pem) \?

internet drafts on privacy enhanced mail (pem) describe a standard
under revision for six years delineating the official protocols for
email encryption. the standard has only recently stabilized and
implementations are being developed.

rfc 1421 ``privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail
part i message encryption and authentication procedures.'' j.
linn 104 8456@mcimail.com

rfc 1422 ``privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail part
ii certificate based key management'' s. kent kent@bbn.com

rfc 1424 ``privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail
part iv key certification and related services'' b. kaliski
burt@rsa.com

rfc 1423 ``privacy enhancement for internet electronic mail part
iii algorithms , modes , and identifiers'' d. balenson
belenson@tis.com

send email to pem info@tis.com for more information. see ``rfcs
related to privacy'' for information on how to obtain rfcs.


4.6 what are other requests for comments (rfcs) related to privacy \?

rfc 822 smtp , simple mail transfer protocol
rfc 977 nntp , network news transfer protocol
rfc 1036 standard for interchange of network news messages
rfc 1208 glossary of networking terms
rfc 1207 answers to ``experienced internet user'' questions
rfc 1206 answers to ``new internet user'' questions
rfc 1355 privacy issues in network information center databases


rfc 1177 is ``fyi answers to commonly asked ``new internet user''
questions , and includes basic terminology on the internet (tcp ip ,
smtp , ftp) , internet organizations such as iab (internet
activities board) and ietf (internet enbgineering task force) , and
a glossary of terms. also from ftp.eff.org
pub internet info internet.q.

rfcs can be obtained via ftp from nic.ddn.mil , with the pathname
rfc rfcnnnn.txt or rfc rfcnnnn.ps (where `nnnn' refers to the
number of the rfc). login with ftp , username `anonymous' and
password `guest'. the nic also provides an automatic mail
service for those sites which cannot use ftp. address the
request to service@nic.ddn.mil and in the subject field of the
message indicate the rfc number , as in `subject rfc nnnn' (or
`subject rfc nnnn.ps' for postscript rfcs).

rfcs can also be obtained via ftp from nis.nsf.net. using ftp ,
login with username `anonymous' and password `guest' then
connect to the rfc directory (`cd rfc'). the file name is of the
form rfcnnnn.txt 1 (where `nnnn' refers to the number of the
rfc). the nis also provides an automatic mail service for those
sites which cannot use ftp. address the request to
nis info@nis.nsf.net and leave the subject field of the message
blank. the first line of the text of the message must be `send
rfcnnnn.txt 1' , where nnnn is replaced by the rfc number.


4.7 how can i run an anonymous remailer \?

cypherpunk remailer source is at soda.berkeley.edu in the
pub cypherpunks directory. it 's written in perl , and is
relatively easy to install (no administrative rights are required).
karl barrus elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu has more information and
modifications. also , most remailer operators mentioned above are
amenable to discussing features , problems , and helping new sites
become operational. address all points in the section
``responsibities of anonymous use'' in this document prior to
advertising your service. you should be committed to the long term
stability of the site and avoid running one surreptitiously.


4.8 what are references on privacy in email \?


brown , bob. ``ema urges users to adopt policy on e mail privacy.''
network world (oct 29 , 1990) , 7.44 2.

bairstow , jeffrey. ``who reads your electronic mail \? '' electronic
business (june 11 , 1990) 16 (11) 92.

``electronic envelopes the uncertainty of keeping e mail private''
scientific american , february 1993.

ftp.eff.org


pub eff papers email privacy

article on the rights of email privacy. by ruel t. hernandez.

pub academic law privacy.email

``computer electronic mail and privacy'' , an edited version of a
law school seminar paper by ruel t. hernadez.

pub eff papers email privacy biblio 2

compilation of bibliography on e mail and its privacy issues (part
2 of the work). compiled by stacy b. veeder (12 91).

pub eff papers email privacy research

the author at digital research tried to formalize their employee
privacy policy on e mail. the casesightings are divided into two
groups us constitutional law , and california law.

pub eff papers company email

formulating a company policy on access to and disclosure of
electronic mail on company computer systems by david r. johnson
and john podesta for the electronic mail assocation

pub cud alcor

information on alcor co. , an e mail privacy suit.

pub academic law privacy.email

email privacy search at berkeley.


4.9 what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies \?

the computer policy and critiques archive is a collection of the
computer policies of many schools and networks , run by the
computers and academic freedom group on the electronic frontier
foundation ftp site. the collection also includes critiques of some
of the policies.

if you have gopher , the archive is browsable with the command
gopher p academic policies gopher.eff.org

the archive is also accessible via anonymous ftp and email. ftp
to ftp.eff.org (192.88.144.4). it is in directory
`pub academic policies'. for email access , send email to
archive server@eff.org. include the line

send acad freedom policies filenames

where filenames is a list of the files that you want. file
readme is a detailed description of the items in the directory.

for more information , to make contributions , or to report typos
contact j.s. greenfield (greeny@eff.org). directory `widener'
contains additional policies (but not critiques).


ftp.eff.org


pub cud networks

acceptable use policies for various networks , including compuserve
(file `compuserve') , nsfnet (file `nsfnet') with information on
research and commercial uses. see pub cud networks index.

pub cud networks email

policies from various sysadmins about how they handle the issue of
email privacy , control , and abuse , compiled by t. hooper
hooper ta@cc.curtin.edu.au .

pub cud schools

computer use policies of a number of schools. see schools index
for a full list and description.


commentary


pub academic faq policy.best

opinions on the best academic computer policies.


pub academic faq email.policies

do any universities treat email and computer files as private \?

pub academic faq netnews.writing

policies on what users write on usenet.

pub academic faq netnews.reading

policies on what users read on usenet should my university remove
(or restrict) netnews newsgroups because some people find them
offensive \?

pub academic faq policy

what guidance is there for creating or evaluating a university 's
academic computer policy \?


4.10 what is the mit ``crosslink'' anonymous message tv program \?

crosslink is an anonymous message system run on mit student
cable tv 36. it provides an anonymous medium through which mit
students can say those things they might otherwise find
difficult , inconvenient or impossible to say in person. it 's
also a way to send fun or totally random messages to your
friends over the air. it is similar to the anonymous message
pages found in many college newspapers , except that it 's
electronic in nature and it 's free.

messages can be posted to the service via email. for more
information send email to crosslink@athena.mit.edu.


miscellaneous



5.1 what is ``digital cash'' \?

with digital encryption and authentication technologies , the
possibility of a widespread digital cash system may someday be
realized. a system utilizing codes sent between users and banks
(similar to today 's checking system except entirely digital) may
be one approach. the issues of cryptography , privacy , and
anonymity are closely associated with transfer of cash in an
economy. see the article in scientific american by david chaum
( dec.1992).

an experimental digital bank is run by karl barrus
elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu based on suggestions by hal finney on the
cypherpunks mailing list. to use the server send mail to
elee7h5@rosebud.ee.uh.edu message with the following text


command help

user@host

where `user@host' is your email address.



5.2 what is a ``hacker'' or ``cracker'' \?

these terms arouse strong feelings by many on their meaning ,
especially on the internet. in the general news media in the past
a person who uses computers and networks to malicious ends (such as
breaking into systems) has been referred to as a hacker , but most
internet users prefer the term ``cracker'' for this. instead , a
``hacker'' is perceived as a benign but intensely ambitious ,
curious , and driven computer user who explores obscure areas of a
system , for example something of a proud electronic pioneer and
patriot. this is the sense intended in this document. see also
the ``hacker 's dictionary'' and the faq `alt security faq'.



5.3 what is a ``cypherpunk'' \?

from the charter of the cypherpunk mailing list

cypherpunks assume privacy is a good thing and wish there were
more of it. cypherpunks acknowledge that those who want privacy
must create it for themselves and not expect governments ,
corporations , or other large , faceless organizations to grant
them privacy out of beneficence. cypherpunks know that people
have been creating their own privacy for centuries with whispers ,
envelopes , closed doors , and couriers. cypherpunks do not seek
to prevent other people from speaking about their experiences or
their opinions.

see information on the cypherpunk mailing list below.

see also the cryptoanarchist manifesto and the cryptography glossary
in soda.berkeley.edu pub cypherpunks.


5.4 what is `steganography' and anonymous pools \?

closely associated with encryption is `steganography' or the
techniques for not only pursuing private (encrypted) communication
but concealing the very existence of the communication itself.
many new possibilities in this area are introduced with the
proliferation of computer technology. for example , it is possible
to encode messages in the least significant bits of images ,
typically the most 'noisy'. in addition , when such an item is
posted in a public place (such as a newsgroup) , virtually
untraceable communication can take place between sender and
receiver. for steganographic communications in the electronic
realm one another possibility is setting up a mailing list where
individual messages get broadcast to the entire list and individual
users decode particular messages with their unique key. an
anonymous pool has been set up by miron cuperman
(miron@extropia.wimsey.com) for experiments. send email to
pool0 request@extropia.wimsey.com with one of the following
commands in the subject line

subscribe
unsubscribe
help


5.5 what is `security through obscurity' \?

`security through obscurity' refers to the attempt to gain
protection from system weaknesses by hiding sensitive information
or programs relating to them. for example , a company may not make
public information on its software 's encryption techniques to evade
`attacks' based on knowledge of it. another example would be
concealing data on the existence of security holes or bugs in
operating systems. or , some reliance may be made on the fact that
some standard or mechanism with potential problems is serious
because they are ``not widely known'' or ``not widely used.'' this
argument is occasionally applied to mechanisms for email and usenet
posting `forgery'. `security through obscurity' is regarded as a
very feeble technique at best and inappropriate and ineffective at
worst (also called the ``head in the sand approach''). see the faq
for alt.security.

some remarks of john perry barlow , cofounder of the electronic
frontier foundation , directed to nsa agents at the first
international symposium on national security national
competitiveness held in mclean , virginia dec. 1 , 1992

digitized information is very hard to stamp classified or keep
contained. ... this stuff is incredibly leaky and volatile. it 's
almost a life form in its ability to self propagate. if
something hits the net and it 's something which people on there
find interesting it will spread like a virus of the mind. i
believe you must simply accept the idea that we are moving into
an environment where any information which is at all interesting
to people is going to get out. and there will be very little
that you can do about it. this is not a bad thing in my view ,
but you may differ...


5.6 what are `identity daemons' \?

rfc 931 describes a protocol standard that allows unix programs to
query a remote user 's login name after connection to a local
communication socket (a connection of this type is established
during ftp and telnet sessions , for example). the standard is not
widely supported , perhaps 10 of internet sites currently implement
it but the number is increasing. the mechanism is detrimental to
anonymity. regular users cannot disable it but system
adminstrators can circumvent it. this standard may represent a
trend toward greater authentication mechanisms.


5.7 what new standards are needed to guard electronic privacy \?


remailing posting


stable , secure , protected , officially sanctioned and permitted ,
publicly and privately operated anonymous servers and hubs.
official standards for encryption and anonymity in mail and usenet
postings.
truly anonymous protocols with source and destination information
obscured or absent and hidden routing mechanisms (chaining ,
encrypted addresses , etc.)
standards for anonymous email addressing , embedding files , and
remailer site chaining.

general


recognition of anonymity , cryptography , and related privacy
shields as legitimate , useful , desirable , and crucial by the
general public and their governments.
widespread use and implementation of these technologies
by systems designers into
hardware , software , and standards , implemented `securely , '
`seamlessly , ' and `transparently'.
general shift of use , dependence , and reliance to means other than
wiretapping and electronic surveillance by law enforcement
agencies.
publicity , retraction , and dissolution of laws and government
agencies opposed to privacy , replaced by structures dedicated to
strengthening and protecting it.


issues



6.1 what is the electronic frontier foundation (eff) \?

from ftp.eff.org pub eff mission statement

a new world is arising in the vast web of digital , electronic
media which connect us. computer based communication media like
electronic mail and computer conferencing are becoming the basis
of new forms of community. these communities without a single ,
fixed geographical location comprise the first settlements on an
electronic frontier.

while well established legal principles and cultural norms give
structure and coherence to uses of conventional media like
newspapers , books , and telephones , the new digital media do not
so easily fit into existing frameworks. conflicts come about as
the law struggles to define its application in a context where
fundamental notions of speech , property , and place take
profoundly new forms. people sense both the promise and the
threat inherent in new computer and communications technologies ,
even as they struggle to master or simply cope with them in the
workplace and the home.

the electronic frontier foundation has been established to help
civilize the electronic frontier to make it truly useful and
beneficial not just to a technical elite , but to everyone and to
do this in a way which is in keeping with our society 's highest
traditions of the free and open flow of information and
communication.

eff was started by the multimillionaire mitchell kapor , founder of
lotus software , and john barlow , lyricist for the grateful dead
rock band. a highly publicized endeavor of the organization
involved the legal defense of steve jackson games after an fbi
raid and an accompanying civil suit (see section on ``steve
jackson games''). the foundation publishes eff news (effector
online) electronically , send requests to effnews request@eff.org.

in a letter to mitchell kapor from the chairman of the subcommittee
with primary jurisdiction over telecommunications policy dated
november 5 , 1991 , representative edward j. markey complemented
mitchell kapor on his ``insights on the development of a national
public information infrastructure'' which ``were appreciated greatly
by myself and the members of the subcommittee'' (complete text in
ftp.eff.com pub pub infra 1991 12)

...we need to pursue policies that encourage the bell companies to
work with other sectors of the communications industry to create
a consumer oriented , public information network. please let me or
my staff know what policies you and others in the computer
industry believe would best serve the public interest in creating
a reasonably priced , widely available network in which
competition is open and innovation rewarded. i also want to
learn what lessons from the computer industry over the past ten
to fifteen years should apply to the current debate on
structuring the information and communications networks of the
future....i ask your help in gaining input from the computer
industry so that the subcommittee can shape policies that will
bring this spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship to the
information services industry.

ftp.eff.org


pub eff about eff

a file of basic information about eff including goals , mission ,
achievements , and current projects. contains a membership form.

pub eff mission statement

eff mission statement.

pub eff historical founding announcement

eff founding press release.

pub eff historical eff history

john perry barlow 's ``not terribly brief history of the eff'' (july
10 , 1990). how eff was conceived and founded , major legal cases ,
and the organizational directions.

pub eff historical legal case summary

eff legal case summary.



6.2 who are computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr) \?

the computer professionals for social responsibility have been
working to protect and promote electronic civil liberties issues
since 1982. the group has three offices (palo alto , cambridge ,
washington , dc) and 20 chapters. it is involved in litigation
against the fbi , the nsa , nist , the secret service and other other
u.s. government agencies to declassify and provide documentation
on issues such as operation sundevil , the fbi wiretap proposal ,
nsa 's interference in crypography , the breakup of the 2600 raid in
arlington , va in nov 1992. members speak frequently in front on
congress , state legislators and public utility commissions to
testify on privacy , information policy , computer security , and
caller identification.

cpsr has created an extensive internet privacy library available
via ftp , gopher , wais , and email at cpsr.org , currently comprising
the largest collection of privacy documents on the internet. for
more information , anonymous ftp cpsr.org cpsr .


(thanks to dave banisar banisar@washofc.cpsr.org for contributions
here.)


6.3 what was `operation sundevil' and the steve jackson game case \?

in the early 1990 's a fear spread among u.s. law enforcement agencies
on the illicit activities of `hackers' and `phreakers' involved in
such activities as credit card fraud and long distance call thievery.

(see ftp.eff.org pub sjg general information effector1.04)

`operation sundevil , ' the phoenix inspired crackdown of may
8 , 1990 , concentrated on telephone code fraud and credit card
abuse , and followed this seizure plan with some success.
bulletin board systems went down all over america , terrifying
the underground and swiftly depriving them of at least some of
their criminal instruments. it also saddled analysts with some
24 , 000 floppy disks , and confronted harried justice department
prosecutors with the daunting challenge of a gigantic nationwide
hacker show trial involving highly technical issues in dozens of
jurisdictions.

massive `show trials' never materialized , although isolated
instances of prosecution were pursued. the movement reached a
crescendo in texas with the highly publicized case of illegal
search and seizure involving the steve jackson games company of
austin texas on march 1 , 1990. from the column gurps' labour lost
by bruce sterling bruces@well.sf.ca.us in fantasy and science
fiction magazine

in an early morning raid with an unlawful and unconstitutional
warrant , agents of the secret service conducted a search of the
sjg office. when they left they took a manuscript being prepared
for publication , private electronic mail , and several computers ,
including the hardware and software of the sjg computer bulletin
board system. yet jackson and his business were not only
innocent of any crime , but never suspects in the first place.
the raid had been staged on the unfounded suspicion that
somewhere in jackson 's office there `might be' a document
compromising the security of the 911 telephone system.

fbi agents involved in the seizure were named in a civil suit filed
on behalf of steve jackson games by the electronic frontier
foundation. see information on eff below. from an article by joe
abernathy in the houston chronicle feb 1 , 1993

austin an electronic civil rights case against the secret
service closed thursday with a clear statement by federal
district judge sam sparks that the service failed to conduct a
proper investigation in a notorious computer crime crackdown ,
and went too far in retaining custody of seized equipment.

secret service special agent timothy foley of chicago , who was in
charge of three austin computer search and seizures on march 1 ,
1990 , that led to the lawsuit , stoically endured spark 's rebuke
over the service 's poor investigation and abusive computer
seizure policies. while the service has seized dozens of
computers since the crackdown began in 1990 , this is the first
case to challenge the practice.

sparks grew visibly angry when it was established that the austin
science fiction magazine and game book publisher was never
suspected of a crime , and that agents did not do even marginal
research to establish a criminal connection between the firm and
the suspected illegal activities of an employee , or to determine
that the company was a publisher. indeed , agents testified that
they were not even trained in the privacy protection act at the
special secret service school on computer crime.

how long would it have taken you , mr. foley , to find out what
steve jackson games did , what it was \? asked sparks. an hour \?

was there any reason why , on march 2 , you could not return to
steve jackson games a copy , in floppy disk form , of everything
taken \?

did you read the article in business week magazine where it had
a picture of steve jackson a law abiding , tax paying citizen
saying he was a computer crime suspect \?

did it ever occur to you , mr. foley , that seizing this material
could harm steve jackson economically \?

foley replied , no , sir , but the judge offered his own answer.

you actually did , you just had no idea anybody would actually go
out and hire a lawyer and sue you.

more than 200 , 000 has been spent by the electronic frontier
foundation in bringing the case to trial. the eff was founded by
mitchell kapor amid a civil liberties movement sparked in large
part by the secret service computer crime crackdown.


ftp.eff.org


pub cud papers sundevil

a collection of information on operation sundevil by the epic
nonprofit publishing project. everything you wanted to know but
could never find.

pub cud papers sj resp

steve jackson 's response to the charges against him.


6.4 what is integrated services digital network (isdn) \?

isdn is a high speed data communications standard that utilizes
existing copper telephone lines , and is a possible inexpensive and
intermediate alternative to laying fiber optic cable for phone
networks. the speeds involved may be sufficient for audio and
video transmission applications. g. v. der leun in the file
ftp.eff.org pub pub infra 1991 11

telecommunications in the united states is at a crossroads. with
the regional bell operating companies now free to provide
content , the shape of the information networking is about to be
irrevocably altered. but will that network be the open ,
accessible , affordable network that the american public needs \?
you can help decide this question.

the electronic frontier foundation recently presented a plan to
congress calling for the immediate deployment of a national
network based on existing isdn technology , accessible to anyone
with a telephone connection , and priced like local voice service.
we believe deployment of such a platform will spur the
development of innovative new information services , and maximize
freedom , competitiveness , and civil liberties throughout the
nation.

the eff is testifying before congress and the fcc making
presentations to public utility commisions from massachusetts to
california and meeting with representatives from telephone
companies , publishers , consumer advocates , and other stakeholders
in the telecommunications policy debate.

the eff believes that participants on the internet , as pioneers on
the electronic frontier , need to have their voices heard at this
critical moment.

to automatically receive a description of the platform and details ,
send mail to archive server@eff.org , with the following line

send documents open platform overview

or send mail to eff@eff.org. see also the introduction to the eff
open platform proposal in ftp.eff.org pub pub infra 1991 02.


references


``digital data on demand.'' macworld , 2 82 (page 224).

56kbps vs. isdn services and products. see comments by j. powers
in ftp.eff.org pub pub infra 1992 02.

``telephone service that rings of the future.'' by joshua quittner.
newsday , tue , jan 7 1992.

implications of isdn for the masses , written in popular science
style. john perry barlow (cofounder eff). regional telephone
companies (ohio bell). isdn as ``technological rorschach test.''
anecdotes about mcdonald 's , barbara bush teleconferencing. see
complete text in ftp.eff.org pub pub infra 1992 01.

ftp.eff.org pub pub infra

files 1991 11 through 1992 05 containing email from the eff public
infrastructure group organized by month. opinions and facts on
the pros and cons of isdn , integrated services digital network.
uses of isdn (phone video , audio , etc.) japanese model.
alternatives to isdn (hdsl , adsl , fiber optics). technical
specifications of isdn , implementation details , cost issues ,
political obstacles , (rboc , regional bell operating companies or
`baby bells' , e.g. net , new england telephone). influencing
development of future networks (e.g. isdn and nren , national
research and education network) , encouraging competition (cable
tv systems). press releases and news articles. letter from rep.
e. j. markey to m. kapor.


6.5 what is the national research and education network (nren) \?

the nation research and education network was introduced in
legislation cosponsored by sen. a. gore to promote high speed data
network infrastructure augmenting the internet with up to 50 times
faster transmission rates. the bill passed the house on november
20 , 1991 , the senate on november 22 , 1991 , and was signed by the
president on december 9 , 1991.

ftp.eff.org


pub eff legislation nren bill text

the complete text of the house senate compromise version of s.
272 , the high performance computing act.

pub internet info gore.bill

102nd congress 1st session. text of high performance computing
bill cosponsored by sen. a. gore.


pub eff legislation gore infrastructure bill

the text of s.2937 , the information infrastructure and technology
act of 1992 introduced by senator gore to expand federal efforts
to develop technologies for applications of high performance
computing and high speed networking , and to provide for a
coordinated federal program to accelerate development and
deployment of an advanced information infrastructure.

u.s. said to play favorites in promoting nationwide computer network
by john markoff , n.y. times ( 18 dec 91).

president bush 's legislation for natiowide computer data
`superhighway.' ibm mci venture as monopoly destructive to fair
competition and innovation \? national science foundation nsfnet.
complete text in pub pub infra 1991 12.

commentary


pub academic statements nren.privacy.cpsr

``proposed privacy guidelines for the nren'' statement of marc
rotenberg , washington director computer professionals for social
responsibility (cpsr).

pub internet info cisler.nren

the national research and education network two meetings steve
cisler , senior scientist apple computer library december 17 , 1990
summary of meetings exploring educational issues of nren by
diverse members of academia and industry.

pub internet info privatized.nren

feb. 14 1991 essay by m. kapor advocating advantages of a private
national public network , and specific recommendations for open
nren policies encouraging competition.


pub eff papers netproposition

an fyi about the proposed nren setup.


6.6 what is the fbi 's proposed digital telephony act \?

``providers of electronic communication services and private branch
exchange operators shall provide within the united states
capability and capacity for the government to intercept wire and
electronic communications when authorized by law...''

from `bbs legislative watch fbis wiretapping proposal thwarted' by
s. steele in boardwatch magazine , feb. 1993 , p. 19 22

in a move that worried privacy experts , software manufacturers and
telephone companies , the fbi proposed legislation to amend the
communications act of 1934 to make it easier for the bureau to
perform electronic wiretapping. the proposed legislation ,
entitled 'digital telephony , ' would have required communications
service providers and hardware manufacturers to make their
systems 'tappable' by providing 'back doors' through which law
enforcement officers could intercept communications. furthermore ,
this capability would have been provided undetectably , while the
communications was in progress , exclusive of any communications
between other parties , regardless of the mobility of the target
of the fbi 's investigation , and without degradation of service.

...under the proposal , the department of justice (doj) can keep
communications products off the market if it determines that
these products do not meet the doj 's own ... guidelines. this
could result in increased costs and reduced competitiveness for
service providers and equipment manufacturers , since they will be
unlikely to add any features that may result in a doj rejection
of their entire product. ...the fbi proposal suggests that the
cost of this wiretapping 'service' to the bureau would have to be
borne by the service provider itself...

the electronic frontier foundation organized a broad coalition of
public interest and industry groups , from computer professionals
for social responsibilty (cpsr) and the aclu to at t and sun
microsystems , to oppose the legislation. a white paper produced
by the eff and ratified by the coalition , entitled , `an analysis
of the fbi digital telephony proposal , ' was widely distributed
throughout the congress. ... the justice department lobbied hard
in the final days to get congress to take up the bill before
congress adjourned , but the bill never ... found a congressional
sponsor (and was therefore never officially introduced). the fbi
may reintroduce digital telephony when the 103rd congress
convenes in january.

ftp.eff.org


pub eff legislation fbi wiretap bill
pub eff legislation new fbi wiretap bill

a bill to ensure the continuing access of law enforcement to the
content of wire and electronic communications when authorized by
law and for other purposes. version 2 of the bill after fbi
changes in response to public response.

pub cud law hr3515

house of rep bill 3515 , telecommunications law.

commentary


pub eff papers eff fbi analysis

the eff sponsored analysis of the fbi 's digital telephony proposal.

pub eff papers ecpa.layman

the electronic communications privacy act of 1986 a layman 's view.

pub eff papers nightline wire

transcript of abc 's nightline of may 22 , 1992 , on the fbi ,
privacy , and proposed wire tapping legislation. featured are marc
rotenberg of the cpsr and william sessions , director of the fbi.

pub eff papers edwards letter

a letter from the director of the secret service to us rep. don
edwards , d california , in response to questions raised by
edwards' subcommittee. this copy came from computer professionals
for social responsibility in washington , d.c.

pub eff papers fbi.systems

a description of how information is stored on the fbi 's computer
systems.



6.7 what other u.s. legislation is related to privacy \?

ftp.eff.org


pub cud law state

state computer crime laws
al , ak , az , ca , co , ct , de , fl , ga ,
hi , ia , id , il , in , md , mn , nc , nj ,
nm , ny , or , tx , vt , va , wa , wi , wv.

pub cud law country

current computer crime laws for the united states (federal
code) , canada , ghana , and great britain.

pub cud law bill.s.618

senate bill 618 , addressing registration of encryption keys with
the government.

pub cud law improve

improvement of information access bill.

pub cud law monitoring

senate bill 516 concerning abuses of electronic monitoring in the
workplace.

pub cud law us.e privacy

title 18 , relating to computer crime email privacy.

pub academic law privacy.electronic.bill

the text of simon 's electronic privacy bill , s. 516. ``to prevent
potential abuses of electronic monitoring in the workplace.''


6.8 what are references on rights in cyberspace \?

ftp.eff.org


pub cud papers const.in.cyberspace

laurence tribe 's keynote address at the first conference on
computers , freedom , privacy. `the constitution in cyberspace'

pub cud papers denning

paper presented to 13th nat'l comp security conf ``concerning
hackers who break into computer systems'' by dorothy e denning.

pub cud papers privacy

``computer privacy vs first and fourth amendment rights'' by
michael s. borella

pub cud papers rights of expr

rights of expression in cyberspace by r. e. baird

pub academic eff.rights

bill of rights' meaning in the electronic frontier.


6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom (caf) archive \?

the caf archive is an electronic library of information about
computers and academic freedom. run by the computers and academic
freedom group on the electronic frontier foundation ftp site.

if you have gopher , the archive is browsable with the command
gopher p academic gopher.eff.org

it is available via anonymous ftp to ftp.eff.org (192.88.144.4) in
directory `pub academic'. it is also available via email. for
information on email access send email to archive server@eff.org.
in the body of your note include the lines `help' and `index'.

for more information , to make contributions , or to report typos
contact j.s. greenfield (greeny@eff.org).

ftp.eff.org


pub academic statements caf statement

codifies the application of academic freedom to academic
computers , reflecting seven months of on line discussion about
computers and academic freedom. covers free expression , due
process , privacy , and user participation.

pub academic books

directory of book references related to computers and academic
freedom or mentioned in the caf discussion. the file books readme
is a bibliography.

pub academic faq archive

list of files available on the computers and academic freedom
archive.

pub academic news

directory of all issues of the computers and academic freedom
news. a full list of abstracts is available in file `abstracts'.
the special best of the month issues are named with their month ,
for example , `june'.


footnotes




7.1 what is the background behind the internet \?

the article ``internet'' in fantasy and science fiction by bruce
sterling bruces@well.sf.ca.us contains general and nontechnical
introductory notes on origins of the internet , including the role
of the rand corporation , the goal of network resilience in face of
nuclear attack , mit , ucla , arpanet , tcp ip , nsf , nren , etc.

arpanet itself formally expired in 1989 , a happy victim of its
own overwhelming success. its users scarcely noticed , for
arpanet 's functions not only continued but steadily improved.
the use of tcp ip standards for computer networking is now
global. in 1971 , a mere twenty one years ago , there were only
four nodes in the arpanet network. today there are tens of
thousands of nodes in the internet , scattered over forty two
countries , with more coming on line every day. three million ,
possibly four million people use this gigantic
mother of all computer networks.

the internet is especially popular among scientists , and is
probably the most important scientific instrument of the late
twentieth century. the powerful , sophisticated access that it
provides to specialized data and personal communication has sped
up the pace of scientific research enormously.

the internet 's pace of growth in the early 1990s is spectacular ,
almost ferocious. it is spreading faster than cellular phones ,
faster than fax machines. last year the internet was growing at
a rate of twenty percent a month. the number of `host'
machines with direct connection to tcp ip has been doubling
every year since 1988. the internet is moving out of its
original base in military and research institutions , into
elementary and high schools , as well as into public libraries
and the commercial sector.

references


bowers , k. , t. laquey , j. reynolds , k. roubicek , m. stahl , and a.
yuan , ``where to start a bibliography of general internetworking
information'' (rfc 1175) , cnri , u texas , isi , bbn , sri , mitre ,
august 1990.

the whole internet catalog user 's guide by ed krol. (1992)
o'reilly and associates , inc.

a clear , non jargonized introduction to the intimidating business
of network literacy written in humorous style.

krol , e. , ``the hitchhikers guide to the internet'' (rfc 1118) ,
university of illinois urbana , september 1989.

``the user 's directory to computer networks'' , by tracy laquey.

the matrix computer networks and conferencing systems worldwide.
by john quarterman. digital press bedford , ma. (1990)

massive and highly technical compendium detailing the
mind boggling scope and complexity of global internetworks.

`` ! @ a directory of electronic mail addressing and networks'' by
donnalyn frey and rick adams.

the internet companion , by tracy laquey with jeanne c. ryer (1992)
addison wesley.

``evangelical'' etiquette guide to the internet featuring
anecdotal tales of life changing internet experiences. foreword
by senator al gore.

zen and the art of the internet a beginner 's guide by brendan p.
kehoe (1992) prentice hall.

brief but useful internet guide with plenty of good advice on
useful databases.


see also ftp.eff.com pub internet info . (thanks to bruce sterling
bruces@well.sf.ca.us for contributions here.)


general


cunningham , scott and alan l. porter. ``communication networks a
dozen ways they 'll change our lives.'' the futurist 26 , 1
(january february , 1992) 19 22.

brian kahin , ed. , building information infrastructure (new york
mcgraw hill , 1992) isbn 0 390 03083 x

essays on information infrastructure. policy and design issues ,
research and nren , future visions , information markets. see
table of contents in ftp.eff.org pub pub infra 1992 03.

shapard , jeffrey. ``observations on cross cultural electronic
networking.'' whole earth review (winter) 1990 32 35.

varley , pamela. ``electronic democracy.'' technology review
(november december , 1991) 43 51.


7.2 how internet `anarchy' like the english language \?

according to bruce sterling bruces@well.sf.ca.us

the internet 's `anarchy' may seem strange or even unnatural , but
it makes a certain deep and basic sense. it 's rather like the
`anarchy' of the english language. nobody rents english , and
nobody owns english. as an english speaking person , it 's up
to you to learn how to speak english properly and make whatever
use you please of it (though the government provides certain
subsidies to help you learn to read and write a bit).
otherwise , everybody just sort of pitches in , and somehow the
thing evolves on its own , and somehow turns out workable. and
interesting. fascinating , even. though a lot of people earn
their living from using and exploiting and teaching english ,
`english' as an institution is public property , a public good.
much the same goes for the internet. would english be improved
if the `the english language , inc.' had a board of directors
and a chief executive officer , or a president and a congress \?
there 'd probably be a lot fewer new words in english , and a lot
fewer new ideas.



7.3 most wanted list

hopefully you have benefitted from this creation , compilation , and
condensation of information from various sources regarding privacy ,
identity , and anonymity on the internet. the author is committed
to keeping this up to date and strengthening it , but this can only
be effective with your feedback. in particular , the following
items are sought

short summaries of rfc documents and other references listed ,
esp. cpsr files.
more data on the specific uses and penetration of rfc 931.
internet traffic statistics. how much is email \? how much
usenet \? what are the costs involved \?
famous or obscure examples of compromised privacy
on the internet.
ftp site for the code (not the code) to turn the .plan file into a
named pipe for sensing reacting to remote `fingers'.
knowledge on the `promiscuous' mode of receipt or transmission
on network cards.
details on the infamous experiment where a scientist resubmitted
previously accepted papers to a prominent journal with new and
unknown authors that were subsequently rejected.
x windows , eff , cpsr faqhood in news.answers.

commerical use of this document is negotiable and is a way for the
author to recoup from a significant time investment. email feedback
to ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu. please note where you saw
this (which newsgroup , etc.).


7.4 change history

3 3 93 v2.1 (current)

cpsr pointer , new unix mode examples , digital telephony act ,
steve jackson incident , additions reorganization to
anonymity section , part 3. note v2.0 post to sci.crypt ,
alt.privacy , news.answers , alt.answers , sci.answers was cancelled
by j. kamens because of incorrect subject line.

2 14 93 v2.0

major revisions. new section for x windows. some email privacy
items reorganized to network security section. new sections for
email liability issues , anonymity history and responsibilities.
split into three files. many new sources added , particularly
from eff and caf in new `issues' part. `commentary' from
news.admin.policy. 21 day automated posting starts.

2 3 93 v1.0

more newsgroups faqs added. more `most wanted'. posted to
news.answers. future monthly posting to sci.crypt , alt.privacy.

2 1 93 v0.3

formatted to 72 columns for quoting etc. `miscellaneous , '
`resources' sections added with cypherpunk servers and use
warnings. more unix examples (`ls' and `chmod'). posted to
alt.privacy , comp.society.privacy.

1 29 93 v0.2

`identity' and `privacy' sections added. `anonymity' expanded.
remailer addresses removed due to lack of information and
instability. posted to sci.crypt.

1 25 93 v0.1

originally posted to the cypherpunks mailing list on 1 25 93 as a
call to organize a list of anonymous servers.

email ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu for earlier versions.




see also


part 1 (previous file)


1.1 what is `identity' on the internet \?
1.2 why is identity (un)important on the internet \?
1.3 how does my email address (not) identify me and my background \?
1.4 how can i find out more about somebody from their email address \?
1.5 why is identification (un)stable on the internet \?
1.6 what is the future of identification on the internet \?

2.1 what is `privacy' on the internet \?
2.2 why is privacy (un)important on the internet \?
2.3 how (in)secure are internet networks \?
2.4 how (in)secure is my account \?
2.5 how (in)secure are my files and directories \?
2.6 how (in)secure is x windows \?
2.7 how (in)secure is my email \?
2.8 how am i (not) liable for my email and postings \?
2.9 how do i provide more less information to others on my identity \?
2.10 who is my sysadmin \? what does s he know about me \?
2.11 why is privacy (un)stable on the internet \?
2.12 what is the future of privacy on the internet \?

3.1 what is `anonymity' on the internet \?
3.2 why is `anonymity' (un)important on the internet \?
3.3 how can anonymity be protected on the internet \?
3.4 what is `anonymous mail' \?
3.5 what is `anonymous posting' \?
3.6 why is anonymity (un)stable on the internet \?
3.7 what is the future of anonymity on the internet \?

part 3 (next file)


8.1 what are some known anonymous remailing and posting sites \?
8.2 what are the responsibilities associated with anonymity \?
8.3 how do i `kill' anonymous postings \?
8.4 what is the history behind anonymous posting servers \?
8.5 what is the value of anonymity \?
8.6 should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed \?
8.7 what should system operators do with anonymous postings \?
8.8 what is going on with anon.penet.fi maintained by j. helsingius \?




this is part 2 of the privacy anonymity faq , obtained via anonymous
ftp to pit manager@mit.edu pub usenet news.answers net privacy or
newsgroups news.answers , sci.answers , alt.answers every 21 days.
written by l. detweiler ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu .
all rights reserved.

from res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli)
subject re the old key registration idea...
organization little to none
lines 18

in article 1qn1ic hp6@access.digex.net pcw@access.digex.com (peter wayner) writes
that leads me to conjecture that
...
2) the system is vulnerable to simple phone swapping attacks

i seriously doubt that any practical implementation of this proposal would
place the onus on the individual to register keys. realistically , the
clipper chip will probably emit an id code which will serve as the identifier
when requesting the key fragments. the chip manufacturer would register
this identifier code vs. key combination when the chip is made and the
(uninitiated) end user can therefore remain completely outside the loop.
the chip could be used in a cellular phone , a modem , or other device
it really makes no difference when the authorities detect the use of this
encryption standard during surveillance , they would then capture the id
and apply for the key in order to decrypt the data.

rob stampfli rob@colnet.cmhnet.org the neat thing about standards
614 864 9377 ham radio kd8wk@n8jyv.oh there are so many to choose from.

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 19

mathew mathew@mantis.co.uk writes

bena@dec05.cs.monash.edu.au (ben aveling) writes
do n't forget , you are in the country that would n't let the russians
buy apple ii 's because of security concerns.

that 's nothing. they would n't let the british buy inmos transputer systems
because of security concerns. and we designed the damn things !

funny , we had plenty of them in bulgaria , regardless of the embargo...
) so much for export controls...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie)
subject re the old key registration idea...
organization center for high perf. computing of wpi marlboro ma
lines 35

in article 1qn1ic hp6@access.digex.net pcw@access.digex.com (peter wayner) writes
okay , let 's suppose that the nsa nist mykotronix registered
key system becomes standard and i'm able to buy such a system
from my local radio shack. every phone comes with a built in
chip and the government has the key to every phone call.
i go and buy a phone and dutifully register the key.

what 's to prevent me from swapping phones with a friend or
buying a used phone at a garage sale \? whooa. the secret registered
keys just became unsynchronized. when the government comes

it 's very possible , even likely , that the serial number of the
invididual chip is broadcast either in a standard encrypted
format , so that all the big brother types need to do is listen to
the traffic , get a court order (generally just by saying that they
think you may be a crook) and go to it.
r
to listen in , they only receive gobbledly gook because the
secret key registered under my name is n't the right one.

that leads me to conjecture that

1) the system is n't that secure. there are just two master keys
that work for all the phones in the country. the part about
registering your keys is just bogus.

or

2) the system is vulnerable to simple phone swapping attacks
like this. criminals will quickly figure this out and go to
town.

in either case , i think we need to look at this a bit deeper. 'jbl)mw wxld2



from uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 103

in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com
tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \? when one little country falls , its neighbor
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all mining salt
in siberia for not turning in our captain crunch secret decoder rings.

i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any private
sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that was known to be at least
partially compromised \? (key escrows in this instance) why would any
private sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that had not been properly
evaluated \? (i.e. algorythm not publically released)
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't. there is other hardware out
there not compromised. des as an example (triple des as a better one.)

my suspicion is that the prices will drop dramatically on these non clipper
systems. if not we 're in trouble.

given that the clinton administration is not entirely stupid (although we 'd like
to think so) i cannot believe that they have failed to realize this.
they know their initiative will fail , much as crippled des was never taken
seriously. the only way their moves can work is by coercion. you know
little about politics if you do n't realize that this is just a first step
in the next move , it makes no sense otherwise. the next move , banning
or severly crippling crypto not using the clipper system is easily
justified why would anyone want other encryption unless they were trying
to subvert the government \? we 've provided you with a very secure alternative
so use it or go to jail be fined whatever.
how can you reconcile the administrations self proclaimed purpose of providing
law enforcement with access to encrypted data without making the clipper system
the only crypto available in the u.s... \? you simply ca n't , and the administration
knows it. anyone who wanted to keep the govt. out of their hair , be it for
drug dealing or whatever , would just buy still available non clipper systems.

do n't sell our crafty clinton types short , they ca n't be that stupid.
either banning non clipper crypto is the next answer or the administrations
collective i.q. is about that of a potato.

why do you think at t jumped on so fast \? they know it 's going to be big ,
and not because it 's better. right on the face of it , noone will buy the
stuff that does n't have to. at t must know this too , think man , why the
hell would they jump the gun \?

my interpretation.

andrew

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime


is n't this just a little melodramatic \?

i really wonder.

to wit the letter i just sent to clinton

the white house
office of the press secretary c o
presidential comment line (fax)
(202) 456 2461

april 17 , 1993

sir and or madam


i must object most strongly to the administrations evolving position on encryption and
cryptography. i am shocked at the clinton regimes increasing lean towards a authoritarian approach with regard to privacy and freedom from government oversight in day to day life.

it is apparent to me that those who drafted the clipper chip proposal (which is , incidentally , gaining notoriety as the big brother proposal ) are either incredibly ignorant or very sly indeed. anyone knowledgeable in the nuances of cryptographic development and research must understand that a key step in the development of a new algorithm , especially one destined for standardization , is the full disclosure of the algorithm to the private and academic sectors. the proper evaluation of an algorithm dep





ends on careful scrutiny by these sectors , and only such scrutiny can provide true public confidence in the security of the algorithm. the assumption that a new algorithm will be accepted based on assurances from experts without full disclosure is plain ignorance.

in addition , the assumption that an algorithm will be marketable over other technology , such as des , when it is characterized by key escrow is lunacy. it seems an easy step in the logic chain that probable consumers will prefer to purchase equipment not crippled by government key escrow , no matter how tamper proof the key escrows might be.

i cannot believe that even the least educated policy maker would have failed to realize these flaws. i can only assume then that the drafters of the clipper chip proposal knew very well the difficulties of selling a crippled system to the private sector. the only way this proposal makes any sense , or has any chance of succeeding is in coercion. even the language of the proposal makes it painfully clear that the next logical step is the outlawing of other encryption devices and hardware that do not uti





lize the big brother chip.

unfortunately the public at large is not educated enough on the issue to realize what they are losing. i expect the big brother proposal to encounter little resistance from the american people who you will have so efficiently duped once again with pretty words like harmony , right to encryption , and voluntary.

it mortifies me that the phrase that seems to be used more and more often to characterize the clinton administration is i ca n't believe it 's happening here. more startling is a question a colleague of mine posed and the realization that everyday it becomes more and more relevant when is the reichstag fire planned for \?


most concerned ,

signature
shaen logan bernhardt i
uni@acs.bu.edu


uni@acs.bu.edu public keys by finger and or request
public key archives at pgp public keys@junkbox.cc.iastate.edu
df610670f2467b99 97de2b5c3749148c sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past.
cryptography is not a crime. fight the big brother proposal !

from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 06 10 public key cryptography
organization the crypt cabal
lines 108
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 6 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , public key cryptography.
basics of public key cryptography. the rsa version , its security ,
speed of factoring. other approaches.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part06
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 6 public key cryptography

this is the sixth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

what is public key cryptography \?
what 's rsa \?
is rsa secure \?
how fast can people factor numbers \?
what about other public key cryptosystems \?


what is public key cryptography \?

in a classic cryptosystem , we have encryption functions e k and
decryption functions d k such that d k(e k(p)) p for any plaintext
p. in a public key cryptosystem , e k can be easily computed from some
``public key'' x which in turn is computed from k. x is published , so
that anyone can encrypt messages. if d k cannot be easily computed
from x , then only the person who generated k can decrypt messages.
that 's the essence of public key cryptography , published by diffie
and hellman in 1976.

in a classic cryptosystem , if you want your friends to be able to
send secret messages to you , you have to make sure nobody other than
them sees the key k. in a public key cryptosystem , you just publish x ,
and you do n't have to worry about spies.

this is only the beginning of public key cryptography. there is an
extensive literature on security models for public key cryptography ,
applications of public key cryptography , other applications of the
mathematical technology behind public key cryptography , and so on.

what 's rsa \?

rsa is a public key cryptosystem defined by rivest , shamir , and
adleman. for full details , there is a faq available by ftp at
rsa.com. here 's a small example.

plaintexts are positive integers up to 2 512 . keys are quadruples
(p , q , e , d) , with p a 256 bit prime number , q a 258 bit prime number ,
and d and e large numbers with (de 1) divisible by (p 1)(q 1). we
define e k(p) p e mod pq , d k(c) c d mod pq.

now e k is easily computed from the pair (pq , e) but , as far as
anyone knows , there is no easy way to compute d k from the pair
(pq , e). so whoever generates k can publish (pq , e). anyone can send a
secret message to him he is the only one who can read the messages.

is rsa secure \?

nobody knows. an obvious attack on rsa is to factor pq into p and q.
see below for comments on how fast state of the art factorization
algorithms run. unfortunately nobody has the slightest idea how to
prove that factorization or any realistic problem at all , for that
matter is inherently slow. it is easy to formalize what we mean by
``rsa is is n't strong'' but , as hendrik w. lenstra , jr. , says ,
``exact definitions appear to be necessary only when one wishes to
prove that algorithms with certain properties do not exist , and
theoretical computer science is notoriously lacking in such negative
results.''

how fast can people factor numbers \?

it depends on the size of the numbers. in october 1992 arjen lenstra
and dan bernstein factored 2 523 1 into primes , using about three
weeks of maspar time. (the maspar is a 16384 processor simd machine
each processor can add about 200000 integers per second.) the
algorithm there is called the ``number field sieve'' it is quite a
bit faster for special numbers like 2 523 1 than for general numbers
n , but it takes time only about exp(o(log 1 3 n log 2 3 log n)) in
any case.

an older and more popular method for smaller numbers is the ``multiple
polynomial quadratic sieve'' , which takes time exp(o(log 1 2 n
log 1 2 log n)) faster than the number field sieve for small n ,
but slower for large n. the breakeven point is somewhere between 100
and 150 digits , depending on the implementations.

factorization is a fast moving field the state of the art just a few
years ago was nowhere near as good as it is now. if no new methods are
developed , then 2048 bit rsa keys will always be safe from
factorization , but one ca n't predict the future. (before the number
field sieve was found , many people conjectured that the quadratic
sieve was asymptotically as fast as any factoring method could be.)

what about other public key cryptosystems \?

we 've talked about rsa because it 's well known and easy to describe.
but there are lots of other public key systems around , many of which
are faster than rsa or depend on problems more widely believed to be
difficult. this has been just a brief introduction if you really want
to learn about the many facets of public key cryptography , consult the
books and journal articles listed in part 10.

subject re how large are commercial keys \?
from pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (peter gutmann)
organization computer science dept. university of auckland
lines 17

in 1993apr20.182038.12009@ee.eng.ohio state.edu butzerd@maumee.eng.ohio state.edu (dane c. butzer) writes

what are the typical sizes for keys for commercial secret key algorithms \?
i know des is 56 bits ( tripple des is 112 bits) and idea is 128 bits. is
there anything made in the us that has 128 bit keys \? anything anywhere
that has larger keys \? i 've heard that rc2 can be scaled to arbitrarily
large keys , but is this actually implemented anywhere \?

my mdc cipher (which uses any one way hash function as a cfb mode stream
cipher , the current implementation uses md5) uses a key of up to 2048 bits
(that is , you can use a 1 bit key if you want and copy it over the entire
2048 bit range , or you can use the entire 2048 bits). runtime is
independant of key size , the system runs slightly slower than md5 itself.
i presume rc2 and rc4 use a similar system (or possibly they just hash an
arbitrary length key down to n bits , maybe 128 , using something like md5).

peter.

subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
from steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner)
distribution na
nntp posting host jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 23

douglas craig holland (holland@cs.colostate.edu) writes

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic
emmisions from your computer or terminal. note that measures to
protect yourself from tempest surveillance are still classified , as
far as i know.

are lcd displays vulnerable to tempest \?

if the new regime comes to fruition , make sure you protect your first
amendment rights by asserting your second amendment rights.

i 'll second that.

jason



i stood up on my van. i yelled , `excuse me , sir. ai n't nothing wrong
with this country that a few plastic explosives wo n't cure ! '
steve taylor , i blew up the clinic real good
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu ` , ` , ` , `

from danny weitzner djw@eff.org
subject re inventing crypto policy \? an eff statement
x xxmessage id a7f49385ac03ac80@harding.eff.org
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 21 47 01 gmt
nntp posting host harding.eff.org
organization electronic frontier foundation
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 122





april 16 , 1993

initial eff analysis of clinton privacy and security proposal

the clinton administration today made a major announcement on
cryptography policy which will effect the privacy and security of
millions of americans. the first part of the plan is to begin a
comprehensive inquiry into major communications privacy issues such as
export controls which have effectively denied most people easy access to
robust encryption , and law enforcement issues posed by new technology.

however , eff is very concerned that the administration has already
reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry , before any
public comment or discussion has been allowed. apparently , the
administration is going to use its leverage to get all telephone
equipment vendors to adopt a voice encryption standard developed by the
national security agency. the so called clipper chip is an 80 bit ,
split key escrowed encryption scheme which will be built into chips
manufactured by a military contractor. two separate escrow agents would
store users' keys , and be required to turn them over law enforcement upon
presentation of a valid warrant. the encryption scheme used is to be
classified , but the chips will be available to any manufacturer for
incorporation into its communications products.

this proposal raises a number of serious concerns .

first , the administration has adopted a solution before conducting an
inquiry. the nsa developed clipper chip may not be the most secure
product. other vendors or developers may have better schemes.
furthermore , we should not rely on the government as the sole source for
the clipper or any other chips. rather , independent chip manufacturers
should be able to produce chipsets based on open standards.

second , an algorithm cannot be trusted unless it can be tested. yet , the
administration proposes to keep the chip algorithm classified. eff
believes that any standard adopted ought to be public and open. the
public will only have confidence in the security of a standard that is
open to independent , expert scrutiny.

third , while the use of the use of a split key , dual escrowed system may
prove to be a reasonable balance between privacy and law enforcement
needs , the details of this scheme must be explored publicly before it is
adopted. what will give people confidence in the safety of their keys \?
does disclosure of keys to a third party waive an individual 's fifth
amendment rights in subsequent criminal inquiries \? these are but a few
of the many questions the administrations proposal raised but fails to
answer.

in sum , the administration has shown great sensitivity to the importance
of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into digital privacy
and security. however , the clipper chip solution ought to be
considered as part of the inquiry , and not be adopted before the
discussion even begins.

details of the proposal

escrow

the 80 bit key will be divided between two escrow agents , each of whom
hold 40 bits of each key. the manufacturer of the communications device
would be required to register all keys with the two independent escrow
agents. a key is tied to the device , however , not the person using it.

upon presentation of a valid court order , the two escrow agents would
have to turn the key parts over to law enforcement agents. according to
the presidential directive just issued , the attorney general will be
asked to identify appropriate escrow agents. some in the administration
have suggested that one non law enforcement federal agency (perhaps the
federal reserve) , and one non governmental organization could be chosen ,
but there is no agreement on the identity of the agents yet.

classified algorithm and the possibility of back doors

the administration claims that there are no back doors means by which
the government or others could break the code without securing keys from
the escrow agents and that the president will be told there are no
back doors to this classified algorithm. in order to prove this ,
administration sources are interested in arranging for an all star crypto
cracker team to come in , under a security arrangement , and examine the
algorithm for trap doors. the results of the investigation would then be
made public.

the clipper chipset was designed and is being produced and a sole source ,
secret contract between the national security agency and two private
firms vlsi and mycotronx. nsa work on this plan has been underway for
about four years. the manufacturing contract was let 14 months ago.

government as market driver

in order to get a market moving , and to show that the government believes
in the security of this system , the feds will be the first big customers
for this product. users will include the fbi , secret service , vp al
gore , and maybe even the president. at today 's commerce department press
briefing , a number of people asked this question , though why would any
private organization or individual adopt a classified standard that had
no independent guaranty of security or freedom from trap doors \?

comprehensive policy inquiry

the administration has also announced that it is about to commence an
inquiry into all policy issues related to privacy protection , encryption ,
and law enforcement. the items to be considered include export
controls on encryption technology and the fbi 's digital telephony
proposal. it appears that the this inquiry will be conducted by the
national security council. unfortunately , however , the presidential
directive describing the inquiry is classified. some public involvement
in the process has been promised , but they terms have yet to be specified.

from more information contact

jerry berman , executive director (jberman@eff.org)
daniel j. weitzner , senior staff counsel (djw@eff.org)

full text of the press releases and fact sheets issued by the
administration will be available on eff 's ftp site.

danny weitzner senior staff counsel , eff
1 202 544 3077

from johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com (steve johnson)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization trw systems division , fairfax va
distribution na
lines 65

tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

brad templeton (brad@clarinet.com) wrote
it occurs to me that if they get a wiretap order on you , and the escrow
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure.

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are
good , their security will not be as good as the escrow houses.

what this effectively means is that if they perform a wiretap on you ,
at the end of the wiretap , they should be obligated to inform you that
a tap was performed , and replace (for free) the clipper chip in your
cellular phone so that it is once again a code known only to the
escrow houses.

getting the court order to reveal the key also makes decipherable
all past conversations (which may be on tape , or disk , or whatver) ,
as i understand the proposal. i could be wrong , but i 've seen no
mention of session keys being the escrowed entities.

as the eff noted , this raises further issues about the fruits of one
bust leading to incrimination in other areas.

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

and it may also become much worse if the ostensible security is
increased , thus allowing greater access to central office records by
the government (the conversations being encrypted , who will object to
letting the government have access to them , perhaps even automatically
archiving large fractions...). this was one of the main objections to
the s.266 proposal , that it would force telecom suppliers to provide
easy access for the government.

one the government has had access to months or years of your encrypted
conversations , now all it takes is one misstep , one violation that
gets them the paperwork needed to decrypt all of them !

do we want anyone to have this kind of power \?

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime

a remark i heard the other day is beginning to take on increasingly
frightening significance. the comment was made that in other parts
of the world the democrats note the big d would be known as
socialists

a note the small d democrat who wonders what thomas jefferson , on
this the 250th anniversary of his birth , would have thought of the state
of affairs between the government and the governed.


any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer.
steven c. johnson , wb3iru vk2gds
trw johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com
fp1 3133 129.193.172.90
1 federal systems park drive phone 1 (703) 968.1000
fairfax , virginia 22033 4412 u.s.a. fax 1 (703) 803.5189

any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer.
steven c. johnson , wb3iru vk2gds
trw johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com
fp1 3133 129.193.172.90

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
article i.d. rwing.2089
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 45

in article 1993apr19.193528.5655@cs.ucla.edu geoff@ficus.cs.ucla.edu (geoffrey kuenning) writes
in article 2073@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

fishing expeditions without the target 's knowlege. do n't give up the
right to be safe from that that should be non negotiable , and clinton
and co. know it (which is probably why they quietly developed this thing ,
figuring if they get it this far , they can ram it on through).

it always amazes me how quick people are to blame whatever
administration is current for things they could n't possibly have
initiated. this chip had to take years to develop , yet already
we 're claiming that the clinton administration sneaked it in on us.
bullshit. the bush administration and the career gestapo were
responsible for this horror , and the careerists presented it to the
new presidency as a fait accompli. that does n't excuse clinton and
gore from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's lay
the body at the proper door to start with.

you are so correct clinton did not initiate it. he just cast it in
granite by implimenting , not stopping the decision. i also stated in another
post i do n't give a damn what administration does it , i still find it
totally unacceptable , and whoever impliments it or rams it down our throats
ought to be run out of office.

also , bush was not trying to deprive us of our second amendment rights.
clinton is busting his butt in that regard. that reveals a total difference
in philosophy. clinton appears to support the idea of total people
control. eavesdropping whenever they feel like it , no real security
for the common person , and no ability to defend oneself against illegal
attack , from whatever source. trust us , we will protect (and control)
you... if we do n't find it inconvenient...

clinton has also shown his utter contempt for public disclosure and
accountability , as well. he had plenty of time to change the policy.

he didn't. he expanded on it.

i bet had bush been in office , you would be in there howling louder
than i.


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from mcbeeb@atlantis.csos.orst.edu (brian mcbee)
subject how can clipper stay classified \?
article i.d. leela.1qstqs jmt
distribution world
organization cs dept. oregon state university , corvallis , oregon.
lines 8
nntp posting host atlantis.csos.orst.edu

maybe i do n't know enough to know what i am asking , but with millions
of these things about , how could the algorythm possibly stay secret \?
could n't some clever hackers just grind the thing down layer by layer ,
and see how it worked \?



brian mcbee mcbeeb@atlantis.cs.orst.edu finger me for pgp 2.1 key

from rbrand@usasoc.soc.mil (raymond s. brand)
subject clipper chip facts a request
organization is a nice thing...
lines 28

having read the various clipper announcements on the net over the last few
days and a lot of uninformed speculation about the chip , its uses ,
government plots , etc , i have the following questions.

1) what does the clipper chip actually implement \? just the skipjack
cryptographic algorithm \? or does it also implement a chip to chip
communications protocol \? if it does implement a communications
protocol , can it be used as just a crypt chip also.

2) where can the chip specifications and spec sheets be obtained \?

3) who may purchase them and under what conditions \?

4) are there restrictions as to how the chip may be used in a system \?

5) the security of the algorithm and the encrypted communications does
not appear to require that the family key be a secret. why is
it a secret \? what happens when the family key becomes well known \?
if it 's a secret to make traffic analysis more difficult , does
the law enforcement message contain any random information \?
how much and how random is it \?

6) can the chip be programmed to reveal the unit key \? the chip serial
number \? any of the programming parameters \?


raymond s. brand rbrand@usasoc.soc.mil


from andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 59

in article rdippold.735253985@qualcom rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold) writes

geoff@ficus.cs.ucla.edu (geoffrey kuenning) writes
bullshit. the bush administration and the career gestapo were
responsible for this horror , and the careerists presented it to the
new presidency as a fait accompli. that does n't excuse clinton and
gore from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's lay
the body at the proper door to start with.

the final stages of denial... i can hardly imagine what the result
would have been if the clinton administration had actually supported
this plan , instead of merely acquiescing with repugnance as they 've so
obviously doing. i do n't believe the chip originated with the clinton
administration either , but the clinton administration has embraced it
and brought it to fruition.

...

(the date i have for this is 1 26 93)

note clinton 's statements about encryption in the 3rd paragraph.. i guess
this statement doese n't contradict what you said , though.

cut here

washington (upi) the war on drugs is about to get a fresh
start , president clinton told delegates to the national federation
of police commisioners convention in washington.
in the first speech on the drug issue since his innaugural ,
clinton said that his planned escalation of the drug war ``would make
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical
purposes this war is only beginning now.'' he repeatedly emphasized
his view that ``regardless of what has been tried , or who has tried
it , or how long they 've been trying it , this is day one to me.''
the audience at the convention , whose theme is ``how do we spell
fiscal relief \? f o r f e i t u r e , '' interrupted clinton frequently
with applause.
clinton 's program , presented in the speech , follows the
outline given in his campaign position papers a cabinet level drug
czar and ``boot camps'' for first time youthful offenders. he did ,
however , cover in more detail his plans for improved enforcement
methods. ``this year 's crime bill will have teeth , not bare gums , ''
clinton said. in particular , his administration will place strict
controls on data formats and protocols , and require the registration
of so called ``cryptographic keys , '' in the hope of denying drug
dealers the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the
approach could be used for crackdowns on other forms of underground
economic activity , such as ``the deficit causing tax evaders who
live in luxury at the expense of our grandchildren.''
clinton expressed optimism that the drug war can be won
``because even though not everyone voted for bill clinton last
november , everyone did vote for a candidate who shares my sense of
urgency about fighting the drug menace. the advocates of
legalization the advocates of surrender may be very good at
making noise , '' clinton said. ``but when the american people cast
their ballots , it only proved what i knew all along that the
advocates of surrender are nothing more than a microscopic fringe.''



from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 66

in article c5sy1z.4td@demon.co.uk , graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
in article 1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys.

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count.

that does n't worry me at all they 're not going to cheat at something
they can get caught at. and key size is one of the things that can be
verified externally. feed lots of random key input pairs into the
chip , then try flipping random key bits , and see what happens to the
output. we already know what should happen about half the output
bits should vary , on average , from a 1 bit key change or input change.

if they were out to build a weak cryptosystem , it might be the case that
some of the bits are much less powerful than others , in the sense that
they only enter into the encryption very late in the game. by contrast ,
des was designed to use each key bit as early as possible the 50 output
change rate appears as early as round 5. again , though , i do n't think
nsa is going to cheat that crudely they 're likely to get caught.

remember that they 've promised to let a committee of outside experts see
the cryptosystem design. if you assume something des like , a biased
subkey generation schedule will stick out like a sore thumb. the committee
can and should run lots of tests , and retain the output. this can be verified
later against the chip. and yes , the civilian community has at least some
secure storage facilities that i do n't think even nsa can get into without
it being noticed , until fort meade gets its transporter working again.
(oops i do n't think i was supposed to talk about that...) the committee
members can even retain secure copies of the code in two halves , which
you have to xor together to recover the program...

seriously , there are , i think , problems with this whole scheme. but the
people who invented it are n't stupid , and they 've been in the crypto game
and the smoke and mirrors game far longer than most of us. they 're not
going to lie in ways that can be detected easily , since their credibility
is the only thing they can use to sell this system. if they 've lied
about the civilian committee , no one will believe them about the absence
of other back doors. if they 've lied about the key size , no one will
believe that they have n't copied the programming disk with the u keys.
if they 've lied about obvious aspects of the strength of the cryptosystem ,
no one will believe the escrow agencies are n't in cahoots with them.

that is n't to say that they are n't lying about all those other things
anyway. and i'm certainly not claiming that nsa ca n't build a cryptosystem
with a back door that the committee ca n't find look how long it took
for folks to believe that the s boxes were n't sabotaged. it 's entirely
possible that the committee will release an ambiguous report , for just
such reasons. but that 's a subtle point (i.e. , one you ca n't explain to
a senator...).

anyway , its looking like the
keys and escrow arrangements are smoke and mirrors to cover the way the nsa
can regenerate the key from the transmitted serial number.

i do n't like the unit key generation process any better than you do.
however s1 and s2 are supposed to be under control of the same
escrow agents. if they ca n't be trusted to keep the seed values secure ,
they ca n't be trusted to keep the half keys secure.

i still do n't know if or when s1 and s2 change. i thought i had seen
something about them being constant , but i just reread denning 's technical
information post , and it does n't say anything , one way or the other.


steve bellovin

from jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu (josh a. goldfoot)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization yale university
lines 21
distribution inet
reply to jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu
nntp posting host minerva.cis.yale.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 minerva pl9

shaun p. hughes (sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu) wrote
in article 1r3jgbinn35i@eli.cs.yale.edu jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu writes
deletion
perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it
was posted encrypted \?

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain.


now why would anyone post anything encrypted \? encryption is only of
use between persons who know how to decrypt the data.

and why should i care what other people look at \?

i was responding to another person (tarl neustaedter) who held that the
eff was n't the best organization to fight for crytography rights since the
eff also supports the right to distribute pornography over the internet ,
something some crypto people might object to. in other words , he 's
implying that there are people who will protect any speech , just as long
as it is encrypted.


from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 61
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes
i'm a political dissident. i'm scared shitless of the feds listening in
on my calls. my opinions are the sort that would get me
disappeared in a slightly less free society and who knows what
sort of society we will be in in five or ten years \? i have friends who
have had their phones tapped none of this is theoretical to me.

i understand , believe it or not , and there are any number of kinds of
conversation and communication i engage in that i would n't even consider
using this scheme for. on the other hand , i do n't see clipper as providing
a secure channel it just prevents casual eavesdropping. this is part of why
i am not worried about it per se. trying to look at clipper as a serious
security tool is simply ludicrous. it 's a voice scrambler , nothing more.

there is still plenty of market for real crypto.

as for its better than the status quo , well , first of all , you can
get a cryptophone from companies like cylink today and they work
well.

they cost an arm and a leg , though. clipper is obviously aimed at the mass
market. it certainly wo n't put cylink out of business.

in addition , a number of groups are now working on building
software to turn any pc into a privacy enhanced phone right now and
they are all working in overdrive mode.

this is old news. i can do this now.

there are no crypto restrictions... yet. you can use anything you want
right now. the point is to maintain that right.

there are restrictions. example we 're a networking software vendor with a
large overseas share of our market. we cannot currently ship pem , or even
simple des , in our products without case by case approval from the department
of state. itar presents a material trade barrier to us firms trying to
compete in international information systems markets.

sure , you can use whatever freebie software you want to talk over bbs 's in
the usa. i , on the other hand , want strong crypto (pkcs , for example) to be
the default for electronic mail , worldwide. i want priests to be able to
hear confession over email. i want lawyers to be able to talk to clients in
confidence over email , or doctors talk with patients. i want to be able to
order products from my favorite japanese mail order catalog over the net. i
want to be able to sign contracts , transact business , and so on
electronically.

this is so far infeasible as a result of the current restrictions on
crytographic systems , especially beyond the borders of the usa.

clipper is irrelevant , and if it distracts the authorities into feeling safe ,
all the better. its only danger is if it emboldens them into trying to put
more restrictions into place , on the theory that it is good enough for
anyone who has nothing to hide. that argument is , of course , utter bs , just
as much as no one needs an assault rifle .


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from ld231782@lance.colostate.edu (l. detweiler)
subject an open letter to mr. clinton
nntp posting host dolores.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523
lines 123


i'm quite astonished , shocked , and appalled at this serious frontal
assault on emerging american freedoms. the clinton administration
nor any other government agency has any legitimate role whatsoever
in regulating cryptography. to do so is tantamount to regulating
`acceptable' speech , and is blatantly unconstitutional. perhaps we
should rename this year `1984' in honor of such an illustrious
proposal. let the crappy chip live in infamy , and the adminstration
receive great shame and discredit for this bizarre misadventure.

i am outraged that my tax money is being used to develop technology
to restrict my freedoms far beyond reasonable measures. the u.s.
government will have my full uncooperation and disobedience on any
serious threat to my liberties such as this , and i call on everyone
with an interest in a sensible government to resist and defy this
proposal. the administration does not seem to understand that they
are merely a subservient instrument to implement the will of the
public , and hence anyone involved in this proposal in this respect is
wholly negligent and remiss in performing their lawful duty.

while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

it seems to me that u.s. diplomatic communications should be
tappable by the u.n. whenever any countries produce a warrant to
the u.n. in fact , i think we should stop paying the nsa billions
of dollars a year to produce unbreakable codes for this reason.
these actions violate the sovereignity of international law. (i hope
mr. clinton is shrewd enough to recognize my sarcasm and satire here.
but if he is n't , it 's a modest and reasonable proposal , so he should
find merit with it nevertheless.)

cryptography is neutral technology. if everybody has strong
cryptography (including policemen , bureacrats , businessmen ,
housewives , thugs and hoodlums) , we have a sustainable
equilibrium. anything less is an unworkable anti egaltarian
arrangement , intrinsically antithetical to american freedoms , and
guaranteed to collapse under its own weight of inherent
impracticality. we do n't need to compromise on issues of freedom.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans.

for too long our government has demonstrated itself to be
increasingly hostile and a serious obstacle to economic vitality
and protecting americans.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

it is not possible for the federal government
to ``act quickly'' or develop ``consistent , comprehensive
policies'' period. and even if by some grandiose miracle such
a thing were possible , it would only be an efficient way to
deprive american citizens of fundamental and inalienable rights.

the administration has to be committed to leaving private
industries alone , esp. on this issue. the government has no
legitimate role in regulating the content of communications.
law enforcement agencies must be prepared to forfeit their
surveillance bludgeon they are soon and inevitably to be
disarmed of it.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

no such laws can be constitutionally sound , and this is equivalent
to a veiled threat , which i do n't appreciate. this kind of
extortion tends to agitate me and others into radicalism. i will
trade threats for threats , and violation for violation.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done)

if the administration did say this , it would find itself
impeached for reckless and outrageous disregard of essential ,
established , entrenched , and explicit constitutional privacy
guarantees. the administration would have no legal standing
whatsoever such an action would be egregiously illegal and
criminal , and wholly untolerated and disregarded by vast
segments of the population.

nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product.

the u.s. , comprised of a vast majority of people fanatically
committed to preserving their privacy in the face of an
increasingly totalitarian government , is saying just that.
take your chips and give them to nsa employees as christmas bonuses.
we can run any algorithm on our computers we damn well please ,
and we will make any chips we please , and we will send any bit
pattern over our data highways we please. and if you try to stop
us , you will be gradually or abruptly dissolved into nothingness.

privacy vs. law enforcement
there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition.

this is an outright dingaling denning lie. the two aims of
privacy and surveillance are intrinsically and fundamentally
incompatible , and you have to work for the nsa to think otherwise.
americans are about to discover ways , through the use of technology ,
to preserve their inalienable but forgotten freedoms that have slowly
been eroded away by an increasingly distant and unresponsive and
unrepresentative government.



ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu

from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 35

in article 1r1f62 rh5@news.intercon.com amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes
one thing that clipper offers is interoperability , at a higher degree of
security than we currently have in non proprietary voice encryption systems.
this means it will be cheaper than anyone 's proprietary scheme , and easier to
deploy.

i may be an anarchist nutcase , but i would n't have frothed overmuch
had the government proposed a secure encryption standard. in fact ,
if the nsa had come up with a privacy chip rather than a wiretap
chip , i would have been happy. they could have done this set
up an ansi committee , picked a secure cryptosystem , defined a
protocol and interface , and said , hey , start building them.

instead we have a deliberately brain dead version of a cryptosystem
that has not even been peer reviewed. yes , the nsa owns some smart
people. but if they pulled a feal , well , at t is going to be left
with a lot of dud phones on its hands.

perry said
someone please tell me what exactly we get in our social contract in
exchange for giving up our right to strong cryptography \?

can you tell me where exactly we have given up that right \?

heh heh. the government already gave it up for us. remember in the
announcement they described this scheme as balancing the two
extremes of having no privacy and claiming that citizens had a
constitutional right to encryption \?

so much for clinton 's support of the right of privacy .

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail (void when prohibited)
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu



from smk5@quads.uchicago.edu (steve kramarsky)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
reply to smk5@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 23

in article 1993apr17.122651.1874@sugra.uucp ken@sugra.uucp (kenneth ng) writes
in article 1993apr16.165423.27204@linus.mitre.org ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei) writes
judge i grant you immunity from whatever may be learned from the key
itself
you the keyphrase is i confess to deliberately evading copyright
the file encoded with this keyphrase contains illegal scans of
copyrighted peanuts strips.

can we use murder instead of copyright violation , just to keep things
straight \? the 5th applies only to criminal cases which copyright
infringements are not (they are civil).

steve

p.s. i'm sorry to waste bandwidth on a quibble , i just do n't want
anyone to get confused. i think a bunch of kiddie porn gifs make
a better test case than a bunch of peanuts strips and that is criminal
both in posession and distribution.


steve kramarsky , university of chicago law school
steve@faerie.chi.il.us or smk5@quads.uchicago.edu
all i did was kiss a girl. jake , the night before his hanging.

from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
lines 42

in article 1r47l1inn8gq@senator bedfellow.mit.edu jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr) writes

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish ,
but there are certainly exceptions. if you write a paper which includes
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is
classified. as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you
are then not allowed to read your own paper.

hate to mess up your point , but it is incredibly easy to learn how
to make a nuclear weapon. the hard part is getting the radioactives to
put in it. have you ever read tom clancy 's the sum of all fears \? it
describes in great detail how a palestinian terrorist group constructed a
nuclear bomb using stolen (actually found) plutonium , with some help from
an east german nuclear physicist. for some non fiction , read tom clancy 's
article five minutes till midnight . it shows how a terrorist group could
construct a nuke using neptunium , a low grade radioactive waste product
dumped in toxic waste sites and forgotten about. he also claims information
on constructing a nuke is easily found in any large library. sounds
kind of scary , does n't it \? (

a less serious example if you tell drivers about a speed trap they are
about to run into , you can be fined , even though you might argue that you
broke no law when you discovered the location of the policeman. the charge
is interfering with a police officer , which is quite similar what you would
be doing by reverse engineering the clipper chip.

do n't tell me that you think this violates the constitution find some
court cases which have struck down such laws. many people would not be
comforted by the fact that the government violated their rights when it
imprisoned them.


do n't know whether you could get busted for warning of a speedtrap.

doug holland



doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom
holland@cs.colostate.edu of speech will have to pry it from my
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! !

from tedwards@wam.umd.edu (technopagan priest)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
nntp posting host rac2.wam.umd.edu
organization university of maryland , college park
lines 11

in article 1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes
clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another layer of
encryption.

true , but will traditional encryptions schemes , when further encrypted
by clipper , be more vulnerable to attacks such as partially known
plaintext \?

thomas



from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization clarinet communications corp.
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
lines 21

in article 1993apr18.032405.23325@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright) writes
in article brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes

...
the greatest danger of the escrow database , if it were kept on disk ,
would be the chance that a complete copy could somehow leak out. you
...
of course then it 's hard to backup. however , i think the consequences
of no backup the data is not there when a warrant comes are worse
than the consequences of a secret backup.

if the data is n't there when the warrant comes , you effectively have
secure crypto. if secret backups are kept...then you effectively have
no crypto. thus , this poster is essentialy arguing no crypto is better
than secure crypto.

no , the poster (me) has his brain in the wrong gear. as you can infer
from the first sentence , i meant the consequences of no backup are better
than the consequences of an easy to copy database.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from tuinstra@sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra)
subject wh proposal from police point of view
reply to tuinstra@sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu.soe
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 55
nntp posting host sunspot.ece.clarkson.edu

it might pay to start looking at what this proposal might mean to a
police agency. it just might be a bad idea for them , too.

ok , suppose the ny state police want to tap a suspect 's phone. they
need a warrant , just like the old days. but unlike the old days , they
now need to

(a) get two federal agencies to give them the two parts of
the key.

now , what happens if there 's a tiff between the two escrow houses \?
posession release of keys becomes a political bargaining chit. state
and lower level police agencies have to watch the big boys play politics ,
while potentially good leads disappear , lives and property are lost ,
statutes of limitations run out , etc. not to mention a moderately
clever person who suspects the police are after her him will be buying
new phones faster than tap requests can be processed. or using stolen
ones. will the turing police come and arrest you for transmitting
without a dialing license \?

there 's also bureacracy and security problems within each escrow house ,
how will requests for key disclosure be authenticated \? put in enough
safeguards of the kind bureaucrats and activists feel comfortable with , and
it might take a long time to get that key. even when a request is approved ,
how is the key going to be disclosed \? will it be encrypted by a clipper type
chip for transmission \? in a bureaucracy the size of the federal
government , with a databank of the necessary size , and data traffic of
the projected volume , there 's going to be a lot of weak links. how many of
these kinds of problems will be open for public or expert scrutiny \?

furthermore , the feds might be leery of handing completed keys around ,
even to state police agencies a trust and security issue. this would be
an especially acute issue if some other state 's police had mishandled a
key , resulting in lawsuits , financial settlements , and political
embarassment. so , the feds implement it this way

(b) some federal agency gets the keys , performs the tap , and
turns the results over to the ny state police.

but let 's say cuomo 's been causing some problems over a clinton
aid to urban areas proposal. or there just happens to be a turf war
going on between the state cops and the justice department on a case.
now , not only do we have the keys as a political chit , we have an
extra player in the game and we have the tap 's tapes as another
bargaining chit. again , the state police lose.

i understand that (legal) wiretaps are quite expensive to maintain. in
scenario (b) , who pays the bill \?


dwight tuinstra best tuinstra@sandman.ece.clarkson.edu
tolerable tuinstrd@craft.camp.clarkson.edu

homo sapiens planetary cancer \? \? ... news at six


from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization dsi uscrpac
distribution na
lines 43

in article 115863@bu.edu uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt) writes


i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any private
sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that was known to be at least
partially compromised \? (key escrows in this instance) why would any
private sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that had not been properly
evaluated \? (i.e. algorythm not publically released)
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't. there is other hardware out
there not compromised. des as an example (triple des as a better one.)

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior
corporate staff executive in two fortune 50 companies.

i 'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business , if
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular resistant to
attempts by japanese , french , and other competitive companies and
governments to break.

i 'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys , provided i was happy about
the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the federal reserve would certainly
satisfy me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms).

i 'd trust the nsa or the president if they stated there were no trap
doors i 'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined
the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure.

i 'd trust something from the nsa long before i 'd trust something from some
swiss or anybody japanese.

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most corporations would
feel the same way. most many some (pick one) corporations have an attitude
that the nsa is part of our government and we support our government , as
one very famous ceo put it to me one day.

just some perspective from another point of view.


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



subject re keeping your mouth shut (was hard drive security)
from vkub@charlie.usd.edu (vince kub)
reply to vkub@charlie.usd.edu
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept.
nntp posting host charlie
lines 82

in article 1993apr13.143712.15338@cadkey.com , eric@cadkey.com (eric holtman) writes
in article apr13.011855.69422@yuma.acns.colostate.edu holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes

i'm not a lawyer , so correct me if i'm wrong , but doing that could be
considered obstruction of justice , which could land you in prison for
quite a while.

the thing that 's great about the secret key is it is idea encrypted , so
even if the fbi do get the key , they 're sol unless they know the magic
word. if they try to force you to give them your pass phrase , just say
oops , i forgot. since the burden of proof is still on the prosecution
in this country , if you keep your mouth shut , how can they prove that you
did n't forget your pass phrase.


well , i'm no lawyer , but i 'll supply some ancedotal evidence which may
change your mind. note i do not agree at all with what went on in
this case , and neither will most of you. that doesn't change the fact
that it did happen. right here in america even.....

about three or four years ago , there was a rather nasty custody case in
or around washington d.c. the upshot was , an ex husband was suing for
visitation rights , which were granted. the woman believed that the man
had been sexually molesting her children. (much like allen farrow , but
not as famous). anyhows , she spirits away the kids and refuses to tell the
court where they are , and denies him visitation rights.

she keeps her mouth shut , and what happens \? she sits in jail for almost
a year , on contempt of court , until the legislature passes a special law
limiting the time a person can be held. if they had n't passed the law , she 'd
most likely still be there. the kids were in new zealand , i belive.

now (story finished , commetary starting).... imho , the only reason the
legislature moved was because there was an outpouring of public sympathy
for this woman... most people believed she was right , and were outraged.
not likely to happen for joe random drug dealer , child molester or perfectly
innocent privacy lover , who might have something
to hide. innocent until proven guilty does n't mean you get to walk out
of court humming a happy tune because the fbi ca n't read your disk. just
ask those held for contempt , those who ca n't make bail , etc , etc.

again.... i disagree totally with the concept of holding someone based
on suspicion , but people who keep thinking that it wo n't happen are bound
to get a rude shock when it does......


also not a lawyer , etc. but if i remember correctly the contempt of court
business is used in order to compel cooperation with what is (perhaps
questionably , different issue) the legitimate business of that court. quite
literally the party is found guilty of holding the court in contempt . now ,
the original scheme as suggested here would be to have the key disappear if
certain threatening conditions are met. once the key is gone there is no
question of contempt of court as there is nothing to compell , the key is no
longer there to be produced.

obstruction of justice would be a different issue but if the suspect in
question would have some legitmate reason to protect his data from prying eyes
(however extenuated) i think that this charge would be a hard nut to make.

perhaps it is time for a lawyer to step in and clear this all up \?




vincent a. kub , wd0dbx saints should always be judged
guilty until they are proven
vkub@charlie.usd.edu innocent. geo. orwell

14 w.cherry st. 2 it is good to die before one has
vermillion , s.dakota 57069 done anything deserving of death.
phone or fax to (605) 624 8680 anaxandirdes
king of sparta


begin pgp public key block
version 2.2

mqbnaiudo1maaaecakrkuuww tqsoa1nd gasbpxcdhsrhpmebpjklyikuijzat6
auo hnqw 652yicvajlxspb5d2gimc09tg2sgy0abrg0cvzpbmnliet1yg
iuub
end pgp public key block


from mearle@netcom.com (mark earle)
subject pgp 2.0 vs 2.2
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
distribution na
lines 10


i 've seen pgp 2.2 mentioned for the mac platform. i use 2.0 on ms dos.
is there a 2.2 for ms dos \? if so , a site or two that has it available
(i 'd need executables , although source would be nice to review).
what was fixed or changed from 2.0 2.2 \?

thanks , mwe
mearle@netcom.com
finger for pgp2.0 public key


from rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning)
subject do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it !
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution na
lines 35

clipper chip is a response to the fact that there is no business
or professional body in a position to establish a standard and
provide chipsets to implement it for analog or digial transmission
systems.

rsa might be in position to do it , if they had active cooperation of
a couple of manufacturers of cellular phones or desktop phones.

large companies in the voice data comm business are out , because they
all have contracts with the gov which would be used to pressure them.

if we , as professionals in crypto organizations , eff , etc. were to
put our collective minds and interests toward establishing a
crypto standard for transmission , and getting our companies to
implement it , we might avoid government control.

otherwise , i think it will happen to us by default. gov is n't probably
strong enough or foolish enough to prevent strong crypt. they
are strong enough , and we may be foolish enough , to push through
the clipper chip.

is rsa independt of the gov enough to spearhead this \? i , for one ,
would gladly pay royalties via purchasing secure phones.

if not this , we should provide an algorithm which can be implemented
in either sw or hw and publish it , then push to make it the defacto
standard in the way that pgp and ripem are becoming such.

we are opposing , charging the bunker. we should be nimble and clever.
the gov is strong , not clever.

lew

lew glendenning rlglende@netcom.com
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr (or somebody like that).

from mbeckman@mbeckman.mbeckman.com (mel beckman)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization beckman software engineering
reply to mbeckman@mbeckman.com
distribution world
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.5v5
lines 38


in article strnlghtc5m2cv.8hx@netcom.com (sci.crypt) , strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.


david ,

as an economist , i'm sure you can see the flaws in this logic. if the (naive)
market is flooded with proprietary , but weak , encryption , then truly strong
encryption will be unable to compete. suppose the govt had a secret tv broadcast
standard , and then sold tvs below cost. private industry has a better standard ,
but it 's not as widespread due to the govt early flooding of the market
with cheap proprietary sets. even though the industry 's technology is better ,
the programming is being broadcast to the govt 's unduplicatable standard.
who could compete \?

the other flaw , of course , is that making something voluntary today ensures
that it will be voluntary in the future. i went to renew my ca drivers license
last week and was required not only to give my ssn , but to produce an ssn
card to veryify the number ! note that a federal law once said that no state
or local govt could ever require the use of ssns for drivers license registration
(specifically ! ).

i do not trust the govt that says trust me on this even though we could
have an arrangement that does n't require your trust. something is big
time fishy. if you look more carefully , you 'll see it.

mel


mel beckman internet mbeckman@mbeckman.com
beckman software engineering compuserve 75226 , 2257
ventura , ca 93003 voice fax 805 647 1641 805 647 3125

you can observe a lot just by watching. yogi bera

from scs@lokkur.dexter.mi.us (steve simmons)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization inland sea
lines 17

smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes

thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys. let 's assume a brute force engine like that
hypothesized for des 1 microsecond per trial , 1 million chips. that 's
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials. well ,
maybe they can get chips running at one trial per nanosecond , and build
a machine with 10 million chips. sure only 3.8 years for each solution.

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the
machine that does 1 trial nanosecond , we can imagine the storage medium
that could index and archive it.

shadwell hated all southerners and , by inference , was standing at the
north pole.
good omens , by neil gaiman and terry pratchett

from jim@rand.org (jim gillogly)
subject secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
organization banzai institute
lines 19
nntp posting host mycroft.rand.org

may as well look at one piece of this at a time. this paragraph

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

means they are n't planning to make it public , as was done with des. as it
says in both sci.crypt faqs , there 's no way we are going to achieve the
same level of comfort with clipper that we finally have with des if we
ca n't actually get our hands on the bits and watch them flow around. even
the best experts are n't going to think of everything look how long it
took biham and shamir to get a handle on just how good des is... and for
all we know there 's still more to learn.

jim gillogly
trewesday , 25 astron s.r. 1993 , 17 10

from jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 37
nntp posting host achates.mit.edu

in article 1993apr20.145338.14804@shearson.com
pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes

i wrote
the chip and algorithm are classified. if you reverse engineer it and
tell people , you are likely to go to jail.

well , i'm not a lawyer , but from what i can tell this is completely
and utterly untrue.

the u.s. does not have an official secrets act. we do have laws that
will punish you for revealing what classified information you learned
in your capacity as a government official , contractor , etc , and we
have laws that prohibit stealing such information. however , if they
sell you the chip , i ca n't see that they can make reverse engineering
it and revealing the details illegal.

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish ,
but there are certainly exceptions. if you write a paper which includes
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is
classified. as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you
are then not allowed to read your own paper.

a less serious example if you tell drivers about a speed trap they are
about to run into , you can be fined , even though you might argue that you
broke no law when you discovered the location of the policeman. the charge
is interfering with a police officer , which is quite similar what you would
be doing by reverse engineering the clipper chip.

do n't tell me that you think this violates the constitution find some
court cases which have struck down such laws. many people would not be
comforted by the fact that the government violated their rights when it
imprisoned them.


john carr (jfc@athena.mit.edu)

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 28

in article 1993apr20.150531.2059@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu , jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright) writes
now why is that \? i doubt there is a trapdoor in skipjack. (but we will
never know). and i doubt the nsa would promote a mass market chip they
could n't compromise. ergo , nsa is now capable of compromising (probably
with brute force keysearch) engines of the complexity of skipjack. look
at the specs. why , i bet they have thousands of little chips chugging
away in their crypto busters... maybe even tens of thousands. complexity \?
not much more than a 3090. how many such machines will fit into fort meade \?

i think pgp2.3 should have 256 bit idea keys...

thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys. let 's assume a brute force engine like that
hypothesized for des 1 microsecond per trial , 1 million chips. that 's
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials. well ,
maybe they can get chips running at one trial per nanosecond , and build
a machine with 10 million chips. sure only 3.8 years for each solution.

idea uses 128 bit keys. shall i bother doing the calculations for you \?
hint multiply 3.8 years by 2 (128 80). and you ca n't do idea at that
speed key setup takes much too long. i would n't be surprised if that
were the case for skipjack , too , though there 's no way of knowing just
yet. des used only xor because that 's what was feasible with mid 70 's
technology. modern chips can do a lot more.

nsa may or may not know how to crack skipjack and idea (i doubt it for
the former i have no idea for the latter , though it does seem to be a
strong cryptosystem). but it ai n't gonna be by exhaustive search.

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re wh proposal from police point of view
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 18


dwight tuinstra posts a very interesting message in which he comments on the
effects of the clipper chip on state and local police. actually , reading
between the lines , it could be a very good thing for civil liberties in one
respect , since it will at least prevent cowboy cops and cowboy state and
local agancies from reading your traffic if they tap it illegally.

there has been extensive discussion in the eff forum , for example , about
inadmissible taps being used to develop information that could then lead to
admissible evidence. this might put a stop to such things , which must from
time to time be simple fishing expeditions.

david

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from jad@nsa.hp.com (john dilley)
subject compress crypt foo des e k foo
distribution sci
lines 12
organization networked systems architecture


i have a bunch of questions about the encryption scheme
referenced in the subject of this message. what is the relative data
privacy provided by the above sequence as compared with straight des \?
does the addition of compression then encrypting make the cyphertext
significantly harder to crack using current methods than straight des \?
would running crypt after des provide greater data privacy \? is it
important to remove the (constant) compress header before encryption \?
thank you , net , for your wisdom.

jad
john a. dilley jad@nsa.hp.com

from rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning)
subject re estimating wiretap costs benefits
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 13

i am most embarassed that my irrate , intemperate post is still
circulating.

i have been chided by experts for my behavior. i now agree with
all of them , although some were no more restrained in their
speech than i was 8)

i have apologized to robin hanson.

lew

lew glendenning rlglende@netcom.com
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr (or somebody like that).

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
lines 16

at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des encryped
and the person that had sent it , went on vaction. rather than wait two weeks
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took two(2)
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des.

a.g.

fun ! three questions

1) what hardware did you use \?
2) when you found the key , was there anything about it that was special
that meant you had been lucky to find it early \? (like the first 30 bits
all being 0)
3) ... or did you mean a dictionary attack rather than a binary key attack \?

g

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 23


grady@netcom.com suggests using a common but restricted distribution private
key to allow public key system encrypted postings. in theory that will work
fine as long as the privae key remains secure.

in practice it would be a good idea to check to see if that would be a
violation of some net rule , practice , custom , etc. i do n't say it would be ,
just that it would be a good idea to check. this is not like rot13 where
everybody can have the key trivially.

it would also be a good idea to check to see if such posts would be
forwarded by the sites needed to make the chain work.

of course there 'd be no problem with a discussion group travelling over
facilities entirely under the control of the members. probably there would
also be no problem with a mailing list approach. it might even be fun for
some.


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison)
subject re clipper crypto
organization stratus computer , software engineering
lines 26
distribution inet
nntp posting host ellisun.sw.stratus.com
keywords crypto , eff

i sent a response to the white house at

0005895485@mcimail.com (white house)

and received a nice , automatic reply from micmail noting , in passing , that
if i had included a snail address , i would get a reply in due course.

for those who care , my reply was

1. yes , let 's protect the voice network

2. privately developed crypto has always been available and
always will be so let 's think about how to do law
enforcement given that fact not about how to hope to
legislate against it

3. my needs for crypto as a system designer are not met by the
clipper chip. i want freely to export uses of algorithms
(like des rsa) which are already freely available in the
destination country


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course.
carl ellison cme@sw.stratus.com
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel (508)460 2783
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax (508)624 7488

from angel@foghorn leghorn.coe.northeastern.edu (kirill shklovsky)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization northeastern university
distribution na
lines 36

in article 1993apr21.204036.13723@rick.dgbt.doc.ca jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca (jerry han) writes
as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this
are n't people just slightly overreacting to this \? or are we all of a
sudden going to draw parallels to nazi germany and communist russia \?

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is
not the end of the world. guess what \? we 're doing something now you
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany. we 're complaining about
it , (or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us.

(or , rather , if they 're shooting at me , they have real bad aim. ( ) )

guess what people \? you live in one of the few countries in the world
where a person can complain without getting shot at.

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things

1) what have they done right \?
2) how much worse can it get \?

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky.

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on.
but let 's not overreact !

us having the liberties to talk about this does n't make the problem go
away. it does n't make it right. rather the opposite , if we do not do
anything about it , you can bet it 's going to get worse.

angel@foghorn leghorn.coe.northeastern.edu
btw these are my opinions , and not that of any other entity

my god , its full of stars ! dave
i do n't know about you , but we 've got company ! epidemic


from jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution na
lines 29

in article a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin) writes
in strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

...
i 'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business , if
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular resistant to
attempts by japanese , french , and other competitive companies and
governments to break.

(it 's nist , not nsa. nsa is not supposed to have anything to do with this.)

with all the activity in sci.crypt these past few days , i am not supprised
you missed it... nist got skipjack from the nsa )

...
i 'd trust the nsa or the president if they stated there were no trap
doors i 'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined
the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure.

i would n't trust the nsa. i think i would trust the president on this , but
i'm not certain he would be told.

i am not a crook. president richard m. nixon


information farming at... for addr phone finger a a
the ohio state university jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ((0 0))
jim ebright e mail jre @osu.edu
support privacy support encryption ( )

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject source to mactinosh pgp 2.2 in c available
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 84

source code to macintosh pgp 2.2 now available via anonymous ftp

ftp netcom.com
cd pub grady
mget macpgp2.2src.sea.hqx
mget macpgp2.2srcsignature

convert to a compact pro self extracting archive with binhex 4.0.

if appropriate , check the digital signature of the .hqx file with
your copy of pgp. (non macintosh users wishing to check the digital
signature please note that 'cr' denotes the end of line on a macintosh ,
not 'lf' or 'crlf'.)

for the purposes of the itar act , this 'unclassified technical
documentation' is hereby released into the public domain. (however
no representation is made as to copyright or other commercial rights
that may exist in this package.)

full source code , symantec think c 5.0.4 projects and full user
documentation is included for both 68020 and 68000 versions of pretty
good privacy , a strong public key encryption and digital signature
application using the rsa algorithm patented in the united states
and the idea cipher patented in switzerland.

no executables are included.

executables are available via anonymous ftp from

leif.thep.lu.se (sweden)
night.nig.ac.jp (japan)
van bc.wimsey.bc.ca (canada)
soda.berkeley.edu (p.r. of berkeley)
src.doc.ic.ac.uk (united kingdom)
ghost.dsi.unimi.it (italy)
plaza.aarnet.edu.au (australia)
nic.funet.fi (finland)


other 's public keys are available from anonymous server sites
(send message subject help for more information.)

internet sites
pgp public keys@junkbox.cc.iastate.edu
michael graff
explorer@iastate.edu
ftp tbird.cc.iastate.edu usr explorer public keys.pgp
pgp public keys@toxicwaste.mit.edu
derek atkins
warlord@mit.edu
ftp toxicwaste.mit.edu pub keys public keys.pgp
pgp public keys@phil.utmb.edu
john perry
perry@phil.utmb.edu
ftp phil.utmb.edu pub pgp public keys.pgp
pgp public keys@demon.co.uk
mark turner
mark@demon.co.uk
ftp ftp.demon.co.uk pub pgp pubring.pgp

uucp site
pgp public keys@jpunix.com
john perry
perry@jpunix.com

the executable application built from these sources has not been
licensed by rsa data security , inc. nor has the rsa public key
algorithm or the idea block cipher algorithm been approved by
the national security agency.

this unclassified technical documentation is made available for
educational use only possession , distribution , or use of an
executable binary built from this source may be a civil or criminal
offense.

suggested improvements , bugs , or comments should be directly posted
to alt.security.pgp or to the principal developers listed among
the source documents. general questions and comments about public
key cryptography or the idea cipher may be posted to alt.security.pgp
or to the sci.crypt usenet groups.


grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it !
from steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner)
distribution na
nntp posting host jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 25

marc thibault (marc@tanda.isis.org) writes
(the jester) writes

proof windows is a virus it is very widespread , it eats up your disk
space , it slows down your computer , it takes control over your
computer , it performs disk access at random times , it displays silly
messages on your screen , it randomly crashes the computer vesselin

this sounds like a version unix. solaris \?

as someone who just lived through a switch from sunos4.x.x. to
solaris , i 'll heartily agree with this.

obcrypt one of my main gripes with solaris is its braindead mailx ,
which is almost enough like mail to get you hoping , but crashes
horribly when you try to do anything useful with it. (like use pgp
capable sendmail replacements.)

jason


i stood up on my van. i yelled , `excuse me , sir. ai n't nothing wrong
with this country that a few plastic explosives wo n't cure ! '
steve taylor , i blew up the clinic real good
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu ` , ` , ` , `

from prz@sage.cgd.ucar.edu (philip zimmermann)
subject fighting the clipper initiative
summary ways to fight it
organization climate and global dynamics division ncar , boulder , co
lines 71

here are some ideas for those of you who want to oppose the white
house clipper chip crypto initiative. i think this is going to be a
tough measure to fight , since the government has invested a lot of
resources in developing this high profile initiative. they are
serious about it now. it wo n't be as easy as it was defeating senate
bill 266 in 1991.

possible actions to take in response

1) mobilize your friends to to all the things on this list , and
more.

2) work the press. talk with your local newspaper 's science and
technology reporter. write to your favorite trade rags. better yet ,
write some articles yourself for your favorite magazines or
newspapers. explain why the clipper chip initiative is a bad idea.
remember to tailor it to your audience. the general public may be
slow to grasp why it 's a bad idea , since it seems so technical and
arcane and innocent sounding. try not to come across as a flaming
libertarian paranoid extremist , even if you are one.

3) lobby congress. write letters and make phone calls to your
member of congress in your own district , as well as your two us
senators. many members of congress have aides that advise them of
technology issues. talk to those aides.

4) involve your local political parties. the libertarian party
would certainly be interested. there are also libertarian wings of
the democrat and republican parties. the right to privacy has a
surprisingly broad appeal , spanning all parts of the political
spectrum. we have many natural allies. the aclu. the nra. other
activist groups that may someday find themselves facing a government
that can suppress them much more efficiently if these trends play
themselves out. but you must articulate our arguments well if you
want to draw in people who are not familiar with these issues.

4) contribute money to the electronic frontier foundation (eff) and
computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr) , assuming
these groups will fight this initiative. they need money for legal
expenses and lobbying.

5) mobilize opposition in industry. companies that will presumably
develop products that will incorporate the clipper chip should be
lobbied against it , from within and from without. if you work for a
telecommunications equipment vendor , first enlist the aid of your
coworkers and fellow engineers against this initiative , and then
present your company 's management with a united front of engineering
talent against this initiative. write persuasive memos to your
management , with your name and your colleagues' names on it. hold
meetings on it.

6) publicize , deploy and entrench as much guerrilla
techno monkeywrenching apparatus as you can. that means pgp ,
anonymous mail forwarding systems based on pgp , pgp key servers ,
etc. the widespread availability of this kind of technology might
also be used as an argument that it ca n't be effectively suppressed
by government action. i will also be working to develop new useful
tools for these purposes.

7) be prepared to engage in an impending public policy debate on
this topic. we do n't know yet how tough this fight will be , so we
may have to compromise to get most of what we want. if we ca n't
outright defeat it , we may have to live with a modified version of
this clipper chip plan in the end. so we 'd better be prepared to
analyze the government 's plan , and articulate how we want it
modified.


philip zimmermann



from koontzd@phobos.lrmsc.loral.com (david koontz )
subject spoofing clipper serial number
distribution usa
organization loral rolm mil spec computers
lines 35

secrecy in clipper chip

the serial number of the clipper chip is encrypted with the system key and
transmitted as one part of a three part message.

presumably the protocol can be recovered (if by nothing else , differential
analysis).

postulate if you will , a chip (or logic) sitting between the clipper chip
and its communications channel. the purpose of this chip is twofold

1) transmit channel

the spoof chip xors the 30 bit encrypted serial number with
a secondary keying variable. this renders the serial number
unrecoverable with just the system key

2) recieve channel

the spoof chip xors the incoming encrypted serial number
with a secondary keying variable (assuming the serial number
is necessary for local operation).

this has the net result of hiding the serial number. this gets more
interesting when the number of serial numbers issued becomes large ,
making it difficult to distinguish between valid serial numbers and
a spoofed serial number. without knowing the system key , you could
lie about the serial number , but risk detection of the lie.

if you had the system key and the encryption algorithm you could
successfully lie with a lower probability of detection by emulating the
format of your own serial number.

makes you wonder whats being hidden here \? seems like the secrecy is
to prevent you from lying about who you are.

from ken@sugra.uucp (kenneth ng)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization private computer , totowa , nj
lines 21

in article 1993apr16.165423.27204@linus.mitre.org ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei) writes
judge i grant you immunity from whatever may be learned from the key
itself
you the keyphrase is i confess to deliberately evading copyright
the file encoded with this keyphrase contains illegal scans of
copyrighted peanuts strips.
judge and cp oh.
how will they get you now \? i'm not saying that they wo n't , or
ca n't (or even that they should n't ) , but what legal mechanism will
they use \? should we be crossposting this to misc.legal \?

hm , could another court try you via a bypass of the double jeopardy amendment
like they are doing in the lapd trial \? ie your judge is a state judge , and
then a federal judge retries you under the justification that its not the
same trail.


kenneth ng
please reply to ken@blue.njit.edu for now.
all this might be an elaborate simulation running in a little device sitting
on someone 's table j.l. picard st tng

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization partnership for an america free drug
lines 53

amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't. there is other hardware
out there not compromised. des as an example (triple des as a better
one.)

so , where can i buy a des encrypted cellular phone \? how much does it cost \?
personally , cylink stuff is out of my budget for personal use )...

if the clipper chip can do cheap crypto for the masses , obviously one
could do the same thing without building in back doors.

indeed , even without special engineering , you can construct a good
system right now. a standard codec chip , a chip to do vocoding , a des
chip , a v32bis integrated modem module , and a small processor to do
glue work , are all you need to have a secure phone. you can dump one
or more of the above if you have a fast processor. with integration ,
you could put all of them onto a single chip and in the future they
can be.

yes , cheap crypto is good but we do n't need it from the government.
you can do everything the clipper chip can do without needing it to be
compromised. when the white house releases stuff saying this is good
because it gives people privacy , note that we did n't need them to
give us privacy , the capability is available using commercial hardware
right now.

indeed , were it not for the government doing everything possible to
stop them , qualcomm would have designed strong encryption right in to
the cdma cellular phone system they are pioneering. were it not for
the nsa and company , cheap encryption systems would be everywhere. as
it is , they try every trick in the book to stop it. had it not been
for them , i'm sure cheap secure phones would be out right now.

they are n't the ones making cheap crypto available. they are the ones
keeping cheap crypto out of people 's hands. when they hand you a
clipper chip , what you are getting is a mess of pottage your prize
for having traded in your birthright.

and what did we buy with our birthright \? did we get safety from
foreigners \? no. they can read conference papers as well as anyone else
and are using strong cryptography. did we get safety from professional
terrorists \? i suspect that they can get cryptosystems themselves on
the open market that work just fine most of them ca n't be idiots
like the guys that bombed the trade center. are we getting cheaper
crypto for ourselves \? no , because the market would have provided that
on its own had they not deliberately sabotaged it.

someone please tell me what exactly we get in our social contract in
exchange for giving up our right to strong cryptography \?

perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from anthonyf@microsoft.com (anthony francisco)
subject re clipper and ranting libertarians
organization microsoft corp.
keywords clipper clinton rant rave libertarians
distribution usa
lines 11

just a little nitpicking. was n't it the government that required
a standard railway gauge \? did n't that improve things \?

please do n't misunderstand. i'm utter suspicious of this clipper
chip. why hold the design top secret \? was this a work around the
law that says that any discoveries made by people working for the
government is public domain. ( e.g. nih class library , etc. )
des has its designs published all over the place and it is considered
fairly strong ( although could be stronger ).

ants

from tarl@coyoacan.sw.stratus.com (tarl neustaedter)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization stratus computer , software engineering
lines 17
distribution inet
nntp posting host coyoacan.sw.stratus.com

in article c5tbpd.lt@cs.uiuc.edu kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie) writes
...
the eff has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex
and pictures newsgroups at various universities.
...

so what \? justices william brennan , thurgood marshall , john paul
stevens , and byron white are associated with ...

it means that the eff 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant
to the encryption issue per se. there may well be people who care about
the encryption issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the
network erotica issue (or may even disagree with the eff 's position).

ending up with pallets of baggage to drag around is a frequent
problem with permanent organizations. eff is no exception.
tarl

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject let 's build software cryptophones for over the internet...
lines 92

well , after a lot of trawling through archives , i found the post
i reproduce in full below. is it time to get together to develop
a tcp ip standard for crypto voice that we could then layer on
point to point slip as the free standard for crypto voice like
pgp is for mail \?

(ps note the date of this post. appropriate , huh \? ) )


from jpcampb@afterlife.ncsc.mil thu jul 9 11 50 11 1992
from jpcampb@afterlife.ncsc.mil (joe campbell)
newsgroups comp.compression.research
subject re sound compression algorithms
date 4 jul 92 14 46 04 gmt
organization the great beyond

in article 1992jun26.165210.15088@sequent.com lff@sequent.com (lou fernandez) writes
the techniques for production systems revolve around code excited linear
prediction (celp) algorithms which capture 20 ms or so of speech and
attempt to match the speech with a combination of signals from a
codebook , choosing the combination which minimizes the error....

in case you 'd like to experiment with celp , you can obtain a software
implementation of the 4800 bps fed std celp coder for free

the u.s. dod 's federal standard 1016 based 4800 bps code excited linear
prediction voice coder version 3.2 (celp 3.2) fortran and c simulation source
codes are now available for worldwide distribution at no charge (on dos
diskettes , but configured to compile on sun sparc stations) from

bob fenichel
national communications system
washington , d.c. 20305
1 703 692 2124
1 703 746 4960 (fax)

in addition to the source codes , example input and processed speech files
are included along with a technical information bulletin to assist in
implementation of fs 1016 celp. (an anonymous ftp site is being considered
for future releases.)

copies of the actual standard federal standard 1016 , telecommunications
analog to digital conversion of radio voice by 4 , 800 bit second code
excited linear prediction (celp) are available for 2.50 each from

gsa rm 6654
7th d st sw
washington , d.c. 20407
1 202 708 9205

the following articles describe the federal standard 1016 4.8 kbps celp
coder (it 's unnecessary to read more than one)

campbell , joseph p. jr. , thomas e. tremain and vanoy c. welch ,
the federal standard 1016 4800 bps celp voice coder , digital signal
processing , academic press , 1991 , vol. 1 , no. 3 , p. 145 155.

campbell , joseph p. jr. , thomas e. tremain and vanoy c. welch ,
the dod 4.8 kbps standard (proposed federal standard 1016) ,
in advances in speech coding , ed. atal , cuperman and gersho ,
kluwer academic publishers , 1991 , chapter 12 , p. 121 133.

campbell , joseph p. jr. , thomas e. tremain and vanoy c. welch , the
proposed federal standard 1016 4800 bps voice coder celp , speech
technology magazine , april may 1990 , p. 58 64.

for u.s. fed std 1016 (4800 bps celp) realtime dsp code
and information about products using this code , contact

john dellamorte
dsp software engineering
165 middlesex tpk , suite 206
bedford , ma 01730
1 617 275 3733
1 617 275 4323 (fax)
dspse.bedford@channel1.com

dsp software engineering 's code can run on a dsp research 's tiger 30 board
(a pc board with a tms320c3x and analog interface suited to development work)
or on intellibit 's ae2000 tms320c31 based 3 by 2.5 card.

dsp research intellibit
1095 e. duane ave. p.o. box 9785
sunnyvale , ca 94086 mclean , va 22102 0785
(408)773 1042 (703)442 4781
(408)736 3451 (fax) (703)442 4784 (fax)

.............................................................................
joe campbell n3jbc jpcampb@afterlife.ncsc.mil 74040.305@compuserve.com
my opinions are mine ! happiness reality expectations , click clack



from pla@sktb.demon.co.uk ( paul l. allen )
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
reply to pla@sktb.demon.co.uk
organization chaos
lines 70
x newsreader archimedes readnews

begin pgp signed message

in message 9304190956.aa10390@pizzabox.demon.co.uk you write

the cops feds do not need to be able to get hold of your private key to
listen in to cellular conversations. encryption is not end to end , but
cellphone to base station
...

that was true for the uk paul , but i'm fairly sure they 're talking about
building end to end encryption phones out of this chip. it 's not for
cellular (though it certainly could be used there in the way you suggest)

i 'd lost the white house 's deathless prose when i posted (that 's what happens
when you read news at home when you 're rat arsed) , but i did have a bunch
of follow ups going on about cellular cordless comms. the original article
has reappeared , so

the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

hmm , telephone communications could indeed include end to end encryption on
ordinary landlines.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

but the next paragraph says telecoms networks and wireless communications
links.

ok , it 's far from clear exactly what cripple (what an apposite anagram) will
be applied to , but the reason joe public wants secure comms is to stop
people listening in to his cellular or cordless phones (and he would n't
even be bothered about that were it not for wingnut and squidqy 's
misfortunes).

yes , cripple might be for end to end encyption , dropping to clear
when the other end does n't have cripple. but then a cordless to ordinary
conversation would be in clear leaving the cordless end just as vulnerable
as at present. nope , i suspect that cripple will only be used on radio
links.

ok , it 's possible `telecommunications networks' could mean `ordinary phone
lines' , but i'm betting it means the microwave links used by the telcos.

my apologies if i'm wrong , particularly if the turgid press release makes it
clear that i'm wrong and i missed it , but as far as i can see it was full of
obfuscation , and anyone expecting end to end encryption is in for a surprise
(imho).


btw , graham , i 've posted questions to alt.security.pgp and not seen any
replies followups from outside europe how about you \? have i made it into
everyone 's kill file , or is there some problem \?

paul

begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqcvagubk9spbmv14asak9pnaqgjbwp zokyrm0gemlyysnj8bqoh8l8qljomrbo
eocclpkstavebtdcligqhnzowc6ar2k1blibpua2twnqwrgva15ogoc7xxkjj093
yb7p vwvqbxyia6zdj5zkqsdep7x6ckidvdrz5cdis onxtiothk3s3b3wjqbjcu
vks8kov8gfg
gvy0
end pgp signature


from smythw@vccnw03.its.rpi.edu (william smythe)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
nntp posting host vccnw03.its.rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy , ny
lines 47

in article betel.734997645@camelot betel@camelot.bradley.edu (robert crawford) writes
jay fenton fenton@kaleida.com writes

how can the government tell which encryption method one is using without
being able to decode the traffic \? i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an
unauthorized strong encryption technique they would have to take both
keys out of escrow , run them against my ciphertext and draw a blank .

i was thinking about this , also. it 's quite possible the
system transmits , in clear , the serial number of the device being
used. that way they can start a tap , get the serial number , and use
the warrant for the first tap to get the key.

if they tap someone who 's apparently using encryption , but
do n't find that prefix , then they 'll assume it 's an un authorized
encryption scheme.

from the limited details released so far , it seems that the clipper chip
system must employ some sort of public key cryptography. otherwise , the key
management problems inherent to symetric ciphers would make the system
unworkable. it probably has some sort of public key exchange that takes place
at the start of each call. thats how they would identify the private key in
their data base \?

this means that either the nsa has developed some non rsa public key
algorythm or the feds have decided to subsidize pkp rsadsi. the former is
rather an exciting posibility since keeping the algorythm secret while making
chip implimentations widely avalibe will be exceptionally hard. if the feds
are forced to make it avalible in order to gain public acceptance than that
could break rsa 's stranglehold on public key crypto in the u.s.

as for my impressions of the whole scheme it seems that instead of trying to
ban strong crypto , they are trying to co opt it. their contention that they
need to keep the algorythm secret to protect the security of the key
registration suggests possible inherent weakness to the algorythm. more likely
is that they dont want anyone constructing black market devices which dont
have the keys registered. anyone else notice that in their q a session , they
talk about releasing the keys only to people with proper autiorization but
carefully dance around stating that the keys will simply have to be supeonaed.
they seem to be trying to keep open the posibility of obtaining keys without
court order even though tapping a phone line requires one. also pick up on
their implicit threat of eithe accept this or we 'll ban strong crypto outright \?
i dont trust this plan at all and plan to oppose it in all (legal) ways
possible.

bill smythe


from res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization little to none
distribution na
lines 13

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic emmisions
from your computer or terminal. note that measures to protect yourself from

2. i could independently invent about half a dozen right off
the top of my head. if i had studied advanced e m a little better ,
i could probably come up with a very good system.

would n't a a second monitor of similar type scrolling gibberish and adjacent
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to tempest attacks \?

rob stampfli rob@colnet.cmhnet.org the neat thing about standards
614 864 9377 ham radio kd8wk@n8jyv.oh there are so many to choose from.

from throopw sheol@concert.net
subject re clipper considered harmful
lines 59

from shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff)
message id 1r24us oeh@agate.berkeley.edu
it seems likely to me that that a large subset of encrypted communications
would be archived to tape so they could be read if sometime in the future
probable cause arises and a warrant is obtained.

i think it is unlikely that data like this could be used in court.
currently leas can install wiretaps on large numbers of phones , record
calls without listening to them , and then post facto obtain warrants
and listen to calls after probable cause is established. but this
strategy would n't get the stuff admitted in court. (at least , not
in the near term.)

in other words , near as i can tell , the thing that makes such evidence
inadmissable is the interception without a warrant , not the attempt to
interpret what was intercepted without a warrant. i 'd be surprised
that archiving data without consent would be interpreted as anything
but analogous to a wiretap by the courts.

note that that does n't mean i think it wo n't be done if technically
feasible. just as i'm sure many wiretaps are done now without
warrants , just to fish for avenues to investigate. so in the future ,
start surveilance , start archiving data , trump up some probable cause ,
decrypt post facto after the warrant is in hand , and the investigation
gets a boost from data that , sadly , wo n't ever be presented to a jury.

while i'm posting... for an interesting cautionary tale projecting this
archiving scenario to extremes , read lacey and his friends , a
collection of sf stories by david drake. the us starts down the
slippery slope by archiving everyghing . but do n't worry folks , it 's
stored in a secure repository where nobody but leas with warrants can
get to it. and by the way , we 'll be installing cameras on all major
streets. hey , this is nothing new , we already have cameras in banks and
teller machines , do n't we \?

and then we 'll pass laws requiring cameras covering all public
places. then in some private places. then we 'll make it a crime ever
to be out of range of a camera , except in legally licensed privacy
cubicles. only alone. and with a thorough body search before and
after. but , see , there 's still a right to privacy. we have n't
curtailed any rights , not really. and just think how much easier it 'd
be to solve crimes in such a situation just obtain a warrant , put on a
vr helmet and take a walk down memory lane.

and hey , nobody 'll be tracking you or me , no need to be self conscious.

after all , if you 're not doing anything illegal...

funny , though. while speeding and the radar detector industry became
pretty much a thing of the past , somehow all this did n't elminate all
crime in the story. and somehow , politicians got exemptions on grounds
of national security , and rich corporations got exemptions for their
execs on grounds of industrial espionage and the preservation of
competition. and not everybody was exactly happy with the system.
i ca n't imagine why.


wayne throop throopw sheol@concert.net
throop aurgate@concert.net

from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re the escrow database.
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 41

perry e. metzger (pmetzger@snark.shearson.com) wrote
here is a disturbing thought.
....good stuff elided....
do n't pretend that no one unauthorized will ever get their hands on
the escrow databases.

.......
secret. the escrow databases are n't the sorts of secrets that our
teachers told us about , but they are the sort of big secrets they
would lump into this category. imagine trying to replace 100 million
clipper chips.

sounds to me like a great gimmick for a replacement market...every
so often issue a clipper alert announcing that some key backup tapes
are missing , that some drug lords got 'em , whatever. then the owners
of these 1200 clipperphones have to trot down to their local key
escrow agency and buy new chips and have them programmed.

microtoxin , the clipper supplier , will make a killing...maybe this was
the real idea. (anybody know if janet reno has stock in microtoxin ,
vlsi technology , or at t \? )

could be a good opportunity to undermine this with some
disinformation float rumors that the key database has been stolen.
all the chips need replacing. it angers people , undermines confidence
even more , and kills sales.

after the waco massacre and the big brother wiretap chip , any tactic
is fair.

tim may



..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 60


strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior
corporate staff executive in two fortune 50 companies.

i 'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business , if
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular resistant to
attempts by japanese , french , and other competitive companies and
governments to break.

i 'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys , provided i was happy about
the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the federal reserve would certainly
satisfy me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms).

i do n't doubt that this will be the attitude of many corporate leaders.
it 's understandable most corporate execs do n't know much about cryptology ,
and it 's easy to get taken in by someone peddling snake oil. and , the
proposed scheme is a major improvement in telephone security to what
exists now.

the problem is that , with any security scheme of this kind , you have to
concern yourself with the weakest link in the chain. i suspect that nsa
has put a fairly strong encryption algorithm in this wiretap chip of theirs ,
probably at least as strong as (say) des in ofb mode. unfortunately , the
existence of the key registry system seems to make possible all kinds of
possible attacks at a small fraction of the expense of trying to build (say)
a des keysearch machine.

as originally described , it sounded like any police court combination
could acquire the key for a given chip. i hope that 's not the case , since
it would imply a glaring hole. (how much does it cost to find one crooked
jodge and one crooked cop \? especially for a foreign intelligence agency
or organized crime boss \? ) however , even if more intelligent schemes are used
to allow access to the unencrypted phone conversations , there will be weak
nesses. they may be very expensive , and very difficult. but who would
trust his her confidential information to an encryption scheme that , for
(say) 100 , 000 could by cracked one time in a hundred \? (des , for all the
complaints about a 56 bit key , would probably cost several million dollars
to build a keysearch machine for.)

how many million dollars would the confidential phone messages of
the gm headquarters be worth to nissan , chrysler , or audi \? how about
home phones of major execs and important engineers and designers \?
gee , mr jones , i understand you 've had some financial problems lately.
maybe i can help...

i 'd trust something from the nsa long before i 'd trust something from some
swiss or anybody japanese.

indeed , if nsa really designed the algorithm to be secure , it 's very likely
as secure as idea or 2 key des. however , the system as a whole is n't resistant
to practical cryptanalysis. in the puzzle palace , bamford describes how
several nsa employees were turned by foreign (presumably kgb) agents , despite
security measures that i doubt any big 8 accounting firm could match. and
nsa confidential data was not subject to being requested by thousands of
police organizations and courts across the land.

john kelsey , c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu

from grant@dockmaster.ncsc.mil (lynn r grant)
subject another key registration body bites the dust (imho)
organization yale cs mail news gateway
lines 46

one of the candidates that has been suggested for a key registration
body is the aclu. i think this is poor choice. the aclu is
essentially a group of auditors they audit how people 's civil
liberties are administered. traditionally , auditors do not like to get
involved in the design or operational aspects of things , and with good
reason.

when i was a systems programmer , it always infuriated me that the
auditors would come in and tell us our implementation stunk from a
security point of view , but would n't tell us how to fix it. i always
figured they just liked to critcize , without doing the work to help fix
the problem.

then i took a stint as an auditor , and i found out the real reason.
auditors do n't like to recommend solutions , because it puts them in a
bad position if they have to criticize the implementation later. the
auditee can say , well , you told us this way would be ok. it
compromises the independence that is a necessary part of the auditor 's
job.

taking the case at hand , suppose aclu becomes a key half registrar.
suppose that , perhaps through some error on aclu 's part , a key half gets
away that should n't , and is used to deprive someone of her civil
liberties. the aclu gets wind of this , and wants to take it to court.
but they end up being at the same time on the side of the defendant
and of the plaintiff , which is not an easy position to be in.

there are exceptions to the complete independence of auditors at one
place where i worked , when payroll checks were printed , they were signed
automatically by a signature drum on the bursting machine. this drum
was kept by the auditors (who also kept the check stock) , and
was brought down to data processing when it was time to do the checks.

i believe the difference between this situation and the key registration
situation is that it is fairly obvious when it is time to do the payroll
checks if they were done yesterday , and someone wants to do them again
today , he better be able to produce yesterday 's checks so that they can
be destroyed. determining which of the many requests for key halves are
legit is a trickier process , one much more prone to mistakes that could
put the aclu in a protecting the client versus protecting the aclu
conflict of interest.

as always , my opinions are my own.

lynn grant
grant@dockmaster.ncsc.mil

from jhart@agora.rain.com (jim hart)
subject screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization open communications forum
lines 37

since the at t wiretap chip is scheduled to be distributed
internationally , allowing the u.s. government to spy on foreign
governments , companies and people as as well as to wiretap domestic
citizens , this is a world wide issue. thus distribution world.

ygoland@wright.seas.ucla.edu (the jester) writes

however assuming that i can still encrypt things as i please , who
cares about the clipper chip \?

why do we hackers care about the clipper chip \? do we give a shit
about anybody 's privacy accept our own \? and perhaps not even our
own are we so smart that we always know when we 're talking to
somebody who has a wiretap on their phone \?

i find the call thru your computer ideas may reflect this attitude.
ideas that are of , by , and for hackers , and do n't help anybody in the
real world , are n't going to do anybody much good , including ourselves
where voice phones are concerned.

we do need an alternative to nsa bugged telephones , but
we 're talking inexpensive telephones here , including hand sized
cellulars , that need strong crypto , real privacy. make shift
computer hacker rigs that require living by your computer to
talk privately over the phone are just a dumb stunt that does n't
do anything for anybody 's privacy in the real world.

what we need is a true privacy chip . for example , a real time
voice encryption rsa , silicon compile it and spit out asic.
put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for international
business , diplomats , and private communications. if the u.s. bans
it , we make it somewhere else and import it. the japanese , german ,
dutch , taiwanese , korean , etc. electronics companies do n't want the
nsa spying on them. u.s. workers lose more jobs to government fascist
stupidity.

jhart@agora.rain.com

from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 01 10 overview
organization the crypt cabal
lines 138
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 1 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , overview. a table of
contents for subsequent sections. contributors , feedback , archives ,
administrivia.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part01
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 1 overview

this is the first of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read this part before the rest. we
do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

disclaimer this document is the product of the crypt cabal , a secret
society which serves the national secu uh , no. seriously , we 're the
good guys , and we 've done what we can to ensure the completeness and
accuracy of this document , but in a field of military and commercial
importance like cryptography you have to expect that some people and
organizations consider their interests more important than open
scientific discussion. trust only what you can verify firsthand.
and do n't sue us.

many people have contributed to this faq. in alphabetical order
eric bach , steve bellovin , dan bernstein , nelson bolyard , carl ellison ,
jim gillogly , mike gleason , doug gwyn , luke o'connor , tony patti ,
william setzer. we apologize for any omissions.

if you have suggestions , comments , or criticism , please let the current
editors know by sending e mail to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu. we do n't
assume that this faq is at all complete at this point.

archives sci.crypt has been archived since october 1991 on
cl next2.cl.msu.edu , though these archives are available only to u.s. and
canadian users. please contact crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu if you know of
other archives.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


table of contents

1 overview

2 net etiquette
what groups are around \? what 's a faq \? who am i \? why am i here \?
do political discussions belong in sci.crypt \?
how do i present a new encryption scheme in sci.crypt \?

3 basic cryptology
what is cryptology \? cryptography \? plaintext \? ciphertext \? encryption \? key \?
what references can i start with to learn cryptology \?
how does one go about cryptanalysis \?
what is a brute force search and what is its cryptographic relevance \?
what are some properties satisfied by every strong cryptosystem \?
if a cryptosystem is theoretically unbreakable , then is it
guaranteed analysis proof in practice \?
why are many people still using cryptosystems that are
relatively easy to break \?

4 mathematical cryptology
in mathematical terms , what is a private key cryptosystem \?
what is an attack \?
what 's the advantage of formulating all this mathematically \?
why is the one time pad secure \?
what 's a ciphertext only attack \?
what 's a known plaintext attack \?
what 's a chosen plaintext attack \?
in mathematical terms , what can you say about brute force attacks \?
what 's a key guessing attack \? what 's entropy \?

5 product ciphers
what is a product cipher \?
what makes a product cipher secure \?
what are some group theoretic properties of product ciphers \?
what can be proven about the security of a product cipher \?
how are block ciphers used to encrypt data longer than the block size \?
can symmetric block ciphers be used for message authentication \?
what exactly is des \?
what is triple des \?
what is differential cryptanalysis \?
how was nsa involved in the design of des \?
is des available in software \?
is des available in hardware \?
can des be used to protect classified information \?
what are ecb , cbc , cfb , and ofb encryption \?

6 public key cryptography
what is public key cryptography \?
what 's rsa \?
is rsa secure \?
how fast can people factor numbers \?
what about other public key cryptosystems \?

7 digital signatures and hash functions
what is a one way hash function \?
what is the difference between public , private , secret , shared , etc. \?
what are md4 and md5 \?
what is snefru \?

8 technical miscellany
how do i recover from lost passwords in wordperfect \?
how do i break a vigenere (repeated key) cipher \?
how do i send encrypted mail under unix \? pgp , ripem , pem , ...
is the unix crypt command secure \?
how do i use compression with encryption \?
is there an unbreakable cipher \?
what does ``random'' mean in cryptography \?
what is the unicity point (a.k.a. unicity distance) \?
what is key management and why is it important \?
can i use pseudo random or chaotic numbers as a key stream \?
what is the correct frequency list for english letters \?
what is the enigma \?
how do i shuffle cards \?
can i foil s w pirates by encrypting my cd rom \?
can you do automatic cryptanalysis of simple ciphers \?
what is the coding system used by vcr \?

9 other miscellany
what is the national security agency (nsa) \?
what are the us export regulations \?
what is tempest \?
what are the beale ciphers , and are they a hoax \?
what is the american cryptogram association , and how do i get in touch \?
is rsa patented \?
what about the voynich manuscript \?

10 references
books on history and classical methods
books on modern methods
survey articles
reference articles
journals , conference proceedings
other
how may one obtain copies of fips and ansi standards cited herein \?
electronic sources
rfcs (available from ftprf )
related newsgroups

from hanson@kronos.arc.nasa.gov (robin hanson)
subject estimating wiretap costs benefits
nntp posting host jabberwock.arc.nasa.gov
organization nasa arc information sciences division
lines 38

i'm attempting to write a serious policy paper examining whether the
proposed wiretap (or clipper ) chip is a cost effective tool for
police investigation. that is , ignoring concerns about government
intrusions into individual privacy , is the value of easy wiretaps to
investigators greater than the cost to the communications industry ,
and their customers , to support this wiretap technology \?

a rough estimate suggests that wiretaps are worth about five million
dollars per year to u.s. law enforcement agencies. (in 1990 , 872 u.s.
wiretaps led to 2057 arrests , while total police expenditures of 28
billion led to 11.25 million arrests ref us statistical abstracts .)
i'm working on estimating this wiretap benefit more accurately , but
i 'd like to ask hardware experts out there to help me with estimating
the costs of the new proposed wiretap technology.

please send me quotable citeable estimates for

how many chips which would need to be made per year to keep all
phones with wiretap chips \?
how much would it cost to make each chip \?
how much did it cost to develop this technology in the first place \?
how much more would supporting hardware , people , etc. cost , per chip \?
what percentage cheaper would encryption chips and support have been
if private enterprise could compete to meet customer encryption needs \?
what percentage of phone traffic would be taken up by the proposed
law enforcement blocks \?
what is the total cost of handling all phone traffic per year \?

put another way , the question i'm asking is , what if each police
agency that wanted a particular wiretap had to pay for it , being
charged their share of the full social cost of forcing communication
to be wiretap compatible \? would they choose to buy such wiretaps , or
would they find it more cost effective to instead investigate crimes
in other ways \?

robin hanson hanson@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov
415 604 3361 ms 269 2 , nasa ames research center , moffett field , ca 94035
510 651 7483 47164 male terrace , fremont , ca 94539 7921

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 39

in article warlord.93apr20175546@deathtongue.mit.edu warlord@mit.edu
(derek atkins) writes



the point here is not the specific instance of the wiretap chip.
rather , it is like having the government telling you that they want a
copy of your house key , safe deposit box keys , etc. , and telling you
that they wont use them unless its totally neccessary. i sure
would n't want that. why should encryption be any different \?

actually the govrnment is telling you that if you want to use their
product the manufacturer (actually better yet , some trusted pair
of escrow agencies) has to have the key.

most of us already are in this situation our car makers have keys to our
cars (or can get them quickly from the vin number) , and i have no doubt
that if presented with a court order , they 'd surrender copies to the
government.

chances are that many locksmiths have the code numbers for house locks
they 've installed , and in an emergency can cut keys thus they 'd also
provide such keys to the government pursuant to a court order.

the state has no difficulty gaining access to your safe deposit box if they
have a court order.

bad analogy.

this is not to argue for or against the proposal , but rather better
distinctions are required in thinking about it than house key , safe deposit
keys , etc. .

david

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from pla@sktb.demon.co.uk ( paul l. allen )
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
reply to pla@sktb.demon.co.uk
organization chaos
lines 76
x newsreader archimedes readnews

begin pgp signed message

in article pmetzger.93apr18141006@snark.shearson.com pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes

in article 1qnupd jpm@news.intercon.com amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)

jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse) writes
oh great. wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds.

hey , it 's better than the status quo.

i am far less worried about the feds tapping my phone than high school
scanner surfers who get their kicks out of eavesdropping on cellular and
cordless phone calls.

i'm a political dissident. i'm scared shitless of the feds listening
in on my calls. my opinions are the sort that would get me
disappeared in a slightly less free society and who knows what
sort of society we will be in in five or ten years \? i have friends who
have had their phones tapped none of this is theoretical to me.

as for its better than the status quo , well , first of all , you can
get a cryptophone from companies like cylink today and they work
well. in addition , a number of groups are now working on building
software to turn any pc into a privacy enhanced phone right now and
they are all working in overdrive mode.

and yes , i 'd rather just see all crypto restrictions lifted , but this is at
least an incrememental improvement for certain applications...

there are no crypto restrictions... yet. you can use anything you want
right now. the point is to maintain that right.

the point you all seem to have missed was covered when the uk cellphone
scrambling system was discussed. incidentally , my mp has responded to
my questions on that issue , and it appears that the uk and other `approved'
countries will get the secure a5 encryption , and `dodgy' countries will
get a5x. existing mobile equipment will drop to clear mode when used with
a5x systems , but newer equipment will use a5 a5x clear depending on the
capabilities of the base station.

the cops feds do not need to be able to get hold of your private key to
listen in to cellular conversations. encryption is not end to end , but
cellphone to base station it has to be this way so that cellular users
and fixed installations can talk to each other. for cellular to cellular
calls , the transmission is decrypted at the base station , passed to another
base station and re encrypted. the cops feds can listen to the unscrambled
call provided they get a warrant to tap into the cellular provider 's
equipment. the only reason for wanting a crackable system is so they can
listen without having to obtain a warrant.

but , maybe the clipper system is secure , and they really do need a warrant
to get the key out of escrow before they can listen in using a scanner (see
above they do n't have to go down this route anyway). i have my doubts ,
but even if true once they have the key they will never again need a
warrant to tap into that particular phone whenever they want. `well , judge ,
it appears he was n't a drug dealer after all , so naturally we 'll stop
listening in'...

you have every reason to be scared shitless. take a look at the records
of mccarthy , hoover (j. edgar , not the cleaner though they both excelled at
sucking) and nixon.

paul

begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqcvagubk9ial2v14asak9pnaqevxgqaoxrviaggvpvrdlwzchbnqo6yhunuj8my
cvpx2zvkhhjzkfs5luw6z63rrwejvhxegv79ex4xzssswvuzblvyqukgs08sz2eq
blsuij9afxalv5gj4jb hu40qvu6i7gkkrvgtlxeypkvxfd tfc4n9hovumvnruc
ve5zy8988py
nocg
end pgp signature


from jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution na
lines 21


stupid me. i believed the democrats stood for principles of personal
privacy while it was the neanderthal republicans that wanted into every
aspect of our lives.

clinton is just more clever than the other guy. looks like gun control for
privacy technology. one small step at a time.

wait a minute.... let me think about this.

hmmm , i feel better now. i believe the white house when they tell us
this first step is , in fact , the final step. all is ok. we 've nothing to fear.
they 're here to help us.

god bless america.


john hesse a man ,
jhesse@netcom.com a plan ,
moss beach , calif a canal , bob.


from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 17

in article 1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front
ends.

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non escrowed
encryption schemes. otherwise , why not just use the front end without
clipper \?

david


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from andyl@harlqn.co.uk (andy latto)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
in reply to smb@research.att.com 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 13 23 18 gmt
nntp posting host epcot.harlequin.com
organization harlequin limited , cambridge , england
1993apr20.150531.2059@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com c5sy1z.4td@demon.co.uk
1993apr21.132318.16981@ulysses.att.com
lines 42


in article 1993apr21.132318.16981@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes

in article c5sy1z.4td@demon.co.uk , graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
in article 1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys.

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count.

that does n't worry me at all they 're not going to cheat at something
they can get caught at. and key size is one of the things that can be
verified externally. feed lots of random key input pairs into the
chip , then try flipping random key bits , and see what happens to the
output. we already know what should happen about half the output
bits should vary , on average , from a 1 bit key change or input change.

if they were out to build a weak cryptosystem , it might be the case that
some of the bits are much less powerful than others , in the sense that
they only enter into the encryption very late in the game. by contrast ,
des was designed to use each key bit as early as possible the 50 output
change rate appears as early as round 5. again , though , i do n't think
nsa is going to cheat that crudely they 're likely to get caught.

consider a cryptosytem that starts out by xoring bits 23 and 47 , and
not using either of these bits except through this xor. this system
makes early use of every bit. but an exhaustive key search would now
only have 2 79 keys to search. your test by varying single key bits
would n't turn up anything interesting.

remember that they 've promised to let a committee of outside experts see
the cryptosystem design. if you assume something des like , a biased
subkey generation schedule will stick out like a sore thumb.

the algorithm i suggest above would stick out like a sore thumb , but
i'm sure i could design a system with a more subtle key redundancy
which was well hidden , but would still make an exhaustive key search
take far less than 2 80 encryptions. i do n't believe your claim that
the real keysize can be verified externally.

andy latto
andyl@harlequin.com

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization totally unorganized
lines 48

in article bontchev.735226256@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

as usually , you are not reading. the proposal does say that it is a
voluntary program . this does n't make it more desirable , though...

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.

secure \? how do you know \? because nsa is trying to make you believe it \?
trust us. yeah , right.

otherwise you are on your own \? how do you know that tomorrow they
will not outlaw encrypring devices that do n't use their technology \?
because they are promising you \? gee , they are not doing even that
read the proposal again.

one minor nitpick it is not a proposal. it is a decision ... from their
point of view it is a done deal. the chips are being manufactured , it
obviously has been budgeted , the whole thing. that is what is so upsetting.
this was all done in secret. because they didn't want the people to know
what was going on until it is too late.

otherwise , i agree with you 100 percent.

how come it always takes someone who has lived under the eastern bloc to
remind us about how precious and fragile our liberties are \?

please , keep up the good work. hopefully you will wake someone up...


regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany



pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from ignatz@chinet.chi.il.us (dave ihnat)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
summary but , for all its flaws , the domino theory was right...
organization chinet public access unix
distribution na
lines 8

in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \? when one little country falls , its neighbor
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all mining salt
in siberia for not turning in our captain crunch secret decoder rings.

but , for all the wrongness of our attempt to correct it (vietnam , et. al.) ,
the domino theory was n't disproved at all.

subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
from a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin)
a rubin.735242424@dsg4.dse.beckman.com 1993apr20.151718.2576@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
distribution na
organization beckman instruments , inc.
nntp posting host dsg4.dse.beckman.com
lines 15

in 1993apr20.151718.2576@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright) writes

in article a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin) writes

i would n't trust the nsa. i think i would trust the president on this , but
i'm not certain he would be told.

i am not a crook. president richard m. nixon


this president. (and i could easily be wrong.)

arthur l. rubin a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (work) beckman instruments brea
216 5888@mcimail.com 70707.453@compuserve.com arthur@pnet01.cts.com (personal)
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer.

from ee92jks@brunel.ac.uk (jonathan k saville)
subject re freely distributable public key cryptography c code where \?
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 26

d. wigglesworth (smhanaes@gpu.utcc.utoronto.ca) wrote

do you know of any freely distributable c (or c) code for public
key cryptography (such as rsa) \?

i 've tried various archie searches to no avail.

have you heard of pgp \? i assume from your post that you have not. pgp 2.2
is a freeware rsa encryption program which includes digital signatures and
comprehensive key management facilities. most sites also keep the source code.
a growing number of people are using this excellent software to encrypt (to
a very high standard) their email and data. get it before clinton outlaws it.

two of the many sites are
rsa.com pub pgp
soda.berkeley.edu pub cypherpunks pgp

hope this helps ,

jon


jon saville who alive can say , 'thou art no
ee92jks@brunel.ac.uk poet , may 'st not tell thy dreams \? '
keats , 1819
pgp 2.2 public key available upon request or by finger

from rlglende@netcom.com (robert lewis glendenning)
subject re estimating wiretap costs benefits
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 61

in article 1993apr20.203756.20667@kronos.arc.nasa.gov hanson@kronos.arc.nasa.gov (robin hanson) writes
i'm attempting to write a serious policy paper examining whether the
proposed wiretap (or clipper ) chip is a cost effective tool for
police investigation. that is , ignoring concerns about government
intrusions into individual privacy , is the value of easy wiretaps to
investigators greater than the cost to the communications industry ,
and their customers , to support this wiretap technology \?

a rough estimate suggests that wiretaps are worth about five million
dollars per year to u.s. law enforcement agencies. (in 1990 , 872 u.s.
wiretaps led to 2057 arrests , while total police expenditures of 28
billion led to 11.25 million arrests ref us statistical abstracts .)
i'm working on estimating this wiretap benefit more accurately , but
i 'd like to ask hardware experts out there to help me with estimating
the costs of the new proposed wiretap technology.

please send me quotable citeable estimates for

how many chips which would need to be made per year to keep all
phones with wiretap chips \?
how much would it cost to make each chip \?
how much did it cost to develop this technology in the first place \?
how much more would supporting hardware , people , etc. cost , per chip \?
what percentage cheaper would encryption chips and support have been
if private enterprise could compete to meet customer encryption needs \?
what percentage of phone traffic would be taken up by the proposed
law enforcement blocks \?
what is the total cost of handling all phone traffic per year \?

put another way , the question i'm asking is , what if each police
agency that wanted a particular wiretap had to pay for it , being
charged their share of the full social cost of forcing communication
to be wiretap compatible \? would they choose to buy such wiretaps , or
would they find it more cost effective to instead investigate crimes
in other ways \?

robin hanson hanson@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov
415 604 3361 ms 269 2 , nasa ames research center , moffett field , ca 94035
510 651 7483 47164 male terrace , fremont , ca 94539 7921

first , what the fuck is nasa doing wasting my tax dollars doing
policy papers on stuff far outside of their purvew mission \?

second , this is n't a problem of economics. this is a problem of
the incremental accumulation of police state powers by our government.

how , exactly , do you put a price on the loss of freedom of a society \?
maybe use the dollars life lost calculations for the extra people
killed by the gov. the pain and suffering cases for those tortured.
the dollars life lost caused by the inevitable collapse of the economy ,
and all the secondary effects of diseases , diet , etc. plus , the
inevitable collapse of the economy as the gov controls it , becomes
corrupt , etc.

do us a favor. resign rather than right this paper for nasa. go
do useful work for the society.

lew

lew glendenning rlglende@netcom.com
perspective is worth 80 iq points. niels bohr (or somebody like that).

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
lines 19

even more interesting the smtp server at csrc.ncsl.nist.gov no longer
recognizes the 'expn' and 'vrfy' commands...

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov smtp
trying 129.6.54.11...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt
expn clipper
500 command unrecognized

seems like sombody did n't like your snooping around , marc.

or mine. or the dozen or so other people who probably had the same idea )

so does this rush to shut it down imply that some of the names on that
list are heavy duty spooks \? )))

g

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
distribution inet
lines 84

andrew molitor (amolitor@nmsu.edu) wrote

1) monitor my phonecalls.
2) monitor usenet.
3) provide only cryptosystems they can easily crack.
4) etc etc.

this is not to say that they do n't , they might. but you do n't
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of 'you' ,
your claims about the nsa border on paranoia.

andrew

now i would n't be the one to claim that you are injecting some
disinformation into the net , andrew , but 'paranoia' refers to
unwarranted or excessive suspicions or fear , not those that
have reasonable roots.

let 's start with looking at the professionals , the nsa itself.
its birth was by secret executive order by harry s truman
in 1952. until even 1976 not even one word of this executive
order chartering the nsa was sealed. paranoia , right \?

on the outside of the nsa complex is a ten foot cyclone fence
with multiple rows of barbed wire , with high voltage , complete with signs
prohibiting even making sketches under penalty of the internal
security act. the area is completely scanned by closed circuit
television. more paranoia.

these are professionals , maybe they know something we do n't , eh \?

do you think it would have helped admiral yamamoto if the japanese
had been a little more 'paranoid' of their purple cipher \?

or maybe the germans should have been a little more 'paranoid' about
their engima with respect to turing and the british.

how about the cracking of the zimmerman telegram \? would a little
more paranoia have helped the germans here \?

maybe the nsa should have been a little more 'paranoid' about
emma woikin , or joseph sidney petersen , jr. , or ...

maybe you want to talk about macmillan publishers cooperation
with the cia and nsa to suppress yardley 's japanese diplomatic
secrets or even kahn 's the codebreakers.. paranoia , right \?

the most popular cipher systems in captured soviet spies was
the one time pad , even with the necessity of keeping incriminating
evidence about , is known to be the only proven unbreakable system.
soviet paranoia , right \?

and what do you think the nsa does with its wullenwebers \? and
huge rhombics pointed embassy row \? and their sites near
satellite uplink and downlink sites \? duh.

when i worked in a classified mitre communications lab at one time
even with a secret clearance i had to be escorted to the toilet
and the entire site was built into a mosler type vault with very
thick bomb proof door. mitre paranoia \?

i could cite probably a hundred more facts which all support , as
best hypothesis , the notion that the nsa is grabbing as much as
it can , as fast as it can. one would be a fool to ignore the
pattern of facts and conclude that they were random...

and we know the government is violent even against children as
recent events prove. judge william sessions is a disgrace
but a solemn warning to those who ignore the web of evidence
that our government institutions have in their contempt for our
civil rights.

and of course we have to err somewhat on the excessive side of
caution because that does much less harm than erring on the
reckless side. as member of the crew of the uss liberty might aver.

i might suggest , andrew , that you read kahn 's codebreakers and
bamford 's puzzle palace and come back with some more facts to
support your sheepish acquiescence to authority.


grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization at t bell laboratories
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
lines 14

in article 1qp9d1 e37@dorothy.ibmpcug.co.uk , gtoal@news.ibmpcug.co.uk (graham toal) writes
try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there
that they 're angling for nren next , and the only conceivable meaning of
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of encryption.

umm... i beg to differ with the phrase ``only conceivable meaning''.
the sdns protocols , for example , make explicit provision for multiple
encryption systems , as does pem. (and i 'd love to see how they 'd
mandate this new system for pem without disclosing it....)

mind you , i'm not saying that multiple algorithms will actually be
used but the relevant technologies certainly provide for them , which
certainly casts doubt on your choice of words.

from eachus@spectre.mitre.org (robert i. eachus)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
in reply to mjr@tis.com 's message of 21 apr 1993 21 28 13 gmt
nntp posting host spectre.mitre.org
organization the mitre corp. , bedford , ma.
1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com
1993apr21.001230.26384@lokkur.dexter.mi.us 1r4e9d pdo@sol.tis.com
lines 19


do n't get fooled by exponents 2 80 (possible keys) is not in the
same league with 10 80 (particles in the universe). 2 80 10 25.
remember avagadro 's number \? there are about that many elementary
particles (not molecules) in one mole. pretty small universe ! or if
you can put 5 gigabytes on one tape , you would need about 10 trillion
tapes (allowing several bytes per entry). still more than all of the
existing magnetic media on the planet , but wait a few years. (i'm
including existing audio and video cassettes in the total. ten
trillion is about 2 , 000 per person worldwide... gives new meaning to
the suspicions of hiden messages.)



robert i. eachus

with standard disclaimer
use standard disclaimer
function message (text in clever ideas) return better ideas is...

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
article i.d. clarinet.1993apr17.090731.18680
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 21

interestingly enough , in designing the escrow , we may want to use some
rather unusual technology , such as sealed boxes of paper , or
destructive read memory , rather than typical computer databases , which
is fun for a database of hundreds of millions of keys.

the greatest danger of the escrow database , if it were kept on disk ,
would be the chance that a complete copy could somehow leak out. you
can design lots of protection , but with enough corruption a complete
copy is always possible. storing it on paper or something very hard
to copy at once may actually make sense. or a medium that ca n't be
copied for example , something with very slow access times or which
leaves a destructive trail if it is even read.

of course then it 's hard to backup. however , i think the consequences
of no backup the data is not there when a warrant comes are worse
than the consequences of a secret backup.

an audit trail that reveals when data has been access , that ca n't be
erased by the humans involved , is also necessary.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization mary ellen carter salvage crew
distribution na
in reply to jhesse@netcom.com 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 01 36 41 gmt
keywords big bubba is watching !
jhessec5ltt5.imc@netcom.com
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 25

in article jhessec5ltt5.imc@netcom.com jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse) writes
stupid me. i believed the democrats stood for principles of personal
privacy while it was the neanderthal republicans that wanted into every
aspect of our lives.
clinton is just more clever than the other guy. looks like gun control for
privacy technology. one small step at a time.

remember defend firearms defeat dukakis , followed by bush 's soon after
election support for gun control \? this is the democrats' version
defend free speech reject republicans followed by speech control.

wait a minute.... let me think about this.

hmmm , i feel better now. i believe the white house when they tell us
this first step is , in fact , the final step. all is ok. we 've nothing to fear.
they 're here to help us. god bless america.

hey , like the grrreat j.r. bob dobbs says , you 've got to pull the
wool over your own eyes !


pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re clipper chip bush did it
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
keywords big bubba is watching !
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
distribution na
lines 13

johng@ecs.comm.mot.com (john gilbert) writes
this must have been in the works for some time. the bush administration must
have been working on it for quite a while. clinton simply took the credit (or
blame , depending on how you look at it).

and the initiative for actual implementation. clinton is not just an
innocent bystander here they did n't just slap his name on it without
consulting him. what exactly is his extensive history of individual
rights advocacy that people are assuming he really has nothing to do
with this \? he just went back on his pledge to cut the espionage
budget , and is now asking for more money than even bush wanted.

i 've left my body to science and science is contesting the will.

from jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 21

in article strnlghtc5lgfi.jqa@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes


though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no
secure telephony , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a goat can
eavesdrop. this would also plug up the security hole in cellular and
cordless phones.


oh great. wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds. you
believe that the feds offer the least threat to liberty of anyone , and i'm
sure i do too.

glad that jerk wo n't be tapping my phone anymore.


john hesse a man ,
jhesse@netcom.com a plan ,
moss beach , calif a canal , bob.


from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
lines 36

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes
can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

a good vocoder like ours will give you 8000 bits per second locked at
full rate (it 's a variable rate voice activity vocoder). if you want
less quality , cut that to 4000 bps (half rate). at full rate variable
you could put two full duplex conversations on a v.32bis modem. this
requires a dsp or asics , though. an rs 6000 has a cpu that could
probably do it in real time , because it has the add and multiply
instruction and a few other dsp things.

if you want to do speech in real time you need about 4000 samples a
second (for not very good voice) with your 8 bit samples (isdn is 8000
8 bit samples a second) , which is 32 kbps. you could do a fast 2 1
compression on that to get it down to 16 kbps , which is just about
v.32bis. the quality at this point is very bleah , but it should work.
now add in the time for your encryption method. you 're going to need
sampling hardware , which is no problem on a new mac , an amiga. or a
pc with a soundblaster card (just because they 're so popular and cheap
you could also build a simple adc). the problem with the
soundblaster is that it does n't seem to be full duplex you ca n't
sample and play backq at the same time , making a two way conversation
a bit tough. the special hardware or a more capable sound card may be
required.

the only thing that worries me is that 2 1 compression the
soundblaster can do it automatically in hardware , but other than that
i do n't have a good feel for how processor intensive it is , so i ca n't
estimate how fast a pc you 'd need.



not all men who drink are poets. some of us drink because we are not poets.

from holthaus@news.weeg.uiowa.edu (james r. holthaus)
subject cryptology in the world
keywords cryptology international restrictions
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa
lines 10

what is the status of cruptology for private citizens throughout the
world \? or , more clearly , is there a listing of countries and their
policies on citizens encrypting electronic data \?

i'm curious how the europeans handle this , for instance.

james holthaus james holthaus@uiowa.edu
government is an association of men who do violence to the rest of us.
leo tolstoy
pgp 2.2 public key available on request or from key server

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from u23590@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re clipper some new thoughts
lines 7

the cryptographic algorythm must be kept secret , or
private individuals could make clipperclones with
which they could transmit messages which the feds would not have
ready access to. this is clearly unacceptable.

i hope somebody starts doing this soon after the first
ones are released...

from so@eiffel.cs.psu.edu (nicol c so)
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation
nntp posting host eiffel.cs.psu.edu
organization penn state computer science
lines 19

in article 897@pivot.sbi.com bet@sbi.com (bennett todd @ salomon brothers inc. , ny ) writes
this came up because i decided to configure up mit magic cookie 1 security
for x11r5. for this to work you need to stick some bits that an intruder
ca n't guess in a file (readable only by you) which x client applications
read. they pass the bits back to the server when they want to establish a
connection.

...
what i settled on was grabbing a bunch of traffic off the network.
basically , i ran

etherfind u x greater 0 compress

and skipped over 10k of output , then grabbed my bits. as best i can tell ,
these are bits that can be expected to be reasonably uniformly distributed ,
and quite unguessable by an intruder.

for your application , what you can do is to encrypt the real time clock
value with a secret key.

from jon c. r. bennett jb7m @andrew.cmu.edu
subject ideas on clipper
organization robotics institute , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 92
nntp posting host andrew.cmu.edu


i have an idea as to why the encryption algorithm needs to be keep secret ,
and some things that i think it implies. (of course these could all be
wrong.....)

from

the clipper chip a technical summary
dorothy denning
revised , april 21 , 1993

.
.
.

the clipper chip contains a classified single key 64 bit block
encryption algorithm called skipjack. the algorithm uses 80 bit keys
(compared with 56 for the des) and has 32 rounds of scrambling
(compared with 16 for the des). it supports all 4 des modes of
operation. the algorithm takes 32 clock ticks , and in electronic
codebook (ecb) mode runs at 12 mbits per second.

each chip includes the following components

the skipjack encryption algorithm
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all chips
n , a 30 bit serial number (this length is subject to change)
u , an 80 bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip

.
.
.

encrypting with the chip

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t
telephone security device (as it will be). suppose i call someone and
we both have such a device. after pushing a button to start a secure
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit session key k
with the device at the other end. this key negotiation takes place
without the clipper chip. in general , any method of key exchange can
be used such as the diffie hellman public key distribution method.

once the session key k is established , the clipper chip is used to
encrypt the conversation or message stream m (digitized voice). the
telephone security device feeds k and m into the chip to produce two
values

e m k , the encrypted message stream , and
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field ,

which are transmitted over the telephone line. the law enforcement
field thus contains the session key k encrypted under the unit key u
concatenated with the serial number n , all encrypted under the family
key f. the law enforcement field is decrypted by law enforcement after
an authorized wiretap has been installed.



suppose i knew how the algorithm worked and knew the n for my chip , but
did not know f , then by cryptanalysis i might be able to determine f from
if law enforcement field
e e k u n f
not knowing n would might make this much harder.

now suppose that i know f , (either legitimately or not) ,
if i know k (either because i am involved in the conversation , or i know u
for a party in the conversation) , i may now be able to determine u for the
other party.

if i know f i can also defeat the law enforcement field , since i could
make my own , with a different k then the one i am using. knowing f also
allows traffic analysis to be performed. so i might not know what you are
saying but i could know who you are saying it too.

now i admit that someone trying to compute u will not have lots of
messages to work from , but since we have no way of knowing that the key
generation method does not (deliberately \? ) generate weak keys , or for that
matter that the published method is in fact used , perhaps the u 's will be
chosen from know weak keys for the system.

obviously the compromise of f would be a disaster , both to law enforcement
for whom this whole thing is designed , and for the people who believe that
it is giving them security. f is but one number , and i sure that alot of
people (more then 1) know what it is (and if some panel of experts is
going to check it over for flaws then many more will know f , forget
grinding chips , bribery and blackmail work just fine.

so , am i wrong \? or are these problems.

jon


from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject are we being hysterical \? no !
in reply to amolitor@nmsu.edu 's message of 17 apr 1993 17 54 23 gmt
reply to pmetzger@lehman.com
organization lehman brothers
1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu
distribution na
lines 80


in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes

in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com
tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \?

as john gilmore has pointed out repeatedly , if you produce the
infrastructure that would permit a police state to function , all that
is required to suddenly find yourself living in one is a change of
attitude on the part of the government.

our constitution was built by men who had to risk their lives to
ensure freedom in our country. they designed the system to make it
difficult for tyranny to arise. for instance , one of the reasons the
fourth amendment was put there was to make it harder for the
government to try to make smuggling a crime. think i jest \? john
hancock made all his money smuggling rum , which is , after all , a drug.

think about it. the government has everyones keys in escrow , and the
fbi gets their pet wiretap without leaving the office scheme. there
is a coup , which happens every day all around the world. within hours ,
everyone in the country who might oppose the tyrants is being
monitored more closely than ever before possible.

without the tools being in place , a tyranny cannot stand. with tools
like this in place , a tyrannical dictatorship could actually be
successfully imposed.

why give the government tools with which to enslave you \? maybe you can
trust bill clinton , but are you willing to tell me that you can trust
every government that will ever arise in the u.s. hereafter \? i am not
willing to make that leap of faith.

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime

is n't this just a little melodramatic \?

i'm a political dissident. as such , i am acutely aware of what happens
to political dissidents in most of the world. in most of the world , i
could be killed for my beliefs. call amnesty international some time
to find out what happens to dissidents in most of the world.

all that seperates the u.s. from most of those places is a thin piece
of parchment in the national archives thats being constantly more and
more eroded by such farces as the war on drugs. coups have happened in
countries that have had stable democracies for over a hundred years.
governments throughout history have fallen. no government has lasted
for more than a few hundred years. often , they are replaced by
dictatorships. do you really believe so intensely that it could never
ever ever happen here that you are willing to bet your own life and
the lives of your children and other loved ones on it \?

if we construct the tools with which tyranny could be enforced , we
make it orders of magnitude more likely that it could happen , because
if it happened with the tools already in place it could actually
stick.

naive fools such as our leadership believe they can protect us where
hundreds that have gone before have failed. thriving democracies led
by men far more skillfull than bill clinton have fallen to
dictatorship. rome had a thriving republic run by exquisitely skilled
men before they became a tyranny.

i , for one , am unwilling to trust that it could never happen here.
only hubris would allow us to believe we are immune to what has
happened elsewhere.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re opinions of rc2 alg.
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 18

markowitz@dockmaster.ncsc.mil writes

it is interesting to note in this regard that permission to export
pkzip 's encryption scheme has twice been denied by nsa. draw you own
conclusions.

uh , i'm afraid that your information is slightly out of date... pkware
has obtained a license to export their program to the whole world ,
except a very limited list of countries... draw your own conclusions
about the strength of the algorithm... )

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 32

in article 1r0nov p3e@access.digex.net steve b@access.digex.com (steve
brinich) writes



1. american manufacturers peddling cripple chips with a secret untested
algorithm whose keys are held by people with a history of untrustworthy
behavoir , or


er , excuse me but since the escrow agencies are n't yet chosen , how can you
say they have a history of untrustworthy behavoir sic \?

i'm sure each of us can think of agencies without such a history. price
waterhouse has kept the secret of the academy awards for many years , even in
the face of an aggressive press. the federal reserve open market committee
has successfully kept decisions from leaking for the statutory period until
publication. even the department of agriculture has successfully kept crop
forecasts from leaking prematurely.

frankly , i 'd trust the above (not the d of a , of course since they might be
subject to political pressure) far sooner than the aclu , eff , or cpsr which ,
though not exactly government apologists , have no particular track record
for internal security that i know of.

david


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re pgp ideas for ibm systems
lines 7

i 've been thinking about how difficult it would be to make pgp available
in some form on ebcdic machines.

do n't encourage them. let ebcdic machines die an honorable death )

g


from jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
summary fort meade has lots of compute power...more than anywhere else.
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 43

in article 1993apr19.093227.1093@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu lewis@eecg.toronto.edu (david lewis) writes
in article 16bb51156.c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey) writes

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

..stuff deleted
but who would
trust his her confidential information to an encryption scheme that , for
(say) 100 , 000 could by cracked one time in a hundred \? (des , for all the
complaints about a 56 bit key , would probably cost several million dollars
to build a keysearch machine for.)


i can buy a des keysearch machine off the shelf now for approx 500k , but
it is not sold by that name. go buy a circuit emulation machine (eg. quickturn)
containing a bunch of fpgas , (say 500 to 1000 3090 's) , and program each
to be a des search engine. lets say 500 chips , running at 10mhz 5g tests sec.
time is 14e6 sec max 23 weeks , 12 weeks average. ca n't wait that long \?
buy a bigger machine.

oh , but can big brother afford such things in these times of tight
budgets \?

i do n't know how many folks noticed it , but dorothy trust me denning gave
a real clue to the current state of the art at nsa on decrypto machines when
she said the nsa told her they did n't even want to be the holder of any
part of the key.

now why is that \? i doubt there is a trapdoor in skipjack. (but we will
never know). and i doubt the nsa would promote a mass market chip they
could n't compromise. ergo , nsa is now capable of compromising (probably
with brute force keysearch) engines of the complexity of skipjack. look
at the specs. why , i bet they have thousands of little chips chugging
away in their crypto busters... maybe even tens of thousands. complexity \?
not much more than a 3090. how many such machines will fit into fort meade \?

i think pgp2.3 should have 256 bit idea keys...


information farming at... for addr phone finger a a
the ohio state university jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ((0 0))
jim ebright e mail jre @osu.edu
support privacy support encryption ( )

subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
from kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (tal kubo)
distribution inet
organization dept. of math , harvard univ.
nntp posting host zariski.harvard.edu
lines 27

in article c5uprt.gmq@dcs.ed.ac.uk pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley) writes

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it
was posted encrypted \?

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain.

in fact , since effective encryption makes censorship impossible , they
are almost the same issue and they certainly fall into the brief of the
eff.


it also falls within the purview of the aclu , but that does n't mean
the aclu (or the eff) would be the most effective instrument to
win the hearts and minds in favor of access to cryptography.

it 's precisely slogans like cryptography makes censorship impossible
which stand to torpedo any attempt to generate a broad consensus in favor
of encryption. it is not true , and in the context of a public debate it
would be a dangerous red herring. advocates of strong crypto had better
prepare themselves to answer such charges in pragmatic terms that laypeople
and politicians can sympathize with. the usual mumblings about
constitutional amendments are not enough.



tal kubo@math.harvard.edu

from markh@wimsey.bc.ca (mark c. henderson)
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation
organization wimsey information services
lines 42

in article 1qs6cg 7cq@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (mark riordan) writes
a few more sources are statistics on your filesystems (easily
and quickly obtained) and the output from the rusage system
call.

you can also exec a finger to one or more favorite heavily used
systems , though this can take several seconds.

cf. the source code to ripem on ripem.msu.edu.

mark r.

other alternatives include output of vmstat , iostat , pstat and friends
with various flags , or even better crash.

e.g. on an rs 6000 (aix 3.2) you can get lots of relatively
unpredicatble data out of crash. (the output from the following script
usually gives about 600k of goo on a moderately busy system.)

! bin sh
crash !
proc
tty
stack
pcb
callout
vfs
socket
vnode
inode
mbuf
file
mst
buffer
le
!


mark henderson
markh@wimsey.bc.ca
ripem key available by key server finger e mail
md5ofpublickey f1f5f0c3984cbeaf3889adafa2437433

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
distribution na
lines 54

i am eager to hear the legal theory behind restricting exchange of
cryptographic data and encrypted messages , given the first admendment
the theory behind regulating the personal encryption of one 's personal
thoughts and feelings seems even less tenable.

perhaps if we make a treaty with , say , iceland , to restrict crypto
paraphernalia can a good end run around the constitution happen...
(treaties as someone pointed out has the force of any other law of
the land . like the bill of rights.)


amendment 1

congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof or abridging the freedom of speech ,
or of the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble , and to
petition the government for a redress of grievances.

amendment 2

a well regulated militia , being necessary to the security of a free state ,
the right of the people to keep and bear arms , shall not be infringed.

amendment 3

no soldier shall , in time of peace be quartered in any house , without the
consent of the owner , nor in time of war , but in a manner to be prescribed
by law.

amendment 4

the right of the people to be secure in their persons , houses , papers , and
effects , against unreasonable searches and seizures , shall not be violated ,
and no warrants shall issue , but upon probable cause , supported by oath or
affirmation , and particularly describing the place to be searched , and the
persons or things to be seized.

amendment 5

no person shall be held to answer for a capital , or otherwise infamous
crime , unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury , except in
cases arising in the land or naval forces , or in the militia , when in
actual service in time of war or public danger nor shall any person be
subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb
nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself , nor be deprived of life , liberty , or property , without due process
of law nor shall private property be taken for public use , without just
compensation.


well at least for a few minutes we had some privacy...

grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 12

in article 1r3hgqinndaa@uwm.edu rick miller rick@ee.uwm.edu writes
jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz) writes
seems like sombody did n't like your snooping around , marc.

or , the more likely explanation is that marc is spoofing.

while i did n't try the expansion personally , i know of at least two
other people who did and got the same results. your allegation is
incorrect at best.

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re clipper chip technical details
lines 8

the protocol key management description published so far is either
incomplete or incorrect. it leaves me with no idea of how the system
would actually work . i hope the cpsr foia request succeeds so that
we get full details.

would n't it be easier just to ask denning@cs.georgetown.edu \? )

g

from langford@gems.vcu.edu
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization medical college of virginia
lines 29

in article 1993apr20.213718.23129@husc3.harvard.edu , kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (tal kubo) writes

having mentioned the possible dangers of unwelcome political associations ,
i would be remiss not to suggest something in the opposite direction
gathering the support of the nra by emphasizing the rkba side of the
issue as well as the first amendment side.

tal kubo@math.harvard.edu


hmmm , this gave me an interesting idea. how about this argument

1) second amendment gives us the right to keep and bear arms.

2) strong cryptography is arms , according to the u.s. government (that 's
why it 's so hard to export).

therefore , we have a constituitional right to strong cryptography !
q.e.d.

however , it 's likely to be as hard or harder to exercise this right as it
is getting to exercise the other rights that the government is slowly
restricting. maybe the nra would be the best existing organization \?
(although i think a new one might be better , but perhaps would take too long
to start up. i would certainly join.)

from the electronic desk of bob langford health sciences computing
804 786 9843 (fax 804 786 9807) virginia commonwealth university
e mail langford@gems.vcu.edu or langford@vcuvax (for bitnet)

from rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
organization center for high perf. computing of wpi marlboro ma
distribution na
lines 10


security of the key escrow system. in making this decision , i do
not intend to prevent the private sector from developing , or the
government from approving , other microcircuits or algorithms that
are equally effective in assuring both privacy and a secure key
escrow system.

yeah , but does he intend to prevent the private sector from
developing other applications that are equally effective in
assuring privacy , but do not have a key escrow system \?

subject text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
from oleg@gd.cs.csufresno.edu (oleg kibirev)
distribution na
organization computer science departement of california state university infresno
nntp posting host gd.cs.csufresno.edu
in reply to clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 17 33 gmt
lines 299

in article c5l15a.gf6@dove.nist.gov clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes


here is an article i found today in comp.security.misc. i 'll send my reply in
a separate post to comp.off.eff.org so thayt you guys can get original text.
have fun ! (

oleg

relay version vms news v6.1b5 17 9 92 vax vms v5.5 2 site nic.csu.net
path nic.csu.net ! csus.edu ! netcom.com ! netcomsv ! decwrl ! uunet ! dove ! csrc.ncsl.nist.gov ! clipper
newsgroups comp.security.misc
from clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 17 33 gmt
sender news@dove.nist.gov
distribution na
organization national institute of standards technology
lines 280

note this file will also be available via anonymous file
transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory pub nistnews and
via the nist computer security bbs at 301 948 5717.


the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 16 , 1993


statement by the press secretary


the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
enforcement.

the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
protecting americans. rather than use technology to accommodate
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , privacy and
law enforcement , previous policies have pitted government against
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
protect electronic funds transfer. it is now being used to
protect electronic mail and computer files. while encryption
technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
unauthorized release of personal information , it also can be used
by terrorists , drug dealers , and other criminals.

a state of the art microcircuit called the clipper chip has
been developed by government engineers. the chip represents a
new approach to encryption technology. it can be used in new ,
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
an ordinary telephone. it scrambles telephone communications
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
commercial use today.

this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
information , protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
electronically. at the same time this technology preserves the
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement agencies to
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals.

a key escrow system will be established to ensure that the
clipper chip is used to protect the privacy of law abiding
americans. each device containing the chip will have two unique


2


keys , numbers that will be needed by authorized government
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device. when the
device is manufactured , the two keys will be deposited separately
in two key escrow data bases that will be established by the
attorney general. access to these keys will be limited to
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
wiretap.

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no
new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology , the
attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
devices. in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
encryption 's dual edge sword encryption helps to protect the
privacy of individuals and industry , but it also can shield
criminals and terrorists. we need the clipper chip and other
approaches that can both provide law abiding citizens with access
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology
trends and explore new approaches (like the key escrow system) ,
the president has directed government agencies to develop a
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates

the privacy of our citizens , including the need to
employ voice or data encryption for business purposes

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal
order , when necessary to protect our citizens

the effective and timely use of the most modern
technology to build the national information
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
the competitiveness of american industry in the global
marketplace and

the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
high technology products.

the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries , the congress and groups that advocate the
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.



3

the administration is committed to working with the private
sector to spur the development of a national information
infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
information. this infrastructure of high speed networks
( information superhighways ) will transmit video , images , hdtv
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone
system transmits voice.

since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
role in that infrastructure , the federal government must act
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding
its use. the administration is committed to policies that
protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
them from those who break the law.

further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.
the provisions of the president 's directive to acquire the new
encryption technology are also available.

for additional details , call mat heyman , national institute of
standards and technology , (301) 975 2758.




questions and answers about the clinton administration's
telecommunications initiative




q does this approach expand the authority of government
agencies to listen in on phone conversations \?

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with
no new authorities to access the content of the private
conversations of americans.

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

q who will run the key escrow data banks \?

a the two key escrow data banks will be run by two independent
entities. at this point , the department of justice and the
administration have yet to determine which agencies will
oversee the key escrow data banks.

q how strong is the security in the device \? how can i be sure
how strong the security is \?

a this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today. while the algorithm will
remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
system , we are willing to invite an independent panel of
cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
potential users that there are no unrecognized
vulnerabilities.

q whose decision was it to propose this product \?

a the national security council , the justice department , the
commerce department , and other key agencies were involved in
this decision. this approach has been endorsed by the
president , the vice president , and appropriate cabinet
officials.

q who was consulted \? the congress \? industry \?

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on
encryption issues , and expect those discussions to intensify
as we carry out our review of encryption policy. we have
briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
decisions related to this initiative.

q will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers \?

a the government designed and developed the key access
encryption microcircuits , but it is not providing the
microcircuits to product manufacturers. product
manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
manufacturer that produces them.

q who provides the clipper chip \?

a mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance ,
california , and will sell the chip to encryption device
manufacturers. the programming function could be licensed
to other vendors in the future.

q how do i buy one of these encryption devices \?

a we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
the clipper chip into their devices.

q if the administration were unable to find a technological
solution like the one proposed , would the administration be
willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
powerful encryption devices \?

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be
considered during the broad policy review. the key escrow
mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive
than others readily available today , but it is just one
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
encryption technology , which the administration is
developing.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
administration 's policy toward encryption will differ from
that of the bush administration \?

a it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
technology in telecommunications and computing and are
committed to working with industry and public interest
groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
privacy , help businesses to compete , and ensure that law
enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
and terrorism.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. case by case review for each export is
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices. the
same is true for other encryption devices. one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad. we plan
to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
of these products.



from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
lines 50

in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com
tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \? when one little country falls , its neighbor
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all mining salt
in siberia for not turning in our captain crunch secret decoder rings.

surely the hypothesis relying on the least wild assumptions is
to take this at face value. our lads at the fort were asked to cook up
something that 's pretty secure , with a key that can be escrowed neatly ,
and they did. the government plans to sell this thing , for the reasons
they state. yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in
the fbi decide they want to persecute you , they 're gonna , and you 're
gonna hate it. fact is , the fbi does n't want to listen to your phone
calls , and if they do , and if you 're using triple des , they 'll just
get a parabolic microphone and point it at your head.

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic emmisions
from your computer or terminal. note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

this is pretty clearly an effort by the government to do exactly
what they 're saying they 're doing. as is typical with governments ,
it 's mismanaged , and full of holes and compromises. as is typical
with our government , it 's not too bad , could be worse.

my interpretation.

andrew

tim may , whose sig block may get him busted in the new regime


is n't this just a little melodramatic \?

if the new regime comes to fruition , make sure you protect your first
amendment rights by asserting your second amendment rights.

doug holland


from ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
nntp posting host bistromath.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation
lines 33

in article 1993apr17.122651.1874@sugra.uucp ken@sugra.uucp (kenneth ng) writes
in article 1993apr16.165423.27204@linus.mitre.org ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei) writes
judge i grant you immunity from whatever may be learned from the key
itself
you the keyphrase is i confess to deliberately evading copyright
the file encoded with this keyphrase contains illegal scans of
copyrighted peanuts strips.
judge and cp oh.
how will they get you now \? i'm not saying that they wo n't , or
ca n't (or even that they should n't ) , but what legal mechanism will
they use \? should we be crossposting this to misc.legal \?

hm , could another court try you via a bypass of the double jeopardy amendment
like they are doing in the lapd trial \? ie your judge is a state judge , and
then a federal judge retries you under the justification that its not the
same trail.

no. the lapd officers were tried first by the state of california
on charges of police brutality , and secondly by the federal government
on depriving rk of his civil rights a different crime.

the scenario i outline is more similar to the oliver north trial.
ollie confessed to treason (aiding an enemy of the us) during senate
hearings , under immunity. the team which was later to prosecute him on
criminal charges had to sequester itself from all reports of on 's
immunized testimony. on 's lawyer brought up the probability that at
least someone on the team had heard about the senate testimony , and it
was a strong factor against the prosecution , which is one of the
reasons this on is still walking around free today.

peter trei
ptrei@mitre.org


from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re clipper will corrupt cops (was wh proposal from police point of view)
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 65

in article 1993apr21.041033.16550@news.clarkson.edu , tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra) writes
the clear implication is that there are legal authorizations other
than a court order. just how leaky are these \?

i do n't have the wiretap statute handy. but here 's what the law says
on pen registers. this is all from title 18 of the u.s. code. note
how vague s. 3125(a)(1)(b) is.... i have n't had a chance to check
out 50 u.s.c. 1801 yet.



18 usc s. 3121 pen registers (as of 4 93)


s. 3121. general prohibition on pen register and trap and trace device
use exception

(a) in general. except as provided in this section , no person may
install or use a pen register or a trap and trace device without first
obtaining a court order under section 3123 of this title or under the
foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978 (50 u.s.c. 1801 et seq.).

.....

s. 3125. emergency pen register and trap and trace device
installation

(a) notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter , any
investigative or law enforcement officer , specially designated by the
attorney general , the deputy attorney general , the associate attorney
general , any assistant attorney general , any acting assistant attorney
general , or any deputy assistant attorney general , or by the principal
prosecuting attorney of any state or subdivision thereof acting pursuant
to a statute of that state , who reasonably determines that

(1) an emergency situation exists that involves

(a) immediate danger of death or serious bodily injury to any person
or

(b) conspiratorial activities characteristic of organized crime ,

that requires the installation and use of a pen register or a trap
and trace device before an order authorizing such installation and use
can , with due diligence , be obtained , and

(2) there are grounds upon which an order could be entered under this
chapter to authorize such installation and use may have installed and
use a pen register or trap and trace device if , within forty eight
hours after the installation has occurred , or begins to occur , an order
approving the installation or use is issued in accordance with section
3123 of this title.

(b) in the absence of an authorizing order , such use shall
immediately terminate when the information sought is obtained , when the
application for the order is denied or when forty eight hours have
lapsed since the installation of the pen register or trap and trace
device , whichever is earlier.

(c) the knowing installation or use by any investigative or law
enforcement officer of a pen register or trap and trace device
pursuant to subsection (a) without application for the authorizing order
within forty eight hours of the installation shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.


from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 24
nntp posting host access.digex.net

as a flaming libertarian paranoid extremist ( ) , i'at a loss for
specific objections that do n't sound frighteningly technical.

the idea that foisting the cripple chip standard on us manufacturers would
result in saying sayonara to yet another high tech market is n't technical ,
is n't in the least difficult to understand , and plays on a concern lots of
people are worried about already....

could you expand on this... \?


simple if you have a choice between

1. american manufacturers peddling cripple chips with a secret untested
algorithm whose keys are held by people with a history of untrustworthy
behavoir , or

2. japanese (to pick the obvious example) manufacturers peddling encryption
chips with an algorithm that has faced public scrutiny and keys under
the control of the user ,

which would you choose \? at most , the american government can deny this
choice to american citizens (and probably not that , if the glorious success
of the war on drugs is any example) it ca n't do much about the global market.

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re how large are commercial keys \?
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 15

butzerd@maumee.eng.ohio state.edu (dane c. butzer) writes

finally , can anyone even concieve of a time place where 128 bit keys are n't
sufficient \?

it depends on the algorithm used. 128 bit secret keys for rsa are
definitively not secure enough.

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi)
subject re how do they know what keys to ask for \? (re clipper)
lines 19
organization curtin university of technology

in article johnson.735023704@trwacs , johnson@trwacs.fp.trw.com (steve johnson) writes
brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
and of course you have to identify yourself to the phone company , and
since the phone company complies with court orders , they will know the
magic number of your chip when they sign out a warrant on you , and
then can present the warrant to the key escrow house.


lets hope. years ago a telecom tech refused to tap a line unless he saw the
warrant. the managment type who told him to do it fired him. the appeal
against the dismissal was lost.

who makes them forget and destroy all copies of the key once they 've
decided you 're not a criminal today \? just curious.

good luck.

paul


from arc@leland.stanford.edu (andrew richard conway)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization society for the conservation of momentum
distribution na
lines 65

in article 1993apr21.204036.13723@rick.dgbt.doc.ca jhan@debra.dgbt.doc.ca (jerry han) writes
in article bontchev.735404289@fbihh

as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this
are n't people just slightly overreacting to this \? or are we all of a
sudden going to draw parallels to nazi germany and communist russia \?

yes. reasonable parallels. (though i do n't think russia ever claimed to be
communist)

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is
not the end of the world. guess what \? we 're doing something now you
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany. we 're complaining about

i must protest your ...in a communist country . how do you know \?
there have n't been any , and are unlikely to ever be any. in some socialist
dictatorships , you ca n't , whilst in some socialist democracies
(such as france or australia)
you can. of course , some people may disagree about france australia being
socialist...

it , (or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us.

yet.

(or , rather , if they 're shooting at me , they have real bad aim. ( ) )

guess what people \? you live in one of the few countries in the world
where a person can complain without getting shot at.

in some circumstances. i was at a public meeting last night (in the usa) , where
a protester , who was very nice and calm , and just said before the
speaker started to beware of his opinions , was forced out of the meeting by
two armed policemen.

there are a lot of things that one cannot do in the usa. you may not
notice them , but as an australian visitor , i notice them.

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things

1) what have they done right \?
2) how much worse can it get \?

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky.

yes , we are lucky at the moment. i hope that is still true in
a few years time. because it did n't just happen...it required concious
effort.

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on.
but let 's not overreact !

of course do n't over react but do n't under react.

andrew.
disclaimer all my opinions are my own , and do not represent the society
for the conservation of momentum or any other group. i hope i do n't lose
my student visa as a result of these opinions..




andrew conway arc@leland.stanford.edu phone usa 415 497 1094


from masjhd@gdr.bath.ac.uk (james davenport)
subject re trinomial based prng
organization school of mathematical sciences , university of bath , uk
lines 27

i tried to mail peter boucher , who posted the question , but my e mail
bounced , so , apologies to thsoe who are not interested.
trinomials are all of the form x a x b 1 , where a
have you read
bremner , a. ,
on trinomials of type x n ax m 1.
math. scand. 49(1981) pp. 145 155.
zbl. 458.12012.
mr 83k 12002.

ljunggren , w. ,
on the irreducibility of certain trinomials and quadrinomials.
math. scand. 8(1960) pp. 65 70.
.

tverberg , h. ,
on the irreducibility of the trinomials
x n mpm x m mpm 1.
math. scand. 8(1960) pp. 121 126.

tverberg , h. ,
on cubic factors of certain trinomials.
math. scand. 53(1983) pp. 178 184.
zbl. 513.12003.

james davenport
jhd@maths.bath.ac.uk

subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
from pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (peter gutmann)
organization computer science dept. university of auckland
lines 48

in 1993apr21.001707.9999@ucsu.colorado.edu andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson) writes

(the date i have for this is 1 26 93)

note clinton 's statements about encryption in the 3rd paragraph.. i guess
this statement doese n't contradict what you said , though.

cut here

washington (upi) the war on drugs is about to get a fresh
start , president clinton told delegates to the national federation
of police commisioners convention in washington.
in the first speech on the drug issue since his innaugural ,
clinton said that his planned escalation of the drug war ``would make
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical
purposes this war is only beginning now.'' he repeatedly emphasized
his view that ``regardless of what has been tried , or who has tried
it , or how long they 've been trying it , this is day one to me.''
the audience at the convention , whose theme is ``how do we spell
fiscal relief \? f o r f e i t u r e , '' interrupted clinton frequently
with applause.
clinton 's program , presented in the speech , follows the
outline given in his campaign position papers a cabinet level drug
czar and ``boot camps'' for first time youthful offenders. he did ,
however , cover in more detail his plans for improved enforcement
methods. ``this year 's crime bill will have teeth , not bare gums , ''
clinton said. in particular , his administration will place strict
controls on data formats and protocols , and require the registration
of so called ``cryptographic keys , '' in the hope of denying drug
dealers the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the
approach could be used for crackdowns on other forms of underground
economic activity , such as ``the deficit causing tax evaders who
live in luxury at the expense of our grandchildren.''
clinton expressed optimism that the drug war can be won
``because even though not everyone voted for bill clinton last
november , everyone did vote for a candidate who shares my sense of
urgency about fighting the drug menace. the advocates of
legalization the advocates of surrender may be very good at
making noise , '' clinton said. ``but when the american people cast
their ballots , it only proved what i knew all along that the
advocates of surrender are nothing more than a microscopic fringe.''

just doing a quick reality check here is this for real or did someone
invent it to provoke a reaction from people \? it sounds more like the
sort of thing you 'd have heard , suitably rephrased , from the leader of a
certain german political party in the 1930 's....

peter.

from jgk@osc.com (joe keane)
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
summary encrypted data looks random.
keywords entropy
reply to joe keane jgk@osc.com
organization versant object technology
lines 47
weather mostly cloudy , high 64 , low 49
moon phase waxing gibbous (99 of full)

in article 1993apr2.050451.7866@ucsu.colorado.edu cuffell@spot.colorado.edu
(tim cuffel) writes
how about this. i create a bunch of sets of random data , and encrypt it. i
keep only one of the sets of random data around , to show that i encypt random
data for kicks. the rest , i delete with their keys. i tell all my friends.
i think this establishes reasonable doubt about the contents of any encrypted
files , and my ability to provides keys. since anyone could do this , any law
that forces a user to provide keys on demand is worthless.

the law is much worse than worthless. it gives police the power to put
innocent people in jail because they (the police) find something they do n't
understand. most police do n't know what the return key does , never mind the
difference between a core file and classified military secrets.

there are plenty of scenarios where the user would have no idea what something
is either. it could be uninitialized junk. the burden of proof is on the
user to show that it 's something a normal upstanding citizen should have. no
one should ever be put in that situation , especially in america.

what 's disgusting about this is how easily most people go along with it , to
provide a bargaining chip against some hypothetical alleged child molester
or drug dealer , or whatever bad thing is in style at the time. basically most
people do n't have a clear distinction between criminals and suspects.

as an analogy , it 's like they find a loose screw in your house , and they
insist that you 're building a bomb or machine gun. they ask you where it came
from (like you 'd know) , and ask you to prove your claim. when you explain it
in such simple terms , people may start to get the idea.

as a matter of fact , i do keep random files on my disk. the reason is ,
without special purpose hardware , it takes a long time to generate good random
bits. i have programs that crank out a couple bits per minute , which is
pretty conservative , but over time that 's more than i need.

if you think about it , there 's no point in actually encrypting random data ,
because it just gives you different random data. if you want some data to
look like an encrypted file , you just put an appropriate header on it. if
enough people do this , some of them will be put in jail.

when you get arrested and the police ask for your keys , you can tell them it 's
just random junk , although of course they wo n't believe you. while you 're
sitting in jail , you can take consolation in the fact that the government will
burn a few cpu years trying to find something that 's not there.


joe keane , amateur cryptologist
jgk@osc.com (uunet ! amdcad ! osc ! jgk)

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip
encryption
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 11
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes
whatever happens though , the effect of this new chip will be to make
private crypto stand out like a sore thumb.

it already does.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re is key escrow enough \?
lines 24

the points raised about checking what is actually in the chip , as
opposed to what is allegedly programmed therein , raise yet another trust
issue. even if we assume that these trusted agents are really entering
a wide range of s1 and s2 seeds (rather than using the same one all the
time to reduce the key search space to 30 bits) , i assume they are not
doing so by picking up an iron filing and poking it into the circuitry
at carefully selected points to encode data. they would presumably be
punching numbers into a computer , which for all they know could program
the chips in a manner completely independent of the s1 and s2 values they
are feeding into the system.

s1 and s2 are clearly the backdoor we should assume they are all
compromised. if they 're not compromisable , why the hell not use a
hardware true random number source. there is n't a random number
source anywhere in this proposal. the whole thing is deterministic
from the day the serial number is stamped on the chip.

nope , it ca n't be trusted. this is all about two levels of access
the (possibly honest) key escrow that police forces have to use , and
ostensibly the fbi and the back door that lets the nsa decode everything
on the fly and maybe some back handers to the fbi when they want a
warrantless tab in exchange for favours.

g

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip
lines 13

indeed , if nsa really designed the algorithm to be secure , it 's very likely
as secure as idea or 2 key des. however , the system as a whole is n't resistant
to practical cryptanalysis. in the puzzle palace , bamford describes how
several nsa employees were turned by foreign (presumably kgb) agents , despite
security measures that i doubt any big 8 accounting firm could match. and
nsa confidential data was not subject to being requested by thousands of
police organizations and courts across the land.

ah yes , do n't anyone mention ronald william pelton , heh heh heh. how
embarrassing.

g
nsa , 1964 1979 kgb 1980 1985

from bear@kestrel.fsl.noaa.gov (bear giles)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization forecast systems labs , noaa , boulder , co usa
lines 37

in article 1993apr15.160415.8559@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ashall@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (andrew s hall) writes
i am postive someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the fifth
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self incriminating \?
e.g. the police could n't demand that you silently take them to where the
body is buried or where the money is hidden.

but they can make you piss in a jar , and possibly provide dna , semen ,
and hair samples or to undergo tests for gunpowder residues on your hand.

(btw , that was why the chemical engineer arrested in the wtc explosion
thrust his hands into a toilet filled with urine as the cops were breaking
down the door the nitrogen in the urine would mask any residue from
explosives. i found it interesting the news reported his acts , but not
his reasons).

somewhere , perhaps a privacy group , they discussed the legal ramifications
of using a password like

i shot jimmy hoffa and his body is in a storage locker in camden

a while back. the impression i got was that real judges would dismiss
arguments that this password is self incrimination as first year law
school sophistry the fact that you use a statement for a password has
no bearing on the veracity of that phrase.

you are not being asked to incrimidate yourself (e.g. , where did you
bury the body \? ) you are being asked to provide information necessary
to execute a legal search warrant. refusing to provide the password is
akin to refusing to provide a key to a storage locker... except that they
could always force their way into the locker.

of course , that does n't mean you have to help them understand what
they find , or point out things they overlooked in their search !


bear giles
bear@fsl.noaa.gov

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 95

in article bontchev.735232729@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes

and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \?

yes. btw , the appropriate amendments were posted here some time ago.

if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individual
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

it 's ok , it 's ok... just a month ago i expressed my belief that the
right to have a means to shoot your neighbor is not that much
necessary to ensure a people 's right to be free and got flamed by lots
of american gun supporters. so i thought that...

never mind. the new cripple chip is a purely american problem , so deal
with the mess yourselves. i just wanted to share with you a bit of my
experience of living 30 years under a totalitarian regime (i'm
bulgarian) because i thought that it might be useful to you. oh
well.

i think your experiences under the bulgarian regime are highly relevant.
we have too many people with their heads in the sand saying it cannot
happen here , as our constitutional rights are being trashed every day
because the government justifies doing some end run around the protections
by a 'crisis' requiring 'drastic action'. it is most likely that in the
future possession of secure encryption tools will be regarded as possession
of 'terrorist and drug dealers tools' , and be some serious fedaral felony.
just like common tools are 'burgular tools' if the police say so , common
computer programs (even computers themselves) are now 'hackers tools' ,
and will become 'terrorist tools'. bet on it.

the insights of someone who has lived throught this are very important.
if the us goes the way of the old soviet union and its client states
as far as individual rights , privacy and overall freedom are concerned ,
the rest of the world (remember 'new world order' \? ) will not be far
behind only a few years.

please keep posting anything you find that is deficient or that threatens
ones rights in this thing.

for example , a conversation between a suspect and a lawyer will no longer
be private from big brother eavesdropping. political dissent allready
is very dangerous in this country , all it takes is the government to
decide that enough people will take one seriously , then one becomes
guilty of 'plotting to overthrow the government by illegal means'. the
phrase 'illegal means' is defined as whatever the government wants it
to be defined as.

couple this with clinton 's pressing for a 'smart' national id card (an
'internal passport' \? ) , with the added wrinkle that anything about you and
your past can be put on it , and you can only take the government 's
word as to what is really on it (since they will be the only ones
with the means to completely read and reprogram the thing). is n't
that nice \?

while the feds can bust into one 's safe without the keys , the owner
knows his safe has been broken into. when they break into your 'secure'
phone conversations (or other stored transmitted data in the near future)
you have no way of knowing , so accountability as to the legalities has
gone out the window. just like a safe , if they have a legal cause , they
can get the keys from the suspect , just like they can get the keys to
a safe or the combination from the suspect. same with encryption
record everything , get the warrants , then decode it with the keys
obtained from the suspect.

this clinton cripple , along with its natural extensions , will make any
priviliged communications between client and lawyer , and any meaningful
political dissent virtually impossible. which is the general idea.
any propeganda about its being secure , and the safeguards , and all
of that are just that propeganda to reassure people so they will
by into this monstrosity. don't be suckered.

big brother is listening ! ! !


regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany



pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from matt@wardsgi.med.yale.edu (matt healy)
subject re illegal wiretaps (was
nntp posting host wardibm2.med.yale.edu
organization yale u. genetics
lines 33

in article 3702.204.uupcb@ssr.com , dick.zeitlin acc1bbs@ssr.com (dick
zeitlin) wrote

pk .perhaps we need the telephony equivalent of an anonymous remailer for
.the telephone network \? back in prohibition days (alcohol , that is) i
.understand a device called the cheesebox was a popular means to thwart
.the tracing of telephone calls. it connected two phone lines in the back
.room of an otherwise uninvolved business. it was the conceptual predecesso
.of today 's anonymous email remailer.

the old cheesebox was the pre carterphone version of the call
diverter. after the carterphone decision there were several vendors
that sold call diverters. i 've got a couple in my basement that
were used to redirect my office phone to my home number when i
did n't feel like going into the office.

it 'd be quite easy to generate an anonymous redialer version of the
call diverter.


about 18 months ago , i heard a report on npr about a 900 number
1 900 sto pper or some such , for placing untraceable calls.
you call them , and on bong tone dial the number you want to
call they told the npr interviewer that nothing short of a
court order (which they 'd fight) would make them release their
records.


matt healy
i pretend to be a network administrator
the lab net pretends to work

matt@wardsgi.med.yale.edu

from cuffell@spot.colorado.edu (tim cuffel)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 29

in article strnlghtc5pucl.6kp@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
in article apr18.204843.50316@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your
crypto keys \? i would n't.

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon. sure.
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon .

david



david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



ergo , if your life is sufficiently boring , you have no need for privacy \?

(this is not meant to be personal , just the logical conclusion of your
statement.)

tim cuffel finger for pgp 2.1 the cia has admitted that the assassination
of saddam hussien was one of their goals.
they failed , of course. seems as though that motorcade through downtown dallas
trick only works once.

from johng@ecs.comm.mot.com (john gilbert)
subject clipper chip bush did it
organization motorola , land mobile products sector
distribution na
keywords big bubba is watching !
nntp posting host 145.1.147.59
lines 10

in article wcs.93apr17024857@rainier.att.com wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705) writes
... this is the democrats' version
defend free speech reject republicans followed by speech control.

this must have been in the works for some time. the bush administration must
have been working on it for quite a while. clinton simply took the credit (or
blame , depending on how you look at it).


john gilbert johng@ecs.comm.mot.com

from usenet@news.cso.uiuc.edu (net noise owner)
subject re facinating facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed s1 and s2
organization university of illinois @ urbana champaign
lines 32

the only way to view this method of generating unit keys is as a back door.
what else can you call a key deterministically generated from the serial
number \?


to generate the unit key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1.
s1 and s2 are then used as keys to triple encrypt n1 , producing a
64 bit block r1

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1 .

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce n2 and
n3 , and two additional 64 bit blocks r2 and r3 are computed

r2 e d e n2 s1 s2 s1
r3 e d e n3 s1 s2 s1 .

r1 , r2 , and r3 are then concatenated together , giving 192 bits. the
first 80 bits are assigned to u1 and the second 80 bits to u2. the
rest are discarded. the unit key u is the xor of u1 and u2. u1 and u2
are the key parts that are separately escrowed with the two escrow
agencies.


what happens is that the need for the escrow houses is completely eliminated.
or should i say , the need to access the escrow houses to decrypt the data.
the houses will still serve a real purpose as far as generating the illusion
of protection , and small town cops wo n't be let in on the secret , so they
will still go through the motions of going to the escrow houses , but the fact
is the federal government can and will build a chip which generates the unit
keys from the encrypted serial number ! 'nuff said.

from sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (shaun p. hughes)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization san francisco state university
distribution inet
lines 27

in article 1r3jgbinn35i@eli.cs.yale.edu jgfoot@minerva.cis.yale.edu writes
tarl neustaedter (tarl@coyoacan.sw.stratus.com) wrote

it means that the eff 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant
to the encryption issue per se. there may well be people who care about
the encryption issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the
network erotica issue (or may even disagree with the eff 's position).

perhaps these encryption only types would defend the digitized porn if it
was posted encrypted \?

these issues are not as seperable as you maintain.


now why would anyone post anything encrypted \? encryption is only of
use between persons who know how to decrypt the data.

and why should i care what other people look at \?

what does concern me is the continued erosion of my constitutional
rights. ( amendments i , ii , iv , and v to note a few. )


shaun p. hughes facts are stupid things.
sphughes@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu ronald reagan
republican national
finger for pgp 2.2 public key convention 1988

from barrett@lucy.ee.und.ac.za (alan barrett)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
organization elec. eng. , univ. natal , durban , s. africa
lines 19
distribution inet
nntp posting host lucy.ee.und.ac.za

in article c5lgaz.250@dove.nist.gov ,
clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes
distribution na

no thanks. this topic is of interest to a much wider audience.

in making this decision , i do
not intend to prevent the private sector from developing , or the
government from approving , other microcircuits or algorithms that
are equally effective in assuring both privacy and a secure key
escrow system.

in making this decision , i intend to prevent the private sector from
developing , except with the government 's approval , other microcircuits
or algorithms that are more effective in assuring privacy.

apb
alan barrett , dept. of electronic eng. , univ. of natal , durban , south africa
rfc822 barrett@ee.und.ac.za

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject more technical details
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 116

here are some corrections and additions to hellman 's note , courtesy of
dorothy denning. again , this is reposted with permission.

two requests first , note the roles of s1 and s2. it appears to me
and others that anyone who knows those values can construct the unit
key. and the nature of the generation process for k1 and k2 is such
that neither can be produced alone. thus , the scheme cannot be
implemented such that one repository generates the first half key , and
another generates the second. that is ominous.

second these postings are not revealed scripture , nor are they
carefully crafted spook postings. do n't attempt to draw out hidden
meanings (as opposed to , say , the official announcements of clipper).
leave denning out of this given hellman 's record of opposition to des ,
which goes back before some folks on this newsgroup knew how to read , i
do n't think you can impugn his integrity.

oh yeah the folks who invented clipper are n't stupid. if you think
something does n't make sense , it 's almost certainly because you do n't
understand their goals.

steve bellovin



date sun , 18 apr 93 07 56 39 edt
from denning@cs.georgetown.edu (dorothy denning)
subject re clipper chip
to (a long list of folks)

i was also briefed by the nsa and fbi , so let me add a few comments to
marty 's message

the clipper chip will have a secret crypto algorithm embedded in

the algorithm operates on 64 bit blocks (like des) and the chip supports
all 4 des modes of operation. the algorithm uses 32 rounds of scrambling
compared with 16 in des.

in addition to the system key , each user will get to choose his
or her own key and change it as often as desired. call this key
plain old k. when a message is to be sent it will first be

k is the session key shared by the sender and receiver. any method
(e.g. , public key) can be used to establish the session key. in the
at t telephone security devices , which will have the new chip , the key
is negotiated using a public key protocol.

encrypted under k , then k will be encrypted under the unit key uk ,
and the serial number of the unit added to produce a three part
message which will then be encrypted under the system key sk
producing

e e m k , e k uk , serial number sk

my understanding is that e m k is not encrypted under sk (called the
family key ) and that the decrypt key corresponding to sk is held by
law enforcement. does anyone have first hand knowledge on this \? i
will also check it out , but this is 7am sunday so i did not want to wait.

the unit key
will be generated as the xor of two 80 bit random numbers k1
and k2 (uk k1 k2) which will be kept by the two escrow

the unit key , also called the chip key , is generated from the
serial number n as follows. let n1 , n2 , and n3 be 64 bit blocks
derived from n , and let s1 and s2 be two 80 bit seeds used as keys.
compute the 64 bit block

r1 e d e n1 s1 s2 s1

(note that this is like using the des in triple encryption mode with
two keys.) similarly compute blocks r2 and r3 starting with n2 and n3.
(i'm unlear about whether the keys s1 and s2 change. the fact that
they 're called seeds suggests they might.) then r1 , r2 , and r3 are
concatenated together giving 192 bits. the first 80 bits form k1 and
the next 80 bits form k2. the remaining bits are discarded.

authorities. who these escrow authorities will be is still to be
decided by the attorney general , but it was stressed to me that
they will not be nsa or law enforcement agencies , that they
must be parties acceptable to the users of the system as unbiased.

marty is right on this and the fbi has asked me for suggestions.
please pass them to me along with your reasons. in addition to marty 's
criteria , i would add that the agencies must have an established record
of being able to safeguard highly sensitive information. some suggestions
i 've received so far include sri , rand , mitre , the national labs (sandia ,
lanl , los alamos) , treasury , gao.

when a court order obtains k1 and k2 , and thence k , the law
enforcement agency will use sk to decrypt all information
flowing on the suspected link aside it is my guess that
they may do this constantly on all links , with or without a
court order , since it is almost impossible to tell which links
over which a message will flow.

my understanding is that there will be only one decode box and that it
will be operated by the fbi. the service provider will isolate the
communications stream and pass it to the fbi where it will pass through
the decode box , which will have been keyed with k.

for the wiretap authorizations. when levy asked for
the details so he could review the cases as required by
law , the agent told him that his predecessors just turned
over 40 50 blank , signed forms every time. levi did not
comply and changed the system , but the lesson is clear
no single person or authority should have the power to
authorize wiretaps

no single person does , at least for fbi taps. after completing a mound
of paperwork , an agent must get the approval of several people on a chain
that includes fbi legal counsel before the request is even taken to the
attorney general for final approval.

dorothy denning

from warlord@mit.edu (derek atkins)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 42
nntp posting host deathtongue.mit.edu
in reply to jhart@agora.rain.com 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 06 39 11 gmt

begin pgp signed message

why do we hackers care about the clipper chip \? do we give a shit
about anybody 's privacy accept our own \? and perhaps not even our
own are we so smart that we always know when we 're talking to
somebody who has a wiretap on their phone \?

i find this a very disturbing view ! yes , we do care about everyone 's
privacy... even if they do n't know it. what happens if the gov't
starts creating legislation such that the clipper and such
technologies become the only legal encryption forms \? what happens
when the clipper is the only type of encryption chips available to
the masses \?

sure , you might have your own method of encryption , but if you do n't
have anyone else to talk to , what use is it \? you ca n't assume that
everyone will be as open as you appear to be about encryption.

the point here is not the specific instance of the wiretap chip.
rather , it is like having the government telling you that they want a
copy of your house key , safe deposit box keys , etc. , and telling you
that they wont use them unless its totally neccessary. i sure
would n't want that. why should encryption be any different \?

derek

pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server
pgp public keys@toxicwaste.mit.edu

begin pgp signature
version 2.2

iqbuagubk9rxvjh0k1zbsgrxaqhd8aledi3ear7remr1uhuxqv2yiblh6px6vxnb
sjlcugzzxtcfxbrqif7mslp98p0evyynlzbboryvhfszyyhyheqqqilhek3lpqe
ap29 od6yzrccharnrs024e
ftek
end pgp signature

derek atkins , mit '93 , electrical engineering and computer science
secretary , mit student information processing board (sipb)
mit media laboratory , speech research group
warlord@mit.edu pp asel n1nwh

from ji@cs.columbia.edu (john ioannidis)
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation
organization columbia university department of computer science
lines 32

in article 899@pivot.sbi.com bet@sbi.com (bennett todd @ salomon brothers inc. , ny ) writes

i heard about this solution , and it sounded good. then i heard that folks
were experiencing times of 30 60 seconds to run this , on
reasonably configured workstations. i'm not willing to add that much delay
to someone 's login process. my approach (etherfind compress , skip 10k) takes
a second or two to run. i'm considering writing the be all and end all of
solutions , that launches the md5 , and simultaneously tries to suck bits off
the net , and if the net should be sitting so idle that it ca n't get 10k
after compression before md5 finishes , use the md5. this way i could have
guaranteed good bits , and a deterministic upper bound on login time , and
still have the common case of login take only a couple of extra seconds.


53 seconds to hash 20m of core (i bet i know who the source of your
information is ! ). no , it 's not acceptable if it 's part of your login
process. but if you are going to use network traffic as the source of
pseudo random information , do the right thing and pass it through a
cryptographic hash function , not a compressor. aside from the fact
that it will run faster , it will give better results (think of a
cryptographic hash as a function that distills randomness).
something along the lines of
etherfind t x n dd bs 1k count 10 2 dev null md5
should do the trick. t gives you timestamps , and the lack of u makes
sure that dd does not get ten lines as opposed to ten k. the above
takes a couple of seconds on a lightly loaded ethernet.

bennett
bet@sbi.com

ji


from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 11
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

pdc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (paul crowley) writes
as for the cleaners , i 'll stick with my 850w electrolux and damn the
carpet.

nah. nothing sucks like a vax )...


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from stan@tacobel.uucp (stan)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryp
organization the temple of stan tbs world hq concord , mass , usa

brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless
you get both halves of the encryption key from the two independent
escrow houses. let 's say you even trust the escrow houses one is
the aclu and the other is the eff. (and i'm not entirely joking about
those two names)

hi , i'm new to internet , so this is a bit of a test message , so even a
token reply would be very appreciated.

anyways , reading this i 'd figure this would be as excellent a method of
corrupting the aclu and the eff as could be wished for. who gaurds the
guardians \? , etc...

from whughes@lonestar.utsa.edu (william w. hughes)
subject re tempest
nntp posting host lonestar.utsa.edu
organization university of texas at san antonio
distribution na
lines 32

in article 1993apr22.105915.5584@infodev.cam.ac.uk rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk
(ross anderson) writes
res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli) writes
would n't a a second monitor of similar type scrolling gibberish and adjacent
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to tempest attacks \?
we 've got a tempest receiver in the lab here , and there 's no difficulty in
picking up individual monitors. their engineering tolerances are slack enough
that they tend to radiate on different frequencies. even where they overlap , you
can discriminate because they have different line synch frequencies you can
lock in on one and average the others out.

the signals are weird in any case , with varying polarisations and all sorts
of interactions with the building. just moving a folded dipole around is also
highly effective as a (randomised) means of switching from one monitor to
another ,

hell , just set up a spark jammer , or some other very electrically noisy
device. or build an active farrady cage around the room , with a noise
signal piped into it. while these measures will not totally mask the
emissions of your equipment , they will provide sufficient interference to
make remote monitoring a chancy proposition , at best. there is , of course ,
the consideration that these measures may (and almost cretainly will)
cause a certain amount of interference in your own systems. it 's a matter
of balancing security versus convenience.

btw , i'm an ex air force telecommunications systems control supervisor and
telecommunications cryptographic equipment technician.


remember waco !
who will the government decide to murder next \? maybe you \?
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state.

from neuhaus@vier.informatik.uni kl.de (stephan neuhaus (hiwi mattern))
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
nntp posting host vier.informatik.uni kl.de
organization university of kaiserslautern , germany
lines 39

gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes

can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

note i am not a cable freak , so i might have completely
misunderstood what you said. also , my math is frequently noted for
being wrong , so you 'll better check the calculations yourself.

i assume that 14.4k means 14.4k bits. so if we assume one start and
one stopbit , and no protocol overhead , the effective number of bytes
per second is 1.44k.

let 's also assume that you do not want to transmit your speech in
stereo , so that you can send 1 , 440 samples sec. this corresponds to a
nyquist frequency of 720 hz , which should be too low , especially if
you think about the 8 bit low quality sound. furthermore , your d a
converter will probably not present you with a signal that has been
cut off at 720 hz , but will instead alias in all the higher
frequencies. (although you can definitely build a filter to overcome
that problem.)

on the other hand , speech should be easily compressible. for example ,
you could form power spectra , or you could simply band pass filter and
then linearize the fourier transforms. it wo n't be cd quality sound ,
but it 'll be discernible. the power spectrum method is very good in
that respect. i have once programmed such a software compressor , and
compression rates of 90 with relative errors due to linearization of
less than 5 were common. although i must say that these were musical
sounds , not speech.

have fun.


stephan neuhaus@informatik.uni kl.de
sig closed for inventory. please leave your pickaxe outside.
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. note the expiration date.

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
article i.d. rwing.2087
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 52

in article 19apr199313020883@charon.gsfc.nasa.gov paul@charon.gsfc.nasa.gov (paul olson) writes
in article 1qnav4 r3l@transfer.stratus.com , cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison) writes...
in article c5lgaz.250@dove.nist.gov clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

further , the attorney general

... good post describing what is in store for us deleted ...

it 's also interesting to note that two months ago rush limbaugh said that
clinton would have the plumbers out in force shortly. clinton and his
henchmen firmly believe in strong ubiquitous government control. anytime a
leader believes in that , the leader will use every means possible to retain
that control and take more.

we have to take our government back. otherwise we will end up living in the
equivalent of a high tech third world dictatorship. we have to take
responsibility for ourselves , our personal welfare , and our actions.

i totally agree. but how do you propose we take government back \? they
obviously do n't listen to the people or want the people to know who is
responsibile for what (a person telnetted the site of the clipper chip
release , to see what the entity 'clipper' was , and got a few lists.
but when another person tried a bit later , the commands were disabled)
does not sound like an administration that wants to have any accountability
or information they do n't control given to the people. the secret
development and implimentation of the clipper chip decision further
backs that up. you can bet unaurhorized encryption methods and software
will be considered 'terrorist tools' and also subject to civil forfeiture ,
along with the systems that are running it. you watch , see if i am wrong.

the government is not going to be very cooperative about the people taking
it back. and they have all the resources , unlimited access to the media
for propeganda , and almost all the guns (soon to be all the guns if
clinton 's agenda succeeds)... those that do not play ball \? waco
might be a good example of what to expect... the warrant (just released)
stated the reason for the raid was the bds spent a very large sum
for weapons , over an undetermined amount of time. i do n't recall
spending a lot of money on guns , etc being illegal ... yet , that is.

clinton might go down in history as the worst thing to ever happen to
the us of a. ... now to be known as the 'peoples socalist democratic
republic of america' (psdra).

big brother is listening ! ! !

hail big brother... (and sister... \? ) only ten years late ! ! !


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from silly@ugcs.caltech.edu (brad threatt)
subject remote file system security
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 20
nntp posting host vex.ugcs.caltech.edu

in light of my recent paranoia concerning government proposals , i 'd love to
see a unix based encryption scheme that

1) kept some files encrypted on the host machine (say , all the files in your
home directory)
2) used a key system that could not be compromised by eavesdropping over a
modem line.

it seems that this would require modifications to a shell program and a
way of telling whether a file was encrypted or not , among other things.

i 'd love to know about potential security holes in such a system.

does such a system exist \? if it were made easy to use and readily
available , i think it would be a good thing(tm). i realize that this
would probably just involve putting a nice front end on a readily available
and very secure encryption scheme , but it should be done.

thanks for the ear ,
brad

from jdailey@asic.sc.ti.com (jim dailey)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any
nntp posting host tidss2.asic.sc.ti.com
reply to jdailey@asic.sc.ti.com
organization design automaton div. , texas instruments , inc.
lines 36

amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \? when one little country falls , its neighbor
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all mining salt
in siberia for not turning in our captain crunch secret decoder rings.

there was an interesting column on the editorial page of the dallas
morning news on saturday by walter williams , who i believe is a
professor at georgetown (i wonder if he knows of dorothy you 're not in
kansas anymore denning). the article was titled government slowly
eroding our liberties , and in it he tells a story attributed to the
late leonard read who

explained that if you wanted to take liberty away from
americans , you had to know how to cook a frog. mr. read
said you ca n't cook a frog by boiling a pot of water and
then throwing the frog in. his reflexes are so quick that
as soon as his feet touch the water , he will leap away.
you must put the frog in a pot of cold water and heat it
up bit by bit. by the time the frog realizes he 's being
cooked , it is too late. it is the same with americans.
if anyone tried to take our freedoms all at once , we
would naturally rebel and suppress the tyrant. but as
with successful frog cooking , our liberties can be taken
a little bit at a time.

the last line of the article says , it 's not too late for us , but the
water is getting pretty warm. i 'd have toagree that it 's warm and the
clipper is keeping the temperature on an upward course.

note followups redirected to alt.privacy.clipper


jim jdailey@asic.sc.ti.com
ti pays absolutely no attention to me or my opinions therefore ,
the foregoing information cannot possibly represent ti 's viewpoint.

from crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
subject cryptography faq 08 10 technical miscellany
organization the crypt cabal
lines 414
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt
reply to crypt comments@math.ncsu.edu
nntp posting host pad thai.aktis.com
summary part 8 of 10 of the sci.crypt faq , technical miscellany.
recovering word perfect passwords. breaking vigenerre ciphers.
encrypting unix files email. security of unix `crypt' command.
encryption and compression. key management. letter frequency.
the german enigma code. card shuffling. s w piracy.
x last updated 1993 04 16

archive name cryptography faq part08
last modified 1993 4 15


faq for sci.crypt , part 8 technical miscellany

this is the eighth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest.
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask.
notes such as `` kah67 '' refer to the reference list in the last part.

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt , sci.answers , and news.answers
every 21 days.


contents

how do i recover from lost passwords in wordperfect \?
how do i break a vigenere (repeated key) cipher \?
how do i send encrypted mail under unix \? pgp , ripem , pem , ...
is the unix crypt command secure \?
how do i use compression with encryption \?
is there an unbreakable cipher \?
what does ``random'' mean in cryptography \?
what is the unicity point (a.k.a. unicity distance) \?
what is key management and why is it important \?
can i use pseudo random or chaotic numbers as a key stream \?
what is the correct frequency list for english letters \?
what is the enigma \?
how do i shuffle cards \?
can i foil s w pirates by encrypting my cd rom \?
can you do automatic cryptanalysis of simple ciphers \?
what is the coding system used by vcr \?


how do i recover from lost passwords in wordperfect \?

wordperfect encryption has been shown to be very easy to break.
the method uses xor with two repeating key streams a typed password
and a byte wide counter initialized to 1 the password length . full
descriptions are given in bennett ben87 and bergen and caelli
ber91 .

chris galas writes ``someone awhile back was looking for a way to
decrypt wordperfect document files and i think i have a solution.
there is a software company named accessdata (87 east 600 south ,
orem , ut 84058) , 1 800 658 5199 that has a software package that will
decrypt any wordperfect , lotus 1 2 3 , quatro pro , ms excel and paradox
files. the cost of the package is 185. steep prices , but if you
think your pw key is less than 10 characters , (or 10 char) give them a
call and ask for the free demo disk. the demo disk will decrypt files
that have a 10 char or less pw key.''

how do i break a vigenere (repeated key) cipher \?

a repeated key cipher , where the ciphertext is something like the
plaintext xor keykeykeykey (and so on) , is called a vigenere cipher.
if the key is not too long and the plaintext is in english , do the
following

1. discover the length of the key by counting coincidences.
(see gaines gai44 , sinkov sin66 .) trying each displacement of
the ciphertext against itself , count those bytes which are equal.
if the two ciphertext portions have used the same key , something
over 6 of the bytes will be equal. if they have used different
key , then less than 0.4 will be equal (assuming random 8 bit bytes
of key covering normal ascii text). the smallest displacement which
indicates an equal key is the length of the repeated key.

2. shift the text by that length and xor it with itself. this
removes the key and leaves you with text xored with itself. since
english has about 1 bit of real information per byte , 2 streams of
text xored together has 2 bits of info per 8 bit byte , providing
plenty of redundancy for choosing a unique decryption. (and in fact
one stream of text xored with itself has just 1 bit per byte.)

if the key is short , it might be even easier to treat this as a
standard polyalphabetic substitution. all the old cryptanalysis
texts show how to break those. it 's possible with those methods , in
the hands of an expert , if there 's only ten times as much text as key.
see , for example , gaines gai44 , sinkov sin66 .

how do i send encrypted mail under unix \? pgp , ripem , pem , ...

here 's one popular method , using the des command

cat file compress des private key uuencode mail

meanwhile , there is a de jure internet standard in the works called
pem (privacy enhanced mail). it is described in rfcs 1421 through
1424. to join the pem mailing list , contact pem dev request@tis.com.
there is a beta version of pem being tested at the time of this
writing.

there are also two programs available in the public domain for encrypting
mail pgp and ripem. both are available by ftp. each has its own
newsgroup alt.security.pgp and alt.security.ripem. each has its own faq
as well.

pgp is most commonly used outside the usa since it uses the rsa algorithm
without a license and rsa 's patent is valid only (or at least primarily)
in the usa.

ripem is most commonly used inside the usa since it uses the rsaref which
is freely available within the usa but not available for shipment outside
the usa.

since both programs use a secret key algorithm for encrypting the body of
the message (pgp used idea ripem uses des) and rsa for encrypting the
message key , they should be able to interoperate freely. although there
have been repeated calls for each to understand the other 's formats and
algorithm choices , no interoperation is available at this time (as far as
we know).

is the unix crypt command secure \?

no. see ree84 . there is a program available called cbw (crypt
breaker 's workbench) which can be used to do ciphertext only attacks
on files encrypted with crypt. one source for cbw is ftpcb .

how do i use compression with encryption \?

a number of people have proposed doing perfect compression followed by
some simple encryption method (e.g. , xor with a repeated key).

unfortunately , you can only compress perfectly if you know the exact
distribution of possible inputs. for all practical purposes it 's
impossible to describe ``the typical english text'' beyond coarse
characteristics such as single letter frequencies. you can build up
more and more sophisticated models of your inputs , but if the enemy
has a slightly more accurate model , he 'll be able to find some
redundancy in your compressed output.

note that nearly all practical compression schemes , unless they
have been designed with cryptography in mind , produce output that
actually starts off with high redundancy. for example , the output of
unix compress begins with a well known three byte ``magic number''
that can serve as an entering wedge for cryptanalysis.

this is not to say that compression before encryption is inherently a
bad idea it just has to be done very , very carefully , and by no means
removes the need for strong encryption.

compression after encryption is silly.

is there an unbreakable cipher \?

yes. the one time pad is unbreakable see part 4. unfortunately the
one time pad requires secure distribution of as much key material as
plaintext.

of course , a cryptosystem need not be utterly unbreakable to be
useful. rather , it needs to be strong enough to resist attacks by
likely enemies for whatever length of time the data it protects is
expected to remain valid.

what does ``random'' mean in cryptography \?

cryptographic applications demand much more out of a pseudorandom
number generator than most applications. for a source of bits to be
cryptographically random , it must be computationally impossible to
predict what the nth random bit will be given complete knowledge of
the algorithm or hardware generating the stream and the sequence of
0th through n 1st bits , for all n up to the lifetime of the source.

a software generator (also known as pseudo random) has the function
of expanding a truly random seed to a longer string of apparently
random bits. this seed must be large enough not to be guessed by
the opponent. ideally , it should also be truly random (perhaps
generated by a hardware random number source).

those who have sparcstation 1 workstations could , for example ,
generate random numbers using the audio input device as a source of
entropy , by not connecting anything to it. for example ,

cat dev audio compress foo

gives a file of high entropy (not random but with much randomness in
it). one can then encrypt that file using part of itself as a key ,
for example , to convert that seed entropy into a pseudo random
string.

when looking for hardware devices to provide this entropy , it is
important really to measure the entropy rather than just assume that
because it looks complicated to a human , it must be random . for
example , disk operation completion times sound like they might be
unpredictable (to many people) but a spinning disk is much like a
clock and its output completion times are relatively low in entropy.

what is the unicity point (a.k.a. unicity distance) \?

see sha49 . the unicity distance is an approximation to that amount
of ciphertext such that the sum of the real information (entropy) in
the corresponding source text and encryption key equals the number
of ciphertext bits used. ciphertexts significantly longer than this
can be shown probably to have a unique decipherment. this is used to
back up a claim of the validity of a ciphertext only cryptanalysis.
ciphertexts significantly shorter than this are likely to have
multiple , equally valid decryptions and therefore to gain security
from the opponent 's difficulty choosing the correct one.

unicity distance , like all statistical or information theoretic
measures , does not make deterministic predictions but rather gives
probabilistic results namely , the minimum amount of ciphertext
for which it is likely that there is only a single intelligible
plaintext corresponding to the ciphertext , when all possible keys
are tried for the decryption. working cryptologists do n't normally
deal with unicity distance as such. instead they directly determine
the likelihood of events of interest.

let the unicity distance of a cipher be d characters. if fewer than
d ciphertext characters have been intercepted , then there is not
enough information to distinguish the real key from a set of
possible keys. des has a unicity distance of 17.5 characters ,
which is less than 3 ciphertext blocks (each block corresponds to
8 ascii characters). this may seem alarmingly low at first , but
the unicity distance gives no indication of the computational work
required to find the key after approximately d characters have been
intercepted.

in fact , actual cryptanalysis seldom proceeds along the lines used
in discussing unicity distance. (like other measures such as key
size , unicity distance is something that guarantees insecurity if
it 's too small , but does n't guarantee security if it 's high.) few
practical cryptosystems are absolutely impervious to analysis all
manner of characteristics might serve as entering ``wedges'' to crack
some cipher messages. however , similar information theoretic
considerations are occasionally useful , for example , to determine a
recommended key change interval for a particular cryptosystem.
cryptanalysts also employ a variety of statistical and
information theoretic tests to help guide the analysis in the most
promising directions.

unfortunately , most literature on the application of information
statistics to cryptanalysis remains classified , even the seminal
1940 work of alan turing (see koz84 ). for some insight into the
possibilities , see kul68 and goo83 .

what is key management and why is it important \?

one of the fundamental axioms of cryptography is that the enemy is in
full possession of the details of the general cryptographic system ,
and lacks only the specific key data employed in the encryption. (of
course , one would assume that the cia does not make a habit of telling
mossad about its cryptosystems , but mossad probably finds out anyway.)
repeated use of a finite amount of key provides redundancy that can
eventually facilitate cryptanalytic progress. thus , especially in
modern communication systems where vast amounts of information are
transferred , both parties must have not only a sound cryptosystem but
also enough key material to cover the traffic.

key management refers to the distribution , authentication , and
handling of keys.

a publicly accessible example of modern key management technology
is the stu iii secure telephone unit , which for classified use
employs individual coded ``crypto ignition keys'' and a central key
management center operated by nsa. there is a hierarchy in that
certain ciks are used by authorized cryptographic control
personnel to validate the issuance of individual traffic keys and
to perform installation maintenance functions , such as the
reporting of lost ciks.

this should give an inkling of the extent of the key management
problem. for public key systems , there are several related issues ,
many having to do with ``whom do you trust \? ''

can i use pseudo random or chaotic numbers as a key stream \?

chaotic equations and fractals produce an apparent randomness from
relatively compact generators. perhaps the simplest example is a
linear congruential sequence , one of the most popular types of random
number generators , where there is no obvious dependence between seeds
and outputs. unfortunately the graph of any such sequence will , in a
high enough dimension , show up as a regular lattice. mathematically
this lattice corresponds to structure which is notoriously easy for
cryptanalysts to exploit. more complicated generators have more
complicated structure , which is why they make interesting pictures
but a cryptographically strong sequence will have no computable
structure at all.

see knu81 , exercise 3.5 7 ree77 and boy89 .

what is the correct frequency list for english letters \?

there are three answers to this question , each slightly deeper than
the one before. you can find the first answer in various books
namely , a frequency list computed directly from a certain sample of
english text. of course any such list will be ``correctly'' computed ,
but exactly which list you get depends on which sample was taken.

the second answer is that the question does n't make sense. what do
you mean by ``english letters'' \? the ``english language'' is not a
fixed , finite , closed object that can be exactly characterized. it
has changed over time it is different between different authors.
any particular message will have different statistics from those of
the language as a whole.

the third answer is that yes , no particular message is going to have
exactly the same characteristics as english in general , but for all
reasonable statistical uses these slight discrepancies wo n't matter.
in fact there 's an entire field called ``bayesian statistics'' (other
buzzwords are ``maximum entropy methods'' and ``maximum likelihood
estimation'') which studies questions like ``what 's the chance that a
text with these letter frequencies is in english \? '' and comes up with
reasonably robust answers.

so make your own list from your own samples of english text. it will
be good enough for practical work , if you use it properly.

what is the enigma \?

``for a project in data security we are looking for sources of
information about the german enigma code and how it was broken by
the british during wwii.''

see wel82 , dea85 , koz84 , hod83 , kah91 .

how do i shuffle cards \?

card shuffling is a special case of the permutation of an array of
values , using a random or pseudo random function. all possible output
permutations of this process should be equally likely. to do this , you
need a random function (modran(x)) which will produce a uniformly
distributed random integer in the interval 0..x 1 . given that
function , you can shuffle with the following c code (assuming arrlth
is the length of array arr and swap() interchanges values at the two
addresses given)

for ( n arrlth 1 n 0 n ) swap( arr modran( n 1 ) , arr n )

modran(x) can not be achieved exactly with a simple (ranno() x) since
ranno() 's interval may not be divisible by x , although in most cases the
error will be very small. to cover this case , one can take ranno() 's
modulus mod x , call that number y , and if ranno() returns a value less
than y , go back and get another ranno() value.


can i foil s w pirates by encrypting my cd rom \?

someone will frequently express the desire to publish a cd rom with
possibly multiple pieces of software , perhaps with each encrypted
separately , and will want to use different keys for each user (perhaps
even good for only a limited period of time) in order to avoid piracy.

as far as we know , this is impossible , since there is nothing in standard
pc or workstation hardware which uniquely identifies the user at the
keyboard. if there were such an identification , then the cd rom could be
encrypted with a key based in part on the one sold to the user and in
part on the unique identifier. however , in this case the cd rom is one
of a kind and that defeats the intended purpose.

if the cd rom is to be encrypted once and then mass produced , there must
be a key (or set of keys) for that encryption produced at some stage in
the process. that key is useable with any copy of the cd rom 's data.
the pirate needs only to isolate that key and sell it along with the
illegal copy.


can you do automatic cryptanalysis of simple ciphers \?

schneier@chinet.chi.il.us (bruce schneier) says accessdata of orem ,
utah sells products that break the password scheme of a number of
popular macintosh and pc software packages. their telephone number
is (801) 224 6970

no pd software has been cited but there are many papers on the
subject....

peleg , s. and rosenfeld , a. breaking substitution ciphers using a
relaxation algorithm comm. acm vol. 22(11) pp 598 605 (nov. 1979)

lucks , michael , a constraint satisfaction algorithm for the
automated decryption of simple substitution ciphers , advances in
cryptology crypto '88 , springer lecture notes in computer
science , vol. 403 (the paper also contains references to earlier
work on the subject.)

john carrol and steve martin , the automated cryptanalysis of
substitution ciphers , cryptologia , vol x number 4 , oct 86 p193 209.

john carrol and lynda robbins , automated cryptanalysis of
polyalphabetic ciphers , cryptologia , vol xi number 4 , oct 87
p193 205

martin kochanski , a survey of data insecurity packages ,
cryptologia , vol xi number 1 , jan 87 p1 15

martin kochanski , another data insecurity package , cryptologia ,
vol xii number 3 , july 88 , p165 177.

cryptologia vol xiii number 4 1989 pp 303 326.

king and bahler , probabilistic relaxation in the cryptanalysis of
simple substitution ciphers cryptologia 16(3) 215 225.

king and bahler , an algorithmic solution of sequential homophonic
ciphers . cryptologia , april 93 (in press).

r. spillman et.al. , use of genetic algorithms in cryptanalysis of
simple substitution ciphers , cryptologia , vol xvii number 1 , jan 93
p31 44.


what is the coding system used by vcr \?

one very frequently asked question in sci.crypt is about how the vcr codes
work. the following article attempts to describe it.

k. shirriff , c. welch , a. kinsman , decoding a vcr controller code ,
cryptologia , 16(3) , july 1992 , pp 227 234.


from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
in reply to caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 00 03 59 gmt
reply to pmetzger@lehman.com
organization lehman brothers
1993apr19.180049.20572@qualcomm.com
1qv83m 5i2@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu
1993apr20.000359.20098@bernina.ethz.ch
lines 21


in article 1993apr20.000359.20098@bernina.ethz.ch caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni) writes


just a question.
as a provider of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to gurantee
intelligble access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes
with sufficent authorisation \? i guessed this would be a basic condition
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland)

you are obliged to let the police search the equipment if they have a
proper court order. you are under no legal obligation to keep the data
intelligble. if you wish to run your bbs entirely with all data
encrypted such that if the police show up they cannot read anything ,
well , thats their problem. there are no legal restrictions on domestic
use of cryptography in the united states yet.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from rick miller former spook rick@ee.uwm.edu
subject alternate legal wiretaps.
organization just me.
lines 43
nntp posting host 129.89.2.33
summary nothing spooky , it 's an executive order.

tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe writes
...
it would be a strong incentive , as vesselin points out , for more
police agencies to go rogue and try to get keys through more efficient
(but less constitutional) means. notice what the release said

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a

court order , to do the wiretap in the first place.


the clear implication is that there are legal authorizations other
than a court order. just how leaky are these \? (and who
knows what 's in those 7 pages that authorized the nsa \? ). there
...

i was a cryptologic tech in the us navy (ctrsn , nothing big). all 'spooks'
in the navy are required to know the gist of ussid 18 , the navy way of
naming a particular presidential executive order . it outlines what spooks
can and ca n't do with respect to the privacy of us nationals.

the following information is (of course) unclassified.

the whole issue hangs about what you mean by wiretap . if the signal can
be detected by non intrusive means (like radio listening) , then it may be
recorded and it may be analyzed . analyzed means that it may be either
deciphered and or radio location may be used to locate the transmitter.

the catch is this any and all record of the signal and its derivatives
may only be kept for a maximum of 90 days , after which they are destroyed
unless permission is obtained from the us attorney general to keep them.

did n't you ever wonder how coast guard cutters find those drug runners
in all those tens of thousands of square miles of sea , even in the dark \? ! \?

rick miller rick@ee.uwm.edu ricxjo@discus.mil.wi.us ricxjo muelisto
send a postcard , get one back ! enposxtigu bildkarton kaj vi ricevos alion !
rick miller 16203 woods muskego , wis. 53150 usa

from mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (mark riordan)
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation
organization michigan state university
lines 18
nntp posting host scss3.cl.msu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

bennett todd @ salomon brothers inc. , ny (bet@sbi.com) wrote
however , unless i
missed something , the only source they suggested (aside from a hardware rng)
that seems available , and unguessable by an intruder , when a unix is
fresh booted , is i o buffers related to network traffic. i believe my
solution basically uses that strategy , without requiring me to reach into
the kernel.

a few more sources are statistics on your filesystems (easily
and quickly obtained) and the output from the rusage system
call.

you can also exec a finger to one or more favorite heavily used
systems , though this can take several seconds.

cf. the source code to ripem on ripem.msu.edu.

mark r.

from caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization swiss federal institute of technology (eth) , zurich , ch
lines 19

in article 9304201003.aa05465@pizzabox.demon.co.uk gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes
can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

as far as i know isdn (call it swissnet here , and it 's being plugged in) it 's
8 bit 8000hz (gives you one channel of 64kbit sec) i guess you should not go
below a sampling rate of 6000 hz if you want to have same quality as on an
analog line. anybody knows compression algorithms factors for voice \?

greetings ,

germano caronni

instruments register only through things they 're designed to register.
space still contains infinite unknowns.
pgp key id 341027
germano caronni caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch fd560ccf586f3da747ea3c94dd01720f

from ken@sugra.uucp (kenneth ng)
subject re identifying securing files
organization private computer , totowa , nj
lines 23

in article 2bb29f4c@mash.boulder.co.us rmashlan mash@csn.org (robert mashlan) writes
tarnold@vnet.ibm.com (todd w. arnold) said in article 19930322.101356.617@almaden.ibm.com
it 's ok as long as you trust the end user to stay out of your application
program or as long as it runs in a system where the user ca n't get to it.
otherwise , you ca n't stop him from finding the load a module code in your
program , and simply bypassing the check for a valid module. the devious user
can either modify the object code before running the program , or he can run
the program under a debugger and change the instructions in memory.
there is a way to foil debuggers , by clearing the single step
interrupt , on which a debugger depends , every few instructions in
the sensitive areas of the code.

this assumes the person is using the hardware debug instruction of an x86
type processor. it can be negated by nop'ing the clear debug instruction ,
or by running the code on a machine simulator , like one i wrote as a senior
project in college. it can bypass and trace practically anything one could
write in software. kind of like being on a star trek holideck ).


kenneth ng
please reply to ken@eies2.njit.edu for now.
all this might be an elaborate simulation running in a little device sitting
on someone 's table j.l. picard st tng

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
article i.d. rwing.2088
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 52

in article 1993apr20.161838.13213@coop.com felixg@coop.com (felix gallo) writes
pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

if the clinton clipper is so very good , ...

please note that bill clinton probably has little if anything to do
with the design , implementation or reasoning behind this chip or behind
any moves being made using this chip as a pawn.

uh , i notice he has not either asked for or allowed public input , and he damn
sure has not stopped it...

remember , when you elect a president of the united states , it 's not
the case that all the republicans , etc. in the nsa and fbi and cia
immediately pack their bags and get replaced by a team of fresh young
democrats. most of the government say , 96 is appointed or
hired rather than elected. since this clipper device has been in
production for over six months , it probably has little or no
foundation in the currently elected democratic executive body.

again , if it was something clinton did n't like , how come he did not
stop it , or get public input before implimenting the decision \? he
sure has asserted his authority on other things he did not agree with
from the bush administrationk , i notice. he is the president , therefore
he is responsible for the actions of the execuitive branch. i have
not the slightest bit of doubt you would be holding bush or reagan
to that standard had they been in office when this thing was cast into
stone...

btw those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton , believe
this i would be going ballistic reagardless who seriously proposed
this thing. it is just another step in a gradual erosion of our rights
under the constitution or bill of rights. the last couple of decades
have been a non stop series of end runs around the protections of the
constitution. it has to stop. now is as good a time as any , if it
is n't too late allready.

could be. however , the sky has n't fallen yet , chicken little.

thanks for the name calling. that really makes your position higly
credible. lenin had a term for folks with your outlook. do you really
have that much faith in the trustworthiness and honesty of the government
that is primarily concerned with people control \? i suspect you will
be in for an unpleasant surprise. i would just as soon see this nipped
in the bud while if it still can be done , instead of waiting for yet
more abridgements of our bill of rights , thank you...


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (peter trei)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
nntp posting host bistromath.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation
lines 67

in article c5jzsz.jzo@cs.uiuc.edu kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie) writes
ashall@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (andrew s hall) writes

i am postive someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the fifth
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self incriminating \?
from mike godwin mnemonic@eff.org , posted with permission carl

no , but they could compell you to produce the key to a safe where , as it
happens , evidence that will convict you is stored.

the crypto key disclosure issue has n't come up yet , but current law
suggests that it 's a loser for the defendant he 'll be compelled to turn
over the key.

the test for compelled self incrimination is whether the material to
be disclosed in itself tends to inculpate the discloser. in the example
i gave above , the safe key itself has no testimonial value ergo , it can
be disclosed under compulsion (e.g. , subpoena duces tecum).

moreover , the government can always immunize the disclosure of a crypto
key compelling you to disclose the key at the price of not using the fact
of your disclosure as evidence in the case against you. of course , they
can use whatever they discover as a result of this disclosure against
you.
mike

lets carry this one step further. suppose the text of the key is
in itself conclusive evidence of the same crime for which the
encrypted material is further evidence. i find myself envisaging a
scenario like this

you have made some scans of peanuts strips. you encrypt them. the key
is a phrase.

the comic police haul you in. they seize your system. they find the
encrypted file.

cp whats that file \?

you i take the fifth.

cp what 's the keyphrase to that file \?

you i take the fifth.

judge you have to reveal the keyphrase i disagree , but i'm not a judge.

you your honor , revealing the keyphrase , in it 's own right , would
tend to incriminate me of breaking laws , independent of what
may or may not be in the encrypted file.

judge i grant you immunity from whatever may be learned from the key
itself

you the keyphrase is i confess to deliberately evading copyright
the file encoded with this keyphrase contains illegal scans of
copyrighted peanuts strips.

judge and cp oh.

how will they get you now \? i'm not saying that they wo n't , or
ca n't (or even that they should n't ) , but what legal mechanism will
they use \? should we be crossposting this to misc.legal \?

peter trei
ptrei@mitre.org


from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
lines 22

bred wrote
and this means that the fbi will want to track the customer lists of
better encryption phones , because the only reason a person would want
one is to evade the police.

they do n't have to track customer lists they merely have to digitally
listen to any phone line and eliminate any that do n't have the clipper
header signature. (no one has said how it will be modulated want a bet
it 's a non standard and hence easily recognisable baudrate \? )

devices to scan exchanges and detect modems etc already exist. i 've seen
them advertised in the trade press.

once you eliminate crippled crypto devices and ordinary data modems , what 's
left is crypto worth looking more closely at. i guess any substitute scheme
will have to be v32bis or v.fast to disguise it , though then they just start
looking at the data too...

whatever happens though , the effect of this new chip will be to make private
crypto stand out like a sore thumb.

g

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re clipper considered harmful
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 14
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff) writes
since archiving would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why
would n't it happen \?

not enough magtape.

seriously , do you have any idea how much traffic flows through the us phone
system in a single day \?


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject fear , uncertainty , doubt
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 10
nntp posting host access.digex.net

i suspect that the decisive element in the political battle will be the
fud (fear , uncertainty , doubt) factor.
if the people who would be end users of the cripple chip hear of the whole
debate only vaguely the government says it 's solid other people in the
field say it 's swiss cheese the balance of doubt could shift against the
feds. any attempt to limit other forms of encryption could then be presented
as the government covering its own butt by protecting its poor product from
superior competition.
comments \?


from shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 12
distribution na
nntp posting host hijack.berkeley.edu

in article apr18.194927.17048@yuma.acns.colostate.edu holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes
with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic emmisions
from your computer or terminal. note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

note that tempest is the name of the shielding standard. tempest is not
the name of the surveillance technique.

ken shirriff shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu
disclaimer this is what i 've heard and it 's in the sci.crypt faq , so it 's
probably true but i ca n't guarantee it. i 'd like to know if i'm wrong.

from zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi)
subject what is going on \? ...
lines 26
organization curtin university of technology
distribution inet

in article 1qhc2p 8d8@transfer.stratus.com , cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison) writes
in article 1993apr14.120229.15878@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu rwebb@nyx.cs.du.edu (russell webb) writes
...
call me paranoid , but this is the same kind of scare story which dorothy
denning was citing while calling for the limitation of cryptography.

i doubt that dd is behind this

but i suspect that the fbi (and maybe nsa) are behind dd and those agencies
could easily be mounting a nationwide campaign (with our tax dollars \? ) to
build up public outcry against digital communication especially against
unbreakable , encrypted communication.


what 's going on here \? \?


have n't you read any of noam chomsky 's works \? a widely used information net
outside the control of the 'right people' is unthinkable. hundreds of billions
of dollars will be spent to wipe it out , sorry , 'regulate and order it' once
the major media and poitical powers wake up to the efect it can have.

if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent .

paul


from eifrig@beanworld.cs.jhu.edu (jonathan eifrig)
subject re pgp , pem , and rfc 's (was cryptography patents)
organization the johns hopkins university cs department
lines 70

in article 1993apr16.001321.3692@natasha.portal.com bob@natasha.portal.com
(bob cain) writes

check your facts first and grow up.
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography
and immaturity i wonder.

hmmm. check your facts. good advice. let 's check mr. cain 's
facts a bit , shall we \?

charles kincy (ckincy@cs.umr.edu) wrote

some limitation. let me guess do n't use the code in any way pkp or
rsa does n't like....such as...providing secure communications for the
average citizen.

that was exactly its purpose if you know anything about it. there is
nothing at all preventing the average citizen using it , only selling
it.

fact it is unlawful to distribute code implementing rsa without a license
to do so from pkp , whether or not one is charging for it. furthermore ,
any use of rsa , other than for research purposes allowed under us patent
law , is similarly unlawful. therefore , the average citizen cannot use
rsa to encrypt message traffic in the us without a license from pkp.

there is no licensed , freely available product in the us that uses rsa
encryption other than rsaref (and hence ripem) , at least as far as i am
aware. if you know of another , please post it here.

all i have to say is...yeah , right. if you 're willing to pay them
mucho big bucks and or use the routines they tell you to do.
does n't sound very reasonable to me.

all i have to say is this is full of shit. i have negotiated a license
and the bucks are incredibly reasonable with an upfront charge on a
sliding scale depending on your capitalization. if you are a startup
and ca n't afford it you ca n't afford to start up in the first place.
why do people insist on making unequivocal statements about that which
they know nothing.

fact the last contact i had with rsa data security , inc was with some
guy trying to sell me a license (unsolicited , i might add) for tipem.
cost 15k plus 2 5 percent royalties.

i suppose it is a matter of opinion as to whether or not these terms count
as mucho bucks or incredibly reasonable. either way , however , this
definitely falls into the routines they tell you to (use) .

but i do n't guess pkp and rsa are interested in big bucks. maybe
they have some other agenda \? secure communications only for
government agents , perhaps \?

have you considered treatment for paranoia \? the government is the
single biggest thorn in rsa 's side.

fact there are no restrictions (yet ! ) on the use of cryptography under
us law , although this is beginning to look like it will change. the only
impediments to widespread use of rsa cryptography in the us are pkp 's
patents.

mr. cain , please shut up until you get your facts straight.


better than the whole world be destroyed and crumble to dust than
a free man deny one of his desires.
benito mussolini , italian anarchist and poet.

jack eifrig (eifrig@cs.jhu.edu) the johns hopkins university , c.s. dept.


subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
from uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt)
distribution na
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 51

in article 1qmugcinnpu9@gap.caltech.edu hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney) writes
the key question is whether non clipper encryption will be made illegal.

the administration is not saying , since encryption
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement ,
we will prohibit it outright (as some countries have
effectively done) nor is the u.s. saying that every
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an
unbreakable commercial encryption product. there is a
false tension created in the assessment that this issue is
an either or proposition. rather , both concerns can be ,
and in fact are , harmoniously balanced through a reasoned ,
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper
chip and similar encryption techniques.

the clear middle ground implied by these statements is to say that americans
have the right to clipper encryption , but not to unbreakable encryption.
this implies that , ultimately , non clipper strong encryption must become
illegal.

text deleted , no value judgement implied

it 's shocking and frightening to see that this is actually happening here.

hal finney
hal@alumni.caltech.edu

more than shocking. what this says to me is no less than that government
is very interested in monitoring the public. this does more than scare me ,
it mortifies me.

pgp and ripem must become widespread enough to resist what mr. finney has
imho correctly identified as the next logical step. what was once an
academic discussion with regard to concealing cyphertext , has now become
a real consideration.

the rhetoric that the clinton administration seems obsessed with , harmony ,
either or propositions , tension , tells me that they know how difficult
it will be to sell this proposition.

the phrase i hear more and more is i ca n't believe this is actually happening
here. call me conserative , clinton was a huge mistake that we 'll all be
paying for tommorow and many years from now.

have we approached the age of speakeasy public key depositiories \?

uni (dark)

uni@acs.bu.edu public keys by finger and or request
public key archives at pgp public keys@junkbox.cc.iastate.edu
sovereignty is the sign of a brutal past.

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 29

in article 1qnn7b ddc@sol.tis.com mjr@tis.com (marcus j ranum) writes
when you 've got hrh prince of wales saying stupid things over
cordless phones , it 's not hard to imagine that drug dealers , child
pornographers , commies , lisp programmers , and other threats to the
civilized world might transact incriminating business over encrypting
cellular phones.


let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless
you get both halves of the encryption key from the two independent
escrow houses. let 's say you even trust the escrow houses one is
the aclu and the other is the eff. (and i'm not entirely joking about
those two names)

in that case the prince of wales has nothing to worry about on this
system. indeed , as pointed out , since the current systems , even the
current digital systems , are very easy to decode right now anybody
with an old tv can hear them for most people , this will be viewed
as an oh goody step upwards.

and look at how tolerant the public is. they 're willing to let the
neighbours with the radios hear right now.

it was suggested by one person that a lot of non evidentiary wiretapping
is going on right now without warrants , because anybody can do it and it 's
just an ecpa violation. this would stop that. all tapping would need
a warrant , or a breach of security at the escrow houses.

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)
subject white house public encryption management fact sheet
organization national institute of standards technology
distribution na
lines 94



note the following was released by the white house today in
conjunction with the announcement of the clipper chip
encryption technology.

fact sheet

public encryption management

the president has approved a directive on public encryption
management. the directive provides for the following

advanced telecommunications and commercially available encryption
are part of a wave of new computer and communications technology.
encryption products scramble information to protect the privacy of
communications and data by preventing unauthorized access.
advanced telecommunications systems use digital technology to
rapidly and precisely handle a high volume of communications.
these advanced telecommunications systems are integral to the
infrastructure needed to ensure economic competitiveness in the
information age.

despite its benefits , new communications technology can also
frustrate lawful government electronic surveillance. sophisticated
encryption can have this effect in the united states. when
exported abroad , it can be used to thwart foreign intelligence
activities critical to our national interests. in the past , it has
been possible to preserve a government capability to conduct
electronic surveillance in furtherance of legitimate law
enforcement and national security interests , while at the same time
protecting the privacy and civil liberties of all citizens. as
encryption technology improves , doing so will require new ,
innovative approaches.

in the area of communications encryption , the u. s. government has
developed a microcircuit that not only provides privacy through
encryption that is substantially more robust than the current
government standard , but also permits escrowing of the keys needed
to unlock the encryption. the system for the escrowing of keys
will allow the government to gain access to encrypted information
only with appropriate legal authorization.

to assist law enforcement and other government agencies to collect
and decrypt , under legal authority , electronically transmitted
information , i hereby direct the following action to be taken

installation of government developed microcircuits

the attorney general of the united states , or her representative ,
shall request manufacturers of communications hardware which
incorporates encryption to install the u.s. government developed
key escrow microcircuits in their products. the fact of law
enforcement access to the escrowed keys will not be concealed from
the american public. all appropriate steps shall be taken to
ensure that any existing or future versions of the key escrow
microcircuit are made widely available to u.s. communications
hardware manufacturers , consistent with the need to ensure the
security of the key escrow system. in making this decision , i do
not intend to prevent the private sector from developing , or the
government from approving , other microcircuits or algorithms that
are equally effective in assuring both privacy and a secure key
escrow system.

key escrow

the attorney general shall make all arrangements with appropriate
entities to hold the keys for the key escrow microcircuits
installed in communications equipment. in each case , the key
holder must agree to strict security procedures to prevent
unauthorized release of the keys. the keys shall be released only
to government agencies that have established their authority to
acquire the content of those communications that have been
encrypted by devices containing the microcircuits. the attorney
general shall review for legal sufficiency the procedures by which
an agency establishes its authority to acquire the content of such
communications.

procurement and use of encryption devices

the secretary of commerce , in consultation with other appropriate
u.s. agencies , shall initiate a process to write standards to
facilitate the procurement and use of encryption devices fitted
with key escrow microcircuits in federal communications systems
that process sensitive but unclassified information. i expect this
process to proceed on a schedule that will permit promulgation of
a final standard within six months of this directive.

the attorney general will procure and utilize encryption devices to
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure
law enforcement communications. further , the attorney general
shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
super surplus fund to effect this purchase.

from m.t.palmer@larc.nasa.gov (michael t. palmer)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va
lines 52
distribution inet
nntp posting host oldtown.larc.nasa.gov


in article 1993apr21.150815.6657@chpc.org rboudrie@chpc.org (rob boudrie) writes
in article c5so84.hxv@demon.co.uk graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
in article 2073@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes
if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its algrithm public
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few
isolated 'respected experts' (respected by whom \? for what \? perhaps a

one more time...

if they released the algorithm , it would be possible for someone
to come up with an implementation which was identical , but
lacking an escrowed key.

note that the press announcement mentioned that the algorithm was
being kept secret for security of the key escrow system. in this
case security means an escrowed key for every clipper chip .


assuming you believed all that is said about the effective of
the algorithm , and the escrow system , which would you buy

(a) chip from firm a with the escrowed key
(b) second source chip from reputable firm b with no key
in government escrow.

there would obviously be powerful economic incentives for a second
source , non escrowed , vendor.

but what about second sources for pin compatible non clipper algorithm
chips that also have escrowed keys \? if a reputable firm produces a
chip (with escrowed key) that is a pop in replacement for the clipper
chip in my phone , and uses an algorithm that is widely known and evaluated
and trusted , then what 's the problem \?

the clipper is going to be reverse engineered anyway by any organization
with sufficient resources (can you say billions of cocaine dollars \? ) so
those drug dealers they 're so worried about will be slipping through the
cracks. we law abiding (non incredibly wealthy) citizens , naturally , will
not have this recourse. but claiming that the algorithm ca n't be
released to prevent people from using non key escrowed chips is plain
deceitful... analysis of the chip output will provide information on
the necessary headers and whatnot , so the bad guys could build chips
using a different algorithm and still not escrow their keys.

or , they could just buy bunches of cheap phones at k mart every week ,
and play swap the clipper chip with their cellular phone every day.


michael t. palmer a man is crazy who writes a secret in any
m.t.palmer@larc.nasa.gov other way than one which will conceal it
ripem key on server from the vulgar. roger bacon , 1220 1292

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 15
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes
i do n't get up in arms when
the government fails to protect the interests of the people , because in
my lifetime it never has therefore , i have no expectation that it will.

just to make sure everyone is clear on this it never has refers to
protects , not fails to protect i.e. , in my lifetime i have never seen
the u.s. government consistently protect the interest of u.s. citizens ,
except by accident.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from redsonja@olias.linet.org (red sonja)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization utter chaos in islip , long island , new york (we think)
lines 26

in article 1993apr20.054308.15985@celestial.com bill@celestial.com (bill campbell) writes
in strnlghtc5p7zp.3zm@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

in article apr18.194927.17048@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes

note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

i think this to be inaccurate. one can buy tempest equipment commercially.
even macs.

sure you can buy a tempest approved mac if you have enough
money. i have n't had any reason to look at this type of pricing
for about 10 years , but a tempest rating in 1982 would raise the
price of a 2 , 495.00 radio shack model iii to something around
15 , 000.00.

or just dig a deep enough hole in the ground. 50 feet should do it.



redsonja@olias.linet.org rs self possession is 9 10 of the law.
alien we control the laws of nature ! how come when it 's human , it 's an
joel and you still dress that way \? abortion , but when it 's a chicken ,
(mst3k 17 gamera vs guiron) it 's an omelet \? george carlin

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
organization totally unorganized
lines 281

in article 1993apr19.130132.12650@afterlife.ncsc.mil rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes
in article bontchev.734981805@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \? if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individuals
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

read it again yourself , then re apply the admonition you gave to the
previous poster to yourself , as well. the first clause is not a condition ,
it is a reason for explicitly supporting the right which exists , militia
or not , that the people have a right to keep and bear arms. this is
not a right granted by the constitution , it is a right presumed to exist
by default. the constitution mentioning a right is to prevent the
government from removing that right by stating very clearly the government
shall not infringe (mess with , block , limit) that right. remember the
constitution is a bunch of negative things things the government cannot
do. all rights , etc not epxressly given to the government go to the
states and the people (the same people the other 9 amendments in the
bill of rights talk about).

since i am sure you will summarily reject my interpretation , i am
appending a linguistic analysis by one far more expert than myself (and
you , i suspect). i am sure you will find his qualifications adequate.
if that is n't enough i can send you the senate subcommitee to the
judiciary on the constitution report on the same thing... there are
some things in there that big brother types , like biden , etc must have
really had to swallow hard to admit.

i think you will find that people that seriously study the constitution
and state what it means will say the same thing. those who come up
with 'new improved meanings' are those who are trying to subvert the
constitution for a given agenda. like clinton and his clinton cripple ,
gun control , people control , and control control , and the whole nasty
mess.

please tell us how this person is in error , wo n't you \? (and please back it
up with some proof , since i am backing my assertion up with independent
proof , and have a bunch more i can provide...).

note followups set to talk.politics.guns

begin included article

the unabridged second amendment

by j. neil schulman

if you wanted to know all about the big bang , you 'd ring up carl sagan ,
right \? and if you wanted to know about desert warfare , the man to call
would be norman schwarzkopf , no question about it. but who would you call
if you wanted the top expert on american usage , to tell you the meaning
of the second amendment to the united states constitution \?

that was the question i asked a.c. brocki , editorial coordinator of the los
angeles unified school district and formerly senior editor at houghton
mifflin publishers who himself had been recommended to me as the
foremost expert on english usage in the los angeles school system. mr.
brocki told me to get in touch with roy copperud , a retired professor
journalism at the university of southern california and the author of
american usage and style the consensus.

a little research lent support to brocki 's opinion of professor copperud 's
expertise.

roy copperud was a newspaper writer on major dailies for over three decades
before embarking on a a distinguished 17 year career teaching journalism at
usc. since 1952 , copperud has been writing a column dealing with the
professional aspects of journalism for editor and publisher , a weekly
magazine focusing on the journalism field.

he 's on the usage panel of the american heritage dictionary , and merriam
webster 's usage dictionary frequently cites him as an expert. copperud 's
fifth book on usage , american usage and style the consensus , has been in
continuous print from van nostrand reinhold since 1981 , and is the winner
of the association of american publisher 's humanities award.

that sounds like an expert to me.

after a brief telephone call to professor copperud in which i introduced
myself but did not give him any indication of why i was interested , i sent
the following letter

i am writing you to ask you for your professional opinion as an expert in
english usage , to analyze the text of the second amendment to the united
states constitution , and extract the intent from the text.

the text of the second amendment is , 'a well regulated militia , being
necessary for the security of a free state , the right of the people to keep
and bear arms , shall not be infringed.'

the debate over this amendment has been whether the first part of the
sentence , 'a well regulated militia , being necessary to the security of a
free state' , is a restrictive clause or a subordinate clause , with respect
to the independent clause containing the subject of the sentence , 'the
right of the people to keep and bear arms , shall not be infringed.'

i would request that your analysis of this sentence not take into
consideration issues of political impact or public policy , but be restricted
entirely to a linguistic analysis of its meaning and intent. further ,
since your professional analysis will likely become part of litigation
regarding the consequences of the second amendment , i ask that whatever
analysis you make be a professional opinion that you would be willing to
stand behind with your reputation , and even be willing to testify under
oath to support , if necessary.

my letter framed several questions about the test of the second amendment ,
then concluded

i realize that i am asking you to take on a major responsibility and task
with this letter. i am doing so because , as a citizen , i believe it is
vitally important to extract the actual meaning of the second amendment.
while i ask that your analysis not be affected by the political importance of
its results , i ask that you do this because of that importance.

after several more letters and phone calls , in which we discussed terms for
his doing such an analysis , but in which we never discussed either of our
opinions regarding the second amendment , gun control , or any other political
subject , professor copperud sent me the follow analysis (into which i have
inserted my questions for the sake of clarity)

copperud the words 'a well regulated militia , being necessary to the
security of a free state , ' contrary to the interpretation cited in your
letter of july 26 , 1991 , constitutes a present participle , rather than a
clause. it is used as an adjective , modifying 'militia , ' which is
followed by the main clause of the sentence (subject 'the right' , verb
'shall'). the to keep and bear arms is asserted as an essential for
maintaining a militia.

in reply to your numbered questions

schulman (1) can the sentence be interpreted to grant the right to keep
and bear arms solely to 'a well regulated militia' \?

copperud (1) the sentence does not restrict the right to keep and bear
arms , nor does it state or imply possession of the right elsewhere or by
others than the people it simply makes a positive statement with respect
to a right of the people.

schulman (2) is 'the right of the people to keep and bear arms' granted
by the words of the second amendment , or does the second amendment assume a
preexisting right of the people to keep and bear arms , and merely state
that such right 'shall not be infringed' \?

copperud (2) the right is not granted by the amendment its existence
is assumed. the thrust of the sentence is that the right shall be
preserved inviolate for the sake of ensuring a militia.

schulman (3) is the right of the people to keep and bear arms
conditioned upon whether or not a well regulated militia , is , in fact
necessary to the security of a free state , and if that condition is not
existing , is the statement 'the right of the people to keep and bear arms ,
shall not be infringed' null and void \?

copperud (3) no such condition is expressed or implied. the right to
keep and bear arms is not said by the amendment to depend on the existence
of a militia. no condition is stated or implied as to the relation of the
right to keep and bear arms and to the necessity of a well regulated
militia as a requisite to the security of a free state. the right to keep
and bear arms is deemed unconditional by the entire sentence.

schulman (4) does the clause 'a well regulated militia , being necessary
to the security of a free state , ' grant a right to the government to place
conditions on the 'right of the people to keep and bear arms , ' or is such
right deemed unconditional by the meaning of the entire sentence \?

copperud (4) the right is assumed to exist and to be unconditional , as
previously stated. it is invoked here specifically for the sake of the
militia.

schulman (5) which of the following does the phrase 'well regulated
militia' mean 'well equipped' , 'well organized , ' 'well drilled , '
'well educated , ' or 'subject to regulations of a superior authority' \?

copperud (5) the phrase means 'subject to regulations of a superior
authority ' this accords with the desire of the writers for civilian
control over the military.

schulman (6) (if at all possible , i would ask you to take account the
changed meanings of words , or usage , since that sentence was written 200
years ago , but not take into account historical interpretations of the
intents of the authors , unless those issues can be clearly separated.

copperud to the best of my knowledge , there has been no change in the
meaning of words or in usage that would affect the meaning of the
amendment. if it were written today , it might be put since a
well regulated militia is necessary tot he security of a free state , the
right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be abridged.'

schulman as a 'scientific control' on this analysis , i would also
appreciate it if you could compare your analysis of the text of the second
amendment to the following sentence ,

a well schooled electorate , being necessary to the security of a free
state , the right of the people to keep and read books , shall not be
infringed.'

my questions for the usage analysis of this sentence would be ,

(1) is the grammatical structure and usage of this sentence and the way
the words modify each other , identical to the second amendment 's sentence \?
and

(2) could this sentence be interpreted to restrict 'the right of the people
to keep and read books' only to 'a well educated electorate' for
example , registered voters with a high school diploma \?

copperud (1) your 'scientific control' sentence precisely parallels the
amendment in grammatical structure.

(2) there is nothing in your sentence that either indicates or implies the
possibility of a restricted interpretation.

professor copperud had only one additional comment , which he placed in his
cover letter with well known human curiosity , i made some speculative
efforts to decide how the material might be used , but was unable to reach
any conclusion.

so now we have been told by one of the top experts on american usage what
many knew all along the constitution of the united states unconditionally
protects the people 's right to keep and bear arms , forbidding all
governments formed under the constitution from abridging that right.

as i write this , the attempted coup against constitutional government in the
soviet union has failed , apparently because the will of the people in that
part of the world to be free from capricious tyranny is stronger than the
old guard 's desire to maintain a monopoly on dictatorial power.

and here in the united states , elected lawmakers , judges , and appointed
officials who are pledged to defend the constitution of the united states
ignore , marginalize , or prevaricate about the second amendment routinely.
american citizens are put in american prisons for carrying arms , owning
arms of forbidden sorts , or failing to satisfy bureaucratic requirements
regarding the owning and carrying of firearms all of which is an
abridgement of the unconditional right of the people to keep and bear arms ,
guaranteed by the constitution.

and even the american civil liberties union (aclu) , staunch defender of the
rest of the bill of rights , stands by and does nothing.

it seems it is up to those who believe in the right to keep and bear arms to
preserve that right. no one else will. no one else can. will we beg our
elected representatives not to take away our rights , and continue regarding
them as representing us if they do \? will we continue obeying judges who
decide that the second amendment does n't mean what it says it means but
means whatever they say it means in their orwellian doublespeak \?

or will be simply keep and bear the arms of our choice , as the constitution
of the united states promises us we can , and pledge that we will defend
that promise with our lives , our fortuned , and our sacred honor \?

(c) 1991 by the new gun week and second amendment foundation.
informational reproduction of the entire article is hereby authorized
provided the author , the new gun week and second amendment foundation are
credited. all other rights reserved.

about the author

j. neil schulman is the award winning author of novels endorsed by anthony
burgess and nobel economist milton friedman , and writer of the cbs twilight
zone episode in which a time traveling historian prevents the jfk
assassination. he 's also the founder and president of softserv publishing ,
the first publishing company to distribute paperless books via personal
computers and modems.

most recently , schulman has founded the committee to enforce the second
amendment (cesa) , through which he intends to see the individual 's right to
keep and bear arms recognized as a constitutional protection equal to those
afforded in the first , fourth , fifth , ninth and fourteenth amendments.

end included article

can you still honestly say the second is a 'state run militia only right' \?


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from dgr@eng.vitalink.com (daniel robinson)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
nntp posting host rodin.eng.vitalink.com
organization vitalink communications network systems corp. , fremont , ca
distribution na
lines 20

in article 1993apr19.130132.12650@afterlife.ncsc.mil rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes
in article bontchev.734981805@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \? if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individuals
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

hmmm , this could become a flame war very quickly. the text is ...well
regulated militia... when that amendment was written and approved ,
regulated meand armed . remember all of those westerns where bounty
hunters were called regulators \? this is now an archaic usage of the
word , but the original intent of the amendment was about weapons , not
control.

my 0.02.

dan robinson

from pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu (phil g. fraering)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana
distribution na
lines 25

holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes


with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic emmisions
from your computer or terminal. note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

1. i do n't think they are classified.

2. i could independently invent about half a dozen right off
the top of my head. if i had studied advanced e m a little better ,
i could probably come up with a very good system.

...
if the new regime comes to fruition , make sure you protect your first
amendment rights by asserting your second amendment rights.

doug holland


phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff.
pgf@srl02.cacs.usl.edu like how the ancient mayans had televison. repo man



from zeev@ccc.amdahl.com (ze'ev wurman)
subject is there any security in the clipper \?
organization amdahl corp. , sunnyvale ca
lines 26
nntp posting host sepia.key.amdahl.com

it seems to me that all discussions about clipper security are almost
irrelevant if i cannot choose the key , but have to use a key chosen for
me by the foundry , the security of the whole universe of users is as good
(or as bad) as the security of vlsi technologies inc.

it is a trivial effort to run any ciphertext agains all the keys ever
manufactured after all we are talking about 1 to 100 million keys that
will ever be manufactured. the key depositories can be as secure and
incorruptible as they wish to be , nobody cares anyway... (

now if someone would convince me that the shipping docks of vti , att and
others are impenetrable (remember the chips have to ship with the key
you or the dealer are going to submit it to the authorities eventually)
i 'd be a bit happier. but do we really believe that the various governments
(including ours) wo n't have the full lists of all the keys ever manufactured \?

did i miss something here \?

my own opinions , quite obviously...


from........ ze'ev wurman
email....... zeev@key.amdahl.com or zeev@ccc.amdahl.com
organization amdahl corp. 46525 landing parkway (m s 581) , freemont ca 94538
phone....... (510) 623 2345 (office)
fax......... (510) 770 0493 (attn zeev wurman)

from zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi)
subject re what is going on \? ...
lines 27
organization curtin university of technology
distribution inet

in article gthomas.735070935@sfu.ca , gthomas@fraser.sfu.ca (guy thomas) writes
zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi) writes

in article 1993apr16.055100.1@cc.curtin.edu.au , zrepachol@cc.curtin.edu.au (paul repacholi) writes
...
if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent .


in reply to mail queries i do n't know if a video is available yet. i asked
about a month ao and was told rsn.

yes it is. from the national film board of canada.

ah , not in the usa. thats a relief , thought 'reality' must be slipping for a
second. )

st noam was on the radio tonight , he has just published a new book 501 years .
published by south end i guess. could some bostonian confirm please \?

i would love to hear what he thinks of the clipper scam.

paul

ps the first posting i saw i thought was a joke in very bad taste. my appologies
to the person who broke the news.



from hollasch@kpc.com (steve hollasch)
subject re clipper considered harmful
summary buckets of blood pouring from peoples' heads !
organization kubota pacific computer , inc.
lines 46

brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood) writes
if clipper comes to cellular phones along with legal proscriptions against
using other cipher systems on these phones , a new and potentially dangerous
class of crime is created.

criminals who very badly want inscrutable tactical communications
(specifically the terrorists and drug dealers who proponents of key escrow
cite as threats) will be highly motivated to steal the cipher phone of a
legitimate user , and to kill this person or hold them hostage so discovery
of compromise of the device will be delayed.

yow get some sleep brad ! you mean that people (i.e. life is cheap
terrorists drug dealing warlords) who want to communicate in privacy will
prefer to break into my house , kill or kidnap me , and steal my telephone ,
rather than

spending 15 at k mart to buy a new phone.

purchasing a load of phones from the black market flea market
super market.

talking ( gasp ) face to face.

walking down to any one of millions of pay phones.

using messengers.

going to excruciating effort to think of code phrases like i had
a blowout on the freeway today .

look , this system does nothing to threaten folks who know they 're
being wiretapped , since it 's trivial to find other avenues of communication
they 'd have no reason to resort to extreme measures , since a plethora of
simple alternatives are easily available to them.

among all the legitimate reasons to damn the proposed system , i do n't
think we need to worry about terrorist commie drug warlord assasin thugs
murdering our families , kicking the dog and leaving the toilet seat up just
to steal a 15 telephone. the system is more like urine testing it
catches some small number of very stupid people , has no effect on the bad
guys with at least three neurons working in unison who wish to subvert it ,
and penalizes most heavily those who have no cause to be subject to it.


steve hollasch kubota pacific computer , inc.
hollasch@kpc.com santa clara , california

from tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe (dwight tuinstra)
subject (new) reason for clipper alg'm secrecy
reply to tuinstra@signal.ece.clarkson.edu.soe
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 38
nntp posting host signal.ece.clarkson.edu

apologies for not posting to alt.clipper , or whatever , but it seems it
may not be in the newsfeed here.

there may be another reason (good from nsa 's point of view , horrible
from everyone else 's) why the algorithm chip design might be secret.

first , note that the experts will only look at details , and of just
the algorithm

in addition , respected experts from outside the
government will be offered access to the confidential details of
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
their findings.

why not the chip design \? well , here 's the possiblity in addition to
encryption , the chip pre processes voice signals to make them easier
to analyze transcribe electronically. the chip , once widespread , might
effectively be part of a massively parallel computer for voice
grepping the us phone network (or the criminal wrong thinking patrons
thereof).

i would n't put it past the nsa. think how much easier it would make life
for them.

and if this is indeed the case , think of the possible public outcry should
it become widely known. thus the secrecy.

it might be a good idea to have experts in dsp , voice recognition , and
ai conversation understanding to be on that panel , and insist they be
given (authenticatable) design specs and implementation documentation.


dwight tuinstra best tuinstra@sandman.ece.clarkson.edu
tolerable tuinstrd@craft.camp.clarkson.edu

look out , kid , it 's something that you did.
god knows when , but you 're doin' it again ...


from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re licensing of public key implementations
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 23

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

i will provide one hint it is reported that rsa expressed puzzlement (at
their conference) that nobody has asked for permission to use ripem to
write a pgp compatible program.

this actually supports bill 's speculation if there is a backdoor in
rsaref and if pkp is supported secretly by the nsa , then it is more
than natural that they will welcome any public key implementation that
uses rsaref and will strongly oppose themselves against any
implementation that does n't.

i personally cannot see how one could put a backdoor in a
long precision modular arithmetic library that comes in source , but ,
of course , the fact that i cannot see it means nothing...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
originator gtoal@pizzabox.demon.co.uk
keywords entropy
nntp posting host pizzabox.demon.co.uk
reply to graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com
organization cuddlehogs anonymous
lines 9

in article 6040@osc.com joe keane jgk@osc.com writes
as a matter of fact , i do keep random files on my disk. the reason is ,
without special purpose hardware , it takes a long time to generate good random
bits. i have programs that crank out a couple bits per minute , which is
pretty conservative , but over time that 's more than i need.

sounds like a useful program interested in posting it to alt.sources \?

g

subject re fifth amendment and passwords
from pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (peter gutmann)
organization computer science dept. university of auckland
lines 19

in c5jzsz.jzo@cs.uiuc.edu kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (carl m kadie) writes

the crypto key disclosure issue has n't come up yet , but current law
suggests that it 's a loser for the defendant he 'll be compelled to turn
over the key.

it has actually come up (or it will in a week or two) in nz. i 'll post the
outcome when the trial finishes (which could take months btw). overall it
looks like you ca n't be forced to reveal a password , if anyone can provide
a convincing legal argument to the contrary (ie an actual court case) i 'd
be most interested...

peter.

pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz p gutmann@cs.aukuni.ac.nz gutmann p@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
peterg@kcbbs.gen.nz peter@nacjack.gen.nz peter@phlarnschlorpht.nacjack.gen.nz
(in order of preference one of 'em 's bound to work)
think ! (or thwim)


from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject declassifying media
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 82

there are many urban legends (maybe this ought to be in the crypt
faq \? ) about what is actually sufficient to clear or declassify
magnetic media when used for classified data. here is some
information from the horse 's mouth .

(regarding the sufficient overwriting of media ( clearing ) meant to
be retained within the controlled environment , or declassifying
the material to be reused outside the controlled environment , )

from national telecommunications and information systems
security (ntiss) advisory memorandum on office automation
security guidelines (ntissam compusec 1 87)



7.6.2.1 clearing of magnetic media

certain types of removable media (e.g. , magnetic tape , floppy disk ,
cassettes , and magnetic cards) may be cleared by overwriting the
entire media one time with any one character. floppy disks may be
cleared by applying a vendor 's formatting program that overwrites
each location with a given character.

fixed media (e.g. , winchester disks) should be cleared by overwriting
at least one time with any one character. one way to do this is by
applying a vendor supplied formatting program that overwrites each
location on the disk with a given character , if it can be shown that
this program actually works as advertised. the user should beware
some programs that purport to overwrite all locations do not
actually do this.

cleared media may be resides within the controlled facility or
released for destruction however , they should be marked and
controlled at the level of the most restrictive sensitivity of
information ever recorded.

7.6.2.2 declassification of magnetic media

certain types of removable media can be declassified using a
degaussing device that has been approved for declassifying media of
that type. (a list of approved devices is maintained by the nsa.)

if a fixed medium (for example , a hard , or winchester , disk) is
operative , an approved method of declassifying the disk pack is to
employ an overwrite procedure which must overwrite all
addressable locations at least three times by writing any character ,
then its complement (e.g. , binary ones and binary zeros)
alternatively.

when fixed media become inoperative , it is impossible to declassify
the media by the overwrite method. in this case , there are two
alternate procedures that may be used (1) disassemble the disk
pack , and degauss each platter with the appropriate approved
degaussing equipment and (2) courier the inoperative media to the
vendor 's facility , have the magnetic media (e.g. , disk platter)
removed in sight of the courier and returned to the courier for
destruction at the secure site. the vendor can then install new
platters and repair any other problems with the disk unit.

7.6.3 destruction of magnetic media

see dod computer security center , department of defense magnetic
remanence security guideline , csc std 003 85 for official use
only



this and many other interesting documents (many that are more
informative than probably intended) on computer security procedures
can be obtained (free) from

executive secretary
national telecommunications and informations
systems security committee
national security agency
fort george g. meade , md 20755 6000

write them ! it 's fun to be on the nsa 's mailing list...


grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu (eli brandt)
subject re the battle is joined
organization harvey mudd college , claremont , ca 91711
lines 13

in article 1993apr16.181040.9381@qualcomm.com karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn) writes
it looks like dorothy denning 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the
administration even sooner than we feared.

i 'd lay long odds that it was the other way around. clinton did n't
just pull this plan out of any bodily orifices the nsa has to have
been working on it for years. while it 's possible that denning (and
other prominent people) just happened to start arguing for such a
system , it seems more likely that there was a suggestion involved.
if this guess is wrong , i apologize.

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail
eli ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu

from cuffell@spot.colorado.edu (tim cuffel)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 11

i change login passwords every couple of months. i sure would suck if i had
to get a new sparc station everytime i wanted to do this. it seems that this
is what they expect you to do if you want to routinely change your password
on your phone. i'm sure the government contractor does n't mind , but a system
where you can cheaply change keys (des) has inherent security advantages ,
regardless of the algorithms involved.

tim cuffel finger for pgp 2.1 the cia has admitted that the assassination
of saddam hussien was one of their goals.
they failed , of course. seems as though that motorcade through downtown dallas
trick only works once.

from random@presto.uucp (jeff w. hyche)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
reply to presto ! random@uunet.uu.net
1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu 1993apr18.150259.1748@escom.com
distribution na
x newsreader arn v1.01
lines 16
organization i'm just me.

in article 1993apr18.150259.1748@escom.com , al donaldson writes

unrelated question...is n't the term clipper , as neat as it is ,
already taken by intergraph \?


yes , clipper is a trademark of intergraph. its the risc chip used
in some of thier workstations.

i wonder what intergraph is going to do to this infringement on thier
name sake \?


jeff hyche
there can be only one presto ! random@uunet.uu.net
x

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re wh proposal from police point of view
in reply to strnlght@netcom.com 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 05 46 03 gmt
reply to pmetzger@lehman.com
organization lehman brothers
lines 16


in article strnlghtc5puor.704@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

there has been extensive discussion in the eff forum , for example , about
inadmissible taps being used to develop information that could then lead to
admissible evidence. this might put a stop to such things , which must from
time to time be simple fishing expeditions.

far more likely , these things will continue to be done no matter what
assurances we are given. key escrow is likely going to prove to be a
joke.


perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 18

in article apr18.204843.50316@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your
crypto keys \? i would n't.

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon. sure.
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon .

david



david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
distribution na
lines 25

dave ihnat (ignatz@chinet.chi.il.us) wrote
in article 1qpg8finn982@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this
kind of the domino theory \? when one little country falls , its neighbor
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all mining salt
in siberia for not turning in our captain crunch secret decoder rings.

but , for all the wrongness of our attempt to correct it (vietnam , et. al.) ,
the domino theory was n't disproved at all.

ironically , the domino theory in fact was a reasonable metaphor for
the collapse of communism , from the liberalizations in poland and
hungary to the border crossings in the summer of '89 to the fall of
the wall later that year....and then to the ultimate collapse of the
ussr.

tim may

..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 68
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes
if the clipper chip can do cheap crypto for the masses , obviously one
could do the same thing without building in back doors.

i agree. so why is cylink the only (and expensive) game in town \?

note i think cylink is great , and if my boss would double my salary , i 'd buy
a bunch of their stuff ).

one thing that clipper offers is interoperability , at a higher degree of
security than we currently have in non proprietary voice encryption systems.
this means it will be cheaper than anyone 's proprietary scheme , and easier to
deploy. this is , of course , either a bug or a feature depending on how you
look at it ).

indeed , even without special engineering , you can construct a good
system right now. a standard codec chip , a chip to do vocoding , a des
chip , a v32bis integrated modem module , and a small processor to do
glue work , are all you need to have a secure phone.

great ! where can i buy it \?

another note if clipper increases the incentive to bring stronger
encryption to the mass market , all the better. it 's far overpriced at
the moment.

yes , cheap crypto is good but we do n't need it from the government.

i do n't care where we need to get it from , i care where we can get it
from , and whether it will interoperate with everyone else.

indeed , were it not for the government doing everything possible to
stop them , qualcomm would have designed strong encryption right in to
the cdma cellular phone system they are pioneering. were it not for the
nsa and company , cheap encryption systems would be everywhere. as it
is , they try every trick in the book to stop it. had it not been for
them , i'm sure cheap secure phones would be out right now.

you can build them right now as long as you do n't want to export (a
restriction i firmly oppose). the only thing stopping people from making
cheap encryption is greed they want a lock on the market.

they are n't the ones making cheap crypto available. they are the ones
keeping cheap crypto out of people 's hands. when they hand you a
clipper chip , what you are getting is a mess of pottage your prize
for having traded in your birthright.

oh , come on. only if you trust it farther than it deserves. a clipper phone
is not a substitute for a cylink phone , or a stu iii. it 's a substitute
for the voice scramblers advertised in the back of radio electronics.

are we getting cheaper crypto
for ourselves \? no , because the market would have provided that on its
own had they not deliberately sabotaged it.

i disagree. modulo itar , it 's not the government that has sabotaged the
market.

someone please tell me what exactly we get in our social contract in
exchange for giving up our right to strong cryptography \?

can you tell me where exactly we have given up that right \?


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from schneier@chinet.chi.il.us (bruce schneier)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization chinet public access unix
lines 13

in article strnlghtc5m2cv.8hx@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.


as long as you are on your own means that you can use your own encryption ,
i'm sold.

bruce

from eachus@spectre.mitre.org (robert i. eachus)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
in reply to scs@lokkur.dexter.mi.us 's message of wed , 21 apr 93 00 12 30 gmt
nntp posting host spectre.mitre.org
organization the mitre corp. , bedford , ma.
1993apr19.093227.1093@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu
1993apr20.150531.2059@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com
lines 32


smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes

thousands \? tens of thousands \? do some arithmetic , please... skipjack
has 2 80 possible keys. let 's assume a brute force engine like that
hypothesized for des 1 microsecond per trial , 1 million chips. that 's
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials. well ,
maybe they can get chips running at one trial per nanosecond , and build
a machine with 10 million chips. sure only 3.8 years for each solution.

but there is a much more pernicious problem with the scheme as
proposed. building a brute force machine to test 2 40 possible keys
if you have the other half from one escrow agent is easy. (one chip ,
one test per microsecond gives you one break every two weeks , and that
break gives you all messages involving that phone.)

the xor scheme so that the files from one escrow agent gives you
nothing is an improvement , but notice that xoring with (truely random)
bit strings allows for an arbitrary number of escrow agents. using
for xor , sk for the escrowed key , and a and b for two random bit
strings , hand sk a b , sk a , and sk b to three escrow agents. it is
possible to come with an encoding scheme to match any escrow pattern ,
for example 3 of 4 , such that fewer cooperating escrow agents gives
the cracking agency no benefit.



robert i. eachus

with standard disclaimer
use standard disclaimer
function message (text in clever ideas) return better ideas is...

from karl@genesis.mcs.com (karl denninger)
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security \?
organization mcsnet , chicago , il
lines 39
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

in article 9304201003.aa05465@pizzabox.demon.co.uk gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes
gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal) writes

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to attach any crypto device
to the phone network. (anything that plugs in to our bt phone sockets
must be approved for some reason crypto devices just never are...)


whats the difference between a v.32bis modem and a v.32bis modem \?

i'm not being entirely silly here what i'm pointing out is that the
modems that they have already approved for data transmission will work
just fine to transmit scrambled vocoded voice.

absolutely. i just meant that no secure dedicated crypto device has
ever been given approval. guerrilla underground devices should be well
possible with today 's high speed modems (not that i can think of many v32bis
modems that are approved either mind you just the overpriced couriers)

can someone tell me if hardware compression is or is not needed to run
digital speech down 14.4k \? i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets
say 8 bit samples. would raw data at the corresponding sampling rate
be usable \? if not , how fancy does the compression need to be \?

reasonably fancy.

standard voice circuits run at 56kbps inter exchange in the us.
therefore , you need to achieve 4 1 to get standard voice quality.

if you 're willing to give up some quality , you need only 2 1. this is still
acceptable from a speech standpoint it will be a little less faithful to
the original , but certainly intelligable. that 's all you really need for
this application.


karl denninger (karl@genesis.mcs.com) you can never please everyone except
data line 1 312 248 0900 by bankrupting yourself.
live internet in chicago an mcsnet first !


from ns111310@lance.colostate.edu (nathaniel sammons)
subject re what the clipper nay sayers sound like to me.
distribution na
nntp posting host blanca.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state u. engineering college
lines 39

... a bunch of well meaning (maybe) cynnical text about screw thread
sizes , the rights of people to have their own standards ,
and the non right of the gov. to regulate screw threads...

well , as funny as your little comment may seem , it has very little to
do with your personal privacy as a citizen , and about the governemnt
being able to look at everything you have ever typed into a computer
at one point or another.

this clipper chip stuff is the seeds for nightmares to make the
nightmare on elmstreet cheese on celluloid movies look like episodes
of mr. roger 's neighborhood.

if the gov establishes a cryptography standard that has to be used by
everyone , and everyone 's personal key is divided into two segments
and stored at two separate , albeit easy to find places , and that key is
only 80 bits to begin with , we are screwed (pardon the allusion to the
affore mentioned article) !

the gov , i believe , as do many others probably already have the cracking chips
for this clipper chip made. hell , they probably based the encoder on the
chip that cracks it , that way it 's easier to break the code , but since it is a
classified algorythm , no one knows that they can crack it so easily.

i , for one , and quite scared of this kind of thing , and plan to support
organizations (and even disorganizations) who are fighting against this
clipper chip in any way that i can.

i do not want the government to be able to have access , even with a search
warrant , to my keys... and i do n't want those keys to be only 80 bits long
to begin with !

nate sammons

o o
i hate quotations. this message brought you by
tell me what you know. nate sammons , and the number 42.
ralph waldo emerson ns111310@longs.lance.colostate.edu
o o

from ns111310@lance.colostate.edu (nathaniel sammons)
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us
nntp posting host casco.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state u. engineering college
lines 33

in article 1993apr21.163929.21149@eff.org a. charles gross acg@eff.org writes
certainly , with our way cool internet powers of
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate.

as long as we are kept informed of events , anyone on this bboard can make
a call to action. hopefully , we 're a strong enough community to act on
those calls. i realize this is a little optomistic , and i'm glad eff is
working in the loop on these issues , but do n't underestimate the
potential of the net for political action.

adam
i speak for myself

i second the motion.

all in favor \?

btw a few days ago , charles fee cxf111@psuvm.psu.edu posted the names ,
addresses , and phone numbers (voice and fax) of almost all the 103rd
congress 's members. this info , along witha great number of cabinet men , etc...
i captured it , as did many others , i am sure.

we should single out a few of the people on the list , and bombard them
with lobbying against the clipper chip , et al.

nate


o o
i hate quotations. this message brought you by
tell me what you know. nate sammons , and the number 42.
ralph waldo emerson ns111310@longs.lance.colostate.edu
o o

from murray@src.dec.com (hal murray)
subject re how do they know what keys to ask for \? (re clipper)
organization dec systems research center
lines 8

in article 1993apr17.031520.13902@clarinet.com , brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
the actual algorithm is classified , however , their main thrust here is
for cellular phones , and encryption is only over the radio end , not
end to end , i think. end to end will come later.

encrypting just the radio link does n't make sense to me. that means the telco
has to do the decryption , and hence they need the keys. how are they going to be
kept secure \?

from srt@duke.cs.duke.edu (stephen r. tate)
subject re more technical details
organization duke university computer science dept. durham , n.c.
lines 23

in article 1993apr19.162936.7517@bernina.ethz.ch caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni) (actually dorothy denning) writes
the seeds s1 and s2 do not change.

let me see if i have this straight if a person knows s1 and s2 ,
and the serial number of the unit , it 's easy to reconstruct uk.
of course , if they know sk , the family key , they can easily get the
serial number of any unit that has made a transmission. so with s1 and
s2 being used for a while batch of the unit keys , the number of
used s1 s2 pairs will probably be fairly low. of course , you have to
believe that the nsa fbi name your favorite government agency will
know sk so all it needs is the s1 s2 pairs , and presto , nasty details
like court orders for wire taps are no longer necessary.

now , i'm not one of the people who distrusts the government at every
turn , but taking someone 's word for it that the s1 s2 pairs are not kept
around is pushing what i'm willing to believe just a little bit too far.



steve tate srt@cs.duke.edu the reason why mathematics enjoys special esteem ,
dept. of computer science above all other sciences , is that its laws are
duke university absolutely certain and indisputable , while those of all
durham , nc 27706 other sciences are to some extent debatable. (einstein)

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
lines 18

from res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli)

separate locations to gain credibility. if they are seized and you are
compelled to decrypt it , you simply explain that you are an amateur
cryptologist playing around with one time pads , and that the first
file is the pad for the second. they xor the two files , and sure
enough , out pops a copy of war and peace .

so , judging from recent history , at this point they drop the original
charges , preemptively find you guilty of copyright violations , and seize
your computer , your home , and your financial reserves under federal
forfeiture laws.

ah no what really happens is that they turn up at the court with
another file which when exored with your document gives up the famous
e911 document ) and i tell you , some judges would fall for it...

g

from rogue@ccs.northeastern.edu (free radical)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
nntp posting host damon.ccs.northeastern.edu
organization college of cs , northeastern u
distribution alt
lines 21

in article apr18.194927.17048@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes
...
with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp encryption , they 'll just
call up one of their tempest trucks and read the electromagnetic emmisions
from your computer or terminal. note that measures to protect yourself from
tempest surveillance are still classified , as far as i know.

i do n't know about classified , but i do seem to remember that unless
you 're authorized by the govt , it 's illegal to tempest shield your
equipment. besides , effective tempest shielding is much more
difficult than you might think (hi jim ! ).

ra

rogue@cs.neu.edu (rogue agent sod ! )

the nsa is now funding research not only in cryptography , but in all areas
of advanced mathematics. if you 'd like a circular describing these new
research opportunities , just pick up your phone , call your mother , and
ask for one.

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re disk safety measure \?
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 23

cuffell@spot.colorado.edu (tim cuffel) writes

there is no guarantee that the deleted space would be overwritten during
optimization. likely , but no guarantee. a quicker and more secure method
would be a batch file that overwrote all of your free space. for example
fill.bat
echo 1 out
fill.bat
(this is off the top of my head. include std disclaimer.h )

it is much easier , faster , and probably even more secure to use norton
utilties 6.0 (i'm talking ibm pc here) and to tell wipeinfo to (a)
clean the free disk space and (b) clean the slack space at the end of
the files. use to government standard option for more careful
overwriting...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (james r ebright)
subject re wh proposal from police point of view
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 34

in article pmetzger.93apr19122105@snark.shearson.com pmetzger@lehman.com writes

in article strnlghtc5puor.704@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

there has been extensive discussion in the eff forum , for example , about
inadmissible taps being used to develop information that could then lead to
admissible evidence. this might put a stop to such things , which must from
time to time be simple fishing expeditions.

far more likely , these things will continue to be done no matter what
assurances we are given. key escrow is likely going to prove to be a
joke.

i feel like winston churchill in 1941 ( ...... but ,
the privacy clipper will , to the extent key escrow is legitimate , stop
most of the abuse of wiretaps by local cops , company cops , angry husbands
wives , etc... it is going to be hard for the keystone cops , the
proctor gamble cops , etc. to bypass even a product as flawed as the clipjob.

now i admit , i am hard pressed to find anything else good to say about it
except that , if it actually takes off , someone will certainly come up with
a real crypto chip (pin compatable ! ) that we can buy... unless , of course ,
big brother makes it illegal to have real crypto 'cause good honest law
abiding citizens will be happy to let the government listen to their
every word.... me \? did i say that \?

i am not a crook. president richard m. nixon



information farming at... for addr phone finger a a
the ohio state university jebright@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ((0 0))
jim ebright e mail jre @osu.edu
( )

from eachus@spectre.mitre.org (robert i. eachus)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
in reply to kadie@eff.org 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 03 26 23 gmt
nntp posting host spectre.mitre.org
organization the mitre corp. , bedford , ma.
lines 52

in article 1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes

clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another layer of
encryption.

but , if you are making custom equipment in any case , why not just
roll your own clipper implementation and report the wrong keys to the
escrow agency \? (tells us who is going to be in the chip business if
this thing goes through nsa , and those with something to hide from
nsa.)

if anyone can verify that your phone is not using the key registered
to that serial number , either

1) they have a court ordered wiretap. but what are they going to
do \? tell the judge that this individual really does have privacy \?
all they know is that the keys are not enough , but not why.

2) they have a court ordered wiretap on a phone in this series.
(this part is really scary. since the expectation is that all
chips in a particular batch will uses seeds based on the same s1 and
s2 and the serial number , getting the keys for one of a batch may give
access to all.)

3) there is a backdoor which allows all messages to be deciphered
without the keys. i find this one especially threatening since the
scheme seems very open to known plaintext attacks. (what i need to
decipher is the data in the header. if i talk to someone who has one
of these phones , presumably there will be an automatically negotiated
key generated. i'm not trying to decipher the record of the
conversation to know what was said , i use it as a known plaintext to
recover the backdoor represented by the header , but i know what the
header says for conversations i participate in. even worse , if the
phones in a series have related keys , i can buy a phone chip from the
same production lot. then i can recover its keys , either elegantly by
talking to myself , or by brute force analysis of the actual chip , then
apply the key generation process with those seeds to find the target
keys.)

hmmm ! i do n't think i want to ever come close to these phones.
even des is starting to look good. two cans and a string will provide
much better security.





robert i. eachus

with standard disclaimer
use standard disclaimer
function message (text in clever ideas) return better ideas is...

from barrett@lucy.ee.und.ac.za (alan barrett)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization elec. eng. , univ. natal , durban , s. africa
lines 18
nntp posting host lucy.ee.und.ac.za

in article c5qy3m.de3@agora.rain.com ,
jhart@agora.rain.com (jim hart) writes
since the wiretap chip is being distributed internationally ,
allowing the u.s. government to spy on foreign governments ,
companies and people as as well as to wiretap domestic citizens ,
this is a world wide issue. please put distribution world on the
distrubution line. thank you.

no ! distribution keywords are case sensitive. what you want
is

distribution world

or no distribution line at all. world in capital letters is wrong.

apb
alan barrett , dept. of electronic eng. , univ. of natal , durban , south africa
rfc822 barrett@ee.und.ac.za

from caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization swiss federal institute of technology (eth) , zurich , ch
lines 28

in article 1qv83m 5i2@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu mccoy@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (jim mccoy) writes
i set up a bbs that uses public key encryption and encryption of
files on disk. the general setup is designed so that when users
connect they send a private key encrypted using the system public
key and the user 's public private keypair is used to wrap the
one time session keys used for encrypting the files on disk. the
result of this is that even if i reveal the system private key it
is impossible for anyone to gain access to the files stored on the
machine. what is possible is for someone to use the revealed
system private key to entice users into revealing thier personal
private keys during the authentication sequence.

any answers or general musings on the subject would be appreciated...


just a question.
as a provider of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to gurantee
intelligble access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes
with sufficent authorisation \? i guessed this would be a basic condition
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland)

friendly greetings ,
germano caronni

instruments register only through things they 're designed to register.
space still contains infinite unknowns.
pgp key id 341027
germano caronni caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch fd560ccf586f3da747ea3c94dd01720f

from tom@ssd.csd.harris.com (tom horsley)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization harris computer systems division
lines 27
1993apr20.150531.2059@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
1993apr20.192105.11751@ulysses.att.com c5sy1z.4td@demon.co.uk
1993apr21.132318.16981@ulysses.att.com
nntp posting host amber.ssd.csd.harris.com
in reply to smb@research.att.com 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 13 23 18 gmt

i do n't like the unit key generation process any better than you do.
however s1 and s2 are supposed to be under control of the same
escrow agents. if they ca n't be trusted to keep the seed values secure ,
they ca n't be trusted to keep the half keys secure.

i hope there is something i do n't understand about this system , but can
someone tell me how these chips are going to be manufactured while maintaining
each half key under total control of the separate escrow agencies \? do n't
both halfs of the key have to come together (in some form) at the time
the chip is constructed \?

or is it built like a fusable prom , with the chip being sent to the 1st
escrow agency to program its 1 2 key , then the 2nd agency to program its
1 2 key (but who invents the safeguards that prevent the 2nd agency from
reading the information already programmed by the 1st) \?

this is n't intended to be a flame or anything , i am just really curious
how to manufacture these things while still maintaining the key escrow
security without simply saying trust the manufacturer , they wo n't look .


domain tahorsley@csd.harris.com usmail tom horsley
uucp ... ! uunet ! hcx1 ! tahorsley 511 kingbird circle
delray beach , fl 33444
censorship is the only form of obscenity
(wait , i forgot government tobacco subsidies...)


from trussell@cwis.unomaha.edu (tim russell)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization university of nebraska at omaha
distribution na
lines 18

geoff@ficus.cs.ucla.edu (geoffrey kuenning) writes

it always amazes me how quick people are to blame whatever
administration is current for things they could n't possibly have
initiated. this chip had to take years to develop , yet already
we 're claiming that the clinton administration sneaked it in on us.

no kidding. the most recent post i saw in alt.privacy.clipper (and i
hope anyone interested in this topic ends up there) states that clipper
has been in development for over four years.

i am , however , more than a little po 'd that clinton put his name on
this monstrosity , or even allowed it to get out the door , for that matter.
he 's already heard from me , and i hope you 'll all take the time to voice
your extreme displeasure as well.


tim russell omaha , ne trussell@unomaha.edu

from ameline@vnet.ibm.com (ian ameline)
subject screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization c set 2 development , ibm canada lab.
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm
lines 33

i suspect that this clipper thing could backfire on the gov in a
big hurry. i expect that products using these chips will socket them
rather than soldering them , since once the keys are handed over by the
escrow agencies , the chip is so much garbage , and will need to be
replaced. i expect that someone will come along with a pin compatible
chip that uses secure encryption possibly even disguised so that it 's
not possible to tell it from the clipper chip until you try to use the
2 backdoor keys.

if i were to manufacture such a chip , as part of my marketing
strategy , i would try to subvert one or both escrow agencies either
through bribes or industrial espionage and then publicize the fact.
(doing my best not to be connected with such activities which would
likely not be legal ) publicly discrediting the escrow agencies would
go quite far towards creating a market for a secure alternative.

i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip ,
and knowlege of the algorithm will likely be fairly widespread. any back
doors or weaknesses would further discredit the scheme , and help grow
the market demand for a secure alternative.

i believe that the company that provides such an alternative will make
few friends in the le community , but lots of money. i also believe that
the government will do it 's best to make such plug replacements illegal.
i expect that they will see the same success in limiting the availability
of such alternatives as they have seen in limiting the availability of
certain illicit drugs ie. little to none.

regards ,
ian ameline.
(of course the ramblings above have nothing to do with my employer , nor
do i necessarily advocate doing any of the things described here i
just believe that the events above are likely to take place)

from mbeckman@mbeckman.mbeckman.com (mel beckman)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization beckman software engineering
reply to mbeckman@mbeckman.com
distribution world
x mailer uaccess lite macintosh release 1.5v5
lines 35


in article 1993apr17.090731.18680@clarinet.com (sci.crypt) , brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes
interestingly enough , in designing the escrow , we may want to use some
rather unusual technology , such as sealed boxes of paper , or
destructive read memory , rather than typical computer databases , which
is fun for a database of hundreds of millions of keys.


to me , a larger problem is that once disclosed , your keys could be used
to decrypt any previously recorded conversations. i gather that from this
proposal a warrant would be required to get the keys , but not to collect
conversations ! consider the scenario where an agency collects preemptively
all encrypted conversations for certain people likely to be targets (and
not necessarily legitimate targets) , then arranges for some unrelated
incident that can trigger a warrant

your honor , we know that the suspect has received calls from noted
crime figure bugsy butthead said calls arranged by the agency and we must
therefore have this warrant to determine whether this suspect , in a
sensitive govt post , is corrupt.

i suppose that it is conceivable that there are session keys involved
somewhere , but that does n't seem likely if there are , why would n't the
technical overview mention them when it goes to such details as the number
of bits held by each escrow authority \?

this scheme is full of holes , and stinks to high heaven.

mel


mel beckman internet mbeckman@mbeckman.com
beckman software engineering compuserve 75226 , 2257
ventura , ca 93003 voice fax 805 647 1641 805 647 3125

you can observe a lot just by watching. yogi bera

from grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221)
subject powerful similarity too
organization capriccioso
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 107

a unix tool of cryptographic significance is available
for anonymous ftp.

agrep 2.0.4 a fast approximate pattern matching tool

source code project available from

cs.arizona.edu

in directory agrep

agrep is a very fast fuzzy search tool with a tremendous
number of powerful search options. the one most obviously
applicable to cryptography (key selection) is to be able to
specify the similarity of matches in the data.

for example say you make up a password phrase of qimwe7l .
of course you rightly suspect that this key itself is not
in any dictionary or word list. but how close is it to
en entry that could be varied by some crack program to
brute force search for it \?

you use agrep to find out. looking with argument for none ,
one or two errors , no matches. good so far. but

agrep 3 qimwe7l bigwordandphraselist

finds that the pattern qimwe7l is too close to the
pattern imsel (part of himself and a host of others) ,
to be of any cryptographic value as a key.

an error of level two corresponds to a simple transposition of
letters like teh for the . a minimally acceptable password
would have to pass as least level 3 in order not immediately
ruled out as even a remote possibility of being a good password.
(in real cryptographic use , my personal passphrases clear at
least level 8 on my rather large 80 meg word and phrase lists.)


and for searching for key words in human typed data (lots o'
typos) the tool is unexcelled. for example , for example ,
say i want to find out what people think about gibson 's
sf book neuromancer in the huge sf lover 's archives.
even with an error distance specification as small as
of 1 i will find all those people who think the title
was necromancer or other common typos. why miss anything \?

also , the program can look for up to 30 , 000 patterns in parallel
at boyer moore (sublinear) speeds. great for a nsa wannabe
to look for your name , terrorists names , special tagalog or
religious words , etc. in the news or e mail spool directories.

you can even search for ciphertext by using , say , 30 , 000
random three byte combinations and eliminate all texts that
do n't score the x chi square 'birthday' hits on message size y.

you think some crypto terrorist is try to foil you by changing
the pattern on you \? no problem. try agrep p nsa to find
nsa , national security agency , nsecag , no such agency ,
national scrabble association , n s a , etc.

you can also specify fixed areas looking for license
plate xyz123 when you know that the letters are correct ,
you might say

agrep 2 xyz 123 licenseplatedatabase

will find all plates starting with xyz with up to two errors
(addition , substitution , deletion) in the number area. you can
also weight the relative cost for substiutions , additions ,
or deletion errors. for example , when searching dna patterns
for a particular protein combination , you might know that
some kinds of damage cause the a nucelotide to drop out more
than other errors... you could adjust for this bias by setting
dc where you set the deletion cost to count as c errors.

a steganographic use (i even used agrep 2 steg eograp e
just now to find the correct spelling ! ) would be to intentionally
introduce errors of a certain type and magnitude into a plaintext
and then later recover the orginal it via an agrep pipe. lots of
possibilities here when only outlaws can have ciphertext...

also with agrep 's powerful extraction options it makes it easy
to abstract the hits into a useful form. for example ,

agrep d from 'pgp (passphrase zimmerman nsa)'

says output the entire mail record , delimited by 'from'
that contains 'pgp' and contains either 'passphrase' ,
'zimmerman' , or 'nsa'.

and agrep has been measured an order of magnitude faster
than the second best similarity tool publicly available.

as usual , i will be glad to e mail the source and docs
to those who reqest them by e mail if they cannot do
an anonymous ftp.

get this now.
it is too powerful to stay in the hands of the nsa.


grady ward , vendor to the nsa (and proud of it)


grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


from tedwards@eng.umd.edu (thomas grant edwards)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park
lines 25
distribution na
nntp posting host pipa.src.umd.edu

in article 1r1r3ninnebn@dns1.nmsu.edu amolitor@nmsu.edu (andrew molitor) writes
in article c5so84.hxv@demon.co.uk graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
actually , i am completely baffled by why dorothy denning has chosen
to throw away her academic respectability like this.

actually , i 've been following her remarks for some time , with
interest. i'm also a member of academia , and her remarks have nothing
but elevate her respectability in my eyes. it remains to be seen whether
you are the radical fringe , or i.

it is generally an error to assume that your beliefs are held by
the majority , or even a sizable minority. especially when you 're seeing
tens , nay dozens , of people on usenet agreeing with you.

the people on usenet are clearly a special bunch. we live the net , which
is the future of our culture. usenetters have rapid electronic access to
information. society in general must depend on cnn.

i can only hope we can make this information accessable by the public before
the radical fringe , which is the majority , destroys the fabric of
this country. freedom is never easily won.

thomas



from cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (carl ellison)
subject re white house public encryption management fact sheet
organization stratus computer , software engineering
lines 25
distribution na
nntp posting host ellisun.sw.stratus.com

in article c5lgaz.250@dove.nist.gov clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement) writes

procurement and use of encryption devices

...

the attorney general will procure and utilize encryption devices to
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure
law enforcement communications. further , the attorney general
shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
super surplus fund to effect this purchase.


talk about adding insult to injury ...

i , for one , believe that the use of civil forfeiture should be abolished by
a decent administration , not continued. instead , it looks like that
ill gotten gain will be used to help pay for wiretap equipment.


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course.
carl ellison cme@sw.stratus.com
stratus computer inc. m3 2 bkw tel (508)460 2783
55 fairbanks boulevard marlborough ma 01752 1298 fax (508)624 7488

from pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
in reply to louie@sayshell.umd.edu 's message of 17 apr 1993 13 10 00 gmt
reply to pmetzger@lehman.com
organization lehman brothers
1qovj8 74m@ni.umd.edu
distribution na
lines 24


in article 1qovj8 74m@ni.umd.edu louie@sayshell.umd.edu (louis a. mamakos) writes

in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

excuse me \? this has already happened. there 's a couple of humps in
the tent already. ask the folks at qualcomm what became of the
non trivial encryption scheme they proposed for use in their cdma
digitial cellular phone standard \? there already are restrictions in
place.

you have it slightly wrong. they dumped the encryption system because
they could not export it not because they could not produce it for
u.s. use. there are no legal restraints on citizen use of strong
cryptography yet.

perry metzger pmetzger@shearson.com

laissez faire , laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 16

in article 7020.apr2207.05.3993@silverton.berkeley.edu , djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein) writes
in article 1993apr21.132318.16981@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes
and key size is one of the things that can be
verified externally.

gee. say they feed the 80 bit key through snefru 8 and take the first 60
bits of the result , then use those 60 bits as the real key. how do you
figure out that each key is one of 2 20 ``equal'' keys \? you can try a
birthday attack , but if the key can be changed only once a second then
you will need several lifetimes to get reliable statistics.

you 're right , and i retract the suggestion. still , i wonder. that
there are only 60 bits of key information should , in principle , be
detectable. maybe some variant of the tests rivest et al. did to
demonstrate that des was probably not a group \? it should make an
interesting paper a black box analysis of a cryptosystem.

from smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin)
subject re clipper considered harmful
distribution inet
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 19

in article 1r24us oeh@agate.berkeley.edu , shirriff@sprite.berkeley.edu (ken shirriff) writes
imagine archiving all pay phone conversations , so if someone turns out
to be a drug dealer , you can listen to all their past drug deals. and
archive calls to from suspected mafia members , potential terrorists ,
radicals , etc. imagine the convenience for the police of being able to
get a warrant now and listening to all the calls the world trade center
bombers made in the past year.

since archiving would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why
would n't it happen \?

apart from the storage and search requirements , because the evidence
is inadmissible wiretaps require a warrant. and as soon as one
such case comes to light , all previous cases are likely to be discovered ,
and thrown out. there was an article in the ny times a few months ago
about how many convictions in the state might be invalidated because
they relied on pen registers and the court of appeals ruled that
pen registers were equivalent to wiretaps , and hence required warrants
under new york law.

from george@minster.york.ac.uk
subject non word password generator
organization department of computer science , university of york , england
lines 10

does anyone know of a non word password generator program
for pc 's \? \? i.e. it will produce a nonsense word but still
be pronouncible. e.g. lisgollan

wanted to force users to adopt more secure passwords ,
but still be memorable !

thanks george bolt

p.s. please email me as well if possible george@psychmips.york.ac.uk

subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
from a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin)
distribution na
organization beckman instruments , inc.
nntp posting host dsg4.dse.beckman.com
lines 60

in strnlghtc5nrhw.1qb@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

in article 115863@bu.edu uni@acs.bu.edu (shaen bernhardt) writes


i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any private
sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that was known to be at least
partially compromised \? (key escrows in this instance) why would any
private sector entity wish to buy a crypto system that had not been properly
evaluated \? (i.e. algorythm not publically released)
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't. there is other hardware out
there not compromised. des as an example (triple des as a better one.)

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior
corporate staff executive in two fortune 50 companies.

no wonder american businesses are going down the tubes !

i 'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business , if
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular resistant to
attempts by japanese , french , and other competitive companies and
governments to break.

(it 's nist , not nsa. nsa is not supposed to have anything to do with this.)
they did n't say that. they said is was better than some commercial grade
encryptions. i , for one , would n't trust them if they did , unless they
release the algorithm for investigation.

i 'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys , provided i was happy about
the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the federal reserve would certainly
satisfy me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms).

maybe the aclu and eff. (it would have to be a non profit , so the big 8
would be out.)

i 'd trust the nsa or the president if they stated there were no trap
doors i 'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined
the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure.

i would n't trust the nsa. i think i would trust the president on this , but
i'm not certain he would be told.

i 'd trust something from the nsa long before i 'd trust something from some
swiss or anybody japanese.

that 's your problem.

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most corporations would
feel the same way. most many some (pick one) corporations have an attitude
that the nsa is part of our government and we support our government , as
one very famous ceo put it to me one day.

i want to emphasize the i am not speaking for beckman instruments at this
point. however , we are an international company , and i would like to think
that our customers come first , ahead of our government 's whims.

arthur l. rubin a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (work) beckman instruments brea
216 5888@mcimail.com 70707.453@compuserve.com arthur@pnet01.cts.com (personal)
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer.

from jhart@agora.rain.com (jim hart)
subject screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
summary (we need privacy chips for phones , not computer bound station)
article i.d. agora.c5qy3m.de3
organization open communications forum
lines 48

since the wiretap chip is being distributed internationally ,
allowing the u.s. government to spy on foreign governments ,
companies and people as as well as to wiretap domestic citizens ,
this is a world wide issue. please put distribution world on the
distrubution line. thank you.

ygoland@wright.seas.ucla.edu (the jester) writes

however assuming that i can still encrypt things as i please , who
cares about the clipper chip \?

you do n't care that people are being lied to , fooled into believing
the chip gives privacy when it fact it allows wiretaps \? you
do n't give a shit about anybody 's privacy except your own \? (and
not even your own are you so smart that you know when you 're talking to
somebody who has a wiretap chip on their phone instead of a privacy
chip with private keys \? )

attitude that everyone else should have. instead of worrying about a
clipper chip , simply connect your handset to your computer and feed
the voice single through , process , encrypt , and transmit over the
phone. the guy on the other hand then does the same in reverse.

simply \? everyone should have this attitude \? the only people
who can have this attitude are the most hard core
computer hackers , who never make phone calls away from their
computer , who apparently never call anybody except another computer
hacker , or perhaps another spook (u.s. classified agents refuse to use
their own system , only oblivious civilian dupes get that dubious privilege).
only spooks and hard core hackers need privacy , huh \?

we do need an alternative to nsa bugged telephones , but
we 're talking inexpensive telephones here , including hand sized
cellulars , that need strong crypto , real privacy. make shift
computer hacker rigs that require living by your computer to
talk privately over the phone are just a dumb stunt that does n't
do anything for anybody 's privacy in the real world.

what we need is a true privacy chip . for example , a real time
voice encryption rsa , put it into a silicon compiler and spit out asic.
put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for international
business , diplomats , and private communications. if the u.s. bans
it , we make it somewhere else and import it. the japanese , german ,
dutch , taiwanese , korean , etc. electronics companies do n't want the
nsa spying on them. u.s. workers lose more jobs to government fascist
stupidity.

jhart@agora.rain.com

from habs@panix.com (harry shapiro)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 65

in 1r1om5 c5m@slab.mtholyoke.edu jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz)
writes

even more interesting the smtp server at csrc.ncsl.nist.gov no longer
recognizes the 'expn' and 'vrfy' commands...

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov smtp
trying 129.6.54.11...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt
expn clipper
500 command unrecognized

seems like sombody did n't like your snooping around , marc.

then it is a good thing we already have this

the csspub mailing list csspab@mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov , and address on
the clipper mailing list , seems to contain basically the members of
the nist security board.

in addition to the names already posted , their true names are as
follows

burrows@ecf james burrows a director of nist 's national computer
systems laboratory

mcnulty@ecf f. lynn mcnulty an associate director for computer
security at the national institute of standards and technology 's
computer systems laboratory

gangemi@dockmaster.ncsc.mil gaetano gangemi is director of the
secure systems program at wang laboratories inc. he wrote computer
security basics by deborah russell and g. t. gangemi , sr. 1991 ,
o'reilly and associates

slambert@cgin.cto.citicorp.com sandra lambert is vice president of
information security at citibank , n.a.

lipner@mitre.org lipner is mitre corp. 's director of information
systems.

gallagher@dockmaster.ncsc.mil patrick gallagher , director of the
national security agency 's national computer security center and a
security board member

walker@tis.com stephen walker a computer security expert and
president of trusted information systems , inc. in glenwood , md

willis@rand.org willis h. ware a the rand corp. executive who
chairs the security board.

whitehurst@vnet.ibm.com william whitehurst is a security board
member and director of ibm corp. 's data security programs.


harry shapiro habs@panix.com
list administrator of the extropy institute mailing list
private communication for the extropian community since 1991


harry shapiro habs@panix.com
list administrator of the extropy institute mailing list
private communication for the extropian community since 1991

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
lines 29

pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

can you , while my mind is on it , give us one good reason that the
algorithm should be a secret algorithm , unless this encryption scheme
either is a joke , or contains features like a 'master key' or other back
door for unauthorized eavesdropping \?

hmm , here are a couple

1) if the algorithm becomes known , it will be easy to produce
pin compatible non crippled chips that provide real encryption and
privacy , because their keys are only in their users' hands.

2) since skipjack is a symmetric key cypher , it needs some way to
agree on a session key. the released information says that any
protocol may be used (e.g. , dh). from a theoretical point of view ,
this is probably true. however , from a practical point of view , those
chips must have some kind of key exchange protocol built in. what if
it is good old rsa \? this will mean that the producer will have to pay
lots of bucks to pkp. by keeping the details secret this can be
avoided...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from smk5@quads.uchicago.edu (steve kramarsky)
subject re keeping your mouth shut (was hard drive security)
keywords cooperation
reply to smk5@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 43

in article 1993apr14.055903.5358@qualcomm.com karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn) writes


i say in theory because in another case , a woman was held in
contempt for refusing to reveal the location of her child even after
taking the 5th. in this case , the woman was suspected of having
murdered the kid , so taking the 5th was n't surprising. sure , so she
was probably guilty , but that 's not good enough. in our system you 're
not supposed to be able to force a suspect to confess to a crime , no
matter how strongly you think they 're guilty. you have to develop
your evidence independently. doing otherwise might catch a few more
crooks , but only at the cost of turning the clock back to the middle
ages , when confessions were routinely tortured out of suspects both
guilty and innocent.

ok , i should have read the thread before posting my own 0.02. i would
just add to phil 's very infomative discussion the following caveat the
fifth amendment applies only in crinial cases. ( ...nor shall any person .
. . be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself... ).
thus if the father sued for custody of the children , the case would be
civil and the defendant mother would not have fifth amendment protection.
oddly enough , her refusal to give information in a civil case can lead to
criminal contempt charges (thus landing her in jail.) the interesting part
of all this is that in a murder trial , the woman can plead the fifth as
to the location of the child this is routine. a computer crime
prosecution thus would seem to be fertile ground for this kind of defense ,
where a suit by a party injured by hackers would not. if i am accused ,
for example , of sending encrypted kiddie porn over the nets the fifth should
protect my key. if i am accused of sending copyrighted material , however ,
it proabably will not (copyright infringement not being a crime in the
technical sense.) the really tricky question is , say i do both (naughty
boy that i am) can the government use the information gained in the civil
trial (ie. my key) to gain access to my files for use in the criminal
prosecution. the answer should certainly be no , but lord only knows how
this would work out.

steve.



steve kramarsky , university of chicago law school
steve@faerie.chi.il.us or smk5@quads.uchicago.edu
all i did was kiss a girl. jake , the night before his hanging.

from stevew@helios.unl.edu (steve wu)
subject crypto 93 final call
organization university of nebraska lincoln
lines 258
nntp posting host helios.unl.edu


............................................................................
crypto '93 conference announcement final call for papers
............................................................................

the thirteenth annual crypto conference , sponsored by the international
association for cryptologic research (iacr) , in cooperation with
the ieee computer society technical committee on security and privacy ,
the computer science department of the university of california , santa
barbara , and bell northern research (a subsidiary of northern telecom) ,
will be held on the campus of the university of california , santa barbara ,
on august 22 26 , 1993. original research papers and technical expository talks
are solicited on all practical and theoretical aspects of cryptology. it is
anticipated that some talks may also be presented by special invitation of the
program committee.

instructions for authors authors are requested to send 12 copies of a
detailed abstract (not a full paper) by april 26 , 1993 , to the program chair
at the address given below. a limit of 10 pages of 12pt type (not counting
the bibliography or the title page) is placed on all submissions. submissions
must arrive on time or be postmarked no later than april 21 , 1993 and sent by
airmail in order to receive consideration by the program committee. it is
required that submissions start with a succinct statement of the problem
addressed , the solution proposed , and its significance to cryptology ,
appropriate for a non specialist reader. technical development directed to
the specialist should follow as needed.

abstracts that have been submitted to other conferences that have proceedings
are not eligible for submission.

submissions must be anonymous. this means that names and affiliations of
authors should only appear on the title page of the submission it should
be possible to remove this page and send the papers to program committee
members. a latex style file that produces output in this format is available by email from the program chair.

authors will be informed of acceptance or rejection in a letter mailed on
or before june 21 , 1993. a compilation of all accepted abstracts will be
available at the conference in the form of pre proceedings. authors of
accepted abstracts will be allowed to submit revised versions for the
pre proceedings. a revised abstract should contain only minor changes and
corrections to the originally submitted abstract. all revised abstracts must
be received by the program chair by july 16 , 1993. the 10 page limit will be
strictly enforced for the pre proceedings.

complete conference proceedings are expected to be published in springer
verlag 's lecture notes in computer science series at a later date , pending
negotiation.

the program committee consists of

d. stinson (chair , nebraska)
m. bellare (ibm t. j. watson) e. biham (technion , israel)
e. brickell (sandia national labs) j. feigenbaum (at t bell labs)
r. impagliazzo (ucsd) a. odlyzko (at t bell labs)
t. okamoto (ntt , japan) b. pfitzmann (hildesheim , germany)
r. rueppel (r3 , switzerland) s. vanstone (waterloo , canada)

send submissions to the program chair

douglas r. stinson , crypto '93
computer science and engineering department
115 ferguson hall , university of nebraska
lincoln , ne 68588 0115 usa
telephone (402) 472 7791
fax (402) 472 7767
internet stinson@bibd.unl.edu

for other information , contact the general chair

paul c. van oorschot , crypto '93
bell northern research (mail stop 000)
3500 carling ave.
nepean , ontario k2h 8e9 canada
telephone (613) 763 4199
fax (613) 763 2626
internet crypto93@bnr.ca

............................................................................
crypto '93 general information (august 22 26 , 1993)
............................................................................

the program crypto'93 is the thirteenth in a series of workshops on
cryptology held at santa barbara , and is sponsored by the international
association for cryptologic research , in cooperation with the ieee
computer society technical committee on security and privacy , the computer
science department of the university of california , santa barbara , and
bell northern research (a subsidiary of northern telecom). the program
for the workshop will cover all aspects of cryptology. extended abstracts of
the papers presented at the conference will be distributed to all attendees
at the conference , and formal proceedings will be published at a later date.

in addition to the regular program of papers selected or invited by the
program committee , there will be a rump session on tuesday evening for
informal presentations. facilities will also be provided for attendees to
demonstrate hardware , software and other items of cryptographic interest.
if you wish to demonstrate such items , you are urged to contact the general
chair so that your needs will be attended to. the social program will include
hosted cocktail parties on sunday and monday. in addition , there will be a
beach barbecue on wednesday evening. the price of the barbecue is included
in the room and board charge , and extra tickets may be purchased.

about the conference facilities the workshop will be held on the campus of
the university of california , santa barbara. the campus is located adjacent
to the santa barbara airport and the pacific ocean. accommodations are
available in the university dormitories at relatively low cost for conference
participants. children under the age of 13 are not allowed to stay in the
dormitories , so those bringing small children will need to make separate
arrangements in one of several nearby hotels. more information on hotels is
enclosed. parking on campus is available at no cost to the participants.
however , participants must indicate on the registration form if they desire
a parking permit.

travel information the campus is located approximately 2 miles from the
santa barbara airport , which is served by several airlines , including
american , america west , delta , united , and us air. free shuttle bus service
will be provided between the santa barbara airport and the campus on sunday
and thursday afternoons. all major rental car agencies are also represented
in santa barbara , and amtrak has rail connections to san francisco from the
north and los angeles from the south. santa barbara is approximately 100 miles
north of los angeles airport , and 350 miles south of san francisco.

registration participation is invited by interested parties , but attendance
at the workshop is limited , and pre registration is strongly advised. late
registrations , subject to a late registration fee , may be accepted if space
is available , but there are no guarantees. to register , fill out the attached
registration form and return to the address on the form along with payment in
full before july 9 , 1993. campus accommodations will be available on a first
come , first serve basis for attendees who register by july 9 , 1993. the
conference fees include participation in the program and all social functions ,
as well as membership to the iacr and a subscription to the journal of
cryptology. the room and board charges include dormitory lodging and meals
from dinner on sunday to lunch on thursday. technical sessions will run
from monday morning to thursday at noon. a very limited number of stipends
are available to those unable to obtain funding. applications for stipends
should be sent to the general chair before june 4 , 1993.

............................................................................
crypto '93 crypto '93 registration form
............................................................................
registration deadline july 9 , 1993

last name

first name sex (m) (f)

affiliation

mailing address







phone fax

electronic mail

payment of the conference fee entitles you to membership in the international
association for cryptologic research for one year at no extra charge ,
including a subscription to the journal of cryptology , published by springer
verlag , at no extra charge. do you wish to be an iacr member \? yes no

the conference fee also includes the conference proceedings when they become
available , containing final versions of conference papers. the book of
extended abstracts distributed at the conference will contain only shortened
preliminary versions of these papers (maximum 10 pages).

conference fee regular ( 280) us
attended eurocrypt'93 , norway ( 230)
full time student ( 190)
deduct 50 if you do not wish proceedings
total conference fee us

room and board (4 nights) smoking non smoking
single room ( 275 per person)
double room ( 225 per person)
roommate 's name

extra barbecue tickets ( 20 each one is included in room and board)
40 late fee for registration after july 9
registration not guaranteed after july 9

total funds enclosed (u.s. dollars) us

payment must be by check payable in u.s. funds , by money order in u.s. funds ,
or by u.s. bank draft , payable to crypto'93. payment should be mailed to the
general chair
paul c. van oorschot , crypto'93
bell northern research (mail stop 000)
3500 carling ave.
nepean , ontario k2h 8e9 canada

............................................................................
crypto '93 hotel information
............................................................................

for those who choose not to stay in the dormitories , the following is a
partial list of hotels in the area. those who choose to stay off campus are
responsible for making their own reservations , and early reservations are
advised since august is a popular season in santa barbara. note that goleta
is closer to ucsb than santa barbara , but that a car will probably be
required to travel between any hotel and the campus. all prices are subject
to change prices should be confirmed by calling the individual hotels
directly. however , mention crypto'93 when you are making your reservation and
in several of the hotels listed you will be eligible for the university rate
which can be significantly less than the normal rates. we are not able to
block rooms in these hotels , so please make reservations as early as
possible. the quality of the hotels range from rather expensive beach front
resorts to basic inexpensive accommodations. for further information , try
contacting the santa barbara convention and visitors center , (805) 966 9222.

south coast inn 5620 calle real , goleta , ca 93117. regular rates single 89 ,
double 94 call for university rates. contact murrill forrester at
(805) 967 3200 or toll free at (800) 350 3614.

cathedral oaks lodge 4770 calle real , santa barbara , 93110. single rates not
available , double rates start at 84 including breakfast no university rates.
call tom patton at (805) 964 3511 or toll free at (800) 654 1965.

motel 6 5897 calle real , goleta , ca 93117. single 33.95 , double 39.95 ,
no university rate available. call (505) 891 6161.

the sandman inn 3714 state st. , santa barbara , ca 93105. regular rates
single or double 84 , 94 for king size , university rate 65. call jean
ingerle at (805) 687 2468 or toll free at (800) 350 8174.

miramar hotel (beachfront) 3 miles south of santa barbara on u.s. 101 at
san ysidro turnoff. regular rates 70 135. no university rates. call
(805) 969 2203.

pepper tree inn 3850 state st. , santa barbara , ca 93105. regular rates
106 112 for two people , university rates 96 102 for two people. call
christopher oliphant at (805) 687 5511 or toll free at (800) 338 0030.

encina lodge 220 bath street , santa barbara , ca 93105. regular rates
106 108 for two people , no university rates. call carol wolford at
(805) 682 7550 or toll free at (800) 526 2282.

quality suites 5500 hollister ave , santa barbara , ca 93111 (close to campus).
regular rates single 125 , double 145 , university rates 99 double
(must mention you are attending a ucsb program). call michael ensign at
(805) 683 6722.

upham hotel (bed and breakfast) 1404 de la vina road , santa barbara ,
ca 93101. university rate 85 (mention you are from crypto). call sheila
donegan at (805) 962 0058.
............................................................................





stevew@helios.unl.edu fender ... smoke on the water , fire in
the sky... smoke on the water.
stevew@hoss.unl.edu (36 bars guitar solo)
deep purple , the best

from bena@dec05.cs.monash.edu.au (ben aveling)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization computer science , monash university , australia
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 12

andrew richard conway (arc@leland.stanford.edu) wrote

p.s. i ca n't work out why the us government does n't want to sell
them overseas. after all , they are rather easy for us interests to decode ,
so make a perfect tool for industrial military espionage...lulling
anyone stupid enough to buy it into a false sense of security. you will
notice that there is no mention anywhere about safety for non americans.

do n't forget , you are in the country that would n't let the russians
buy apple ii 's because of security concerns.

ben ( bena@bruce.cs.monash.edu.au )

from makey@visicom.com (jeff makey)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization visicom laboratories , inc. , san diego , california
lines 15

in article c5so84.hxv@demon.co.uk graham toal gtoal@gtoal.com writes
i am completely baffled by why dorothy denning has chosen
to throw away her academic respectability like this.

she has n't. dorothy denning has spent many years earning the
professional respect of her colleagues , and something won in this
manner is not easily lost. her support of the clipper no matter
how unpopular that position may be serves far more to enhance the
clipper 's respectability than to diminish her own.

jeff makey

department of tautological pleonasms and superfluous redundancies department
disclaimer all opinions are strictly those of the author.
domain makey@visicom.com uucp nosc ! visicom ! makey

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 17
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes
but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper to
argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

i agree. this is the danger i see , not the system itself. that is to say ,
this is a political issue , not a technical one.


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation






from peter@memex.co.uk (peter ilieve)
subject re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization memex information systems ltd , east kilbrde , scotland
lines 70

excerpts from the clipper announcement , with some questions

the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
calls and data , under proper court or other legal
order , when necessary to protect our citizens

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
encrypted using the device. what would they have to do to
decipher the message \?

a they would have to obtain legal authorization , normally a
court order , to do the wiretap in the first place. they
would then present documentation of this authorization to
the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
smugglers. the key is split into two parts , which are
stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
escrow system.

in these two sections the phrases `or other legal order' and `normally a
court order' imply there is some other way or ways of doing a legal
wiretap. what is are these \? how do they affect the way people who trust the
system of court orders to protect them feel about this escrow system \?

the second section shows the sequence of events.
the law enforcer , armed with his warrant , attaches his headphones to the
line with his croc clips (remember , these are the folk who could n't cope
with digital telephony) and hears a load of modem like tones (we are
talking analogue telephony here).
what next \? what modulation scheme do these clipper boxes use \?
is it possible to record the tones for use after the keys are obtained \?
i thought it was quite difficult to record a modem session at some
intermediate point on the line. maybe they have taken a crash course
in data comms and have a unit that demodulates the tones and stores the
digital stream for decryption later. this would still suffer from the
same problems as trying to record the tones as the demodulator would not
be at one end of the line. if calls ca n't be recorded for decryption later
it would be quite easy to foil the system by buying lots of clipper units
(these are supposed to be cheap mass market items) and using them in turn.

how tolerant is the modulation scheme to errors \? these things are proposed
for use by us corporations to secure their foreign offices , where phone
line quality may well be poor. it seems hard enough to me to get digitised
speech of any quality into something a modem can handle without having to
add lots of error correction to keep the decryption in sync.

q will the devices be exportable \? will other devices that use
the government hardware \?

a voice encryption devices are subject to export control
requirements. ... one of the
attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad. with this
in mind , we expect export licenses will be granted on a
case by case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
devices to secure their own communications abroad.
...

this raises an intersting question in the uk. here it is illegal to connect
anything to a public telecomms network without it being approved by a body
called babt. it has been stated , either here or in the uk.telecom group ,
that they will not approve equipment that does encryption. i do n't know
if this is true or not , but this would make a good test case.
perhaps `friendly' countries , and the uk may still qualify , will get
to fish in the escrowed key pool as well.


peter ilieve peter@memex.co.uk


from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re let 's build software cryptophones for over the internet...
lines 27

i forwarded an old posting about celp speech compression

in case you 'd like to experiment with celp , you can obtain a software
implementation of the 4800 bps fed std celp coder for free

the u.s. dod 's federal standard 1016 based 4800 bps code excited linear
prediction voice coder version 3.2 (celp 3.2) fortran and c simulation source
codes are now available for worldwide distribution at no charge (on dos
diskettes , but configured to compile on sun sparc stations) from

i 've since been told that the source of this is on cygnus.com
in pub celp.speech.tar.z

i'm not in a position to any sun tcp ip gurus out there who think they
can marry this with netfone by the end of the week \? ) seriously. i
think someone with real net access and two sparcs could have this running
by the end of the week. then we ask the pgp guys to add a bytestream
crypto filter. two weeks at the most. damn , i wish i had my sparc
back... i'm stuck on a 25mhz 386sx


share and enjoy !

g
ps you 'll have to use archie to find netfone i have a copy but no note
of where it 's from author in the docs is kelvin@autodesk.com and he
appears to be located in france

from rita@eff.org (rita marie rouvalis)
subject re sorry folks (read this)
originator rita@eff.org
nntp posting host eff.org
organization enormes rebajas online
distribution na
lines 15

in article 1993apr22.014646.28445@ucsu.colorado.edu andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson) writes

i just found out from my source that this article was a joke. heh heh..
it seemed pretty damn convincing to me from the start i just did n't
notice the smiley at the end of the article , and there were a few other
hints which i should of caught.

people took this article seriously \? i mean , i know it 's the
net and all , but the prankster did n't even have clinton 's sound bites
right.



rita rouvalis
rita@village.com

from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 9
nntp posting host access.digex.net

as a flaming libertarian paranoid extremist ( ) , i'at a loss for
specific objections that do n't sound frighteningly technical.

the idea that foisting the cripple chip standard on us manufacturers would
result in saying sayonara to yet another high tech market is n't technical ,
is n't in the least difficult to understand , and plays on a concern lots of
people are worried about already....



subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
from a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin)
distribution na
organization beckman instruments , inc.
nntp posting host dsg4.dse.beckman.com
lines 33

in strnlghtc5uij4.76t@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

in article elee9sf.93apr21095141@menudo.menudo.uh.edu
elee9sf@menudo.menudo.uh.edu (karl barrus) writes


would you trust a black box from the nsa versus an open system from
elsewhere \?

absolutely , if i were assured by someone i trusted that the black box was
more secure. i have nothing to conceal from the government , but i would like
to be sure that any russian , japanese , french , or other competitors for my
services ca n't read my traffic. i 'd like to be sure that competitive bid
information was safe from commercial competitors and foreign governments
which would aid them.

i believe the nsa has identical motivations with respect to my activities.
the president and many other senior government officials have made it very
clear that they share these motivations. thus i 'd trust them on the
coincidence of interests argument as well as on a basic trust in their
professionalism and a high confidence in their skills.

david

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.

nothing but errors and omissions here !


arthur l. rubin a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (work) beckman instruments brea
216 5888@mcimail.com 70707.453@compuserve.com arthur@pnet01.cts.com (personal)
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer.

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other encryption method \?
lines 22

from brad@optilink.com (brad yearwood)

assume in this case the usual canard adversary of narcotraficantes. they
probably have more cash than the kgb did , and they 're probably more generous
at handing it out. it will be easier than ever to find or cultivate walkers
and pollards for the keys , and it will be easy enough to find someone to
reverse engineer the chip (unless the tamper proofing is damned clever and
effective).

if the administration really believes big time drug dealers are the threat
(personally i thought it was the cia and the air force that did all the real
drug shipping ) ) then they ought to take this seriously unlike the
kgb , drug dealers can make a most convincing argument for cooperation help
us and we 'll be nice and give you some money , do n't help us and we 'll start
cutting off your favourite body parts

after all , it was probably an argument like that that persuaded jack ruby to
shoot oswald in full view of the police. life in jail probably seems much
more preferable to most people than several weeks of something nasty
followed by no life at all...

g

from artmel@well.sf.ca.us (arthur melnick)
subject big brother (clipper) chip
summary some thoughts on the use of the big brother (clipper) chip
keywords clipper
nntp posting host well.sf.ca.us
organization the whole earth 'lectronic link , sausalito , ca
lines 57


there are some issues which come to mind when one considers
the law enforcement aspects of the use of the big brother
(clipper) chip.
the drug dealers and terrorists are n't going to let
themselves be caught by using this type of encryption. in 1985
the new york times reported that government investigators broke
up a narcotics ring that was operating highly sophisticated
equipment capable of allowing the leaders of the ring to
eavesdrop on the law enforcement agents who were trying to arrest
them.
a mr. deely , an nsa official , said there are a lot of
medium sized countries that would have been proud to have the
signals intelligence operation of this group.
for every john gotti there are probably many more people who
have the sophistication to know what the risks of unsecure
communications are. the press given to the big brother chip will
only increase their numbers.
even if there is some benefit to law enforcement through the
use of big brother , it must be weighed against the constitutional
and civil liberties questions involved.
for example , in some areas of the world torture is used as
an investigative tool by the local law enforcement people. i
suspect it is an effective means of obtaining information and
shortening many investigations. it probably also helps keep the
conviction rate high.
the fact that the torture tool is not used in this country
(even with a court order obtained by showing probable cause ) is
because we have rightly balanced the questions of expediency and
what is ethically and morally right.
i think that the same question of expediency versus morality
should come into play when considering the use of big brother. i
vote for morality.
i am quite disturbed by what i interpret as a veiled threat
to prohibit the use of all encryption if this big brother chip is
not put into wide spread use. after a quick reading of the white
house press release i came away with that impression.
to most of the american public , the word hacker has
rightly or wrongly come to mean high tech adolescent vandal .
it has struck me that most of the people posting to sci.crypt
regarding this issue are intelligent , thoughtful individuals who
have genuine concerns about the privacy and constitutional issues
surrounding big brother. i hope that the use of big brother does
not become mandatory and other encryption become illegal. i
would hate to see this become some kind of high tech volstead
act.
the high speed digital communications revolution is coming
at us with the speed of an sst. the times they are a changing ,
and just as ibm is learning that they ca n't do business the same
way they have done it for the past 40 years , maybe nsa should
evaluate another approach.
eff , who have correctly questioned the cryptographic
strength of big brother , may need to send a stronger message out
regarding the constitutional issues involved.
al gore may want to think this one through a little more.
and as for dorothy elizabeth robling denning en quoi cela
vous concerne , cheri \?

from c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey)
subject competing standard
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 22

perhaps one way of getting away from this cripple chip that the u.s.
government seems to be pushing would be to come up with a good alternative.
for example , how about a scheme using rsa , and some hybrid of des cfb and
another strong stream cipher (maybe idea cfb) \? this could be substantially
the same as the cripple chip , except that instead of key registration , the
police could demand that you give up your secret key to them (with a court
issued warrant). then , they could read the last few months of wiretapped
messages you 've sent , and assuming you 've committed no crimes , you could
generate a new key pair and go about your business. i find that i 'd be
willing to pay rsa for the right to use such a system , especially given the
alternative. if you were unwilling to give up your secret key , then you 'd
probably stay in jail (has anyone got a real legal precedent for this \? ).
this would allow court issued warrants to be used to gather information
on suspected criminals , but it could n't be done in secrecy , and there
would be enormously less likelihood of corruption or theft of escrowed keys.
(maybe someone from the law enforcement or intelligent community will correct
me , but this does n't seem like such a big loss in terms of law enforcement
capabilities.)

any comments \?

john kelsey

from eab@msc.edu (edward bertsch)
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us
organization minnesota supercomputer center , minneapolis , mn
lines 18

i agree that notifying your elected officials of your feelings on this
(and any other , for that matter) issue is the way to go. and by the
way , the phone s on the list posted the other day were all in washington
d.c. for most of you , your elected officials will also maintain
a local office in your area code.

when i 'manage' my elected officials , i use their local office 's
exclusively , and my fax modem and windows print capture software are
my tool of choice. they see my words as i have stated them , rather
than a summary as they would if i called in voice and left a
comment with the office staff.



edward a. bertsch (eab@msc.edu) minnesota supercomputer center , inc.
operations user services 1200 washington avenue south
(612) 626 1888 work minneapolis , minnesota 55415
(612) 645 0168 voice mail disclaimer my opinions not msci's

from louie@sayshell.umd.edu (louis a. mamakos)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
organization the university of maryland , college park
lines 14
nntp posting host sayshell.umd.edu

in article tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes

but is it any worse than the current unsecure system \? it becomes much
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper
to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
concern of most of us , i think. the camel 's nose in the tent , etc.)

excuse me \? this has already happened. there 's a couple of humps in
the tent already. ask the folks at qualcomm what became of the
non trivial encryption scheme they proposed for use in their cdma
digitial cellular phone standard \? there already are restrictions in
place.

louis mamakos

from ygoland@wright.seas.ucla.edu (the jester)
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it !
distribution na
lines 44

the clipper chip is just the culmination of dorthy denning et all.
but lets ignore that for the moment.

the fundamental question is can the government stop me from using
encryption \?

ignoring for the moment the question of patented processes (such as
public keys) , can the government stop me from using an encryption
process \?

if the answer is yes then what freedom we have in this country is
truly gone and its time to get out the guns or the lawyers
(depending upon which causes more damage and to whom).

however assuming that i can still encrypt things as i please , who
cares about the clipper chip \? as far as i'm concerned a phone line
is insecure period. i do n't care if they encrypt it 10 ways from
sunday , if i did n't do the encrypting , i do n't trust it. this is the
attitude that everyone else should have. instead of worrying about a
clipper chip , simply connect your handset to your computer and feed
the voice single through , process , encrypt , and transmit over the
phone. the guy on the other hand then does the same in reverse.

ca n't work you say \? no standard you say \? obviously you have never
uses pgp.

anyone who expects the government to protect their freedoms is
kidding themselves. only you can protect your own freedoms.

one final thought addressed to eff
1.do you support the implementation of any form of
encryption where the encryption key must be revealed \?
2.if you do , why \? if not , why \?
3.what specific actions are you planning to take to either
support or stop this proposal \?
4.if you do not support this proposal , what alternatives do
you offer \?

the jester

proof windows is a virus it is very widespread , it eats up your disk
space , it slows down your computer , it takes control over your
computer , it performs disk access at random times , it displays silly
messages on your screen , it randomly crashes the computer vesselin

from rdippold@qualcomm.com (ron asbestos dippold)
subject re the battle is joined
originator rdippold@qualcom.qualcomm.com
nntp posting host qualcom.qualcomm.com
organization qualcomm , inc. , san diego , ca
lines 19

in article 1993apr16.181040.9381@qualcomm.com karn@servo.qualcomm.com (phil karn) writes
it looks like dorothy denning 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the
administration even sooner than we feared.

if the administration is this far along , is it possible that the
government been working on it for a while and has been using the
dennings to prime the pump , so to speak , or as the judas goat \?
whether paid off , just gullible , or what , does n't really matter.

it might also be possible that the nsa whoever has had the idea for
this for quite a while , has been promoting it (denning , et al) and
siezed the new opportunity a new administration who wants to spend
more money on espionage than bush did.

whatever , i'm not so sure that the cause effect order is totally
obvious.

you will lose your drug free and proud ribbon. two days later , you will
catch a neighborhood kid smoking it.

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re clipper considered harmful
lines 10

does dorothy denning read this group \? if not , is someone on the group
forwarding questions like these to her , or martin hellman , or anyone else
who 's seen more details about the chip \?

of course she does it 's just she 's been toasted so often for being
an nsa patsy that she 's keeping her head down. you can always mail
her directly as denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu ,
denning@cs.cosc.georgetown.edu or denning@cs.georgetown.edu

g

from hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney)
subject re clipper chip technical details
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 19
nntp posting host alumni.caltech.edu

djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (d. j. bernstein) writes

summary elided
the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when
someone plugs the above ciphertext into a receiving chip \? to get m
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c.
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be computed
from c then the system is cryptographically useless and the ``key
escrow'' is bullshit. otherwise how is a message decrypted \?

the description of the chip 's operation evidently leaves out some of the
key management aspects. either the k p is the secret key corresponding
to a public key which is broadcast at message initiation , or it is the
result of a diffie hellman key exchange or something similar. either
way there must be some protocols beyond those described here. it is n't
clear whether they are implemented in the clipper wiretap chip or must
be provided by other system components.

hal finney

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 14


here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an unexceptionable
one make it voluntary.

that is you get high quality secure nsa classified technology if you agree
to escrow your key. otherwise you are on your own.

david


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from borut.b.lavrencic@ijs.si
subject re the secret source of that announcement
reply to borut.b.lavrencic@ijs.si
distribution inet
organization j. stefan institute , lj , slovenia
lines 61

in article gradyc5unp0.d21@netcom.com ,
grady@netcom.com (1016 2ef221) writes
andrew molitor (amolitor@nmsu.edu) wrote

1) monitor my phonecalls.
2) monitor usenet.
3) provide only cryptosystems they can easily crack.
4) etc etc.

this is not to say that they do n't , they might. but you do n't
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of 'you' ,
your claims about the nsa border on paranoia.

andrew

.....
.....
.....


or maybe the germans should have been a little more 'paranoid' about
their engima with respect to turing and the british.

how about the cracking of the zimmerman telegram \? would a little
more paranoia have helped the germans here \?

maybe the nsa should have been a little more 'paranoid' about
emma woikin , or joseph sidney petersen , jr. , or ...

maybe you want to talk about macmillan publishers cooperation
with the cia and nsa to suppress yardley 's japanese diplomatic
secrets or even kahn 's the codebreakers.. paranoia , right \?

the most popular cipher systems in captured soviet spies was
the one time pad , even with the necessity of keeping incriminating
evidence about , is known to be the only proven unbreakable system.
soviet paranoia , right \?

and what do you think the nsa does with its wullenwebers \? and
huge rhombics pointed embassy row \? and their sites near
satellite uplink and downlink sites \? duh.

.....

grady@netcom.com 2ef221 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc 58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f


one case of slovenian paranoia.

once upon a time a tried to walk over the (famous) marathon field , not far away
from athens. i could not do that mostly becouse the field is now a huge
antenna farm. probably a greek comint installation , would you agree \?

borut b. lavrencic , d.sc. x.400 c si a mail p ac o ijs s lavrencic
j. stefan institute internet borut.b.lavrencic@ijs.si
university of ljubljana , phone 386 1 159 199
si 61111 ljubljana , slovenia pgp public key available on request

dolgo smois kalis ovraz nikei njihk ocnoo dkril ivseb ipika


from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 5
distribution na
nntp posting host access.digex.net

agreed. this is like the bay of pigs fiasco (planned by the eisenhower
administration but given the final green light by kennedy).
to be sure , hen it all went down , kennedy was at least man enough to take
full responsibility , which is not what i expect from slick willie clinton....


from ho@cs.arizona.edu (hilarie orman)
subject re licensing of public key implementations
organization u of arizona , cs dept , tucson
lines 6

with regard to your speculations on nsa involvement in the creation of
pkp , i find that it fails the test of occam 's butcher knife. never
attribute to conspiracy what can be explained by forthright greed.


hilarie orman

from hooper@ccs.queensu.ca (andy hooper)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization queen 's university , kingston
distribution na
lines 3

is n't clipper a trademark of fairchild semiconductor \?

andy hooper

from lewis@eecg.toronto.edu (david lewis)
subject off the shelf cheap des keyseach machine (was re corporate acceptance of the wiretap chip)
organization csri , university of toronto
lines 31

in article 16bb51156.c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (john kelsey) writes

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

..stuff deleted
existence of the key registry system seems to make possible all kinds of
possible attacks at a small fraction of the expense of trying to build (say)
a des keysearch machine.

as originally described , it sounded like any police court combination
could acquire the key for a given chip. i hope that 's not the case , since
it would imply a glaring hole. (how much does it cost to find one crooked
jodge and one crooked cop \? especially for a foreign intelligence agency
or organized crime boss \? ) however , even if more intelligent schemes are used
to allow access to the unencrypted phone conversations , there will be weak
nesses. they may be very expensive , and very difficult. but who would
trust his her confidential information to an encryption scheme that , for
(say) 100 , 000 could by cracked one time in a hundred \? (des , for all the
complaints about a 56 bit key , would probably cost several million dollars
to build a keysearch machine for.)


i can buy a des keysearch machine off the shelf now for approx 500k , but
it is not sold by that name. go buy a circuit emulation machine (eg. quickturn)
containing a bunch of fpgas , (say 500 to 1000 3090 's) , and program each
to be a des search engine. lets say 500 chips , running at 10mhz 5g tests sec.
time is 14e6 sec max 23 weeks , 12 weeks average. ca n't wait that long \?
buy a bigger machine.


david lewis

from george@tessi.com (george mitchell)
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography
organization test systems strategies , inc. , beaverton , oregon
lines 25

langford@gems.vcu.edu writes

in article 1993apr20.213718.23129@husc3.harvard.edu , kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (tal kubo) writes
having mentioned the possible dangers of unwelcome political associations ,
i would be remiss not to suggest something in the opposite direction
gathering the support of the nra by emphasizing the rkba side of the
issue as well as the first amendment side.

hmmm , this gave me an interesting idea. how about this argument
1) second amendment gives us the right to keep and bear arms.
2) strong cryptography is arms , according to the u.s. government (that 's
why it 's so hard to export).
therefore , we have a constituitional right to strong cryptography !
q.e.d.

. . . maybe the nra would be the best existing organization \?

i think a new organization would be a much better idea , as the nra
carries as much undesireable baggage for me as the eff and cpsr do
for others.

are any hot shot , reputable organizers reading this message \? if an
effective group comes into existence , it can count on me signing up.

george mitchell (george@tessi.com)

subject re pgp , pem , and rfc 's (was cryptography patents)
from a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (arthur rubin)
organization beckman instruments , inc.
nntp posting host dsg4.dse.beckman.com
lines 22

in c5lj0t.k52@blaze.cs.jhu.edu eifrig@beanworld.cs.jhu.edu (jonathan eifrig) writes

fact it is unlawful to distribute code implementing rsa without a license
to do so from pkp , whether or not one is charging for it. furthermore ,
any use of rsa , other than for research purposes allowed under us patent
law , is similarly unlawful. therefore , the average citizen cannot use
rsa to encrypt message traffic in the us without a license from pkp.

wrong i do n't think even pkp claims this one. it is not unlawful to
distribute code implementing rsa. it appears to be unlawful to use it , so
i agree with your last sentence.

fact there are no restrictions (yet ! ) on the use of cryptography under
us law , although this is beginning to look like it will change. the only
impediments to widespread use of rsa cryptography in the us are pkp 's
patents.

yes , that 's correct.

arthur l. rubin a rubin@dsg4.dse.beckman.com (work) beckman instruments brea
216 5888@mcimail.com 70707.453@compuserve.com arthur@pnet01.cts.com (personal)
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer.

from brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
organization clarinet communications corp.
lines 30

in article 1qnmnp db8@sol.tis.com mjr@tis.com (marcus j ranum) writes
traffic. that way your traffic looks normal and perhaps anyone
desiring to listen in wo n't even bother , since they know nobody 's
going to really trust crypto that has classified internals for
important stuff.


nice to think , but naive. the fact is that millions of people today
are sending highly confidential information over unencoded , easy to
receive cellular phones. they figure the chances of being heard are
small , so they risk it.

and 99.9 of people do n't understand crypto the way the least of the
sci.crypt newbies does. if clinton tells them it 's good crypto ,
they 'll believe him , and send important stuff over it , and be thankful
that they 're no longer using clear voice fm cellular phones.

only a tiny fraction of people will want more crypto. worse , in the
eyes of the government , which swears up and down the algorithim is
spook level secure (and it may indeed be) the only reason you could
possibly want this extra level is to avoid police.

by using it , you 'll attract attention as a likely lawbreaker.

your honour , the suspect suddenly started using another level of
cryptography and we ca n't tap his phone calls any more. he must
have something to hide. please sign the warrant to search his
house...

brad templeton , clarinet communications corp. sunnyvale , ca 408 296 0366

from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re fifth amendment and passwords
organization brought to you by the numbers 2 , 3 , and 7
in reply to pmetzger@snark.shearson.com 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 11 21 34 gmt
1993apr19.180049.20572@qualcomm.com
1qv83m 5i2@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu
1993apr20.000359.20098@bernina.ethz.ch
pmetzger.93apr20062134@snark.shearson.com
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 42

in article 1993apr20.000359.20098@bernina.ethz.ch caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (germano caronni) writes
just a question.
as a provider of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to gurantee
intelligble access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes
with sufficent authorisation \? i guessed this would be a basic condition
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland)

the us does n't yet have many laws covering bbss they 're not common carriers ,
they 're not phone companies , they 're just private machines or services
operated by businesses. there 's no obligation to keep records.
as perry metzger points out , if the police come with a search warrant ,
you have to let them see what the warrant demands , if it exists ,
and they generally can confiscate the equipment as evidence
(which is not constitutionally valid , but we 're only beginning to
develop court cases supporting us). a court may be able to compel
you to tell them information you know , such as the encryption password
for the disk there are n't any definitive cases yet , since it 's a new
situation , and there probably are n't laws specifically covering it.
but the court ca n't force you to know the keys , and there are no
laws preventing you from allowing your users to have their own keys
for their own files without giving them to you.

even in areas that do have established law , there is uncertainty.
there was a guy in idaho a few years ago who had his business records
subpoenaed as evidence for taxes or some other business restriction law ,
so he gave the court the records. which were in hebrew.
the us does n't have laws forcing you to keep your records in english ,
and these were the originals of the records. he did n't speak hebrew ,
and neither did anybody in the court organization. do n't think they
were able to do much about it.

it might be illegal for your bbs to deny access to potential customers
based on race , religion , national origin , gender , or sexual preference
it probably has n't been tested in court , but it seems like a plausible
extension of anti discrimination laws affecting other businesses.



pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from gtoal@gtoal.com (graham toal)
subject re clipper chip
lines 30

from dan mckinnon dan.mckinnon@canrem.com

i have lurked here a bit lately , and though some of the math is
unknown to me , found it interesting. i thought i would post an article i
found in the saturday , april 17 , 1993 toronto star

'clipper chip' to protect privacy

politics is of course dirty pool , old man , and here we have a classic
example the nsa and the administration have been working on this for
a long time , and in parallel with the announcement to us techies , we
see they 're hitting the press with propoganda.

it 's my bet the big magazines byte , scientific american , et all will
be ready to run with a pre written government slanted story on this in
the next issue. ('just keep us some pages spare boys , we 'll give you
the copy in time for the presses')

we must get big names in the industry to write well argued pieces against
this proposal (can you call it that when it 's a de facto announcement \? ) and
get them into the big magazines before too much damage is done.

it would be well worth folks archiving all the discussions from here since
the day of the announcement to keep all the arguments at our fingertips. i
think between us we could write quite a good piece.

now , who among us carries enough clout to guarantee publication \? phil \?
don parker \? mitch kapor \?

g

from vjs@rhyolite.wpd.sgi.com (vernon schryver)
subject re fighting the clipper initiative
organization silicon graphics , inc. mountain view , ca
lines 20

in article strnlghtc5toc6.kiu@netcom.com , strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes
...
the federal reserve open market committee
has successfully kept decisions from leaking for the statutory period until
publication.

how are you sure of that \? were n't there some recent studies that
found corelations between not yet announced decisions and market changes \?

are n't there continuing early rumors of their deliberations \?


even the department of agriculture has successfully kept crop
forecasts from leaking prematurely.

sheesh ! remember the big scandal a year or two (or 3 \? ) ago about
exactly such leaks \?


vernon schryver , vjs@sgi.com

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re the escrow database.
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 17

in article tcmayc5rs6n.lz8@netcom.com tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes


after the waco massacre and the big brother wiretap chip , any tactic
is fair.

this is pernicious nonsense !

david




david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may)
subject clipper an infringement on intergraph 's name \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 28

besides being an infringement on our civil liberties (not the subject
in this post) , the name clipper chip seems very confusable with the
clipper chip of intergraph.

originally designed by a team at fairchild semiconductor , clipper was
a 32 bit risc microprocessor. it is still used in some workstations ,
notably those from intergraph , the supplier of cad tools. intergraph
acquired the clipper product line when fairchild was sold to national
semiconductor several years back.

when i first saw clipper chip in the announcement , i immediately
thought the article was referring to the clipper chip i know.

this seems to be grounds for intergraph to sue , but then i'm not a
lawyer. i 'd say i'm a cryptologist , but i do n't want to incriminate
myself under the laws of the new regime.

tim may



..........................................................................
timothy c. may crypto anarchy encryption , digital money ,
tcmay@netcom.com anonymous networks , digital pseudonyms , zero
408 688 5409 knowledge , reputations , information markets ,
w.a.s.t.e. aptos , ca black markets , collapse of governments.
higher power 2 756839 public key pgp and mailsafe available.


from rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (ross anderson)
subject re tempest
nntp posting host ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk
distribution na
lines 19


res@colnet.cmhnet.org (rob stampfli) writes

would n't a a second monitor of similar type scrolling gibberish and adjacent
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to tempest attacks \?

we 've got a tempest receiver in the lab here , and there 's no difficulty in
picking up individual monitors. their engineering tolerances are slack enough
that they tend to radiate on different frequencies. even where they overlap , you
can discriminate because they have different line synch frequencies you can
lock in on one and average the others out.

the signals are weird in any case , with varying polarisations and all sorts
of interactions with the building. just moving a folded dipole around is also
highly effective as a (randomised) means of switching from one monitor to
another ,

ross


from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
distribution na
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
lines 40

in article bontchev.735404289@fbihh bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de writes
andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson) writes

methods. ``this year 's crime bill will have teeth , not bare gums , ''
clinton said. in particular , his administration will place strict
controls on data formats and protocols , and require the registration
of so called ``cryptographic keys , '' in the hope of denying drug
dealers the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the
approach could be used for crackdowns on other forms of underground
economic activity , such as ``the deficit causing tax evaders who
live in luxury at the expense of our grandchildren.''

and some people thought that i am exaggerating when claiming that the
cripple chip is just a first step in a totalitarian plot against the
civil liberties in the usa... it seems that i 've even been an optimist
the things are happening even faster than i expected.... that 's
another of the dirty tricks they used to apply on us under the
communist regime do something secret , then tell the people about is
(after the fact , when nothing can be done any more) , and of course ,
explaining them how much better the situation is now...

in my previous messages i wrote that the americans should wake up and
fight against the new proposal. now it seems to me that it is already
too late it has already happened , the civil liberties have been
violated , no , stollen from the american people , while the most part of
this people has been sleeping happily... ((( too sad...


i'm definitely going to write my congressman , and nobody 's ever
going to make me respect a law that violates my freedom of speech , and
if the feds try to enforce this law on me , i will protect my freedoms , with
force if it ever comes to that. (hopefully , it wo n't)

doug holland



doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom
holland@cs.colostate.edu of speech will have to pry it from my
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead lips ! !

from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
distribution na
lines 32

rlward1@afterlife.ncsc.mil (robert ward) writes

and since the us constitutions guarantees the right to every american
to bear arms , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in
context \?

yes. btw , the appropriate amendments were posted here some time ago.

if not , please do so before posting this misinterpretation again.
it refers to the right of the people to organize a militia , not for individual
to carry handguns , grenades , and assault rifles.

it 's ok , it 's ok... just a month ago i expressed my belief that the
right to have a means to shoot your neighbor is not that much
necessary to ensure a people 's right to be free and got flamed by lots
of american gun supporters. so i thought that...

never mind. the new cripple chip is a purely american problem , so deal
with the mess yourselves. i just wanted to share with you a bit of my
experience of living 30 years under a totalitarian regime (i'm
bulgarian) because i thought that it might be useful to you. oh
well.

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from pgf@srl03.cacs.usl.edu (phil g. fraering)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
organization univ. of southwestern louisiana
lines 52

strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior
corporate staff executive in two fortune 50 companies.

i 'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business , if
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular resistant to
attempts by japanese , french , and other competitive companies and
governments to break.

i 'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys , provided i was happy about
the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the federal reserve would certainly
satisfy me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms).

i 'd trust the nsa or the president if they stated there were no trap
doors i 'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined
the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure.

i 'd trust something from the nsa long before i 'd trust something from some
swiss or anybody japanese.

a lot of us out here in the hinderland will trust the japanese
before we 'll trust the nsa , the president , or those stupid
fortune 50 companies you 're so proud of.

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most corporations would
feel the same way. most many some (pick one) corporations have an attitude
that the nsa is part of our government and we support our government , as
one very famous ceo put it to me one day.

just some perspective from another point of view.

and since the japanese corps are n't part of our government governors
they may be more trusted out htere than you are.


people are getting tired of this be patriotic , do whatever we say
without question , and pay more taxes attitude that comes from
america 's political party...
or should that be caste \?


david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



phil fraering seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff.
pgf@srl02.cacs.usl.edu like how the ancient mayans had televison. repo man



from mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (mark riordan)
subject dos 6.0 compression api partial answer
organization michigan state university
lines 21
nntp posting host scss3.cl.msu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

for those of you looking for information on ms dos 6.0 's
file system compression api

today i called microsoft 's dos 6.0 hotline at (800)228 7007.
they told me that the dos 6.0 resource kit had the specifications
for the compression interface. the resource kit costs 19.95 ,
plus tax and 5 shipping.

i ordered a copy and will post further when i get it and know more
about it. i am posting now because the order turnaround is 15
working days.

if anyone knows for sure where 's there 's a good
source of info on this api , please speak up. i am
slightly skeptical about the resource kit 's likelihood
of having detailed programming info.

mark r. mrr@ripem.msu.edu

(posted also to sci.crypt , since the api could presumably also
be used for file system encryption.)

from amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
subject re secret algorithm re clipper chip and crypto key escrow
organization intercon systems corporation herndon , va usa
lines 30
distribution world
reply to amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker)
nntp posting host chaos.intercon.com
keywords encryption , wiretap , clipper , key escrow , mykotronx
x newsreader intercon tcp connect ii 1.1

jhesse@netcom.com (john hesse) writes
oh great. wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds.

hey , it 's better than the status quo.

i am far less worried about the feds tapping my phone than high school
scanner surfers who get their kicks out of eavesdropping on cellular and
cordless phone calls.

it would be stupid to rely on even a clipperized channel for truly
sensitive material , but it does seem to finally offer a reasonable way to
guard against casual eavesdropping. for example , even with my strong right
to bear arms view of the private right to possess and use strong
cryptosystems , the system as described provides enough security that i would
actually buy a cordless phone , and would be much less wary of using cellular
phones , walkie talkies , and so on. as long as it 's only used for mass market
voice scrambling , i actually do n't see a problem with it.

if you want more security than it offers , use something different. use pkcs
for electronic mail , celp over des or triple des with diffie hellman key
exchange for your voice traffic , or whatever.

and yes , i 'd rather just see all crypto restrictions lifted , but this is at
least an incrememental improvement for certain applications...


amanda walker
intercon systems corporation



from wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart 1 908 949 0705)
subject re why the clipper algorithm is secret
organization brought to you by the numbers 2 , 3 , and 7
in reply to bear@kestrel.fsl.noaa.gov 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 01 41 35 gmt
1993apr18.225502.358@iecc.cambridge.ma.us c5pstr.lu2@panix.com
1993apr20.014135.24134@fsl.noaa.gov
nntp posting host rainier.ho.att.com
lines 38

in article 1993apr20.014135.24134@fsl.noaa.gov bear@kestrel.fsl.noaa.gov (bear giles) writes
in article c5pstr.lu2@panix.com dfl@panix.com (danny o'bedlam) writes
the algorithm is classified because a military contract (or similar
government equivalent to military) has been let for this proprietary
design that the feds say that nsa developed. is there a patent \? is that
patent publicly available \? my betting is that that too is classified.

unless there has been a major change in the law , there 's no such beast
as a classified patent. patents exist to encourage communications and
develop the state of the art.

while there are n't classified patents , there are patent secrecy orders .

suppose you invent a voice scrambler for cb radio , and apply for a patent.
the patent office decides the nsa might be interested , gives them a copy
of your application , and you get a nice note back saying your patent
application has now been classified for national security reasons and
you 're no longer allowed to make and sell it.
i'm picking this example because it happened in the late 1970s.
it was probably some analog scrambler , and would have probably
violated fcc rules anyway , but it did get classified.

or suppose you publish a paper on your really spiffy algorithm and
then file a patent application. since it 's been published ,
they ca n't gain anything by classifying it , though you ca n't get
patents in most countries other than the us , where patent laws are different.

obviously a system of classified patents would be highly bogus
you ca n't sell that widget , because there 's a classified patent on it.
you 're not allowed to see the patent , or know who owns the design ,
so just give us all your money and work in progress and maybe we wo n't throw
you in jail for espionage. some countries might have that kind of
system ( , but we do n't have that here. quite. yet.

pray for peace bill
bill stewart 1 908 949 0705 wcs@anchor.att.com at t bell labs 4m312 holmdel nj
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in cyberspace....
white house commect line 1 202 456 1111 fax 1 202 456 2461

from steve b@access.digex.com (steve brinich)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 11
distribution na
nntp posting host access.digex.net

the dead giveaway is the repeated protestations that the new plan is aimed
at criminals , drug dealers , terrorists , etc. you 'd think the tactic
would be too obvious to trot out yet again after a decade of sarah and the
rest of the brady bunch using it to destroy the second amendment , but evidently
the control nuts feel it will serve them one more time.

as far as the export needs of american companies are concerned , i could
almost believe that the plan to saddle the us industry with a hidden sabotaged
algorithm was invented by a cabal of japanese lobbyists.



from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re screw the people , crypto is for hard core hackers spooks only
organization dsi uscrpac
lines 25

in article c5rrtd.1gz@agora.rain.com jhart@agora.rain.com (jim hart) writes


what we need is a true privacy chip . for example , a real time
voice encryption rsa , silicon compile it and spit out asic.
put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for international
business , diplomats , and private communications. if the u.s. bans
it , we make it somewhere else and import it. the japanese , german ,
dutch , taiwanese , korean , etc. electronics companies do n't want the
nsa spying on them. u.s. workers lose more jobs to government fascist
stupidity.


some countries have laws about importing crypto gear i believe the u.s.
does. without a license the above scheme wo n't work (at least not legally)
in such countries , including at least france and the u.s.

david



david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de (vesselin bontchev)
subject re once tapped , your code is no good any more.
reply to bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de
organization virus test center , university of hamburg
distribution na
lines 33

andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson) writes

methods. ``this year 's crime bill will have teeth , not bare gums , ''
clinton said. in particular , his administration will place strict
controls on data formats and protocols , and require the registration
of so called ``cryptographic keys , '' in the hope of denying drug
dealers the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the
approach could be used for crackdowns on other forms of underground
economic activity , such as ``the deficit causing tax evaders who
live in luxury at the expense of our grandchildren.''

and some people thought that i am exaggerating when claiming that the
cripple chip is just a first step in a totalitarian plot against the
civil liberties in the usa... it seems that i 've even been an optimist
the things are happening even faster than i expected.... that 's
another of the dirty tricks they used to apply on us under the
communist regime do something secret , then tell the people about is
(after the fact , when nothing can be done any more) , and of course ,
explaining them how much better the situation is now...

in my previous messages i wrote that the americans should wake up and
fight against the new proposal. now it seems to me that it is already
too late it has already happened , the civil liberties have been
violated , no , stollen from the american people , while the most part of
this people has been sleeping happily... ((( too sad...

regards ,
vesselin

vesselin vladimirov bontchev virus test center , university of hamburg
tel. 49 40 54715 224 , fax 49 40 54715 226 fachbereich informatik agn
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. vogt koelln strasse 30 , rm. 107 c
e mail bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni hamburg.de d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany

from marc@mit.edu (marc horowitz n1nzu)
subject the source of that announcement
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host oliver.mit.edu

the message from the nist about the clipper chip comes from the
following address

clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement)

just who is that , i asked myself , or rather , i asked the computer.

telnet csrc.ncsl.nist.gov 25
trying...
connected to csrc.ncsl.nist.gov.
escape character is ' '.
220 first.org sendmail 4.1 nist ready at sat , 17 apr 93 20 42 56 edt
expn clipper
250 csspab@mail gw.ncsl.nist.gov
250 denning@cs.georgetown.edu
250 hoffman@seas.gwu.edu
250 mkapor@eff.org
250 rotenberg@cpsr.org
250 rivest@mit.edu
250 mhellman@stanford.edu
250 alanrp@aol.com
250 dparker@sri.com
250 jim@rsa.com
250 branstad@tis.com
250 mgrsplus@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov
quit
221 first.org closing connection
connection closed.

well , is n't that interesting. dorothy denning , mitch kapor , marc
rotenberg , ron rivest , jim bidzos , and others. the government , rsa ,
tis , cpsr , and the eff are all represented. i do n't suppose anybody
within any of these organizations would care to comment \? or is this
just the white house 's idea of a cruel joke on these peoples' inboxes \?

marc

marc horowitz n1nzu marc@mit.edu 617 253 7788

from smhanaes@gpu.utcc.utoronto.ca (d. wigglesworth)
subject freely distributable public key cryptography c code where \?
summary do you know \?
organization utcc public access
lines 8


do you know of any freely distributable c (or c) code for public
key cryptography (such as rsa) \?

i 've tried various archie searches to no avail.

thanks ,
dan

from betel@camelot.bradley.edu (robert crawford)
subject re how to detect use of an illegal cipher \?
nntp posting host camelot.bradley.edu
organization bradley university
lines 20

jay fenton fenton@kaleida.com writes

how can the government tell which encryption method one is using without
being able to decode the traffic \? i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an
unauthorized strong encryption technique they would have to take both
keys out of escrow , run them against my ciphertext and draw a blank .

i was thinking about this , also. it 's quite possible the
system transmits , in clear , the serial number of the device being
used. that way they can start a tap , get the serial number , and use
the warrant for the first tap to get the key.

if they tap someone who 's apparently using encryption , but
do n't find that prefix , then they 'll assume it 's an un authorized
encryption scheme.


may the kloo gnomes be generous to you.

robert crawford betel@camelot.bradley.edu

from rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (ross anderson)
subject re clipper chip technical details
nntp posting host ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk
lines 13

in article 1993apr19.052005.20665@ulysses.att.com smb@research.att.com (steven
bellovin) writes

nothing was said about where k p comes from.

if you 've got a secure device , you do n't need public keys.

if the secret key which all chips share is sk , you can just use kp
e (myname , yourname , date) sk .

maybe that 's why jim bidzos was reported as being cheesed off.

ross

from purinton@toyon next.stanford.edu (joshua jordan purinton)
subject re the secret source of that announcement
organization stanford university
lines 22

in article 1r3hgqinndaa@uwm.edu rick miller rick@ee.uwm.edu writes
jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz) writes
marc@mit.edu (marc horowitz n1nzu) writes


seems like sombody did n't like your snooping around , marc.

or , the more likely explanation is that marc is spoofing.

i sincerely doubt that denning and crew are keen enough to react that
quickly , and i doubt they 'd want to cripple their smtp server t'boot.


marc is not spoofing. try it yourself. at least , the commands work
exactly as he described (i.e. they do not work.)

josh.



no pattern , content or thing is the being who looks out from each pair of eyes.
and only that is important. e. t. gendlin

from marc@tanda.isis.org (marc thibault)
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets
reply to marc@tanda.isis.org
distribution world
organization thibault friends
lines 45


1. do a straight encryption of your keyrings and put the
results with misleading names somewhere they wo n't be noticed
(eg. in the windows directory nobody knows what half those
files are).

2. do a straight encryption of a .bat file that will decrypt
the keyrings to ramdisk and will set pgppath to point at it.

3. set up another .bat file to decrypt and execute the first
(again on ram disk). have it take the name of the target file
as an argument so that there is no link between this file and
the (non existent) batch file referred to by the rest of the
system. comment it so it looks like a test script for fooling
around with pgp. set pgppath to the pgp directory.

4. leave the original keyrings that came with pgp in the
directory with pgp a good indication that you are playing
with , but have n't made serious use of pgp. add a set of keys
with your name and a really simple passphrase. never use it ,
or use it as your widely published key for low security
e mail.

5. when needed , run the second .bat file. make sure all
intermediate and plainfiles are generated on ramdisk.

6. when you hear the concussion grenade , hit the power switch.

cheers ,
marc


marc thibault cis 71441 , 2226 put another log
marc@tanda.isis.org nc freenet aa185 on the fire.

begin pgp public key block
version 2.0

mqbnaiqxytkaaaecalfehyp0yc80s1scfvjspj5escao hihtnefrrn vuecsavh
aauwpiugyv2n8n lftpnnlc42ms c8pjupykvi8abrg0i01hcmmgvghpymf1bhqg
pg1hcmnadgfuzgeuaxnpcy5vcmc
hlnv
end pgp public key block



from redsonja@olias.linet.org (red sonja)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
distribution na
organization long island pubnet long may it rave !
lines 60

in article 1qmugcinnpu9@gap.caltech.edu hal@cco.caltech.edu (hal finney) writes
the key question is whether non clipper encryption will be made illegal.

it seems pretty obvious that it will be made illegal if very loud noise is
not made about this immediately to congress and the house !

it looks like the worst nightmares raised by dorothy denning 's proposals
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal. encryption programs
for disk files and email , as well as software to allow for encrypted
voice communications , will be distributed only through the
underground . people will have to learn how to hide the fact that
they are protecting their privacy.

i do n't know what 's worse the waste of money , or the fact that (in spite
of all clinton 's rhetoric to the contrary) this is a feeble attempt by
a large group of bored intelligence bureaucrats to justify their currently
useless jobs. clinton said he was going to trim the fat from the government.
this does n't look very dietetic to me !

as i said before in this group drug dealing and terrorism both tend to
be international crimes which are not going to cease if the us starts to
regulate encryption. the drug dealers and terrorists will simply go to
other countries to communicate their plans , and will still carry them out
here and or wherever else. this is not the solution to the problem.

they try to invent a new problem by saying we need encryption. i guess
it 's a good thing bill gates is n't a 4 star general or we would all need
our own copies of ms dos too , right \?

und vee haff vays uff findink out iff you are usink doctor dos ! !

it 's shocking and frightening to see that this is actually happening here.

our health care and education systems are in the toilet and they come up
with this pearl. if this goddamned government does n't get a clue real quick
and start trying to repair the infrastructure of the country rather than
inventing someone to blame , germany and japan are going to eat the us alive ,
and we will deserve it. it 's not like there 's any shortage of real problems
to solve , guys !

a clipper chip is really going to help the homeless ! a clipper chip is
really going to help educate the children in the ghettos of our cities !
just think of the generation gap that can be developed when they rehire
dod engineer dad to work on clipper chips that will be used to decrypt
slightly rebellious adolescent hacker son 's naughty gif files ! i can see
the shitcom already.

if that was n't a forged post or a sick joke , i'm popping that dead kennedys
tape into the car stereo and tearing ass to canada. clinton on white horse
is near. it 's the suede denim secret police ! they have come for your uncool
niece ! do n't worry it 's only a phone...shit , i knew i should have gotten
some of those consent to monitoring stickers they keep on autovon phones
when i had the chance. i should have known i 'd need them in civilian life.


redsonja@olias.linet.org rs self possession is 9 10 of the law.
alien we control the laws of nature ! how come when it 's human , it 's an
joel and you still dress that way \? abortion , but when it 's a chicken ,
(mst3k 17 gamera vs guiron) it 's an omelet \? george carlin

from psionic@wam.umd.edu (haywood j. blowme)
subject new encryption
nntp posting host rac3.wam.umd.edu
organization university of maryland , college park
lines 120

as promised , i spoke today with the company mentioned in a washington
times article about the clipper chip announcement. the name of the company
is secure communicatiions technology (information will be given at the end
of this message on how to contact them).

basically they are disturbed about the announcement for many reasons that
we are. more specifically however , mr. bryen of secure communications
brought to light many points that might interest most of the readers.

his belief is that at t was made known of the clipper well before the
rest of the industry. this is for several reasons , several of which are

a company of at t 's size could never be able to make a decision to use
the new chip on the same day it was announced.

months ago they proposed using their own chip for at t 's secure telephone
devices. at t basically blew them off as being not interested at all.
this stuck them as strange , until now...


also i spoke with art melnick , their cryptographer , he expressed several
concerns over the new clipper chip

the obvious backdoor will be able to let many people decrypt the code.

once the key is released to authorities the security of the crypto
system is lost forever. these keys can end up in the hands of any agency
of the government.

the fact that the escrowed keys never change means that the algorithm
is vulnerable over time to an attacker.

the classified algorithm may hide another backdoor. but he feels that
it is probably to keep people from forging fake serial numbers , or
changing the keys themselves.

additionally he feels that the nsa has probably spent enough time and
money in working on a way to keep this chip from being reversed
engineered , that he feels that reverse engineering it will be very
difficult to do. he feels that they have developed a suitable technique
to protect the chip from this attack. also he feels that the chip is
hardware encoded with the algorithm and not microcoded onto the chip.

additonally i spoke with mr. melnick about their algorithm. he could n't tell
me much about their new agorithm because it has n't been patented yet.
however he told me a little

the algorithm will be released for public review after patents have been
granted for it. this is so the crypto community can see that it is
secure.

the algorithm is called nea for new encryption algorithm.
the details were sketchy because now it is held as a trade secret
until the patent was issued , but i was told that it will incorporate
the following

it will have fast encryption of data (exact specs not given , but
mr. melnick stated much faster than what an rs 232 can put out. )

it is a symmetric cipher , just like idea and des.

it will use 64 bit data blocks for encryption (like des and idea).

the key length was not given to me , but mr. melnick states that
it is adujustable and is more than adequate for security.

the algorithm is written in c and assembler in software form , and
can be ported to many platforms (unlike the the clipper chip which
is hardware only and cannot be made into software) this i
consider a definite plus for the nea for widespread use.

the algorithm will accomodate public key distribution techniques
such as rsa or diffie hellman. this will also be supported in the
hardware chip.

right now the projected cost of the nea chip will be about 10 dollars
for each ! ! (clipper will run 25 each chip that is if it is produced
enough , which probably wo n't happen ).

they currently sell a program called c com that uses the algorithm
and a special streaming protocol that does not divide the encrypted
data into blocks. this could prevent plaintext attacks if you know
what the block header is. this program operates at all supported
rs 232 speeds and uses the software implementation of the algorithm.

most importantly it does not have a backdoor ! !



right now the company is afraid that the new clipper chip will put them out
of business. this is a very real possibility. so they really need help in
stopping the clipper chip from becoming a standard. if you want to contact
them , they can be reached at..

secure communications technology
8700 georgia ave. suite 302
silver spring , md

(301) 588 2200

i talked to mr. bryen who represents the company. he can answer any
questions you have.




any factual errors occurring in this write up are my own and i apologize for
them ahead of time.




psionic@wam.umd.edu fight the wiretap chip ! ! ask me how !
c craig h. rowland
amiga pgp key available those who would give up liberty for
1200 by request. security deserve neither.

