from rogerw@world.std.com (roger a williams)
subject re 68hc16 public domain software \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 1

does n't motorola amcu have something on the bbs yet \? (512 891 3733)

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re help with ultra long timing
organization macquarie university
lines 60
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article 1993apr5.083324.48826@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu , wellison@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes
i have a project that was drooped in my lap that is somewhat a pain to design.
what i am looking for is a stable ultra long solid state timer. what they want
to do is to place this thing on the antartic ice shelf and measure the amount
of snow fall over a period of six weeks. every two weeks , they want to trip a
selonoid to discharge different colored pellets by gas pressure out across the
snow. then by digging down into the snow , the snow fall amount can be measured
as they come to the different color pellets.

the problem is trying to build a timer that would stand the cold ( 40 degrees)
and a power source that would n't drain. i have looked at the xr 2204 timers and
the standard ne556 dual timers , but thier temp specs wo n't go that low. also ,
two weeks equates to 1 , 209 , 600 seconds per firing , which means one big timing
cap ! i have found 2.2 farad (yes , farad ! ) caps that have a working voltage of
5 volts and are small in size. but again , the time of discharge at 40 or lower
degrees is n't linear. i was thinking of using several timers chained together
to fire the selonid at the end of the timing period , but that blasted cold and
the drain on a battery over six weeks is the pain. one possibility would be to
use solar panels , but this is during the six month twilight. anyone have any
good ideas \?

thanks in advance...

wes

firstly , i would never consider trying to make a one shot timer. your 2f2 cap
will have been designed as a ram battery substitute , rather than for use in
applications where you wish to drain the cap with a constant current. their
performance , in some respects , is more akin to batteries than to a normal cap.
the other point is that big electro 's are usually rated with 5 20 tolerances ,
so calculating exactly what capacitance you have (particularly when considering
the cold).

you should be looking at designing a micropower oscillator and divider chain ,
that rolls over (from zero to maximum count , or vice versa) once every
1 , 209 , 600 seconds. if you were to use something like a 110hz clock , you would
need a divider chain of 2 27 , to give an error of less than one percent in the
firing times over the six week period. of course , you could trim the 110hz
oscillator to give you exact time , but the likelyhood of the oscillator
remaining exactly constant at 40 is low anyway.

i would suspect that there would be far more battrey drain in firing the
solenoid than there would be in the timer circuit.

caveat i'm not experienced in low temperature electronics , so i ca n't
guarantee that this (or any other) approach is the best for inhospitable
conditions.

johnh



electronics department
( ) ( ( ( school of mpce
macquarie university
sydney , australia 2109

email johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au , ph 61 2 805 8959 , fax 61 2 805 8983



from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization megatest corporation
lines 30

in article 1993apr16.105738.20864@hippo.ru.ac.za webb@itu1 (90 29265 webber ah) writes
...stuff deleted...

i was also sceptical about the amps being built in the far east
or where ever. but if you look in the amp and see what components
they use and how it was designed , you can easily see why the
amplifiers sound so brilliant.

good point...also , i would n't be surprised that the components
they use off shore are of inferior quality. as long as it was
properly designed and robust , premium components are used , it
should n't matter where it is assembled.

i cannot see why people say the amplifier wo n't last not with
those quality components inside. sure the amp runs very fairly
hot but that 's how you get an amp to sound incredibly good.

an amp that runs hot has no bearing on how it 's gonna sound.
the amp you have probably is running class a the whole day.

actually , i 'd be wary of excessively hot amps , 'cauz even though
the components inside may be rated to run that way , excessive
heat will dramatically shorten the life of any electronic component
regardless of quality. in fact , an amp that does run hot to the touch is
because either the engineer or manufacturer of that amp wanted
to skimp on heatsinking or cooling to save costs ! hmmmmm....

aaron

.

from jgd@dixie.com (john de armond)
subject re help with ultra long timing
article i.d. dixie.8 v ! 0a
organization dixie communications public access. the mouth of the south.
lines 44

wellison@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes

i have a project that was drooped in my lap that is somewhat a pain to design.
what i am looking for is a stable ultra long solid state timer. what they want
to do is to place this thing on the antartic ice shelf and measure the amount
of snow fall over a period of six weeks. every two weeks , they want to trip a
selonoid to discharge different colored pellets by gas pressure out across the
snow. then by digging down into the snow , the snow fall amount can be measured
as they come to the different color pellets.

the problem is trying to build a timer that would stand the cold ( 40 degrees)
and a power source that would n't drain. i have looked at the xr 2204 timers and
the standard ne556 dual timers , but thier temp specs wo n't go that low. also ,
two weeks equates to 1 , 209 , 600 seconds per firing , which means one big timing
cap ! i have found 2.2 farad (yes , farad ! ) caps that have a working voltage of
5 volts and are small in size.

why are you fooling around with analog for this job \? a single chip
micro and a crystal will do the job reliably and easily. an 8748 only
costs about 5. that and a 1 crystal and you 're in business. embed
the whole thing in a foam insulated blanket , power it from a solar cell ,
use the excess power to heat the assembly during the day and rely
on the insulation to hold the heat during darkness. if you do n't want
to try thermal management , contact someone like icl and have them cut
you a special low temperature crystal. it 'll cost at most 20.

if you use a single chip micro , you 're looking at a parts count of
maybe 7. a processor , a crystal , two caps on the crystal , a power fet
to fire the solenoid a flyback diode and a battery. this is fewer parts than
you can build an analog timer for and is infinitely more reliable. add
a power zener diode (for heat) and a solar cell and the parts count
screams up to 9.

pd assemblers are available for all the common single chip micros. this
application is so trivial you could even look up the op codes in the
programmer 's guide and create the binary with a hex editor.

john

john de armond , wd4oqc interested in high performance mobility \?
performance engineering magazine(tm) interested in high tech and computers \?
marietta , ga send ur snail mail address to
jgd@dixie.com perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
need usenet public access in atlanta \? write me for info on dixie.com.

from drand@spinner.osf.org (douglas s. rand)
subject re power , signal surges in home...
in reply to randall@informix.com 's message of 19 apr 93 20 37 19 gmt
organization open software foundation
lines 76

in article randall.735251839@woof randall@informix.com (randall rhea) writes

gstovall@crchh67.nosubdomain.nodomain (greg stovall) writes
anyway , over the weekend , i was resting on the sofa (in between chores) ,
and noticed that i briefly picked up what sounded like ham radio traffic
over my stereo and television , even though both were off. also , all the
touch sensitive lights in my house start going wacko , cycling through
their four brightness states.

i presume that some ham operator with an illegal amplifier drove past
my house (i live on a busy thoroughfare) would this be a correct presumption \?
what kind of power must he be putting out to cause the effects \?
the affected equipment is about 100 feet from the road...

hams are unlikely to have an illegal amp , and are also unlikely to
have a dirty amp.

hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. it is very unlikely , however ,
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. ham rigs

not possible either. you 'd need about a 300 amp alternator for
just the amplifier. i can just see it. you need to slow
down on a downgrade , so you hit the push to talk button.

for cars put out around 100 watts. it is possible that a 100 watt
radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet
away. most tvs , stereos , and vcrs have very poor rf shielding.
if you experience the problem frequently , it may be
caused by a ham , cber , or other radio operator in a base station
nearby. the interference may have been caused by a radio
transmitter used for other purposes , such as police , fire ,
etc. if you heard voices over your stereo , i think you are
correct in assuming that the source is an rf transmitter.

if you have frequent trouble , you may want to try the rf ferrite
chokes available at radio shack. the interference is probably
being picked up by your speaker wires , and those chokes can
be installed on the wires very easily (without cutting them).
good instructions are included with the chokes.
if that does not solve the problem , you may want to search your
neighborhood for a radio operator. look for antennas on the roof
or car. talk to him her about your problem. there are things
a radio operator can do to reduce interference.

and please remember to be friendly when approaching your
local radio operator. this person may or may not be the
cause of your troubles , and you 'll get better cooperation
and help if you assume that he is going to be helpful (most
are). it was amazing the accusations that we sometimes
dealt with as i grew up. we were blamed for skip (ghost
pictures on the tv that occur at sunspot peaks) , c.b.
interferance , dead grass ) , you name it.

btw , the local operator should try and help you whether or
not he or she is directly responsible. it is part of
being a good neighbor and that is how the fcc views it.
too bad they do n't require the consumer equipment makers
to take any precautions.

last , you can usually tell ham radio vs. cb. ham operators are
required to declare their call (sign) every so many minutes (no more
than 10). so if you hear this is wa1qt or some other call starting
with a , w or k and no more than 6 total characters , you heard a ham.
cb'ers probably wo n't sign (i do n't know that they 're even required
to) and fire police have other private ids.







douglas s. rand drand@osf.org osf motif dev.
snail 11 cambridge center , cambridge , ma 02142
disclaimer i do n't know if osf agrees with me... let 's vote on it.
amateur radio kc1kj

from cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us (cyberman)
subject re analog switches balan
lines 31
x maildoor waflinemail 1.00r

michael fulbright said
analog switches balanced
to all on 04 15 93 01 08
mf i am trying to build a synchronous demodulator and i 've hit a snag.
mf in my application i want to be able to change the gain of an
mf op amp amplifier from 1 to 1 , controlable via a digital input.
mf the most obvious way i 've come up with is to use analog switches
mf to adjust the gain of the op amp. the only analog switch i have
mf experience with it the 4066. unfortunately i want to switch an
mf ac signal which goes from about 5v to 5v , and the 4066 is only
mf for positive signals.

how about using a 4053 it has a seperate ground for the
analog outputs. it would get you 3 bits.

mf another part which caught my eye was the analog devices ad630. this
mf is a balanced demodulator which appears to fill exactly the need i
mf have. the data sheet was somewhat skimpy on application notes. could
mf someone comment on using this chip for the following application \?

or how about a multiplying d a convertor \? this is
essentiallty what you are makeing.


stephen cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us
mangled on fri 04 16 1993 at 13 36 11

... catch the blue wave !

blue wave qwk v2.12


from 2575brooksr@vms.csd.mu.edu
subject next cube board monitor cable \?
organization marquette university computer services
lines 8
reply to 2575brooksr@vms.csd.mu.edu
nntp posting host vmsf.csd.mu.edu

hi all !
quick question. could someone please send me a pinout of
the cable that goes between a next cube and the monitor \? also ,
i am interested in the video signal (sync type , horz vert rate)
so any information on that would be greatly appreciated also.

thanks !
ryan brooks ryan@agnus.mcs.mu.edu

from jmichael@vnet.ibm.com
subject radar detector detectors \?
article i.d. almaden.19930406.131941.134
lines 3


they detect the oscillator operating in the detector. saw a story about
their use in canada. now do n't go putting oscillators in your cars... )

from wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
subject re history question
organization nrk clinic for habitual netnews abusers beltway annex
lines 24
reply to wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
nntp posting host skybridge.scl.cwru.edu

others said
early pa \?
i recall reading of a phonograph which used mechanical amplification.
compressed air was squirted out of a valve which was controlled by the
pickup. the result was noisy and distinctly lo fi , but much louder
than a conventional phonograph. it tended to wear the disks out
pretty quickly though.

an now deceased prof told us willing students about a project he had
worked on during wwii.

they needed a mega power pa with very clear audio quality. the purpose
was to bellow at refugees from aircraft.

their solution was a giant compressed air source , and a horn with
parallel shutters worked by a small audio system. i think he said it
worked very well , thus the war dept. cancelled the project .



a host is a host from coast to coast..wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu
no one will talk to a host that 's close............(301) 56 linux
unless the host (that is n't close).........................pob 1433
is busy , hung or dead....................................20915 1433

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re help wanted
organization macquarie university
lines 54
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article 1993apr20.071549.24839@csc.canberra.edu.au , u934132@student.canberra.edu.au (ogawa taro stephen (ise)) writes
could someone please tell me if a 1 4 decoder is the same as a 1 to 4
demultiplexer. i know how to link 2 of these to get an 8 output circuit ,
but how do i link 5 of these to make a 1 16 multiplexer. sorry if this
seems like a lame question , but i'm only a newbie to electronics , and i
have to do this circuit. please make any mail as droolproof as possible.

thanx ,
taro ogawa
(u934132@student.canberra.edu.au)

a 1 of 4 decoder need not be the same as a 1 to 4 demultiplexer , although
many commercial ssi implementations allow you to use one as such. strictly ,
a 1 of 4 decoder need only take two lines in and make one output change
state , according to the inputs.

a demux , on the other hand , uses two control inputs to determine which
of four outputs will reflect the state of the input signal. so there are
three inputs required.

a decoder can be used as a demux if it is equipped with an output enable
input , since this can be used as the data input (e.g. when high , all
outputs are high when low , only the selected (by control inputs) output
will be low).

an eight way decoder is created by using the high order bit (bit 2) to
select which of two four way demuxes is enabled. thus you achieve your
aim of having only one output of eight reflecting the input bits. note
that this method cannot be used to create a true eight way demux , since
you have no data input (the enable line on a four way decoder) left
once you commit the enable lines to their intended purpose.

a sixteen way decoder obviously requires four , four way decoders , plus
a mechanism to enable only one of the four at a time. therefore , use
the fifth decoder , attached to the two high order bits , to provide the
four enable lines.

of course , the two low order bits must be connected in parallel to the
four final stage decoders.

please give me the credit when you submit your homework.

johnh



electronics department
( ) ( ( ( school of mpce
macquarie university
sydney , australia 2109

email johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au , ph 61 2 805 8959 , fax 61 2 805 8983



from ankleand@mtl.mit.edu (andrew karanicolas)
subject re ic packages
organization mit microsystems technology laboratories
lines 31
nntp posting host ampere.mit.edu

in article 1993apr16.142715.12613@sol.ctr.columbia.edu seema@madvlsi.columbia.edu (seema varma) writes
getting a custom made package is too expensive , so
i am trying to choose between a flatpak and a
leadless chip carrier. the flatpack would be hard
to test since it has to be soldered on to the test
setup and i would spend loads of time soldering
as i kept changing the test chip. the leadless chip
carrier sockets also have long lead lines and may
not work at high speeds.

does anyone out there have experience knowledge
of this field \? i would greatly appreciate help ! any ideas
names of companies manufacturing holders sockets packages
would help.

check with kyocera america , inc.
24 prime park way , suite 150
natick , ma 01760

they are one of the largest manufacturers of ic packaging in the
world.

it sounds like you would be a good candidate for wafer probing or at
least ic probing to test performance. hp , cascade microtech and
tektronix should be able to help you here. one note , testing at high
frequency accurately can be an expensive business.


andrew karanicolas
mit microsystems technology laboratory
ankleand@mtl.mit.edu

from peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch)
subject what's a good ic for rs23
lines 13

alltall cool onewhat 's a good ic for rs23

tc from rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tall cool one )
tc organization university of illinois at urbana
tc i'm looking for an ic that will convert rs232 voltage levels to ttl vo
tc levels. something relatively inexpensive would be nice , too. anyone
tc a suggestion \? \? thanks.

try a maxim max232cpe 8 pin dil , converts 5v to 12v for 232commms.
what a clever little gizmo !

peter t.


from garyg@warren.mentorg.com (gary gendel)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring.
organization mentor graphics corp. ic group
lines 42
distribution world
reply to garyg@warren.mentorg.com
nntp posting host garyg.warren.mentorg.com

in article 1834@cmkrnl.com , jeh@cmkrnl.com writes
in article 1993apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu , crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) writes
so.. here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the
same electrical circuit if i hooked the jumper from the neutral
over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding outlets.
what 's wrong with my reasoning here \?

what you can do if you want three prong outlets without additional wiring is
to use a gfci outlet (or breaker , but the outlet will be cheaper). in fact ,
depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s) , a gfci may be required .

you still need to supply a proper ground for a ground fault circuit interrupter !
so rewiring is still a part of this job , however , the ground may be connected to
a local earth ground , rather than back at the breaker box.

as jamie said , gfci devices are required by code in a number of places , most
notably bathrooms , and outside the house. i do suggest the use of gfci outlets ,
rather than the breakers. you will end up with much less headaches. noise pickup
in long cable runs is sometimes enough to cause frequent tripping of the breakers.

gfci devices do save lives , if you decide to install them , be sure to check them
regularly (using the test button).

running the family business (electrical supplies and lighting) for many years , i
have seen too many seasoned electricians fried , because they forgot to double check
their common sense list. please exercise caution.

gary gendel
vice president current consulting assignment
genashor corp mentor graphics corporation
9 piney woods drive 15 independence boulevard
belle mead , nj 08502 warren , nj 07059

phone (908) 281 0164 phone (908) 604 0883
fax (908) 281 9607 email garyg@warren.mentorg.com








from rajan@cco.caltech.edu (rajan ranga)
subject an external timer
article i.d. gap.1pli7ginni6b
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 8
nntp posting host fleming.caltech.edu

i was wondering if anyone knows of a chip that that is similar to
the internal timer 0 on the intel 80c188 \? i want a timer that has
a maxcount a and b and the output should the same as intel 's timer. i called
intel and they told me that they do n't make such a chip. any suggestions
are welcome. thanks in advance.

rajan ranga
e mail rajan@cco.caltech.edu

from et@teal.csn.org (eric h. taylor)
subject re help with tracking device
summary underground and underwater wireless methods
keywords rogers , tesla , hertz , underground , underwater , wireless , radio
nntp posting host teal.csn.org
organization 4 l laboratories
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 06 00 00 gmt
lines 36

in article 00969fba.e640ff10@aesop.rutgers.edu mcdonald@aesop.rutgers.edu writes
...
there are a variety of water proof housings i could use but the real meat
of the problem is the electronics...hence this posting. what kind of
transmission would be reliable underwater , in murky or even night time
conditions \? i'm not sure if sound is feasible given the distortion under
water...obviously direction would have to be accurate but range could be
relatively short (i imagine 2 or 3 hundred yards would be more than enough)

jim mcdonald

refer to patents by james harris rogers
958 , 829 1 , 220 , 005 1 , 322 , 622 1 , 349 , 103 1 , 315 , 862 1 , 349 , 104
1 , 303 , 729 1 , 303 , 730 1 , 316 , 188

he details methods of underground and underwater wireless communications.
for a review , refer to electrical experimenter , march 1919 and june 1919.

rogers' methods were used extensively during the world war , and was
unclassified after the war. supposedly , the government rethought this
soon after , and rogers was convieniently forgotten.

the bottom line is that all antennas that are grounded send half of
their signal thru the ground. the half that travels thru space is
quickly dissapated (by the square of the distance) , but that which
travels thru the ground does not disapate at all. furthermore ,
the published data showed that when noise drowned out regular
reception , the underground antennas would recieve virtually noise free.

if you find this hard to believe , then refer to the work of the
man who invented wireless tesla. tesla confirmed that rogers' methods
were correct , while hertzian wave theory was completely abberant .


et tesla was 100 years ahead of his time. perhaps now his time comes.


from blockley@csu.murdoch.edu.au (adrian blockley)
subject integrated cct type um82c452l manufac by umc.
lines 15
nntp posting host essun1.murdoch.edu.au

where can i buy 1 or 2 of these chips (pref in australia) \?
what is name and address of `umc' \?

dan




adrian blockley ! i may say something profound
environmental science ! here one day.
murdoch university !
western australia , 6153 !
blockley@essun1.murdoch.edu.au !
phone 09 360 2737 !


from ddr@flux.isr.alaska.edu (donald d rice)
subject heavy duty antenna simulation software
nntp posting host flux.isr.alaska.edu
organization geophysical institute , fairbanks , ak
lines 21


i would be interested in hearing from anyone who knows of good software for
antenna simulation , particularly in source form suitable for unix workstations
(though good pc software would also be of interest).
i'm aware of the numerous mininec mutations , and have been using mn for
some time now. i'm primarily interested in hf , vhf , and low uhf ( 500 mhz)
designs , mostly wire antennas , but for thick wires and mesh surfaces as well
as for your basic thin wire assumption.
is anything interesting happening with nec itself \? i 've seen a version
that was mutilated to run (sort of) under microsoft fortran , but i'm not
sure how many new and improved versions of the code might be out there
somewhere.
i 'd also be interested in non nec derivatives. the ones i 've seen have
been aimed at microwave applications , but if there is something out there
useful at the lower frequencies , i 'd like to know about it.
thanks ,

don rice e mail ddr@flux.isr.alaska.edu (internet)
geophysical institute fnddr@alaska (bitnet)
university of alaska flux ddr (span)
fairbanks , ak 99775 phone (907) 474 7569 loran 64.86n 212.16e

from galen@picea.cfnr.colostate.edu (galen watts)
subject re beginner 's rf \? \? \?
distribution na
nntp posting host storm.cfnr.colostate.edu
organization college of natural resources , colo. state univ.
lines 16

in article c5sr8h.jph@cbnewsl.cb.att.com klink@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (steven.r.klinkner) writes
can anybody recommend a good , application oriented beginner 's reference
to rf circuits \?
steve klinkner at t bell labs srk@boeing.att.com

i have the arrl handbook for the radio amateur , and i'm getting the
solid state design for the radio amateur.

the handbook is 25 and solid state is 12 from arrl , 225 main , newington ,
ct 06111 but you should be able to find them at electronics or amateur radio
stores.
arrl will want 5 or so for shipping.
good luck ,
galen watts , kf0yj



from kirk cowen@panam.wimsey.bc.ca (kirk cowen)
subject references...
distribution world
organization commodore computer club panorama
lines 12

i 've got the same problem i ca n't dig up any info on the jumper settings
on the hd 3.5 drives.

can anyone recommend a reference book(s) on the subject , rather than a
quick fix type answer \? \? i was going to start hooking up things and
logging the results , but the prospect of a ten second smoke test deters
me...

thanks , kirk cowen.

via dlg pro v0.995


from arthur noguerola@vos.stratus.com
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma.
lines 22
nntp posting host m21.eng.stratus.com

in article c5k177.bok@world.std.com rogerw@world.std.com (roger a williams) wrote
mdonahue@amiganet.chi.il.us (mike donahue) writes


i do not know much about adcom mobil audio products , but i do know for a fact
that adcom does not make its own high end home audio equptment and that 80
of it comes directly out of tiawan...

like most high volume manufacturers , adcom has most of its pc boards
assembled off shore (in their case , mostly in the far east). final
assembly and testing are done in east brunswick.


and of course you older folks on the net will remember
way back when adcom got its rave reviews and kudos (ca
1985 or so) their 555 amp and preamp were not only
designed here but built here in the usa. then they
went to mexico and then to taiwan right after their
sales skyrocketed because of their stereopile
review ! ! ! if you have units that old look for made in
stickers on your unit.


from ubsiler@msuvx1.memst.edu
subject home made ir remote extender
organization memphis state university
lines 19

here 's a question for all you electrical engineers out there

i bought an 'infrared detector module' at radio shack for 3.95 it is a
little gizmo that senses infrared remotes and produces an output signal. then
i hooked the output through a transistor to an infrared led. the circuit works
like a minature remote control extender in my car all remote commands are
relayed to the cd player hidden in the glove compartment. it works fine with
my denon cd player , but when i tried to build the same circuit for a friend 's
vcr , it did n't work.
the circuit appears to work for other remotes (you can see infrared with a
sony ccd camcorder) but coincidentally it only seems to work for my cd
player...

any advice would be appreciated....
brian


ubsiler @ msuvx1.memst.edu


from umlangston@msuvx1.memst.edu (mark c. langston)
subject negative logic high \?
summary help ! ! !
distribution world
organization memphis state university
lines 28

this may sound like a simple minded question , but this is the first time
i 've ever had a need for this

i 've been designing some relatively simple chip circuits based on things
like photoresistors (you know , no light to photoresistor , emit a logic
high , etc.).

anyway , i 've got some servos lying around , and i wanted to do some things
with them using digital logic. i know all about having to pulse the signal
and everything , i just have one problem i'm assuming i need a negative
(yes , negative) logic high to get the thing to turn in the direction
opposite the direction it would turn under normal logic high.

is a negative logic high (i 've seen this in schematics) the same thing as
an active low , or what \? i'm not using a bi polar power source , so how
would i get a negative logic high out of this thing \? i need to have all
three signals available logic high , logic low , and negative logic high.

any help would be greatly appreciated. also , please reply via email , as i
never seem to have time to read this (or any other) group lately.

thanks much ,
mark

umlangston@memstvx1.memst.edu




from pw@panix.com (paul wallich)
subject re help with ultra long timing
organization trivializers r us
lines 16

in 1pqu12 pmu@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy) writes
in article c513wi.g5a@athena.cs.uga.edu , mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
instead , use a quartz crystal and divide its frequency by 2 40 times
or something like that.
... would n't a crystal be affected by cold \? my gut feeling is that , as a
mechanically resonating device , extreme cold is likely to affect the
compliance ( \? terminology \? ) of the quartz , and hence its resonant frequency.

yes , but in a fairly reproducible way. 40 is only a smidgen of the
distance to absolute zero. and in any case you 're going to have to
borrow freezer space from a bio lab or someone to test calibrate this
darling anyway. btw , you 're probably going to want those big capacitors
you found to fire the solenoid high current drain on frozen batteries
can be an ugly thing.

paul

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re illusion
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 31

i missed the first article s on this line due to not having a
chance to read the news for a couple of days...

the idea is commercialized in at least one product , the private
eye. that 's a small cube shaped device that the user straps around
the head similar to a sweat band. there is a boom that comes from
the side on which the device is mounted so that it is positioned
in front of the user 's eye.

the private eye we had here for evaluation was hercules mda
compatible. the innards are a row ( 400 leds) that are swept up
and down by a galvonometer like movement. the result is that the
sweeping led bar forms a fused raster. there is a virtual image
projected in front of the user that the visual system tends to fuse
with the background.

i did n't like the device very much. i found it easiest to use if i
looked at a blank white wall. i had problems with focus tracking
if i glanced down to look at my keyboard for an out of the way key.
the unit also emitted a soft buzz and vibration which i found
annoying. some people did n't seem to mind the buzz. properly
used , however , the image clarity was quite crisp.

i do n't know if the company has taken the technology any further in
the last year or two , but it did seem to have promise.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson)
subject re cad program for electronics \?
reply to paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson)
organization gec marconi research centre , great baddow , uk
lines 30

in article 1993apr17.211126.23467@norfolk.vak12ed.edu fculpepp@norfolk.vak12ed.edu (fred w. culpepper) writes
i am making a search for a cad program that does a decent job
of making schematic drawings. the program needs to be in
ms dos , windows if possible.

what i want the cad program to do is to draw diagrams by
dragging elements onto the screen , and in this the elements
needed are as diverse as vacuum tubes to ics (case with pins).
it also needs to have provision for adding legends to the
components as well as their values. in other words i want to
produce quality drawings. printout would be to either 24 pin
dot matrix and or laser printer.

i would suggest draw for windows (by micrografx). i have this on my
home box. its quite impressive and only cost ukl100. it has a rather
nice clip art library facility which you can expand with your own
drawings. there is no circuit component clip art included , but you
could add your own quite easily.

it works with any windows printer driver of course , and can also
export embedded postscript and pcx files.

note i am not connected with micrografx in any way.

paul.

paul johnson (paj@gec mrc.co.uk). tel 44 245 73331 ext 3245

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist. responsible for my opinions

from doherty@coolpro.melpar.esys.com (kevin doherty)
subject hard drive component costs
organization e systems , melpar division
lines 17

does anyone have some information on the relative fraction of the final
cost of each component in an average hard drive \? for instance , i'm pretty
sure the heads and the platters are the most expensive parts , with the
assembly costs running a close third. cost of the electronics is likely
in the noise.
any hard numbers ( or percentage) \? thanks.



kevin doherty e systems melpar division doherty@melpar.esys.com
principal engineer falls church , va 22046 (703) 560 5000x2659



kevin doherty e systems melpar division doherty@melpar.esys.com
principal engineer falls church , va 22046 (703) 560 5000x2659


from rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tall cool one )
subject can i use a cd4052 analog multiplexer for digital signals \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 14

as the subject says can i use a 4052 for digital signals \? i do n't see
why it could n't handle digital signals , but i could be wrong. anyone have
any advice \? thanks.


i i
( @ ) ( @ )
raymond yeung internet nimbus@uiuc.edu
rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
ee student at the
university of illinois compuserve 70700 , 1011
at urbana champaign
( ) ( )
i i

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re help with ultra long timing
organization macquarie university
lines 39
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article c513wi.g5a@athena.cs.uga.edu , mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
(1) do n't use big capacitors. they are unreliable for timing due to
leakage.

instead , use a quartz crystal and divide its frequency by 2 40 times
or something like that.

1 mhz divided by 2 40 1 cycle per 2 weeks , approximately.

(2) i would n't expect any components (other than batteries or electrolytic
capacitors) to fail at 40 c (or 40 f for that matter either ) ).
the battery is going to be your big problem. also , of course , your
circuit should n't depend on exact values of resistors (which a crystal
controlled timer wo n't).


... would n't a crystal be affected by cold \? my gut feeling is that , as a
mechanically resonating device , extreme cold is likely to affect the
compliance ( \? terminology \? ) of the quartz , and hence its resonant frequency.


michael a. covington internet mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
artificial intelligence programs phone 706 542 0358
the university of georgia fax 706 542 0349
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi


johnh



electronics department
( ) ( ( ( school of mpce
macquarie university
sydney , australia 2109

email johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au , ph 61 2 805 8959 , fax 61 2 805 8983



from gtalatin@vartivar.ucs.indiana.edu (gerard v. talatinian)
subject low cost oscilloscopes \?
nntp posting host vartivar.ucs.indiana.edu
reply to gtalatin@ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 12

i am looking at buying a low cost ( 500) scope for general purpose use.
any recommendations \? is this info in a faq somewhere \?
any pointers appreciated.
thanks ,
gerard.


gerard talatinian
network systems gtalatin@ucs.indiana.edu
university computing services fax (812) 855 8299
indiana university voice (812) 855 0962


from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re log stereo high quality pot (hi fi)
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 20
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article 1993apr5.172839.22714@eng.cam.ac.uk cmh@eng.cam.ac.uk (c.m. hicks) writes
cobust@seagoon.ee.sun.ac.za (cobus theunissen) writes

hi there ,

i am looking for a high quality log stereo 10k pot for an audio
preamplifier. the design specifies alps rkga 2 10k ax2 , but i cannot
find it anywhere ! any suggestions \?

the best pots around (imho) are made by penny giles in the uk. their
basic model has a solid brass case , and conductive plastic elements
matched to 0.5db across the whole rotation. the downside is that they
cost upwards of 50 quid each (

the p g pots are very good. the alps ones are usually carried by
the same folks who run the audio amateur magazine.

i 'll also recommend the noble potentiometers , if you do n't mind weird
metric sizes on everything.
scott

from dp@cec1.wustl.edu (david prutchi)
subject re eeg kit \?
nntp posting host cec1
organization washington university , st. louis mo
lines 30

in article cantrell.735330560@sauron.msfc.nasa.gov cantrell@sauron.msfc.nasa.gov (eric cantrell) writes
awhile back someone posted some information on where you can get
kits to build an eeg. does anyone remember where you could get
this. i'm very interested in getting some info on this. thanks
in advance.

eric

cantrell@sauron.msfc.nasa


contact circuit cellar inc. , 4 park st. suite 12 , vernon , ct 06066
(203)875 2751 , fax (203)872 2204 and inquire about hal 4 eeg biofeedback
brainwave analyzer.

in addition , if you want to build your own system from board level compo
nents (biosignal amplifiers , analog isolators and isolated multiplexers)
you can contact the davron group , p.o. box 237 , deerfield , il 60015
fax (708)948 9290.

david



david prutchi hc1dt
washington university prutchi@mesun4.wustl.edu
campus box 1185 dp@cec1.wustl.edu
one brookings drive
st. louis , mo 63130 4899


from mike diack mike d@staff.tc.umn.edu
subject anyone know about data i o device proggers \?
x xxmessage id a7f5dae6e6026550@dialup slip 1 80.gw.umn.edu
x xxdate sat , 17 apr 93 16 03 50 gmt
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 80.gw.umn.edu
organization persian cat carpet co.
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d7
lines 9

i keep finding these programmers in local junk shops. this may
mean that they are indeed junk but i 'd like to hear from anyone
else that may have met up with them. the basic device is a
data i o 29a universal programmer , and the usual pod is a
logicpak 303a vo4 with a 303a 001 programming tester
adapter. i 'd really like to hear from anyone who knows whether
these monsters are worth bothering with. all i want to do is blast
palce22v10s. ideas , folks
mike.

from mlee@eng.sdsu.edu (mike lee)
subject wire amperage table needed
organization san diego state university computing services
lines 5
nntp posting host eng.sdsu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9


does anyone has a table about the size of the wire to the amount of current it can carry. probably in the 1 15amp range. my friend is interested in converting a mazda into an electric car. needed information for estimation. thanks in advance.

p.s. any info on electric will be greatly appreaciated.


from st1my@rosie.uh.edu (stich , christian e.)
subject re motorola xc68882rc33 and rc50
organization university of houston
lines 26
distribution world
nntp posting host rosie.uh.edu
keywords motorola , fpu , 68882 , 68030 , 33 50 mhz , problems (fpu exception)
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 16apr199323531467@rosie.uh.edu , st1my@rosie.uh.edu (stich , christian e.) writes...
i just installed a motorola xc68882rc50 fpu in an amiga a2630 board (25 mhz
68030 68882 with capability to clock the fpu separately). previously
a mc68882rc25 was installed and everything was working perfectly. now the
systems displays a yellow screen (indicating a exception) when it check for
the presence type of fpu. when i reinstall an mc68882rc25 the system works
fine , but with the xc68882 even at 25 mhz it does not work. the designer
of the board mentioned that putting a pullup resistor on data strobe (470 ohm)
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some
suggestions what i could do \? does this look like a cpu fpu communications
problem or is the particular chip dead (it is a pull , not new) \?
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an xc68882rc33. i thought
that the 68882rc33 were labeled mc not xc (for not finalized mask design).
are there any mc68882rc33 \?

thanks
christian


it appears as if the problem is related to the 68882 50 's need for very fast
(and clean) signal transitions. i got some email (vielen dank , thomas) stating
that motorola provides a solution for this problem in their 68030 manual.
since my manual (1989) predates the 50 mhz 68030 68882s i could n't find it.
could someone please email me the specifics \?
thanks
christian

from baldur@rsp.is (baldur thorgilsson)
subject receiver system
summary multi channel receiver system \?
keywords telemetry , receiver system
organization national hospitals , iceland
lines 19


dear netters
i want to send emg signals from a running person to a computer.
each signal is 4khz wide and there is up to 30 of them on each
running person. the signal is only to be sent over a few hundred
meters. it seems to me that the frequency intended for this use is
about 150mhz and about 440mhz.
to make the transmitters as light as possible i suppose it will be best
the to send the signals in an analog form. as this application is rather
specialized i do not expect to be able to buy the exact transmitter
units i need.
on the other hand i imagine that i can buy the receiver somewhere. i
need a multichannel (up to 30 channels) receiver or 30 complete
receivers in some rack system where one can add as many receivers
as needed in the particular case.
do anybody know if there is existing such receiver
system on the market \?

baldur@rsp.is (tf3bp) (please respond by email rather than nn)

from levy@levy.fnal.gov (mark e. levy , ext. 8056)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
nntp posting host levy.fnal.gov
organization fermilab computing division
lines 22

in article 1qngqlinnnp8@shelley.u.washington.edu , whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore) writes
in article c5l5x0.kj7@vcd.hp.com johne@vcd.hp.com (john eaton) writes
s87271077 s.walker man 50 (swalker@uts.edu.au) wrote

during the nuclear fission reaction the uranium fuel can get hot enough
to melt. when this happens the liquid uranium is pumped to the cooling
tower where it is sprayed into the air.
...
contact with the cool outside air
will condense the mist and it will fall back to the cooling tower floor.
there it is collected by a cleaning crew using shop vacs and is then
reformed into pellets for reactor use the next day.

another april 1 posting. ahhh.


mark e. levy , fermilab
bitnet levy@fnal unix is to computing
internet levy@fnald.fnal.gov as an etch a sketch is to art.
hepnet span fnald levy (vms ! )



from row0@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (richard o. white)
subject re help with ultra long timing
organization lehigh university
lines 49


in article 1993apr5.083324.48826@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu , wellison@kuhub.cc.ukans.e
du writes
i have a project that was drooped in my lap that is somewhat a pain to design.
what i am looking for is a stable ultra long solid state timer. what they want
to do is to place this thing on the antartic ice shelf and measure the amount
of snow fall over a period of six weeks. every two weeks , they want to trip a
selonoid to discharge different colored pellets by gas pressure out across the
snow. then by digging down into the snow , the snow fall amount can be measured
as they come to the different color pellets.

the problem is trying to build a timer that would stand the cold ( 40 degrees)
and a power source that would n't drain. i have looked at the xr 2204 timers and
the standard ne556 dual timers , but thier temp specs wo n't go that low. also ,
two weeks equates to 1 , 209 , 600 seconds per firing , which means one big timing
cap ! i have found 2.2 farad (yes , farad ! ) caps that have a working voltage of
5 volts and are small in size. but again , the time of discharge at 40 or lower
degrees is n't linear. i was thinking of using several timers chained together
to fire the selonid at the end of the timing period , but that blasted cold and
the drain on a battery over six weeks is the pain. one possibility would be to
use solar panels , but this is during the six month twilight. anyone have any
good ideas \?

thanks in advance...

wes

just a suggestion
take a motorola mc14536b set it up to give you a pulse once every sec or ten
secs with either a rc or xtal clock input. then feed to a mc14521b as clock
input and decode output for 1 , 209 , 600 sec output , might have to add a few 'and'
gates or decoder chips to get output and reset pulse back to the'521 to restart
cycle... trigger a oneshot from the decoded riseing edge the one shot then
goes to a mosfet to drive the mechanism to fire the pellet launcher..
these ckts require uamps of current , between 5 15 volts , so a 12 volt
gel cell of a few amphours would last the six weeks.
then take the ckt board battery wrap in 3 or 4 of foam or build a box
of out of the stuff...with plywood or metal exterior...
build a small heater out of 10 50 watt resistors in series to keep the battery
and ckts warm.
2nd thought use 2 batteries one for heater one for timer and pellet trigger.

insolate insolate.......even though the chips state that the al
rated devices are good to 55 c.. the batteries have a considerable reduction
in capacity...oh make sure the area inside has minium air leakage..

hope this helps
rw ( is this to long winded for the net \? \? )(be gentle)...


from mike diack mike d@staff.tc.umn.edu
subject 16 bit serial converters
x xxdate tue , 20 apr 93 06 56 45 gmt
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 34.gw.umn.edu
organization persian cat carpet co.
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d7
lines 2

someone was looking for these a few weeks ago check out comp.dsp
mike.

from d2bohre@dtek.chalmers.se (henrik bohre)
subject digital answering mach
keywords digital
nntp posting host hacke9.dtek.chalmers.se
organization chalmers university of technology , gothenburg sweden
lines 10

does anybody know anything about the chips d6275a d6235a d6205a chips from
dsp telecommunications inc \?

i 'd greatly appreciate information about price , pinouts and peripherals.

regards ,

henrik bohre

@

from bills@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (bill shymanski)
subject re dmm advice needed
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 204 488 1607
lines 41

kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad) writes

in article 734953838.aa00510@insane.apana.org.au peter.m@insane.apana.org.a

if you are going to use one where it counts (eg aviation , space scuttle ,
etc) then i suggest you go and buy a fluke (never seen a beckman) , however
for every other use you can buy a cheapie.

my beckman died a few days ago , thanks do about a 4 or 5 foot drop onto a
lab table. ! @ ! @ ! @ @ probably not indicative of anything , but i 've
already filled out the requisition for a fluke 87. )

oh yeah , and sometimes our measurements here do count. not often , but often
enough that i want at least one good meter !
joel kolstad

we used to buy beckman 110 and hd110 ( ruggedized ) versions for use
by electricians in the steel mill where i work. after a while we
got round to filling all the current input jacks with silicone
electricians have a regrettable habit of not checking where the last
guy left the leads before using a 3 1 2 digit 0.5 autoranging 400
meter to check if a fuse is good or not. its very hard on meters
(and electricians) when you put the milliamp shunt across a 600 volt
bus.
but that 's not why we stopped buying beckmans after a while a
lot of them got funny in the lcd display. a black stain would
spread from one edge , or else they 'd come adrift from those
zebra connectors and fail to operate. now we buy flukes , the
low end 20 series mostly ( and we still fill the amp jack with
silicone).
what the world needs is a meter that wo n't let you change ranges or
turn it on off with a lead stuck in the amps jack a little bit of
clever plastic detailing would take care of this and make the world
safer for electricans , anyway.
not that i 've ever put a meter on the wrong range into a live
circuit , no , not me...not more than a dozen times , anyway....
bill


bills@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

from michael labella@vos.stratus.com
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma.
lines 20
nntp posting host m3 enet.eng.stratus.com


off shore assembly is one reason that adcom is able to make products
that perform as well as those from people like audio research and van
alstine (and better than hafler and forte') , but at a much lower cost.

how do you spell tuna helper \?

i gather by off shore assembly you mean that adcoms are built by
blue fin tuna 's who are into that squid fi sound \? (i agree on that one).
my adcom 555 preamp did sound better after installing the famous
running the chips class a resistor mod , and replacing the metal
bottom cover with plexiglass , , too bad the factory could not make em sound
better , , but better sound , unfortunately , does not appear to be a priority
with adcom , else the mods would neither have been necessary , nor would they
have improved what was already touted as superlative state o d art le 'sound.
i really want to hear from all those people out there who have traded up
from an sp9ii (even an sp3a ! ) to a gfp 555 etc. , or maybe from those that
have dumped their forte' amps for a gfa 555 etc....



from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 17

in article 1993apr20.022922.11861@julian.uwo.ca wlsmith@valve.heart.rri.uwo.ca (wayne smith) writes
no restriction was placed
on receiving radar (or , curiously , cordless phones.) enforcement
of the virginia law is in violation of the fca of 1934.

isi n't there some kind of rule (regulation , law , whatever) in some
juristictions that prohibit the use of police band recievers
in vehicles \? and that radar transmissions are included in the police band
so they get covered by the same regulation \?

those rules regulations laws would be subject to the same attack that
they are attempting to preempt federal authority to regulate (or not)
radio communications. of course , as the original poster noted , court
challenges of this kind can get expensive.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from mont@netcom.com (mont pierce)
subject re 8051 microcontroller
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 31

in article 1qppr5innaqa@dns1.nmsu.edu mcole@spock (cole) writes
i would like to experiment with the intel 8051 family. does anyone out
there know of any good ftp sites that might have compiliers , assemblers ,
etc. \?

well , it 's not an ftp site , but i got an 800 number for signetics bbs.

the signetics bbs contain some pretty good items for the 8051. i am
currently using the following files which i downloaded from them

ml asm51.zip metalink 's 8051 family macro assembler
bootstrp.zip hex file load and go using 8051 uart
(allows you to download your program into a ram
and then execute from ram. works great. tell
me if you want more details).
tutor51.zip tsr for 8051 feature help screens

they have lots of coding examples , assemblers , and misc. tools.

signetics bbs numbers are (800) 451 6644
(408) 991 2406

have fun ,

mont pierce


ham call km6wt internet mont@netcom.com
bands 80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm vnet mont@vnet.ibm.com
modes cw , ssb , fm


from smithr@teecs.uucp (robert smith)
subject re conductive plastic , what happened \?
organization litton systems , toronto ont
lines 7

if you 're thinking of reactive polymers they 're making esd safe
contau iners out of it. as far as being conductive goes anything with
a resistance less than 10 to the fouth rth power ohms per cubic measure
is classed as conductive per mil std 1686 for esd protection. my 0.02
( 0.016 us).

bob.

from mb4008@cehp11 (morgan j bullard)
subject re uninterruptible power supply
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 47

alung@megatest.com (aaron lung) writes

in article 1qk724inn474@hp col.col.hp.com cab@col.hp.com (chris best) writes
i'm no expert at ups 's , but you said something that made it sound like
you did n't realize something. on a typical ups (well , on ours , anyway) ,
there is no switchover from ac to dc. all the protected equipment is
always running from the batteries (via an inverter) , with the usual
condition of also having them on charge. if the power fails , big deal
the computers never see it (until the batteries start to droop , but
there 's something like 60 car sized batteries in that cabinet , so it
takes a while).

if you were gonna run the guts on straight dc instead of an inverter ,
why not do it all the time \? then there 'd be no switchover to screw
things up , and no having to sense the failure fast. just keep the dc
on charge when the power is on , and it 'll be there in zero time when
you need it.


actually , it 's a bit more complicated than that...i sounds to me ,
your ups takes in ac , rectifies it to dc to charge the batteries , and
then takes the battery dc and chops it to ac again , feeding your
equipment. this approach is the easiest and cleanest way to
switchover from the mains to battery once your power kicks out since ,
as you mentioned , nothing will know about what happened down the line.

another way to do the ups scheme is to use the mains until you
lose power , and then kick in the battery backup with it 's inverter to
replace the lost power. the problem here is the switchover time and
you 've got to resync the ac in no time flat.
that 's a standby unit not a ups , otherwise there would be no interuption.
many standby units are labled as ups 's though.
morgan bullard mb4008@coewl.cen.uiuc.edu
or mjbb@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu


unfortunately , most everything is built around the assumption that
ac is available , so the ups guys have to provide and ac output to
be usable...ya sorta have to make it work with what there already.

similar story with our telephone system. it was first invented back
in the 1800 's. we 're still using the same damn system (media) as they
did back then. if i have a phone from back then , i can assure you
it 'll work on today 's phone system. it costs too much to overhaul
everyone to a new system , so they make it work with what is out there.

.

from mblock@reed.edu (matt block)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
article i.d. reed.1993apr20.230749.12821
organization reed college , portland , oregon
lines 36

in article sehari.735331566@marge.ecss.iastate.edu sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes


i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are avaliable , and how
effective are they \? has anyone have any experience in this area \?

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.

uh oh...
umm , there are a number of copy protection schemes. some involve
modifying the physical media , and some involve encryption schemes , c.
all of the ones that have existed over the course of computing have
been successful for a time. i recall , however , near monthly releases of new
ways to crack the copy protection scheme of the latest releases. the fact
is , none of them are completely secure , or anywhere near it. some are more or
less difficult to crack , and some have already been cracked.
i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know \? do you need a good
one for a project you are working on \? how secure must it be \? are you trying
to crack one that someone else has used \? i can probably make suggestions ,
assuming the activity is strictly legal. (in general , it is a bad idea ,
legally , to tamper with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of
files which you necessarily do not have back ups of (being as they are copy
protected , ) which can be devestating.) do you have absolutely no ideas for
practical applications , and are merely curious \?
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i
can.

incidentally , the uh oh... at the top is indicative of the dread
anyone who has watched their friends hacking equipment be carted off feels
when they are asked how to hack. the area you are broaching is wrought with
dangers , many of which include breaking the law , or at least addressing it
(from one side or the other.)

matt

from fmg@alpha.smi.med.pitt.edu (filip gieszczykiewicz)
subject faq corrections
summary pcb correction , ftp site , etc
organization medical informatics , pittsburgh , pa usa
lines 29


greetings. i received a reply stating that unless someone else
confirms that the following company is operating , i should
remove it from my lst

pcb prototypes of sandy , ut
ronald baker
8195 south 2660 east
sandy , ut 84093
tel read below

this is from the comm pcb.faq (commercial pcb makers).

also , i do n't have time to get the faq onto the sci.answers
because of what i like to refer to is red tape after the
finals , i 'll see what i can do... in the mean time , anyone know
of an ftp site that would n't mind a 250k file \? )

and last , i have some new entries for the simusoft list (mostly
commercial institutional stuff) but was wondering should i keep
the restrictions on the price of the software to be considered
under 600 or should i include all those in 4 digit prices also \?

take care.

filip i 'll buy a vowel gieszczykiewicz. best e mail fmgst @pitt.edu
all ideas are mine but they can be yours for only 0.99 so respond now ! ! ! !
i live for my ee major , winsurfing , programming , sca , and assorted dreams.
200mb drive linux has 100mb and ms dos has 100mb. ms dos is worried )

from verity@jack.sns.com (steve verity)
subject need help with video detection circuit
organization systems'n'software
lines 55



i am trying to build a circuit that detects the presence of video (vs.
a blank screen) by monitoring the r , g , and b outputs of a graphics
card. it should be able to detect the presence of a single pixel at
65 mhz , which would mean detecting a 15 ns pulse. it should also be
able to tell the difference between a blank screen (about 300 mv)
and a dim screen (say , around 310 mv). oh yes , it also needs to be
cheap.

my first circuit was a dismal failure. i used 3 compariators each
compariator had the input going to one of the guns , the input
went to a reference created by a voltage divider(a potentiometer).

the first problem was that the compariator was way too slow.. i
needed to get several pixels in a row before it would fire the
compariators , so i could have a whole screen full of text , but my
circuit would not detect it.

the second problem is that there was more noise on the reference then
the smallest difference between a blank screen and a dim screen. in
fact the difference between completely black and completely white is
only 650 mv. i am wondering if i am going to have to amplify the
video signals to make this work.

there are faster compariators , but they are expensive , and require
split supplies. i would need to replace my .49 quad compariator
with three 1.89 compariators , and create a whole new power supply
circuit.

at this point , i think what i need is some sort of transistor
circuit. transistors are fast and cheap and should do the trick...

unfortunately , i am way out of my league when it comes to designing
transistor circuits , so i am appealing to the net for help. any
ideas , tips , circuits , pointers , references , etc. would be greatly
appreciated.

oh yes , i only sample the output of this thing every second or so , so
i do n't need a fast response time at all , however , i have n't found a
way to take advantage of that fact.

thanks a lot for any help anybody might be able to give. of course ,
you will have my undying gratitude.


steve verity





.......... ......... ........ ...... ... ... .. .. .. .. . . . .
steve verity ...maxed on midi .
verity@jack.sns.com ..

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re telephone on hook off hok ok circuit
organization megatest corporation
lines 59

in article 1993apr15.144826.4607@bnr.ca moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson) writes
just a thought of mine here
since an on hook line is aprox 48 50v , and off hook it usually drops below 1
how about an led in series with a zener say around 30v.
on hook led on
off hook led off.
would this work \? if anyone tries tried it , please let me know.

aye , there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , the
equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off hook.
in the on hook state you 're not supposed to draw current.

which means you should just use your digital voltmeter. you can use an
old vom but the phone company equipment can detect that and might think
there 's something wrong with the cable.


look guys , what 's the problem here \? if you want a light that goes on when
the 'phone is off hook , all you need it to run it in series with the
line , as i mentioned in my previous post. if you want a light that goes on
when the 'phone is on hook , all you need is a voltage threshold detector.

if you 're going to do the series diode thing (which is the easiest) , just
make sure that the led can take the current (i ca n't recall it off hand , but
it 's something like 100ma or more \? )

careful now folks... also consider the 90vac @20hz that is forced on ring
and tip when the phone 's supposed to ring ! even with a simple zener
and led setup , you might end up with some carbon real quick. whatever
scheme you use , make sure you 've got at least 200v rated components on
the frontend.

also remember that , if i'm not mistaken , the phone line is a 600ohm
equivalent circuit. any current you draw from the 48v or so gets
dropped across that 600ohms. that 's fine until you 're down to roughly
12v , when ma bell considers it to be off hook. but dropping it that
far down is probably a big no no.

the easiest implementation to accomplish the above \? \?

tip
rectifier resistor
diode
v
zener resistor


v led


ring

this is only a suggestion...go ahead and blow holes in it , but you
get the idea. choose a high efficiency led so you do n't need much
current to get it to light up. choose values for the other components
as required.

aaron


from schuch@phx.mcd.mot.com (john schuch)
subject re need pinouts for a g8870 dtmf decoder chip
nntp posting host bopper2.phx.mcd.mot.com
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az.
distribution usa
lines 59

in article montc5qs9a.3wb@netcom.com mont@netcom.com (mont pierce) writes

i bought this chip from suncoast technology and tried to build their
dtmf decoder circuit. but it 's not working...

if anyone has the pinouts and possibly the voltage specs i 'd sure
appreciated it.

i presume it is the m 8870 from teltone corporation.

pin description

1 input
2 input
3 gs (gain select through use of feed back resistor)
4 vref (reference voltage output , about vdd 2)
5 connect to vss
6 connect to vss
7 osc1 clock input
8 osc2 clock output (connect crystal across pins 7 and 8)
9 vss
10 oe output enable (logic high allows data output)
11 q1 data output
12 q2 data output
13 q3 data output
14 q4 data output
15 std delayed steering output (any other company would call this 'data valid'.)
16 est early steering output , sort of like i'm starting to hear a tone .
17 st gt steering input guard time output
18 vdd

power supply 4.75v min. , 5.25v max.
current 3.0ma typ , 7.0ma max.

but.......

you really should have bought the motorola part from me. )
(i still have them in stock)

john



if someone could fax , email , or snail mail a copy
of the spec sheet for this chip that would be even better. )

please email me if you can help.

thanks in advance ,

mont pierce


ham call km6wt internet mont@netcom.com
bands 80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm vnet mont@vnet.ibm.com
modes cw , ssb , fm




from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
keywords nuclear
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 25

just to complete that thought , the cooling towers cool water that
circulates through heat exchangers that recondense the turbine
exhaust back into feedwater for the heat exchangers that transfer
energy from the reactor 's cooling circuit.


turbine , etc
.
reactor .
c. t.


the reactor has a closed loop circuit to prevent radioactive
contamination of the the turbine feedwater.

the cooling tower is a separate circuit to avoide contamination of
the turbine feedwater with atmospheric contamininats , etc.
purifying boiler feedwater is important business at both fossil
fired and nuclear generation facilities.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from cfb@fc.hp.com (charlie brett)
subject fet trons(sp \? )
nntp posting host hpfcmgw.fc.hp.com
organization hewlett packard fort collins site
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.5
lines 5

has anyone ever heard of fet trons (or is it fetrons , fettrons , ...).
these were fet replacement modules for vacuum tubes. i'm looking for
applications where they were used.

charlie brett hp ft. collins

from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 38

in article sehari.735357542@du139 213.cc.iastate.edu sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes

i have written a program and i want to market it. i would like certain degree
of protection , since my main custmers are individuals and not the
cooperations. i know laser hole burning method , and hardware key method ,
however , my software is going to cost only 15.00 , so i can not afford that.
also , at this low price i can not afford people make too many copy of my
software. well , i guess say upto 20 illigal copying is ok by me.

however , i do not want someone to get a copy of pctools and copy my software.
off course , i never meant to forbid the true hackers from copying , since they
can develope a better program anyway.

i would n't bother with the copy protection , if i were you. if you program
is any good , the pirates will have stripped the protection and will be
distributing the stripped version is well under a week.

hardware methods prevent j. random loser from using his copy ii pc to pirate
your software , but does n't stop anyone who knows a few people with enough
connections to real pirates who will be able to defeat your check for the
hole code.

you may want to price your software (depending on what it is) a tad
higher... a price change from 15 to 25 probably would turn off very few
potentials buyers , and that way you could tolerate more pirates (whose
numbers do n't change with the price).

as for the 20 pirating figure... ha , ha. of course , a lot of pirates just
have this thing about having pirated software , even if they never use it ,
so perhaps that really would n't count towards 20 . even so , 20 is awfully
low.


joel kolstad

p.s. i assume you 're talking pc software. if you 're talking unix ,
hp 48 , or something else somewhat obscure , copy protection might be a
slightly more viable alternative.

from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re help mc146818a real time clock standby mode
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 20

in article 1r0b69inn5ct@flash.pax.tpa.com.au mgregory@flash.pax.tpa.com.au (martin john gregory) writes
i am having trouble obtaining the specified standby current drain from
a mc146818a real time clock...
lowest current drain i can acheive at 3.7v vcc is 150ua. this is
three times the specified maximum...
1) made sure that reset is asserted for trlh after powerup , and as is
low during this time.
2) made sure that there is a cycle on as after the negation of rd or
wr during which stby was asserted...

are any of the inputs to the chip coming from ttl \? standby drain specs
for cmos chips typically apply only if inputs are pulled all the way down
to zero or all the way up to vcc. ttl is n't good at doing the former and
it wo n't do the latter at all without help from pullup resistors. this
sort of thing can easily multiply power consumption by a considerable
factor , because the cmos transistors that are supposed to be off are n't
all the way hard off.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from heuvel@neptune.iex.com (ted van den heuvel)
subject motorola mc14315 and mc143120
originator heuvel@neptune.iex.com
organization iex
lines 12


let me try sending this message again , i botched up the margins the
first time sorry 'bout that )

does anyone out there know of any products using motorola 's neuron(r)
chips mc143150 or mc143120. if so , what are they and are they utilizing
standard network variable types (snvt) \?


ted van den heuvel heuvel@neptune.iex.com
kx5p


from elr@trintex.uucp (ed ravin)
subject re electronic parts in nyc \?
organization why me \?
lines 19

taft electronics , 45th street between 5th 6th the only one left in
what was once an entire district of electronics stores. a little expensive.

trans am electronics , canal street near 7th ave lots of surplus type
stuff.

several other electronics or surplus type places are still on canal
street.

i think bronx wholesale radio is still in business fordham road not
too far from arthur avenue in the bronx. also in the bronx is northeastern
(or was it northwestern \? northeast electronics \? ) on jerome avenue near
bedford park boulevard. they 're mostly a tv parts supply house , but when
i was building cb radio projects , they were quite handy..

ed ravin a tv cop fires a gun three times an hour. a real cop
prodigy services co. fires a gun only once every five years.
white plains , ny 10601 d i s c l a i m e r w a s h e r e
1 914 993 4737 elr@trintex.uucp or elr trintex@uunet.uu.net

from jeff@nsr.hp.com (jeff gruszynski)
subject re digital voltmeter how does it work \?
organization hewlett packard
lines 66
distribution world
nntp posting host hpmvd069.nsr.hp.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1.2 pl7

mamishev , alexander valentino (avm1993@sigma.tamu.edu) wrote
hello ,

let me introduce a problem

when i measure a sinusoidal wave (voltage) with a digital voltmeter , using
ac mode , my output is an rms value (a peak value over 2 squared). right \?
when i measure a square wave in the same mode (ac) , my output is equal
to a peak value , actually , to the upper flat boundary of the wave.
i assumed , that a digital voltmeter makes some kind of integration of the
input value , and divides it over the wave period. right \?
now , i used it to measure the same square wave as above , but distorted
by high frequency harmonics. ideally , output should be the same , but...
the output value was only about 10 of the previous one !
why \? what is the nature of this output value \? what does the voltmeter
actually measure \? and what does it show \?


re rms readings

unless the dvm says it 's measuring rms , it 's probably average voltage.
the input is diode rectified and measured as dc. if it says it 's rms
and but measures square triangle etc. incorrectly , it 's measuring
average and multipling by a correction that 's only true for sine waves
(i.e. vave (0.707 0.63) vrms). if you want correct rms for (most)
any waveform , you need a true rms dvm dmm which literally does the
root mean square calculation in either analog or digital circuitry.


related question (less important to me)
what are advantages and disadvantages of digital voltmeters to compare with
analog ones \?

the last significant advantage of analog (imo) was being able to
see the signal if it was changing over time (e.g. checking
electrolytic capacitors).

anymore , most dmm have bargraphs , etc. that duplicate this.


thank you for your attention , you could mail me your opinion at
avm1993@zeus.tamu.edu or open a discussion here. i would appreciate either
way.


alexander v. mamishev


power system automation laboratory phone office (409) 845 4623
department of electrical engineering phone home (409) 846 5850
texas a m university fax (409) 862 2282
college station , tx 77843 , usa internet avm1993@zeus.tamu.edu





jeff gruszynski
semiconductor test equipment
systems engineer
hewlett packard

(415) or t 694 3381
jeff@hpmvd061.nsr.hp.com
jeff@hpuplca.nsr.hp.com


from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject re can microwaves be used to collect xyz coordinates
organization boeing
lines 6

where can you get info (brochures...) on differential gps systems and where to
buy them \?

bobc



from sburton@dres.dnd.ca (stan burton)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1
nntp posting host stan
content transfer encoding 8bit
organization defence research establishment suffield
x newssoftware grn beta 1.16g (04.01.93) by michael b. smith mike schwartz
mime version 1.0
distribution na
lines 25

in article 1993apr14.181738.18472@bmers95.bnr.ca alee@bmerh794.bnr.ca (louis leclerc) writes

in article 34263@oasys.dt.navy.mil you write
va , ct , wash dc and i think bc canada where i 've heard they actually
use radar detector detectors.

nope , not in british columbia. detectors are legal here in bc , i 've even
got one.

in alberta and ontario they 're illegal , and detection devices are sometimes
used. i 've heard the police in ontario prefer a much more direct method of
detection. just trigger the radar gun , watch for people slamming on the
brakes , and search the car.


david lee
leex@sfu.ca


detectors are legal in alberta , the old law was overturned a long time ago.



stan burton (dnd crad dres dtd mss agcg) sburton@dres.dnd.ca
(403) 544 4737 dre suffield , box 4000 , medicine hat , ab , canada , t1a 8k6

from glenne@sr.hp.com (glenn elmore)
subject re single chip receiver for fsk \?
organization hp sonoma county (srsd mwtd mid)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9.2
lines 78

john ackermann x 2966 (jra@law7.daytonoh.ncr.com) wrote
my next project is to come up with an if detector module for fast 112
to 250 kb sec packet radio use. no fancy modulation scheme , just
wide fsk for use at 902 or 1296 mhz.

i'm a bit familiar with the motorola 3362 chip , but i wonder if there
are newer designs that might work at higher input frequencies.

my goal is to come up with an inexpensive design for a receiver back
end with if input on one end and an fsk demondulator on the other. i'm
particularly interested in ways to use a higher if than 10.7 do any
current chips work up to , say 150mhz with internal downconversion so a
normal if filter can be used \?

any suggestions \?

john

what you describe is very close to what i built and described in the
10th arrl computer network conference proceedings.

i built 10 watt fsk transceivers at 904 mhz. they are essentially
double conversion transverters with digital mod and demod at 29 mhz.
the receiver uses the mc13055 which is the same fsk receiver chip i used
previouslyu in the 2 mbps 10 ghz data link i first published in ham
radio and which is now also in the arrl handbook.

the mc3356 , which includes a vhf converter section , could also be used
at these speeds. there is a newer and perhaps slightly improved design
of this (the mc13056 if i remember rightly).

while using this would have let me reduce the external if count on
receive , it did n't really offer all that much help on transmit so i
did n't bother with it.

the radios i built were first designed and built for 512 kbps in a 2
mhz channel but later reduced to half that. these 256 kbps radios
actually have done quite well in across the bench tests at 384 kbps and
speed is pretty much a function of filter design. handling the data
stream is another matter entirely.

some of the existing radios are currently deployed on hilltops in a
beacon test mode. while there is not yet end end two way data flow
due to lack of resources to debug software for the digital hardware (mio
also shown in the cnc proceedings) , data is perfect copy at n6gn. even
though the data clock is currently at about half speed , the a 2 kbytes
of the test text (chapter 55 of isaiah) takes only a little over 1 8 of
a second.

i 've been hoping that someone would get interested enough to step in
and get involved in writing code to make the whole thing usable (borland
ide environment with remote debugging possible as mentioned in the
proceedings) but to date a couple of us have been on our own and running
low on resources of time , money and energy.

if anyone in the sf bay area wants to check it out there is also a cw
id after the text on the mark side at 904.740 mhz from beacons on sonoma
mtn and black mtn (overlooking si valley). the antenna is horizontally
polarized.

i guess in retrospect my suggestions are that this is a fairly costly
approach if the radios are intended for users rather than backbones and
you might want to carefully consider your target . if you ca n't
arrange your paths such that you have complete line of sight i think
you 'll want to address the inter symbol interference caused by
multipath and probably link c n budgets if paths are very far from los.
for more details , see the 10th cnc. i'm currently working on a spread
spectrum , direct conversion design to address some of these problems.
i 'd be glad to help as i can with any design problems.

73
glenn elmore n6gn

n6gn @ k3mc
amateur ip glenn@santarosa.ampr.org
internet glenne@sr.hp.com



from klink@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (steven.r.klinkner)
subject beginner 's rf \? \? \?
organization at t bell laboratories
distribution na
lines 14

can anybody recommend a good , application oriented beginner 's reference
to rf circuits \?

i am pretty good on theory know what different types of modulation mean ,
but do n't have a lot of practical experience. a book detailing working
circuits of different types (modulation , power , frequency , what is legal ,
what is not , et cetera) , would be very helpful.

thanks.


steve klinkner at t bell labs srk@boeing.att.com
att ! boeing ! srk


from dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (david f. newman)
subject voltage regulator spec needed ! ! ! ! !
organization division of academic computing , northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 usa
lines 13

hi there ,
i have a mac 512 with a burned out part which looks like a voltage
regulator. the part number is bu 406 and i believe the vender is
sgs thomas judging by teh sgs logo printed on the package. if anyone
has teh spec for this part i would greatly appreciate an email with
the import info so i can find a replacement. thanx in advance.

dave
dnewman@lynx.northeastern.edu

btw i do n't need people telling me to throw the computer away. if
i had the money the thing would be in the trash in a second , but
it does make a good terminal if nothing else.

from w1gsl@athena.mit.edu (steven l. finberg)
subject new england ham electronic fleamarket dates 1 april update
keywords fleamarkets swaps ham radio computers electronics
article i.d. senator .1peffginnarc
expires 6 may 1993
distribution na
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 112
nntp posting host e40 008 5.mit.edu




new england area major flea market dates 1993 p 1 of 2
all events are ham radio electronic related except

1993 contact source


3 april upper saddle river nj crrc 9 3 sell @8 jack w2ehd 201 768 8360 d

4 april southington ct sara @hs 20@6 3 10@8 3 3@9 n1gcv 203 621 6191 f

17 april nashua nh ne antique rc 5@8 1@9 @ res ctr church ray 508 865 1290

18 april cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f
buy 2@9a sellers 10 sp@7a 8in adv 35 for season pass
3rd sunday each month april thru october

18 april webster ma ecara @ pt breeze rest 3 tables 10 gary 203 974 2564 f

18 april agawam ma hcra @ southwick rec ctr 3@9a bob w1zgp 203 653 0715 f

23 , 24 , 25 april dayton oh adm 11 sell 30 50 evenings 513 767 1107 f

2 may yonkers ny @lincoln hs otto wb2slq 914 969 1053 a

7 8 may rochester nh hoss traders @fg ex13 off rt 16 5 noon fri wa1ivb sase

15 may n smithfield ri rifmrs @vfw main st 8a rick k1kyi 401 725 7507

16 may cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f

16 may pittsfield ma @taconic hs sell 5@7 buy 2@8 cliff w1sjv 413 743 3334

21 22 23 may rochester ny arrl ny conv @ monroe fg harold k2hc 800 724 8515 f

5 june s burlington vt mitch wb2jsj 802 879 6589

6 june newington ct @hs flea les ka1krp 203 523 0453

12 june bangor me pine st arc @hermon es 146.34 94 8am 2 roger 207 848 3846

20 june cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f

17 july nashua nh ne antique rc 5@8 1@9 @ res ctr church ray 508 865 1290

17 july union me @ fairground 3@7am state conv skeet ka1lpw 207 622 2915


last update 3 29 93 de w1gsl p 1 of 2

additions corrections via internet w1gsl@athena.mit.edu
us mail w1gsl pob 82 mit br cambridge ma 02139
sase for updated copy as issued.



1993 contact source


18 july cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f
3rd sunday each month april thru october

24 july manchester nh nhara @hi 8a 4 ne dc 300ts (no tg) wb1hbb 603 432 6011 f

8 aug white planes ny wecafest sarah n2eyx 914 962 9666 d

8 aug wellseley ma wars bars @babson college barry wn1n 508 877 4947 t

14 aug st albans me @ snow mobile club hitch k1hhc 207 796 2282

15 aug cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f

29 aug fall river ma bcra tom wa1lbk 508 674 4163 t

11 sept windsor me @ fairground 3@7am skeet ka1lpw 207 622 2915

12 sept gaithersburg md far @mg cty fg 5@6a 7tg nancy drahim 703 691 0078 j

12 sept s dartmouth ma se mass ara 8a dan n1hcv 508 933 0678

19 sept cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f

19 sept sandy hook ct candlewood ara harold kb1us a

25 sept greenbush me wcsn barc @wcsn xmtr ed cockburn 207 732 4366

26 sept framingham ma @ hs 12@8 5@9 2@10 barry wn1n 508 877 4947 f

26 sept yonkers ny metro 70 arc otto wb2slq 914 969 1053 a

15 , 16 oct rochester nh hoss traders @fg ex13 off rt 16 5 noon fri k1rqg

17 oct cambridge ma flea at mit nick 617 253 3776 f

13 nov plymouth ma mayflower rc @mem hall 9 3 sell@8 jim nm1f 508 747 2224

14 nov branford ct scara @intrm sch brad wa1tas 203 265 9983 t

last update 3 29 93 de w1gsl p 2 of 2
source f flyer j john roberts list a arrl list wr nv 73 cq qst mags
t tentative early info d w1dl new info this month
this list has been compiled from many sources. while we believe the info to
be accurate the author can not be responsible for changes or errors.
check with the sponsoring organizations for more details.
this list will be posted monthly to usenet if additions have been made.
mailed copies are sent when additions are made.

additions corrections via internet w1gsl@athena.mit.edu
us mail w1gsl pob 82 mit br cambridge ma 02139
sase for updated copy as issued.

from pauls@trsvax.tandy.com
subject re need source for old radio shack ste
nf id r acs.ucalgary.ca 27323 trsvax 288200083 000 125
nf from trsvax.tandy.com ! pauls apr 21 09 36 00 1993
lines 5


it 's made by rohm. (as is all baxxx parts). call 714 855 2131 and ask if
you can get a sample (it 's only like a 2 part).



from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 25

in article 1993apr2.182402.28700@walter.bellcore.com , deaddio@ski.bellcore.com (michael deaddio) writes

the 'beam' is split in two , with one beam aimed at the target car (sort of) and
the other at the ground. the speeds of each are calulated for the final
number

actually , this is true on the more expensive ones , but the cheaper ones
just read the speedometer.

i 've never seen a speedometer reading model. are you sure \? who makes
them \? consider the difficulty of reading the speedo on various makes
of cars in use... i 've seen single beam moving mode and split beam
moving mode.



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re receiver system
keywords telemetry , receiver system
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 22

one thing to consider is time division multiplexing the emg
channels to reduce the number of rf carriers you have to generate.
if you multiplexed the emg inputs at 10khz , that would probably be
sufficient for most physiology studies (you 'd have 330 hz per
channel sampling rate.) that level of analog multiplexing should
be rather easy to accomplish.

combining a lot of rf carriers is pretty tricky to do without
generating intermodulation. a system to be carried by a runner is
in a fairly harsh environment and would probably be difficult to
keep balanced.

a commercial hand held transciever could probably be employed with
a little modification to accomodate widening the bandwidth.
obviously , this has to be done in accordance with whatever laws
govern the use of transeivers in your location.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca (baden de bari)
subject re jacob 's ladder
organization system 6626 bbs , winnipeg manitoba canada
lines 36

g92m3062@alpha.ru.ac.za (brad meier) writes

hi , i'm looking for a circuit , that is called a jacob 's ladder .
this little box is usually seen in sci fi movies. it consists of
two curves of wire protruding into the air , with little blue sparks
starting at their base (where the two wires are closer to each other) ,
moving up the wires to the top , and ending in a small crackling noise.

could anyone supply me with the schematic for the innards of this box \?

thanks in advance
mike

(please reply by email to g90k3853@alpha.ru.ac.za)


the knightorc
g92m3062@hippo.ru.ac.za
when it 's over i 'll go home ,
until then , i stay ! me


i 'd like any accumulated information on this as well please.

thanks.




baden de bari
o o
baden@sys6626.bison.ca
baden@inqmind.bison.ca




from corleyg@ul.ie
subject microstrip help wanted
organization university of limerick , ireland
lines 8

i need information on microstrip circuit design especially
filter design for the 1 3ghz range. can you recommend any
good books , journals , or microstrip circuit design software.
.
all help appreciated

gerry corley , ece department , univesity of limerick , ireland.


from horne@cs.utexas.edu (patrick j. horne)
subject thermal fuse supplier wanted
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 21
nntp posting host im4u.cs.utexas.edu
keywords miti

i have a thermal fuse from a apple laserwriter ii power supply (made
by cannon) that i need to replace. the fuse is not the standard
tubular thermal fuse like those found in hair driers etc , but is a
rectangular plastic package , much like a transistor or diode. it
is about 0.2 x0.2 x0.1 , with both leads coming out of one of the
0.1 x0.1 sides. i have been told that it was made by miti , a asian
company , but i can find no information as to a supplier. this fuse
is rated at 1a , 130c. does anyone have a source for this fuse \? i
only need 5 or so , which means that the manufacturer would n't even want
to talk to me , let alone , deal with me.

please advise via e mail.

thanks ,
pat


i like boats and bicycles , they 're healthier than valium
pat horne , network manager , shop supervisor , hardware guru
cs dept , university of texas , austin , tx. 78712 usa
voice (512)471 9517 , fax (512)471 8885 , uucp cs.utexas.edu ! horne

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re building a uv flashlight
nntp posting host aisun3.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 13

you can get a little uv by putting a heavy uv filter (deep purple) in
front of an ordinary flashlight bulb (the brightest you can get).
my father used a setup like this in law enforcement work circa 1964.

good uv ( blacklight ) bulbs work like fluorescent bulbs. i 'd proceed by
getting a cheap battery powered fluorescent light , then going to an
electrical supply house and finding a uv bulb that would fit it.


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
subject pc games (joystick) port
article i.d. ozonehol.5109.442.uupcb
reply to gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
distribution world
organization ozone online operations , inc. , dba the ozone hole bbs
lines 29

subject says it all could someone tell me the pinout
for a pc type analogue joystick port \?

joystick a
1 5 vdc
2 button 1
3 x axis
4 ground
5 ground
6 y axis
7 button 2
8 5 vdc
joystick b
9 5 vdc
10 button 1
11 x axis
12 ground
13 y axis
14 button 2
15 5 vdc


. slmr 2.1 . soft judges make hardened criminals.


the ozone hole bbs a private bulletin board service (504)891 3142
3 full service nodes usrobotics 16.8k bps 10 gigs 100 , 000 files
skydive new orleans ! rime network mail hub 500 usenet newsgroups
please route all questions or inquiries to postmaster@ozonehole.com

from cjp1@aber.ac.uk (christopher john powell)
subject fujitsu 8 hdd
keywords m2321k , m2322k , fujitsu , microdisk (
organization university of wales , aberystwyth
lines 23

i have a fujitsu m2322k which has been removed (i believe) from a digital
x ray machine (takes x ray pictures without film). the fujitsu part number
is b03b 4745 b002a.

i have obtained some data on the device , it is 8 inch winchester type
of 168 megabyte capacity (though i was told it was over 800 megabytes).
however , there is very little information on the interface standard used.
it appears to use two balanced line connections , but what each connection
corresponds to i know not. one connection is a 30 way idc , the other a
60 way idc.

if anyone has any information on this device , i would be most grateful
if you could provide it.

thanks.


chris powell.


the man from janet cjp1@uk.ac.aber
internet cjp1@aber.ac.uk
nyx cpowell@nyx.cs.du.edu

from bday@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov (brian day)
subject re 8051 microcontroller
organization nasa msfc
lines 12

mcole@spock (cole) writes

i would like to experiment with the intel 8051 family. does anyone out
there know of any good ftp sites that might have compiliers , assemblers ,
etc. \?

try lyman.pppl.gov pub 8051


brian day bday@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov
new technology , inc. (205) 461 4584
mission software development division opinions are my own

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re dumb question function generator
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 36

1) output offset obtain the service manual for the oscilloscope
and adjust the internal output offset contorl. there is virtual
certainty that there is an internal ajustment for the offset
control 's zero detent position.

2) verify that the function generator is properly loaded. many
generators expect you to supply a 50 ohm load. go to a hamfest
flea market and scrounge around for a pass through 50 ohm
terminator that has a male and female bnc (or whatever) connector
on it. the calibrator on my tektronix scope is designed to put out
.4v into a 1 meg load , but .1 volt into a 50 ohm load. you may
also find that loading the output of the function generator also
reduces the harmonic distortion.

build an attenuator. you do n't have to use (and i would n't want to
use) the input impedance of the device under test as part of the
voltage divider to drop the input test voltage. consider this

10k \? ohm

gen 50 ohm d.u.t.
(loaded)


think about the ratio of 50 10k and then think about the accuracy
to which you can read voltages on your oscilloscope. you can
virtually discount the loading of the d.u.t. also you have the
millivolt test generator you want.

good luck ,



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re laser vs bubblejet \?
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 29

fyi the actual horizontal dot placement resoution of an hp
deskjet is 1 600th inch. the electronics and dynamics of the ink
cartridge , however , limit you to generating dots at 300 per inch.
on almost any paper , the ink wicks more than 1 300th inch anyway.

the method of depositing and fusing toner of a laster printer
results in much less spread than ink drop technology.

it does n't take much investigation to see that the mechanical and
electronic complement of a laser printer is more complex than
inexpensive ink jet printers. recall also that laser printers
offer a much higher throughput 10 ppm for a laser versus about 1
ppm for an ink jet printer.

something else to think about is the cost of consumables over the
life of the printer. a 3000 page yield toner cartridge is about
us 75 80 at discount while hp high capacity ( 500 1000 page yield)
cartridges are about us 22 at discount. it could be that over the
life cycle of the printer that consumables for laser printers are
less than ink jet printers. it is getting progressively closer
between the two technologies. laser printers are usually desinged
for higher duty cycles in pages per month and longer product
replacement cycles.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from v064mb9k@ubvmsd.cc.buffalo.edu (neil b. gandler)
subject need diode model for pspice
organization university at buffalo
lines 15
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
nntp posting host ubvmsd.cc.buffalo.edu


im designing a circuit with just a silicon diode. i dont need
to modify any of the parameters. but the problem will not accept the following
statement

.model diode d

the pspice book i have is terrible. i would appreciate any help.


neil gandler

gandler electronics
home automation electronic design technology


from ritley@uimrl7.mrl.uiuc.edu ()
subject seeking thermocouple amplifier circuit
reply to ritley@uiucmrl.bitnet ()
organization materials research lab
lines 17



i would like to be able to amplify a voltage signal which is
output from a thermocouple , preferably by a factor of
100 or 1000 so that the resulting voltage can be fed
more easily into a personal computer based adc data
acquisition card.

might anyone be able to point me to references to such
circuits \? i have seen simple amplifier circuits before , but
i am not sure how well they work in practice.

in this case , i 'd like something which will amplify sufficiently
nicely to be used for thermocouples (say , a few degrees
accuracy or better).

any pointers would be greatly appreciated !

from nagle@netcom.com (john nagle)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 42

wayne alan martin wm1h @andrew.cmu.edu writes
excerpts from netnews.sci.electronics 16 apr 93 re what do nuclear
site 's .. by r tim coslet@cup.portal.
from r tim coslet@cup.portal.com
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
date fri , 16 apr 93 21 27 21 pdt

in article 1qlg9o d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.edu.au
swalker@uts.edu.au ( s87271077 s.walker man 50 ) wrote
i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?
great explaination , however you left off one detail , why do you always
see them at nuclear plants , but not always at fossil fuel plants. at
nuclear plants it is prefered to run the water closed cycle , whereas
fossil fuel plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot
water. as i recall the water is n't as hot (thermodynamically) in many
fossil fuel plants , and of course there is less danger of radioactive
contamination.

actually , fossil fuel plants run hotter than the usual
boiling water reactor nuclear plants. (there 's a gripe in the industry
that nuclear power uses 1900 vintage steam technology). so it 's
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system
as cold as possible. hence big cooling towers.

oil and gas fired steam plants also have condensers , but they
usually are sized to get the steam back into hot water , not most of the
way down to ambient. some plants do cool the condensers with water ,
rather than air as one canadian official , asked about thermal
pollution de icing a river , said , up here , we view heat as a resource .

everybody runs closed cycle boilers. the water used is
purified of solids , which otherwise crud up the boiler plumbing when
the water boils. purifying water for boiler use is a bigger job than
cooling it , so the boiler water is recycled.

john nagle

from linnig@m2000.dseg.ti.com (mike linnig)
subject re books info on audio dsp \? \?
in reply to scst83@csc.liv.ac.uk 's message of 6 apr 93 13 36 13 gmt
nntp posting host m2000.dseg.ti.com
organization texas instruments , defense , systems and electronics group.
c52dsd.7pb@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk
distribution rec , sci
lines 25

in article c52dsd.7pb@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk scst83@csc.liv.ac.uk (chris smith) writes

i'm looking to build a dsp for guitar processing. hence lots of background
information would be really useful !

if anyone 's got any info , could they email.....

well , i'm not sure i 'd use this to process a guitar but there was a audio
filter dsp construction article in the sept 92 issue of qst magazine (ham radio
oriented). the dsp is available in kit form for about 120.

this particular dsp filter was targetted toward processing audio to remove
noise (static). i built it and it really works well. the source code is
available too. it makes a noisy audio signal much easier to hear. note that
this is for communication applications and is not high fidelity .





mike linnig , texas instruments inc. 97.43 of all statistics are made
phone (214) 575 3597 call n5qaw up most of them (83.6 percent)
internet mike.linnig@dseg.ti.com are wrong.



from ski@wpi.wpi.edu (joseph mich krzeszewski)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 9
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

well , this is my second try at posting on this subject. here goes...
in texas (corpus christi at least) if you pick up the phone and dial
890 the phone company will read the number of the phone you are on
back to you. i believe the service department uses this to make
certain they are repairing the correct lines when they open the big
junction boxes. i do n't know if it will work but you can give it a
try. good luck.



from cbruno@wpi.wpi.edu (christopher james bruno)
subject coil
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 11
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

hey everyone , i'm new to this newsgroup so please excuse me if this is a
dumb question....i want to build a crossover for my stereo and i need
a coil with an inductance of 6.8mh (actually i need 4). i was wondering
if anyone knew where i could buy these or how to make these. i 've called
many places and no one i can find sells them. if you have the answers just
e mail me....
thanks in advance....
chris




from kushmer@bnlux1.bnl.gov (christopher kushmerick)
subject infra red position encoders
organization brookhaven national laboratory
distribution na
lines 16

i am looking for information on infra red based position encoders.

the idea would be to bounce the infrared source off a wall and the device would
read out the distance.

preferable it would be rs 232 addressable.



any leads \?



chris kushmerick
kushmer@bnlux1.bnl.gov
i found my niche in life , i just did n't fit in.

from mmm@cup.portal.com (mark robert thorson)
subject re exploding tv !
organization the portal system (tm)
distribution usa
lines 6

sounds like the picture tube lost vacuum. this would cause the filament
to ignite and could actually turn the tube from a vacuum to a pressure
vessel , followed by an explosion when the neck assembly (mostly likely
cracked to begin with) blows off. during the whole sequence of events ,
the other circuits may continue functioning , which accounts for not
losing sound.

from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re power , signal surges in home...
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 41
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article drand.93apr20150701@spinner.osf.org drand@spinner.osf.org (douglas s. rand) writes
in article randall.735251839@woof randall@informix.com (randall rhea) writes

hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. it is very unlikely , however ,
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. ham rigs

not possible either. you 'd need about a 300 amp alternator for
just the amplifier. i can just see it. you need to slow
down on a downgrade , so you hit the push to talk button.

now , that indeed is possible. a good friend of mine is running about 1 kw
pep from his car. yes , he does have a second alternator. yes , he calls
the rig an electronic brake since the engine noticeably slows when the
key is down.

my car , unfortunately , has so much computer junk under the hood that it 's
astonishingly sensitive to rfi. if i key a 2w ht over the engine with
the hood open , the car loses timing due to the rf leaking into the
distributor pickup. very poor design.

i will , however , point out that ham radio operators are usually quite willing
to help when interference is detected. remember that any interference is
wasted power if i put out 1w in the tv band , that 's 1w that i am not putting
out in the band i am trying to transmit on , and 1w can often be the difference
between a nice card hanging on the wall , and nothing. cbers , however , are
usually not as helpful. most illegal cbers , however , will stop operation
when you inform them of a problem. the rest of them will stop operation when
you inform the local fcc office of the problem (in writing , and giving details
and addresses).

last , you can usually tell ham radio vs. cb. ham operators are
required to declare their call (sign) every so many minutes (no more
than 10). so if you hear this is wa1qt or some other call starting
with a , w or k and no more than 6 total characters , you heard a ham.
cb'ers probably wo n't sign (i do n't know that they 're even required
to) and fire police have other private ids.

good advice. hams will frequently give their call , and will never use
a handle. they are less apt to use immense amounts of profanity as well ,
but that 's not to say that they do n't from time to time.
scott

from leblanc@cvm.msu.edu (pat leblanc)
subject wireless data transfer
organization michigan state university , college of veterinary medicine
lines 5
nntp posting host inst0027.cvm.msu.edu

i am involved with a michigan company that has an application requiring
wireless data transfer. if you have expertise or information that may
assist us in this project , please contact me (internet leblanc@cvm.msu.
edu).


from jmc@engr.engr.uark.edu (j. m. carmack)
subject re exploding tv
nntp posting host engr.engr.uark.edu
organization university of arkansas
lines 21

just a thought........maybe it possibly has to do with the fact that it
is an emerson. i 've got an emerson vcr which is 6 in the series. returned
it six times for various and never the same problems. got tired of taking it
back and fixed it myself. the hi fi window was a bit off. something like
the hi fi audio fine tuning. when i was a wal mart associate in '88 '89 ,
we had at least one returned as defective every single day. how 's that for
reliability \? face it emerson can make audio stuff (albeit not of premium
quality) , but they can't make anything as complex as video equipment with
reliability imho. please , no flames. just had to share my emerson disaster
in the light of this exploding tv.
jc





la vie c'est une plage ! \? caffine not present error jmc@engr.uark.edu
this message printed on abort , retry , fail \?
100 recycled electricity. tangerine ! !



from cmh@eng.cam.ac.uk (c.m. hicks)
subject re microphone pre amp low noise phantom powered
organization cam.eng
lines 22
nntp posting host tw100.eng.cam.ac.uk

davidj@rahul.net (david josephson) writes

in c5jjj2.1tf@cmcl2.nyu.edu ali@cns.nyu.edu (alan macaluso) writes

i'm looking to build a microphone preamp that has very good low noise characteristics , large clean gain , and incorportates phantom power (20 48 volts (dc)) for a pzm microphone. i'm leaning towards a good , low cost ( \? \? ) instrumentation amplifier to maintain the balanced input from the microphone , for its good cmrr , internal compensation , and because i can use a minimal of parts.

does anyone out there have any experience , suggestions , advice , etc...that they 'd like to pass on , i 'd greatly appreciate it.

without doing anything really tricky , the best i 've seen is the
burr brown ina103. their databook shows a good application of this
chip as a phantom power mic pre.

i 've had very good results from the ssm2016 from pmi (part of analogue
devices). they have also now introduced the ssm2017 which looks good on
paper , but which i have n't tried yet.

christopher


christopher hicks paradise is a linear gaussian world
cmh@uk.ac.cam.eng (also reported to taste hot and sweaty)


from mdgoodma@apgea.army.mil (malcolm d. goodman mdgoodma )
subject sale fiber optic modems , rf modem , etc best offer
distribution na
organization apg edgewood , md , usa
lines 26


please take these and use them. take advantage of me... i really
do n't know what they are worth.

qty 2 canoga perkins fiber optic modems , model 2250 , rs 422
interface , appear new. i have powered up but that 's all ,
i have not used them and i cannot tell you whether they
work or not.
make offer.........

qty 1 isc datacom rf modem , model 1056 tx1 rx5 sm 120 , interface
rs 449 , internal fan , powers up fine but otherwise condition
unknown , phone for the company is 408 747 0300.

make offer ............

qty 1 motorola uds 212 a d modem , rs 232 interface appears to work
but i have not and cannot check it.

make offer .............

thanks and please buy this stuff or it goes out the door

mack
mdgoodma@cbda8.apgea.army.mil
.

from ulan@ee.ualberta.ca (dale ulan)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
nntp posting host eigen.ee.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
lines 28

rubin@cis.ohio state.edu (daniel j rubin) writes

how hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular
motorola microcontrollers. i am a novice at microcontrollers , but i am
starting to get into them for some of my projects. i have several 256k
simms laying around from upgraded macs and if i could use them as free
memory in one or two of my projects that would be great. one project that
comes to mind is a caller id device that would require quite a bit of ram
to store several hundered cid records etc...

assuming 68hc11...
in expanded muxed mode , you could do it. much easier if you get a dram
controller ic. the mmi 673102 could be used to implement this , or you
could use a counter and a huge multiplexer to provide row column refresh
address multiplexing. the thing with drams is that they require wierd
timing , address multiplexing , and refresh.

actually , if you wanted to use a 68008 ic , you could look at an897 , which
has a neat controller built in. there is also the 683xx , i think one
of those has the dram controller built in. this one is for the 6664
dram , however , the 41256 has only one more address line , adding only
another component or so. the 256k simms are basically 8 or 9 41256
dram chips (or their equivalent in fewer packages).

it can be done , just takes a bit of logic design. i'm actually
about to do it using a 65c02p3 chip... i 've got 8 256k simms... that 's
2 megabytes on my apple e... (used to be in my '386).


from system@garlic.sbs.com (anthony s. pelliccio)
subject re arcade style buttons and joysticks
organization antone 's italian kitchen and excellence in operating network
x newsreader rusnews v1.02
lines 26

dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (david f. newman) writes

hi there ,
can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
on most arcade style games. many projects i am working on would
be greatly augmented if i could implement them. thanx in advance.

dave
dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu


contact chris arthur at chris arthur@pennies.stratus.com
he restores lots of old video and arcade games and knows where to get
parts.

tony


anthony s. pelliccio , kd1nr ae yes , you read it right , the
system @ garlic.sbs.com man who went from no code
(thhhppptt ! ) to extra in
flame retardent sysadmin exactly one year !

this is a calm .sig !



from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re dayton hamfest
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
distribution usa
lines 33

yes ,

take interstate i 70 to the route 48 exit. go south on 48 about
2 1 2 miles. trun right on shiloh springs road. the hamvention is
at the harrah arena , which is about 1 mile west and on the north
side of the road. parking at the arena is limited. lodging is
probably entirely booked up within a 40 mile radius. good luck.


48 i75

i70 ....


x
(mall)
s. springs

it is possible to park at the mall to the west. there are shuttle
busses running between the arena and the mall.

if possible , get a montgomery county , oh map from your local aaa
office. it should be free if you are an aaa member.

if you do n't already have definite plans , now is not a particularly
good time to start to think about going to the hamvention.




bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re r s battery of the month club
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 9
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article jwaterma.93apr14214858@jade.tufts.edu jwaterma@jade.tufts.edu (jason waterman) writes
i talked to a friend who works for radio shack , and he said the deal
with the red batteries were that they had too much lead in them.
condidering the red batteries had a life cycle shorter than a mayflies ,
i think the epa was worried about all those batteries being dumped out.

pardon me , but why would carbon zinc cells have any lead in them at all.
scott


from mycal@netacsys.com (mycal)
subject need to find out number to a phone line
distribution world
organization acsys , inc.
lines 14


try comp.dcom i was reading a thread a while back about an 800 number
that you could dial. worked here. it was a sales line for sprint i think
telling you that you could have all your customers numbers using there
ani , then it told you your number. should work with any modern switch.

mycal



pgp key on request. mycal@netacsys.com

mycal 's way of skiing moguls
turn , turn , turn , air , survive , survive , survive... no risk , no rush

from elliott@optilink.com (paul elliott)
subject re analog switches balanced demodulators
distribution na
organization dsc optilink access products
lines 53

in article msf.734832494@skaro msf@skaro.as.arizona.edu (michael fulbright) writes
i am trying to build a synchronous demodulator and i 've hit a snag.
in my application i want to be able to change the gain of an
op amp amplifier from 1 to 1 , controlable via a digital input.
the most obvious way i 've come up with is to use analog switches
to adjust the gain of the op amp. the only analog switch i have
experience with it the 4066. unfortunately i want to switch an
ac signal which goes from about 5v to 5v , and the 4066 is only
for positive signals.
...
i have a carrier signal which varies between 0v and 5v. i want
to demodulate an input signal by feeding the input signal thru a
amp with a gain of 1 when the carrier is at 5v , and thru a amp
with a gain of 1 when the carrier is 0v. the output is then
low pass filtered. i believe this is called lock in detection as well
as synchronous demodulation.

look at the 4053. this is a triple 2 to 1 transmission gate analog
multiplexer , with positive and negative power supplies (can be run
from a single ended supply as well). with dual supplies , the logic
inputs still range from ground (0 volts) to vdd.

this is a neat (well , i think so) design for a switchable polarity
amplifier




input
opamp output



control x (analog switch)



gnd

all resistors are equal value. when the analog switch is closed ,
the amp is inverting gain of one. with the switch open , it is
non inverting gain of one. you can clean up the circuit to trim
out input offset current if this hurts the balance (this would show
up as carrier feed through).

for high frequencies , the slew rate of the opamp might cause problems ,
especially if it is n't symmetrical (and it usually is n't).


paul elliott dsc optilink petaluma , ca usa
uunet , pyramid , tekbspa ! optilink ! elliott or elliott@optilink.com
i used to think i was indecisive , but now i'm not so sure.


from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re help how to reduce the rpms of a boxer fan \?
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
distribution na
lines 18

yes , you increase the rpm slip of a boxer type fan by installing
a capacitor in series with the fan 's power supply. the air flow of
small 3.5 inch fans can be reduced by about 50 by using a 1 to 4
uf capacitor. use a good grade nonpolarized unit with working
voltage rating around 250 volts. note that some impriical study is
usually required to experimentally determine the best size
capacitor for a given application.

for dc powered applications , try the radio shack 12 volt box fan.
it can run and start reliably from as low as about 4.5 vdc. it is
exceptionally quiet , but at admittedly low flow. i wish i knew who
made the fans for radio shack.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from acm@sun.com (andrew macrae)
subject re arcade style buttons and joysticks
reply to acm@sun.com (andrew macrae)
organization sun microsystems , mountain view ca
lines 14
nntp posting host grendal.corp.sun.com

in article 1993apr21.024036.7394@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu , dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (david f. newman) writes
hi there ,
can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
on most arcade style games. many projects i am working on would
be greatly augmented if i could implement them. thanx in advance.


hap controls just outside chicago sells these. i do n't remember which
suburb they are in. the prices are pretty reasonable and they are
easy to hook up. i bought a new coin mechanism from them for 25.00
a couple of years ago.

andrew macrae


from cmwolf@mtu.edu (engineer by day asleep by night)
subject re answers to many electronics questions
organization michigan technological university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 19

bill willis (willisw@willisw.eng.clemson.edu) wrote
i have notice a lot of electronics questions by people who are obviously not
tuned in to electronics. many of them have rather simple answers , and
many of them require a circuit diagram.

rather than muck up the network , why do n't you write to me , send a self
addressed , stamped envelop , and i 'll answer your questions , if i can.

w. l. willis , p. e.
114 fern circle
clemson , sc 29631

because the network is quicker , easier , and free (at least to me).



christopher wolf electrical engineer cmwolf@mtu.edu

remember , even if you win the rat race you 're still a rat.

from jra@law7.daytonoh.ncr.com (john ackermann x 2966)
subject single chip receiver for fsk \?
reply to jra@law7.daytonoh.ncr.com (john ackermann x 2966)
organization ncr corporation law department
lines 21

my next project is to come up with an if detector module for fast 112
to 250 kb sec packet radio use. no fancy modulation scheme , just
wide fsk for use at 902 or 1296 mhz.

i'm a bit familiar with the motorola 3362 chip , but i wonder if there
are newer designs that might work at higher input frequencies.

my goal is to come up with an inexpensive design for a receiver back
end with if input on one end and an fsk demondulator on the other. i'm
particularly interested in ways to use a higher if than 10.7 do any
current chips work up to , say 150mhz with internal downconversion so a
normal if filter can be used \?

any suggestions \?

john


john r. ackermann , jr. law department , ncr corporation , dayton , ohio
(513) 445 2966 john.ackermann@daytonoh.ncr.com
packet radio ag9v@n8acv.oh tcp ip ag9v@ag9v.ampr 44.70.12.232

subject 2sc1096 , 2sa634 specs \?
from juhan@piko (juhan poldvere)
organization tartu university , department of chemistry
nntp posting host piko.chem.ut.ee
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 lines 10
lines 10


hi ,
could some kind soul post me the max power voltage current ratings of
2sc1096 and 2sa634 transistors , their conductance types and pinouts.
they are used in the sweep portion of a tv set.
thanks in advance ,

juhan poeldvere , es5qx juhan@chem.ut.ee
tartu university , dept. of chemistry fax 372 (34) 35440
2 jakobi st. , ee 2400 , tartu , estonia , via stockholm voice 372 (34) 35429

from jhwhit01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu
subject re what 's a good ic for rs232 ttl signals \? \?
lines 18
nntp posting host ulkyvx.louisville.edu
organization university of louisville

in article c5nz60.99z@scraps.uucp , frankh@scraps.uucp (frank holden ka3uww) writes
in c57zsc.9fl@news.cso.uiuc.edu rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tall cool one ) writes

i'm looking for an ic that will convert rs232 voltage levels to ttl voltage
levels. something relatively inexpensive would be nice , too. anyone have
a suggestion \? \? thanks.

well it looks as if digi key sells a chip with the number icl232 that does what
you want. they are selling it for about 3.50...

digi key also sells quad line receivers , parts ds1489an (68cents) and ds1489n
(48cents). a quad line driver , part ds1488 (48cents) , is also sold. i guess
if you do n't wo n't to supply 12v , the chips with the pump up circuitry might
be worth the extra cost. but 1488 's and 1489 's are available at your friendly
neighborhood rs , parts mc1488 (276 2520) for 1.29 and mc1489 (276 2521) for
1.29.

jeff white jhwhit01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu

from fontana@cis.ohio state.edu (mark fontana)
subject homemade projector automation
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info. science
lines 37
distribution usa
nntp posting host tomato.cis.ohio state.edu


hi all ,

i'm an assistant manager at a local art theater here in columbus. i 'd
like to expand our show automation a bit namely add the capability to
use cue tapes to bring the houselights up. our current automation
consoles date from the early 60 's and do n't provide this function.

we already have the combo failsafe contact rollers to read the cuetapes ,
and our dimmer system will raise the houselights when its fade up control
circuit (120 vac) is momentarily closed , for at least 0.5 second.

i 've tried wiring the dimmer control to a 12v relay , activated when the
cue tape completes the circuit. low tech and simple , but there 's one
problem in order to get the 1 2 second pulse , there needs to be
a sh load of cuetape on the film. (35mm runs at 90 feet per minute ,
so to get a 1 2 second pulse , there needs to be at least 9 inches of solid
cuetape ! )

ideally , i would like to use a single cross cue to accomplish this function.
(a single strip of cuetape perpendicular to the length of the film)
this would give a pulse of approximately 1 100 of a second.
what i need is a circuit to detect the short cue and activate the relay
for around 1 2 second. the ability to adjust how long the relay
is activated would be nice. i figure this would require an rc circuit
of some sort. i'm sure some of you already have the solution figured
out in your heads. any suggestions and schematics would be appreciated !


thanks ,

mark fontana


of all the arts , the cinema is mark a. fontana
the most important. computer and information science
v.i. lenin the ohio state university

from cph@dmu.ac.uk (chris hand)
subject re pc based layout program
organization de montfort university , leicester , uk
lines 26
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

frank hielscher (hielsche@aragorn.csee.lehigh.edu) wrote
the pads .zip files contain subdirectories , and have to be unzipped
via pkunzip d . then an xcopy s to three floppies creates the disks
needed to do the install.

i'm still not sure how this is supposed to work , since the .zip files
took up about 2.5mb , so it must be a tight squeeze on those floppies...

however , i managed to install pads and i'm pretty impressed. i created
a couple of schematics without problem , but whenever i try to
create a pcb layout from one of my circuits (rather than the demos)
it does n't work. i'm wondering if maybe a file is n't where it should
be...

can anyone who has a printed manual comment on whether the registration
fee is worth paying \?


chris



chris hand , lecturer internet mail cph@dmu.ac.uk
dept of computing science , voice 44 533 551551 x8476
de montfort university , the gateway , fax 44 533 541891 fidonet 2 440 32.50
leicester , uk le1 9bh linux free unix for ibm pcs !

from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re public domain circuits in commercial applications
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 31

in article 1993apr13.164924.2606@wuecl.wustl.edu dp@cec1.wustl.edu (david prutchi) writes
can circuits found in electronics magazines (with no patent disclaimer)
be used legally as subcircuits of a commercial unit \?

there are two issues here copyright and patent.

the magazine article 's contents are copyrighted , and may not be reproduced ,
translated , etc. , without the copyright holder 's permission. however , this
does not cover the ideas expressed , only the form of expression. copying
their circuit diagram or pc board pattern is copyright infringement. but
it 's unlikely that they could stretch copyright far enough to claim that
the circuit design itself is copyrighted. so long as you draw your own
diagrams and lay out your own boards , copyright should n't be an issue.

patents are different. the author does not have to give you any warning
that the design is covered by patent (although it would be sensible for
him to do so). in fact , it 's possible that he was infringing on someone
else 's patent without realizing it. ignorance of the patented status is
not a defence against infringement , although it might reduce the damages
a court would award.

however... unless there was something seriously novel about the circuit ,
almost certainly it is obvious to one skilled in the art and therefore
unpatentable. routine engineering is not patentable patents (in theory)
cover only inventions , ideas that are genuinely new.

caution i am not a lawyer. consulting a professional would be wise if
significant amounts of money are at stake.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from markz@ssc.com (mark zenier)
subject re trace size for a 15 amp supply
organization ssc , inc. , seattle , wa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 12

r.g. keen (rg@futserv.austin.ibm.com) wrote
a quick and dirty way to get higher current carrying capacity
on pc board traces for one or few of a kind boards is to
strip some 14 romex house wiring cable to bare copper , form
the bare copper to follow the trace , and solder it down.

and if it 's not quick and dirty , you can get bus bars that
are stamped out with leads that insert in the pc board.

mark zenier markz@ssc.wa.com markz@ssc.com



subject re can microwaves be used to collect xyz coordinates
from sldf3@sol.ee.usu.edu (weston r beal)
distribution world
organization utah state univ. ee
nntp posting host sol.ee.usu.edu
lines 32

in article c5hs5j.ag7@bcstec.ca.boeing.com , rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter) writes

it seems reasonable to me that a microwave transmitter receiver setup could
do the job. for example , say you want to map an acre lot , it 'd be convenient
to place mw transmitters around the lot 's periphery (either 2 or 3) and then
carry a hand held recorder and walk to a point on the lot , press a button and
the coords of the recorder 's location is stored as digital data.

what 's the chance of this working \? any systems like this already exist \?
what kind of accuracy could you expect \? what would something like this
cost to prototype \? is there a better alternative than microwaves \?

of course you could develope this system , but there is already a system called global
positioning satellites. it gives three dimensional coordinates anywhere on earth.
many surveyors use this system with a differential receiver transmitter to get
coordinates within centimeters. basic receivers with resolution of a few meters (on
a good day) are available from many sources.



wmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmw

weston r beal
sldf3@sol.ee.usu.edu
sldf3@cc.usu.edu
electrical engineer
utah state university

that 's the wonderful thing about crayons they can take you to
more places than a starship can. guinon



from tom@afthree.as.arizona.edu (thomas j. trebisky)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
keywords outlet
organization steward observatory , univ. of arizona , tucson
lines 19

crichmon@sedona.intel.com (chris richmond) writes
well , my house was built just last year , and the breaker box is wired the
same way. all the white and ground wires are on a common bus. except for
the 220v circuits , only black wires are hooked to the breakers. it was
the same way in the last two houses i had also. are you sure this is wrong \?
i still have the building inspector 's signature on the breaker box.

the point is that the original poster was talking about connecting
ground and neutral in the outlet box (big no no) , and you are talking
about them being connected in the breaker box (as things should be).

if this is not obvious , the point is that there should be current
flow in the white , i.e. neutral return wires when things in the
house are operating. there should not be any flow in the ground wires
unless there is a fault condition. notice also that in the breaker box
there is a wire leading from the above mentioned junction to earth ground ,
usually a pipe or spike driven into the ground.

tom trebisky ttrebisky@as.arizona.edu

from galen@picea.cfnr.colostate.edu (galen watts)
subject re suggestions on audio relays \? \? \?
nntp posting host storm.cfnr.colostate.edu
organization colorado concert sound
lines 25

in article 1993apr20.102756.1709@mala.bc.ca wagner@mala.bc.ca (tom wagner , wizzard of old audio visual equipment........nanaimo campus) writes
in article c5r60r.4id@megatest.com , alung@megatest.com (aaron lung) writes
in article c5qsbf.iek@ms.uky.edu billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn) writes
i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. i was doing
my question is
is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.

are you switching high level signals or low level signals like pre amp
a novel circuit i used to build was a primitive optical isolator .. it consists
of a resistive photocell and a lamp , all packaged in a tube. when the lamp is
off the cell is high resistance. turn the lamp on and the resistance lowers

i use an h11f1 fet optoisolater to switch microphone level signals.
there is no click , since i put a .1uf cap across the led. distortion
measurement are very low with mic level , and they went up to 0.03 at a
14 db line level. all i did was put the fet in series with one leg
of the balanced line. no hums , pops , just audio jumping out of silence.
the fet runs about 100 million ohms with the led dark and drops to 150 200
ohms with it on.

hey , it works , and works well.
galen watts , kf0yj


from sean@dip1.ee.uct.ac.za (sean borman)
subject info wanted graphics lcd displays
organization university of cape town
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 15


hi there

does anyone know how to get hold of data as well as stock of the
lcd displays used in the nintendo gameboy handheld tv game machines \?

any information wouold be most appreciated.

please e mail any replies to

arawstorne@eleceng.uct.ac.za

thanks

alex

from leapman@austin.ibm.com
subject heathkit zenith
article i.d. austin.c52egz.27t3
reply to login@austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
lines 3
originator leapman@junior.austin.ibm.com


does anyone out there have the toll free (catalog request and order line) for
heathkit zenith \? please post the number if you 've got it ! thanks.

from et@teal.csn.org (eric h. taylor)
subject re electronic tesla coils
summary real world applications
keywords tesla , coil , osc , flyback , transformers , wireless , emi , ac , ignition
nntp posting host teal.csn.org
organization 4 l laboratories
distribution world
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 06 00 00 gmt
lines 48

in article 1993mar25.161909.8110@wuecl.wustl.edu dp@cec1.wustl.edu (david prutchi) writes
in article c4cntg.jv4@spk.hp.com long@spk.hp.com (jerry long) writes
fred w. culpepper (fculpepp@norfolk.vak12ed.edu) wrote
...
a couple of years ago i put together a tesla circuit which
was published in an electronics magazine and could have been
the circuit which is referred to here. this one used a
flyback transformer from a tv onto which you wound your own
primary windings. it also used 2 power transistors in a to 3
...
10 years ago i built a 1'000 , 000 volt tesla , and the thing was very
spectacular , but besides scaring amazing friends (depending on their
knowledge of science) , and generating strong emi , i never found anything
useful that could be done with it ... is there any real world application
for tesla coils today \?

david prutchi

first of all , realize that tesla invented ac power generators , motors ,
transformers , conductors , etc. technically , all transformers are tesla
coils. in general though when someone refers to a tesla coil , they mean
an air core resonant transformer . the tv flyback version tesla
coil (see the encyclopedia of electronic circuits v3 , 106 1 for
diagram) has not an air core. it is of a class of circuit called
oscillating shuttle circuit (osc). generally osc 's are highly
efficient , but this version uses transistors and resistors ,
which are very lossy devices. typically tesla used active
reactances instead of passive resistors , so that he could achieve
efficiencies of 99.5 , and better. the usual application of an air core
resonant transformer , or of an osc , is to produce strong emi
for wireless broadcasts. how well do you think your computer
screen would work if we removed the hf hv tesla (flyback) coil
from it \? if we were to remove from our homes and industries all
tesla coils , our lights would go dark , our cars would sputter
and die , our radios would go silent , our industries would grind
to a halt , and we would have to go back to using coal for heat ,
gas for lamps , horses for transportation , steam for power , and
telegraph for communication. is that real world enough for you \? \? \? \? \? \? \?

get the message ! we would not have 1 100 the convieniences we have
today if not for tesla. give credit where credit is due !

if it had been up to edison , we 'd still be in the 19th century.
(flame me at your own peril. i'm very good at putting edison down).


et tesla was 100 years ahead of his time. perhaps now his time comes .


from gunnarh@dhhalden.no (gunnar horrigmo)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
lines 25
nntp posting host pc109
organization ostfold college

in article sehari.735331566@marge.ecss.iastate.edu sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes

i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are avaliable , and how
effective are they \? has anyone have any experience in this area \?

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.

one of the easiest , and really very used ways of copyprotection , is to mark
a specific sector on the installation disk bad. this is very easy to get
around , though , if you have any knowledge of hw hacking , but most 'normal'
users (yes those lowly key punchers) do n't. whatever you do , please do
not use a hardware key. these were very popular a few years ago , and they
stink ! !

mail mail gunnarh@sofus.dhhalden.no snail mail gunnar horrigmo
gunnarh@fenris.dhhalden.no oskleiva 17
n 1772 norway

disclaimer the above posting may seem like insignificant rubbish at
first glance , but if you read between the lines , you will be
surprised to discover the annals of burt bacharach , world peace ,
oxford advanced readers dictionary , quantum physics made easy , and an
easy to use step by step walkthrough on how to make a time travelling
device that actually works.

from dp@cec1.wustl.edu (david prutchi)
subject oem weight scale
nntp posting host cec1
organization washington university , st. louis mo
lines 13

does someone sell oem scale units with either analog or digital output \?
i need something like the scales used in supermarket cash registers ,
with a dynamic range of a few pounds and reasonable accuracy.

any sources \? david


david prutchi hc1dt
washington university prutchi@mesun4.wustl.edu
campus box 1185 dp@cec1.wustl.edu
one brookings drive prutchi@eng.tau.ac.il
st. louis , mo 63130 4899


from sciamanda@edinboro.edu
subject re emergency vehicle sensors \? traffic light phreaks \?
organization edinboro university of pa
lines 21

in article linnig.93apr7154239@m2000.dseg.ti.com , linnig@m2000.dseg.ti.com (mike linnig) writes
folks ,

here in the dallas area i have noticed that it is quite common to see an odd
sensor on top of traffic lights. these have been here for at least six
years. i 've often wondered what they are.
. . .
mike linnig , texas instruments inc. 97.43 of all statistics are made

here in erie , pa there is a system in the inner city called rado lite (a
trade name) which allows police and ambulance vehicles to gain right of
way by controlling traffic lights through radio signals. the receivers
look much like what you describe , but they include a uhf whip antenna (less
than a foot tall) and a light which flashes on and off to let traffic know that
an emergency vehicle has taken control and is approaching. local folklore
says this system was invented here i do n't know if this company has any
other installations. it has been in operation for at least 30 years , going
only by my memory.

bob sciamanda
edinboro univ of pa

from scst83@csc.liv.ac.uk (chris smith)
subject re books info on audio dsp \? \?
distribution rec , sci
organization computer science , liverpool university
lines 28
nntp posting host goyt.csc.liv.ac.uk

in sci.electronics , rec.audio david s. rowell writes

i assume these are appropriate newsgroups for this question. i am looking
for a good book , articles , anything on audio dsp. theory is nice , but
i'm really looking for something very much on the applications side.
i want to look into it as my new hobby , so i need all the direction
i can get. any comments would be welcome , too.

i'm looking to build a dsp for guitar processing. hence lots of background
information would be really useful !

if anyone 's got any info , could they email.....

thanks in advance...

chris )


name mr chris smith twang on that 'ole guitar !
addrs scst83@uk.ac.liv.csc
uni liverpool university quest to build more and more hardware
dgree computer science


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas !
d.h. lawrence.

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought.

from paula@nlbbs.com (paula stockholm)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
reply to paula@nlbbs.com paula stockholm
organization the northern lights bbs , portland , me 207 761 4782
lines 7
x newsreader zipnews reader mailer v0.92d (beta)

in most areas of the country , serviced by ess (or cess) , your phone



paula@nlbbs.com
paula stockholm cumberland , maine usa


from jgd@dixie.com (john de armond)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization dixie communications public access. the mouth of the south.
keywords nuclear
lines 33

swalker@uts.edu.au ( s87271077 s.walker man 50 ) writes

i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?
i hope someone can help


the actual hourglass is hollow and is designed to generate a draft ,
exploiting the venturi effect. around the base of the hourglass is a
ring of water towers. warm river water , coming from the steam condenser
in the plant , is sprayed over louvres. the draft being pulled through
the tower cools the water by both evaporation and convection. the
sensible heat extracted from the cooling water is the driving force for
draft generation.

it should be noted that the hourglass shaped cooling towers are used on
both fossile and nuclear plants. it should also be noted that at
locations where water is plentiful , the cooling towers are only used part
time , when the discharge temperature would exceed some release limit.
it was once thought that the warm discharge water was damaging to fish.
fishermen know that is thoroughly incorrect. nontheless , stringent ,
usually state , regulations remain in some instances. since it typically
takes 60 , 000 hp worth of pumping to move the volume of water needed
to cool a 1000 mwe plant , the cost of using the towers is not insignificant.

john de armond , wd4oqc interested in high performance mobility \?
performance engineering magazine(tm) interested in high tech and computers \?
marietta , ga send ur snail mail address to
jgd@dixie.com perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
lee harvey oswald where are ya when we need ya \?

from al@qiclab.scn.rain.com (alan peterman)
subject fluke for sale (was dmm advice needed)
keywords fluke 8062a 115
article i.d. qiclab.1993apr17.202510.1992
organization scn research qic laboratories of tigard , oregon.
lines 13


i have a spare fluke 8062a. this is a true rms digital meter with
4.5 digit display. it 's in average condition (been used) but
works fine which is what fluke 's are all about. btw according
to the fellow who designed these meters , they can be converted to 8060a
function by clipping a jumper , and adding the 2 extra switches..
like i said 115 seems fair these sell for 300 new.



alan l. peterman (503) 684 1984 hm work
al@qiclab.scn.rain.com
it 's odd how as i get older , the days are longer , but the years are shorter !

from mike diack mike d@staff.tc.umn.edu
subject husky programmer bits req 'd
x xxdate sat , 17 apr 93 04 10 01 gmt
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 90.gw.umn.edu
organization persian cat carpet co.
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d7
lines 5

help ! ! i'm looking for a isa driver card and driver software for a
logical devices husky programmer (it aint mush good without these)
can anyone help with either of these items \?
cheers
mike.

from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
article i.d. shelley.1r4cucinnham
distribution na
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 18
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article 1993apr19.231050.2196@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com babb@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com (scott babb) writes
brian day (bday@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov) wrote
on december 29 , 1992 , it was illegal to operate a radar detector
in the state of virginia. if one got caught , one got fined 65.00.

the federal communications act of 1934 made it legal for you to
operate a radio receiver of any kind , on any frequency (including
x , k , and ka bands) in the united states.

and the commonwealth of virginia has not exactly butted
against the issue on those grounds. the claim is that as a matter
of traffic safety one is not allowed to have a functioning radar
detector on the dashboard while operating a motor vehicle.

yes , the argument is bogus , but... it has n't been successfully
challenged in court. yet.

john whitmore

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject emulator pods
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 23

a surplus dealing buddy of mine came up with two emulator pods

hp64220c (for hp 64100 development station). 8086 target
processor. dip head. does not include board that plugs into
the 64100.

applied microsystems 80c186 188 pod , lcc head.

if you have an interest in either , let me know. they look to
be in excellent condition. he does n't know what to do with them , which
may mean that they 'll be cheap.



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from craw@yoyo.cc.monash.edu.au (sebastian filzek)
subject ir detector 'cards' \? \? \?
summary ir detector cards.. \? \? \?
keywords ir card
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 23

hi people..

ok heres my problem....
i keep hearing about these little credit card type of things which
detect ir light....

i believe that you have to 'charge them up' under normal (visible) light
and then if they are exposed to ir light they glow or something like
that...

i think that they are avaliable in the states and even in england , but
alas i live in australia. could someone please inform me if i can get
these things over here , and if so where \? \? \? and how much \? \? \?

also are they really commonly avaliable in the states , and if so , then
how much are they and who sells them (maybe if i cant get one here , i 'll
write to one of the companies over seas..)

anyway.... thanks in advance...

sab
93


from babb@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com (scott babb)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization lockheed sanders
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
distribution na
lines 24

brian day (bday@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov) wrote
on december 29 , 1992 , it was illegal to operate a radar detector
in the state of virginia. if one got caught , one got fined 65.00.
ask me how i know.

the federal communications act of 1934 made it legal for you to
operate a radio receiver of any kind , on any frequency (including
x , k , and ka bands) in the united states. the electronic
communications privacy act of 1989( \? ) restricted the fca of 1934
by making it illegal to receive the land mobile telephone service ,
including (i believe) cellular phones. no restriction was placed
on receiving radar (or , curiously , cordless phones.) enforcement
of the virginia law is in violation of the fca of 1934. if you have
lots of time and money (and a lawyer , which i'm not , ) you can
argue this in a federal court and try to have the law overturned.

i can hardly wait to see the responses to this one , but somebody
had to say it...


lockheed sanders may disagree so these are solely the opinions of
scott l. babb babb@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com
we did n't inherit the earth from our parents ,
we are borrowing it from our children.

from jimmy@fireflare (jimmy mosquera)
subject re help how to construct home built battery for 3rd grade sci report
keywords 3rd grade science report
nntp posting host fireflare
organization jet propulsion laboratory (nasa)
distribution usa
lines 22

in article c5ge69.lo0@athena.cs.uga.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
almost any two dissimilar metals in almost any electrically conductive
liquid.

example copper and zinc in coca cola...

copper and galvanized steel nails in a lemon...

do n't expect much power out , but it should be easily detectable
with a voltmeter.


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi



a copper and a zinc rod in a potato also work nice.



from kennehra@logic.camp.clarkson.edu (rich theman kennehan)
subject subliminal message flashing on tv
organization clarkson university
lines 11
nntp posting host logic.clarkson.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8



hi. i was doing research on subliminal suggestion for a psychology
paper , and i read that one researcher flashed hidden messages on the
tv screen at 1 200ths of a second. is that possible \? i thought the
maximum rate the tv was even capable of displaying images was 1 30th
of a second. (or 1 60th of a second for an image composed of only odd
or even scan lines)

rich
kennehra@logic.camp.clarkson.edu

from bps@ektools.kodak.com (bruce p. sidari)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
organization eastman kodak
lines 29

in article 1993apr15.212629.1834@cmkrnl.com jeh@cmkrnl.com writes
in article 1993apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu , crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) writes
i'm considering modernizing some old wiring in my home , and
i need a little advice on outlet wiring. several outlets
are the old 'two prong' type , without the ground. naturally ,
the wire feeding these outlets is 12 2 , without the ground
wire. i noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground
wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.

they are supposed to be connected together at the breaker panel... but nowhere ,
repeat nowhere , else. (well , almost. there are strange exceptions for things
like sub panels.)


jamie hanrahan , kernel mode systems , san diego ca
internet jeh@cmkrnl.com uucp uunet ! cmkrnl ! jeh cis 74140 , 2055


not even in sub panels ! the only place the neutral should be connected to the
ground is in a service disconnect ! in your house the main panel serves as
the service disconnect. sub panles in your garage or workshop for example must
maintain seperate neutral and ground busses because they are not service
disconnect equipment.


steve woodard , kd2kq not a licensed electrician , but i can read the nec book.
(my brother is though) )


from vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
subject re power , signal surges in home...
nntp posting host chip
reply to vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
organization mpr teltech ltd.
lines 10

drand@spinner.osf.org (douglas s. rand) writes

hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. it is very unlikely , however ,
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car.

not possible either. you 'd need about a 300 amp alternator for
just the amplifier.

it is too possible. as the original poster said it is very unlikely
but definately possible. (can you say batteries \? )

from franko@cco.caltech.edu (frank filipanits)
subject re arcade style buttons and joysticks
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 19
nntp posting host alumni.caltech.edu

can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
on most arcade style games. many projects i am working on would
be greatly augmented if i could implement them. thanx in advance.

hap controls just outside chicago sells these.
andrew macrae

actually , it 's happ , and some of their equipment can be found in the
parts express catalog (1 800 338 0531). they show switches for 2 ,
joysticks for 13 and trackballs for 80. they also have pinball parts.

good luck.




frank filipanits jr. b.s. ee music , california institute of technology '92
audio consultant m.s. music engineering , university of miami '94
franko@alumni.caltech.edu no , officer , i do n't know how fast i was going.

from sgberg@charon.bloomington.in.us (stefan g. berg)
subject re motorola xc68882rc33 and rc50
reply to sgberg@charon.bloomington.in.us (stefan berg)
distribution world
organization not an organization
x newssoftware grn 1.16f (10.17.92) by mike schwartz michael b. smith
lines 25

in article 16apr199323531467@rosie.uh.edu st1my@rosie.uh.edu (stich , christian e.) writes
i just installed a motorola xc68882rc50 fpu in an amiga a2630 board (25 mhz
68030 68882 with capability to clock the fpu separately). previously
a mc68882rc25 was installed and everything was working perfectly. now the
systems displays a yellow screen (indicating a exception) when it check for
the presence type of fpu. when i reinstall an mc68882rc25 the system works
fine , but with the xc68882 even at 25 mhz it does not work. the designer
of the board mentioned that putting a pullup resistor on data strobe (470 ohm)
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some
suggestions what i could do \? does this look like a cpu fpu communications
problem or is the particular chip dead (it is a pull , not new) \?
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an xc68882rc33. i thought
that the 68882rc33 were labeled mc not xc (for not finalized mask design).
are there any mc68882rc33 \?

i , too , have a xc68882rc50 math coprocessor , which i installed
succesfully in my mega midget racer (clocked at 33 mhz). i have tried
clocking my fpu at 28 to 50 mhz and it all worked just fine. i have a
mc68030 33 cpu. i do n't know why my fpu has an xc (my original 33mhz fpu
was label mc68882 33) , but it seems to work fine on my system. maybe you
just have a bad chip.

stefan

p.s. or does it mean experimental chip instead of motorola chip \? . )

from dclaar@cup.hp.com (doug claar)
subject los angeles freeway traffic reports
nntp posting host hprtnyc.cup.hp.com
organization hewlett packard
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.9
lines 8

while driving through the middle of nowhere , i picked up knbr , am 1070 ,
a clear channel station based in los angeles. they had an ad
claiming that they were able to get traffic flow information from
all of the thousands of traffic sensors that caltrans has placed
under the pavement. does caltrans sell this info \? does knbr have
an exclusive \? what 's the deal \?

doug former l.a. commuter claar

from coyne@thing1.cc.utexas.edu ()
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization at ut \? that 's a joke.
lines 24
nntp posting host thing1.cc.utexas.edu

it is illegal to use anything you eavedropped on for a business
or for an illegal use. jurisdictions that ban radar detectors or
police monitors , are essentially making the claim that there is no
other reason for a radar detector or police radio monitor.

the results of fighting these claims in courts have been mixed.
the federal courts are not anxious to intervene and state courts
have sometimes held that the feds have exclusive jurisdiction
and sometimes they have not. a lot of state courts do not have
enough imagination to see any use for a radar detector besides
avoiding law enforcement action for speeding.

when you buy a radar detector , amongst the guarrantees , instructions ,
explanations , and other detritus , is an invitation to join an
association dedicated to preserving your right to use a radar detector.
(i promise i am not making this up ! )

i do not think radar detector manufacturers would be making any
headway at all in courtrooms if police departments enforced speed
laws with a strict eye to public safety and a blind eye to the fund
raiser aspect of tickets.

mike coyne


from wa2ise@cbnewsb.cb.att.com (robert.f.casey)
subject 2 level brightness xmas light set (for easter \?
keywords xmas
organization at t
lines 54


yes , i know it 's nowhere near christmas time , but i'm gonna loose
net access in a few days (maybe a week or 2 if i'm lucky) , and wanted
to post this for interested people to save 'till xmas. (
note bell labs is a good place if you have a phd and a good boss , i
have neither.


subject xmas light set with 2 levels of brightness

another version of a variable brightness xmas light set
this set starts with a 2 blinker 35 bulb string.

diagram orginal 2 way set

120v b !
! b !
!
120rtn !

modified set for 2 level brightness

string 1
120v !
10k !
5w ! string 2 !
b !
120v rtn ! !

note no mods to wiring to the right of this point.

only one blinker is used.

note that the blinker would not have as much current thru it as the
string 1 bulbs , because of the second string of bulbs in
parallel with it. that 's why the use of the 10k 5w resistor
here to add extra current thru the blinker to make up for the
current shunted thru the second string while the blinker is glowing
and the second string is not glowing. when the blinker goes open ,
this resistor has only a slight effect on the brightness of the
strings , s1 slightly dimmer , s2 slightly brighter.
or use a 3w 120v bulb in place of the 10k resistor if you can get
one. caution , do not replace with a standard c9 bulb , as these
draw too much current and burn out the blinker. c9 approx 7w.

what you 'll see when it 's working powerup , string 1 will light
at full brightness , and b will be lit , bypassing most of the current
from the second string , making them not light. b will open , placing
both strings in series , making the string that was out to glow at a
low brightness , and the other string that was on before to glow
at reduced brightness.

be sure to wire and insulate the splices , resistor leads , and cut wires
in a safe manner !

from edhall@rand.org (ed hall)
subject re los angeles freeway traffic reports
organization rand
lines 29
nntp posting host ives.rand.org

in article c5ulqn.gpw@fc.hp.com cfb@fc.hp.com (charlie brett) writes
while driving through the middle of nowhere , i picked up knx , am 1070 ,
a clear channel station based in los angeles. they had an ad
claiming that they were able to get traffic flow information from
all of the thousands of traffic sensors that caltrans has placed
under the pavement. does caltrans sell this info \? does knx have
an exclusive \? what 's the deal \?

well , they claim they are the only radio broadcaster with this
information. but the city 's cable channel (35 in cablevision areas)
shows this information map during travel times (6 9am and 4 7pm , i
believe). most of the major la freeways are covered. the
computer generated map shows green , yellow , red , or flashing red
(respectively 40mph , 25 40mph , 25mph , and incident i might be off
a little on the speeds , since this is from memory).

i often look at this display in the morning to see if i really want to
fight the traffic on the sepulveda pass or work from home for a little
while to wait for it to clear.

another poster explained the origin of the information sensors (embedded
wire loops) in the pavement near ramps and every half mile or so. caltrans
has had a big board driven from this data in their traffic control center
for some time. i do n't know if they are selling the data or if anyone
with the equipment necessary for its transmission and display can have
it.

ed hall
edhall@rand.org

from keith@churchill.columbiasc.ncr.com (keith.boyd)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
nntp posting host churchill.columbiasc.ncr.com
organization ncr corp. , columbia sc
lines 30

in article 20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu alee@ecs.umass.edu writes

greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al



do you get a dial tone when you plug a phone into the jack \? \? if not ,
then the line is possibly disconnected from the nearest telco junction
box. if you do get a dial tone , then surely the telco is sending a bill
for the line to someplace or somebody . are you sure that what you
are doing is on the level. sounds to me like you are just trying to get
at somebody 's unlisted number. fess up.

keith



keith boyd (ncr mcpd cola.) nothing could be finer than huntin' and
3325 platt springs rd. and fishin' in south carolina ! me
west cola. , s.c. 29170 go gamecocks ! keith.boyd@columbiasc.ncr.com
vp 803 791 6419 or 6455 from uunet uunet ! ncrcom ! ncrcae ! clodii ! keith

from surfer@world.std.com (internet surfer)
subject new mailserver...soon...utopia service
organization boston computer society isig
lines 9

for all those who are interested and would like to discuss the popular
secret life..and or other technical documentaries.. please email me
as i am starting a newsgroup



jolt@gnu.ai.mit.edu its not impossible , just improbable
johnp@pro.angmar.uucp (zaphod beeblbrox)
bl298@cleveland.freenet.edu n1nig@amsat.org (being a ham is so grand)

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re dmm advice needed
organization macquarie university
lines 30
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au


what the world needs is a meter that wo n't let you change ranges or
turn it on off with a lead stuck in the amps jack a little bit of
clever plastic detailing would take care of this and make the world
safer for electricans , anyway.
not that i 've ever put a meter on the wrong range into a live
circuit , no , not me...not more than a dozen times , anyway....
bill


bills@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

the fluke 87 beeps at you if you try to take it out of a current measuring
range while there is still a lead plugged in to the current sense socket.

... this should solve your problem unless you are in a noisy environment.

johnh



electronics department
( ) ( ( ( school of mpce
macquarie university
sydney , australia 2109

email johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au , ph 61 2 805 8959 , fax 61 2 805 8983



from baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca (baden de bari)
subject exhausted student needing help !
organization system 6626 bbs , winnipeg manitoba canada
lines 40


well , i 've now been working on this damned stepper controller board
since 9pm. it 's now 6am... i'm pissed off. period. alright , i can
drive the steppers through the 3479p 's no problem (that 's with the
6 wire steppers , 2 to , and the other 4 are the phase lines). problem
1 i 've got some 4 wire steppers. i put the darkest line to and the
other 3 to the 3479p... worked , kinda. tried it with a printer stepper
(moves the head back and forth , 4 wires) , did n't work too well. it
would
shift back and forth (use something like a 4017 instead \? ) also i 've
been
trying to get a bunch of npn 's to work with it... no luck... tried
pnp 's ,
still no luck ! ! ! i do n't know if i'm cursed on this or what , but i feel
my brain slowly frying with the thought of stepper ... arggg ! ! !
i do n't know what 's wrong with the transistor hook up (to 220
pkg
type) , also tryed the 2n2222 pkg type... no luck.

i'm going to try getting some z 's , and i hope
you
can help me with this problem.
if someone can please help me with this soon , it would be greatly
appreciated...

thanks.






inspiration
comes to o baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca
those who ( ) baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
seek the baden de bari
unknown.


l

from hcb@netcom.com (h. c. bowman)
subject 8x oversampling cd player
keywords oversampling , cd , digitized audio
organization box of rain productions
lines 27


hello

i just bought a new portable cd player for the office , and i notice that
it proudly proclaims 8 times oversampling on the box. now while i think
i understand what oversampling is (the rate of discrete samples
exceeds the highest frequency component of interest by some factor) ,
i do n't understand this 8 times business... it seems to me that when
i bought my first cd player (was it really 10 years ago \? ! ) , the specs
said 4 times ... could someone please tell me whether i'm getting
senile \? if i'm not , then what good does it do for the player to take
samples at a higher rate \? if i really wanted better fidelity , would n't
i have to have the same higher rate of sampling during the recording
process \? furthermore , am i wrong in interpreting the sampling rate
(from the player 's point of view) as being the same thing as the data
rate for the bit stream coming off the optical medium \? does this mean
that the data rate (related to the rotational speed of the disk) has
changed since 1983 \?

i'm so confused...

cliff


clifford bowman , box 1890 , russellville , ar 72811 hcb@netcom.com
i'm pretty sure the world is n't fair... if it (501) 968 2232
were , i 'd be a lot worse off ! n5tju

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re uninterruptible power supply
organization megatest corporation
lines 40

in article 1qk724inn474@hp col.col.hp.com cab@col.hp.com (chris best) writes
i'm no expert at ups 's , but you said something that made it sound like
you did n't realize something. on a typical ups (well , on ours , anyway) ,
there is no switchover from ac to dc. all the protected equipment is
always running from the batteries (via an inverter) , with the usual
condition of also having them on charge. if the power fails , big deal
the computers never see it (until the batteries start to droop , but
there 's something like 60 car sized batteries in that cabinet , so it
takes a while).

if you were gonna run the guts on straight dc instead of an inverter ,
why not do it all the time \? then there 'd be no switchover to screw
things up , and no having to sense the failure fast. just keep the dc
on charge when the power is on , and it 'll be there in zero time when
you need it.


actually , it 's a bit more complicated than that...i sounds to me ,
your ups takes in ac , rectifies it to dc to charge the batteries , and
then takes the battery dc and chops it to ac again , feeding your
equipment. this approach is the easiest and cleanest way to
switchover from the mains to battery once your power kicks out since ,
as you mentioned , nothing will know about what happened down the line.

another way to do the ups scheme is to use the mains until you
lose power , and then kick in the battery backup with it 's inverter to
replace the lost power. the problem here is the switchover time and
you 've got to resync the ac in no time flat.

unfortunately , most everything is built around the assumption that
ac is available , so the ups guys have to provide and ac output to
be usable...ya sorta have to make it work with what there already.

similar story with our telephone system. it was first invented back
in the 1800 's. we 're still using the same damn system (media) as they
did back then. if i have a phone from back then , i can assure you
it 'll work on today 's phone system. it costs too much to overhaul
everyone to a new system , so they make it work with what is out there.

.

from hl00@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (hou sheng lin)
subject laser vs bubblejet \?
organization lehigh university
lines 12

well , i'm not too sure if this would be the right place to post this , but
anyway , here goes i was just noticing that some of the current bubblejet
printers offers up to 360x360 resolution while a lot of lower end laser
printers only offer 300x300. however , the laser printers still seems to be
significantly pricier than the bubblejets... how is this \? or am i missing
something about the resolution thing \?


sheng
hl00@pl122.eecs.lehigh.edu
hl00@m180k.cc.lehigh.edu
hl00@lehigh.edu

from r tim coslet@cup.portal.com
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization the portal system (tm)
distribution world
lines 41

in article 1qlg9o d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.edu.au
swalker@uts.edu.au ( s87271077 s.walker man 50 ) wrote
i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?

except for their size , the cooling towers on nuclear power plants
are vertually identical in construction and operation to cooling
towers designed and built in the 1890 's (a hundred years ago) for
coal fired power plants used for lighting and early electric railways.

basicly , the cylindrical tower supports a rapid air draft when
its air is heated by hot water and or steam circulating thru a network
of pipes that fill about the lower 1 3 of the tower. to assist cooling
and the draft , water misters are added that spray cold water over the
hot pipes. the cold water evaporates , removing the heat faster than
just air flow from the draft would and the resulting water vapor is
rapidly carried away by the draft. this produces the clouds frequently
seen rising out of these towers.

that slight pinch (maybe 2 3 of the way up the tower) is there because
it produces a very significant increase in the strength and rate of
the air draft produced , compared to a straight cylinder shape.

the towers are used to recondense the steam in the sealed steam
system of the power plant so that it can be recirculated back to the
boiler and used again. the wider the temperature difference across
the turbines used in the power plant the more effecient they are and
by recondensing the steam in the cooling towers before sending it
back to the boilers you maintain a very wide temperature difference
(sometimes as high as 1000 degrees or more from first stage hot
turbine to final stage cold turbine).

r. tim coslet

usenet r tim coslet@cup.portal.com
technology , n. domesticated natural phenomena

from musone@acsu.buffalo.edu (mark j. musone)
subject mc sbi mixer
organization ub
lines 20
nntp posting host autarch.acsu.buffalo.edu

hi , i was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on twwo related
subjects. i am currently learning about am fm receivers and recieving
circuits. i understand a lot of things , but a few things i am confused
abuot. the first is the mixer , to mix the rf and local oscillator
frequencies to make the if. does anyone have any cicruit diagrams (as
simple as possible) for this kind of mixer \? i have come across a
mc sbl mixer chip but i have not been able to find it in any catalogs
(active , etc...)

along the same note , are there any simple fm receiver circuits anyone
may have stashed away somewhere and they couold let me see \? .

p.s. any really good books on am fm theory along with detailed
electrical diagrams would help a lot.
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of
circuit books with no theory , but one without the other does not help.

thanks ,

mark musone

from long@spk.hp.com (jerry long)
subject re principle of the breathalyzer
article i.d. spk.c52i89.geq
distribution na
organization hewlett packard
lines 31
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6

william burchill (williamb@ee.ubc.ca) wrote
does anybody out there know how the hand held breathalyzer used
by our police works \? i would like to hear about this and the more
general problem of detecting smells by machine.

thanks , william.

williamb@ee.ubc.ca


from what i have read about these little gadgets , it works on
a electrochemical galvanic principle. the sensing unit has a
chemical matrix which produces an electrical voltage proportional
to the amount of chemical compound it is designed for ... in this case
i believe it is the hydroxyl group \? \? \?

i have also heard not tested ) since common gasoline is also
a member of this hydroxyl group , it will also cause a failing breathalizer
failure ! next time you get stopped for dui , say you just siphoned gas from
your neighbors car (you know..... the oklahoma credit card) and chances
are you wo n't get a dui ticket ! ! ! !



jerry long

long@spk.hp.com

disclaimer.... opinions are my own and
do not reflect those of my employer.


from seema@madvlsi.columbia.edu (seema varma)
subject ic packages
organization columbia university
x posted from britain.madvlsi.columbia.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 28

hi ,
i am looking for some help in choosing a package
for a high speed silicon adc (100mhz) currently being
fabricated. this is a phd research project and i have to test
the chip at speed on a pcb. i expect to have roughly 100
packaged circuits and will do dc , low speed and high speed
testing using 3 different set ups for the test chip.

i know for sure that a dip will not work
(the long lead lines have too high an inductance).
getting a custom made package is too expensive , so
i am trying to choose between a flatpak and a
leadless chip carrier. the flatpack would be hard
to test since it has to be soldered on to the test
setup and i would spend loads of time soldering
as i kept changing the test chip. the leadless chip
carrier sockets also have long lead lines and may
not work at high speeds.

does anyone out there have experience knowledge
of this field \? i would greatly appreciate help ! any ideas
names of companies manufacturing holders sockets packages
would help.

p.s. the multi layer fancy gaas packages seem like a bit
of overkill( \? )

seema varma

from zklf0b@wwnv28.hou.amoco.com (fergason)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization amoco production
lines 21

in article 1ql7ug i50@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy) writes
in article 120466@netnews.upenn.edu , jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (jason haines) writes

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

so , if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
some simms 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing
about it.

the most practical use i 've seen for them is as key ring ornaments )

johnh

i used a bunch as weights , when building a model airplane. hung them
on the stringers , across the stringer , or whatever. worked pretty well.

kelly


from acooney@netcom.com (alan cooney)
subject re membrane keypad with custom legend.
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
distribution usa
lines 21

try the folks at dimolex corp. , la crescenta , ca 91214.
their number is (818) 957 7001. they make membrane keypads
that are very flat , in layouts from 2 to 128 keys. they
have standard models , tactile models (with stainless domes
under each key to make a 'click' you can feel) , as well as
backlit models. some of them can even be cut with scissors
to form a funky shape other than a rectangle. many of the
models are available in a 'kit' which includes a bezel ,
colored and plain key covers , and rub on lettering to make
your own layout. one piece prices are n't cheap , though ,
as they want 10 for one four position pad kit , and 45
for a 40 position kit .

i have no affiliation with dimolex or any company connected
with them. i have purchased a couple of keypads from them ,
and am pleased with what i got.

cheers ,
alan
acooney@netcom.com


from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re what are some good suppliers of chips \?
organization megatest corporation
lines 44

in article 1qihcl 9ri@usenet.ins.cwru.edu ae454@cleveland.freenet.edu (paul simundza) writes


anyone know of any good supplier 's of chips , one that could have almost
any chip i need \? i do n't want to hunt down all the chips i may need so
it would be greatly appreciated if anyone knows of a good distributor
..
thankyou


paul ,

unfortunately , there are not too many retail outlets that 'll stock
just about every chip made. the stuff they will stock are the ones
that 'll sell , like standard dram 's , 80386 's , 68000 's , etc , etc.
i.e. i cna't think of any 'one stop shopping' store.

the closest you can get is to pick up a copy of byte magazine or
the circuit cellar , popular electronics , and the like and flip
through them.

distributors like wyle electronics , hamilton avnet , pioneer electronics ,
etc , etc , do n't normally deal with end users like ourselves where
we only a couple of everything...they only deal with people who buy
by the hundreds or more. each distributor represents and sells a variety of
different non competing manufacturers. what do i mean by this \?
suppose abc electronics sells intel 80386 's. it 's a pretty good
bet that they wo n't be selling any of amd 's 386 's , or vice versa.
they also can obtain just about any chip you want from a manufacturer
they represent.

who knows \? you might be lucky to be able to buy from one of them.
but i 'd be suprised if you do. also bear in mind that the 1 or 2
qty prices they will charge you will be much greater than what
a mail order outlet will charge.

my advice \? if you 're gonna be designing anything , try to stick
with off the shelf stuff. you 're going to get stuck if you use
too many esoteric parts sooner or later.

good luck ,

aaron


from llbgb@utxdp.dp.utexas.edu
subject chip chipset for code 39 barcode \?
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 15
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

distribution usa
reply to lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu

while i'm on the net bugging everyone , is there such a thing as a chip
or chipset to decode code 39 barcode \? i ask for a couple of reasons
mainly i want a reasonably compact encoding scheme to write information
on magstripe cards and code 39 appears to be about right. (if the 'right'
way to do it is something else , and it 's reasonably easy , can someone let
me know \? )

i might not get a chance to reply too quickly to this or my earlier post ,
but i 'll get to them within a couple days , i think ..

thanx everyone ! bgb lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu


from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re 74act \? \? \?
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 86

in article 1qhrq9innlri@crcnis1.unl.edu mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul) writes
ok , what 's a quick rundown on all the 7400 series variations \? we 're
repairing something with a 74act00 on it and the question arises , well ,
do i really need the act part \? flipping through digi key i see
als , as , c , hc , ac , acq , act , hct , acht , hctls...

here 's something i posted about this a few years ago. it 's not fully
up to date with all the new variations (some of which are just different
manufacturer 's synonyms)


in practical terms , ignoring the technological details , this is my view
of the families (nb i am not a giant corporation , which influences my
views on things like availability and backward compatibility)

74 the original. speed good , power consumption fair. effectively
obsolete now use 74ls or later , except for a very few oddball
functions like 7407 which are hard to find in newer families.

74h modification of 74 for higher speed , at the cost of higher
power consumption. very obsolete use 74f.

74l modification of 74 for lower power , at the cost of lower speed.
very obsolete use cmos.

74s later modification of 74 for even higher speed , at some cost in
power consumption. effectively obsolete use 74f.

74ls combination of 74l and 74s , for speed comparable to 74 with lower
power consumption. best all round ttl now , widest variety of
devices.

74f fast as blazes , power not too bad. the clear choice for high
speed in ttl. availability and prices generally good.

74as failed competitor to 74f , although a few 74as parts do things
that are hard to find in 74f and thus are still useful.

74als possible replacement for 74ls. generally souped up. still fairly
new , availability and prices possibly a problem.

74c fairly old family , cmos devices with ttl pinouts. competed with
4000 series , not too successfully. obsolete use 4000 or newer
cmos 74 families.

4000 (thrown in as the major non 74 non ecl logic family.) the old cmos
family , still viable because of very wide range of devices , low
power consumption , and wide range of supply voltages. not fast.
very forgiving and easy to work with (beware static electricity ,
but that comment applies to many other modern logic families too).
there are neat devices in this family that exist in no other. the
clear choice when speed is not important.

74hc a new attempt at 74 pinout cmos. fast compared to old cmos , power
consumption often lower than ttl. possibly a good choice for
general purpose logic , assuming availability and affordability.
cmos logic levels , not ttl ones. beware very limited range of
supply voltages compared to older cmos , also major rise of power
consumption at faster speeds.

74hct 74hc with ttl logic levels. much the same comments as 74hc. read
the fine print on things like power consumption ttl compatibility
in cmos involves some compromises.

10k (thrown in for speed freaks.) the low end of ecl. various sources
claim that it is easier to work with than super fast ttl for
serious high speed work. less forgiving , though read and follow
the rules or it wo n't work. availability to hobbyists limited ,
can be expensive.

100k (for real speed freaks.) hot ecl. harder to handle than 10k , and
inconvenient packages. much more useful datasheets , however.

as for compatibility between families the 74 families (except 74c and
74hc) are all more or less logic level compatible , but how many 74x devices
you can drive from one 74y output varies enormously with x and y. you just
have to read the specs and do the arithmetic. 74c and 74hc are compatible
with the others with a bit of hassle. 4000 compatibility can be a bit of
hassle or a lot of hassle depending on what supply voltage 4000 is using.
10k or 100k to anything else is considerable hassle.

me \? i use 4000 and 74ls with a sprinkling of 74f. 74hc t and 10k are
interesting but i have n't used either significantly yet.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from philip@mentorg.com (philip peake)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
distribution na
nntp posting host sun shine.mentorg.com
organization mentor graphics
keywords
lines 33

in article 1993apr20.022922.11861@julian.uwo.ca , wlsmith@valve.heart.rri.uwo.ca (wayne smith) writes
in article 1993apr19.231050.2196@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com babb@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com (scott babb) writes

no restriction was placed
on receiving radar (or , curiously , cordless phones.) enforcement
of the virginia law is in violation of the fca of 1934.

isi n't there some kind of rule (regulation , law , whatever) in some
juristictions that prohibit the use of police band recievers
in vehicles \? and that radar transmissions are included in the police band
so they get covered by the same regulation \?

what do you mean by police band there is no such thing.

anyway , radar detectors work in shared bands.
if you applied your test , all of those radar operated door
openers in malls would be illegal.

one of the great problems here is that there are too many
ill educated (read illiterate) people making too many laws
about subjects on which they are incompetent there may well
be laws refereing to police bands , they are almost certainly
local in scope (state or county) created by well meaning ,
but incompetent idiots.

unfortunaltely , laws do not have to be sensible (or even enforceable).
lawmakers exist to pass laws and will continue to do so , until
the day where you are faced with death for not doing x , and
amputation of all your limbs for doing x ... the choice will be yours.

note no smiley.

philip

from willisw@willisw.eng.clemson.edu (bill willis)
subject answers to many electronics questions
organization engineering services , clemson university
lines 10

i have notice a lot of electronics questions by people who are obviously not
tuned in to electronics. many of them have rather simple answers , and
many of them require a circuit diagram.

rather than muck up the network , why do n't you write to me , send a self
addressed , stamped envelop , and i 'll answer your questions , if i can.

w. l. willis , p. e.
114 fern circle
clemson , sc 29631

from exuptr@exu.ericsson.se (patrick taylor , the sounding board)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
nntp posting host 138.85.253.85
organization ericsson network systems , inc.
x disclaimer this article was posted by a user at ericsson.
any opinions expressed are strictly those of the
user and not necessarily those of ericsson.
lines 36

in article 1993apr21.131908.29582@uhura.neoucom.edu wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew) writes
from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
date wed , 21 apr 1993 13 19 08 gmt

write a good manual to go with the software. the hassle of
photocopying the manual is offset by simplicity of purchasing
the package for only 15. also , consider offering an inexpensive
but attractive perc for registered users. for instance , a coffee
mug. you could produce and mail the incentive for a couple of
dollars , so consider pricing the product at 17.95.

or , documentation for the program ). a lot of shareware out there is
very similar in the approach send in your money , and you get
documentation , and a free upgrade to the latest version. perhaps even
support of some small degree. whatever you want to offer that is better
than the circulating version.

you 're lucky if only 20 of the instances of your program in use
are non licensed users.

figure about 50 , as i have seen.

the best approach is to estimate your loss and accomodate that into
your price structure. sure it hurts legitimate users , but too bad.

it does n't really hurt legit users. shareware is still much cheaper than
the alternatives.


visit the sounding board bbs 1 214 596 2915 , a wildcat ! bbs

obdis all opinions are specifically disclaimed. no one is responsible.

patrick taylor , ericsson network systems thx 1138
exuptr@exu.ericsson.se do n't let the .se fool you

from kn1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (kimball ng)
subject re laser vs bubblejet \?
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to kn1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (kimball ng)
organization columbia university
lines 44

kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad) writes

one other thing... there are bubblejets , and then there are bubblejets.
there are a few bubblejets out there that produce rather mediocre output
(such as hp 's dinky little bubblejet) , whereas most produce really good
looking output (such as hp 's deskjets). ibm and canon both produce some of
the really good style bubblejets.

p.s. if you 're in the market for a portable bubblejet printer , i can
highly recommend the hp portable deskjet , although i 've heard the portable
canons are good too (i needed pcl support , myself). with the deskjet
portable , you even get an undocumented pcmcia card slot !

i second that suggestion. although i do n't own the hp portable deskjet ,
i do own the hp deskjet 500. it gives the nicest outputs , with only
a minor loss of quality. for all intensive purposes (papers , letters ,
resumes) , i treat my deskjet like a laser printer (you do have to
look a bit closely to see the blurs in the characters). only one
grudge , the ink that hp gives you does smudge rather quickly in the
presence of moisture (even though the ink is waterproof). however ,
you would have to spend about 500 more for laser quality.

the cannon bubblejets are nice , however they do n't seem to have as
much support (eg drivers for popular programs) as the hp ink jets.
also hp deskjet (regular , plus , 500 , 500c) accepts xerox paper (i believe
that the cut sheet feeder is an option for the cannon bubblejet).

if you do n't mind refilling your printer with cheap ink (say
fountain pen ink) , then the hp deskjets are very cheap to maintain
(i paid 3.50 for my last bottle of ink and i expect it to last 9
months).

kimball (who does n't work for hp , but just loves his printer
very much ! )

ps i have a question for you netters , i'm too afraid to refill with
the waterproof inks they sell in art supply houses because i had brought
a bottle of waterproof ink and it clogged up my cartridge. i
wonder what is a 'good' waterproof ink (aside from buying refill kits)
to refill my cartridge \?





from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re dumb question function generator
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 35

in article c5j845.3b8@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu dgj2y@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu (david glen jacobowitz) writes

i have a new scope and i thought i 'd save a few bucks by
buying one with a function generator built in.

hmm... now where was that ad for the combination radio hand cranked
generator flashlight siren i saw \? )

function generator has a 50mv offset , and the amplitude 's too high

is there any way i could make myself a little box that could
solve this little problem. the box would tkae the function generator
input , lower the voltage and give an output impedance that is some
low , unchanging number. i would want to lower the voltage by a factor
of one hundred or so. i could just build a little buffer amp , but i 'd
like to have this box not be active.

sure , you 've already got the right idea.

ignoring the 50 ohm internal resistance of the generator for a second , just
run it into , say , a voltage divider made of 990 ohms in series with 10
ohms. this new circuit is the thevenin equivalent of one that puts out
1 100 of the original voltage , and has an output impedence of negligibly
less than 10 ohms. you may want to monkey with the values a little
depending on whether you care more about the exact dividing ratio or
the availability of parts.

hows that sound \?

joel kolstad

p.s. this is why those 1000 1 high voltage probes for multimeters can be
accurate but still cheap. they have something like 100 megs in series with
100k , which does n't load the (often high impedence) source much , as well as
keeping the (probably 10 meg impedance) multimeter happy.

from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject mysterious mosfet
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

i have a mosfet pulled out of a trygon power supply , for which i have no
manual. it 's a motorola part with a 1972 date code and the number

285 4

which the motorola folks assure me is a house number , which they ca n't
help me with. any suggestions from folks out there \? i ca n't put it on
a curve tracer to try to get an equivalent , since it 's completely shot.
scott

from jgd@dixie.com (john de armond)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization dixie communications public access. the mouth of the south.
lines 99

nagle@netcom.com (john nagle) writes

great explaination , however you left off one detail , why do you always
see them at nuclear plants , but not always at fossil fuel plants. at
nuclear plants it is prefered to run the water closed cycle , whereas
fossil fuel plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot
water. as i recall the water is n't as hot (thermodynamically) in many
fossil fuel plants , and of course there is less danger of radioactive
contamination.

actually the reasons you do n't see so many cooling towers at fossil plants are
1) fossil units (multiple units per plant) are generally smaller than
nuclear plants. 300 mwe seemed to be a very popular size when many
fossil plants were built. the average nuclear plant is 1000 mwe. 2) many
fossil plants were grandfathered when water discharge regulations were
adopted ( why those old dirt burners ca n't harm anything , let 'em go. ).
3) powered draft cooling towers , low enough to the ground to be generally
not visible from off site , are quite popular with fossil plants. 4) fossil
plants used to get much less regulatory attention than nuclears.

actually , fossil fuel plants run hotter than the usual
boiling water reactor nuclear plants. (there 's a gripe in the industry
that nuclear power uses 1900 vintage steam technology). so it 's
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system
as cold as possible. hence big cooling towers.

oil and gas fired steam plants also have condensers , but they
usually are sized to get the steam back into hot water , not most of the
way down to ambient. some plants do cool the condensers with water ,
rather than air as one canadian official , asked about thermal
pollution de icing a river , said , up here , we view heat as a resource .

actually the condensing environment is essentially the same for plants
of similar size. the issues are the same regardless of where the
heat comes from. condensers are run at as high a vacuum as possible in
order to reduce aerodynamic drag on the turbine. the condenser pressure is
normally water 's vapor pressure at the condensing temperature. it is
desirable that the steam exhaust be free of water droplets because
moisture in the steam causes severe erosion damage to the turbine
low pressure blades and because entrained water moving at high velocity
causes erosion of the condenser tubes. the coldest and thus lowest
pressure condensing environment is always the best.

a related issue is that of pumping the condensate from the hotwell (where
the water ends up after dripping off the condenser tubes.) since the
condenser is at a very low pressure , the only force driving the
condensate into the hotwell pumps is gravity. if the condensate is too
hot or the gravity head is too low , the condensate will reflash into
steam bubbles and cause the condensate pumps to cavitate. this is a
particularly destructive form of cavitation that is to be avoided at all
costs.

the hotwell pumps are located in the lowest point in the plant
in order to provide a gravity head to the pumps. how much lower
they must be is a function of how hot the water is allowed to get in
the hotwell. typically hotwell temperatures run between 100 and 120
degrees depending on the temperature of the river water (this term is
used to describe the river grade water even when the cooling tower
system is operating in closed loop mode and essentially no river water
is pumped.) when the river water temperature is high in the summer ,
operators will typically allow the hotwell level to rise in order
to provide more gravity head. there is a tradeoff involved since higher
hotwell levels will encroach onto the condensing tubes and reduce the
condenser area.

at least in the east and elsewhere where moisture actually exists in the
air ) , the river water will almost always be cooler than the discharge
water from the cooling towers. the temperature of the discharge water
from the cooling towers is set by the ambient air temperature and
humidity. it is very rare in the east to hear of actual river water
temperatures exceeding 70 degrees. a vast difference from the typical
95 95 days (95 degrees , 95 humidity) we see routinely in the east.
it is not unusual , particularly where the econazis have been successful
in clamping rigid discharge water temperature limits on a plant , for the
plant to have to reduce the firing rate when the air temperature gets
too high and the condenser cannot handle the heat load without excessive
pressure.

everybody runs closed cycle boilers. the water used is
purified of solids , which otherwise crud up the boiler plumbing when
the water boils. purifying water for boiler use is a bigger job than
cooling it , so the boiler water is recycled.

true. actually secondary plant (the part that makes electricity and
feeds feedwater to the boiler) water chemistry has been the bastard
stepchild until recently and has not gotten the respect it deserves.
the plant chemists have just in the past decade or so fully understood
the costs of impure water. by impure , i mean water with a few
dozen extra micromho of conductivity and or a few ppm of dissolved
oxygen. secondary water is now typically the most pure one will
find outside the laboratory.

john

john de armond , wd4oqc interested in high performance mobility \?
performance engineering magazine(tm) interested in high tech and computers \?
marietta , ga send ur snail mail address to
jgd@dixie.com perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
lee harvey oswald where are ya when we need ya \?

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re oscilloscope triggering
organization macquarie university
lines 86
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article 1993apr5.120921.28985@dxcern.cern.ch , jeroen@dxcern.cern.ch (jeroen belleman) writes
in article c4vs0g.5ux@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu dgj2y@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu (david glen jacobowitz) writes
is it just me , or does anybody else out there not like digital
scopes. my school has ...

david jacobowitz
dgj2y@virginia.edu

oh no you 're not the only one. analogue scopes give you (or me , at
least) a fair idea of what 's going on in a circuit. digital scopes
seem to have a habit of inventing a sizable part of it. e.g. even
when there are only a few samples per period , our hp54510a displays a
continuous waveform , complete with non existing overshoots. i 've
waded through lots of manual pages and menus , but i have n't found yet
how to turn this off. it does n't show which points have actually
been measured , as opposed to those which have been interpolated ,
either.

perhaps you 're using the wrong brand ! (sorry all hp fans , but i have
a hard time being convinced that their scopes match the rest of their
(excellent) gear).

one of the principal functions i look for when considering a dso is
whether you can turn interpolation off. the other important feature
is to disable repetitive waveform acquisition i.e. being able to lock
the instrument into real time capture mode.


secondly , i do n't like menus. i want to see all common functions
with their own button. (you 'll have guessed i love analogue tek
scopes) i 'd choose a knob with printed legend over an on screen
display with up down buttons right away. the single knob of most
digital instruments never seems to be connected to the right function
at the right moment.


i agree with you here. the only consolation is that manufacturers are
beginning to pay attention to ergonomics when designing the menus.
however , to be fair , it seems that first time scope users (our students)
seem to adjust to menus easier than navigating around the twenty or
more knobs required of a real scope )

last but not least , you never know if the waveform displayed is old
or recent , noisy or just incoherently modulated , heck , you do n't
even know if it really looks the way it 's displayed. digital scopes
only show you a tiny fraction of what 's going on. most of the time
the 're busy computing things.

this is one area that newer dsos are addressing. i recently evaluated
the latest box from tek their tds320 which seems to be a worthy
alternative to a standard 100mhz analogue cro. this instrument has
a 100mhz , 500ms s spec , meaning that it is always in real time
capture mode. the pricing also matches equivalent analogue scopes in
the range. the downer is that the instrument uses menus again , but at
least they appear to be logically laid out.

there are only three situations for which i would prefer a digital
scope looking at what happened before the trigger , looking at rare
events , and acquiring the data to have my computer play with it.


let 's hope scope manufacturers are listening...

best regards ,
jeroen belleman
jeroen@dxcern.cern.ch

one more thing about the new , simpler , front panels. these instruments
tend to use digital rotary encoders as knobs now. this is a vast improvement
over the old oak switch. the single most common cause of failure in our
scopes (other than students blowing up inputs ! ) is mechanical wear on these
switches. i look at the new panels as a great step toward increasing the
longevity of the instruments.

johnh



electronics department
( ) ( ( ( school of mpce
macquarie university
sydney , australia 2109

email johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au , ph 61 2 805 8959 , fax 61 2 805 8983



from mgregory@flash.pax.tpa.com.au (martin john gregory)
subject help mc146818a real time clock standby mode
organization pax public access unix (adelaide)
lines 24
nntp posting host flash.pax.tpa.com.au


i am having trouble obtaining the specified standby current drain from
a mc146818a real time clock. has anyone out there had some experience
in doing this \? the specs call for a few sequences to be met before
standby mode is activated , and are a bit hard to decipher on that , but
i thought that i had it worked out. however , with a 32khz crystal the
lowest current drain i can acheive at 3.7v vcc is 150ua. this is
three times the specified maximum under the conditions i am attempting
to create.

i have done the following things

1) made sure that reset is asserted for trlh after powerup , and as is
low during this time.


2) made sure that there is a cycle on as after the negation of rd or
wr during which stby was asserted.

what am i doing wrong \?

thanks very much ,

martin.

from depolo@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (jeff depolo)
subject need manual for hp 1740 scope
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 14
nntp posting host eniac.seas.upenn.edu


i have a hp 1740 scope that (i think) has a problem in the hv section.
symptom started turning on and off on its own , making intermittant
bright flashes on the crt , and then finally , passed away. if you
have a manual (or any suggestions) , please send me mail. will gladly
pay reproduction shipping costs plus a little for your efforts for
the manual. thanks in advance.

jeff


jeff depolo wn3a twisted pair (215) 337 7383h 387 3059w
depolo@eniac.seas.upenn.edu rf 443.800 mhz 442.700 mhz 24.150 ghz
university of pennsylvania

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 81

in article sehari.733764410@vincent1.iastate.edu , sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes
in c4true.6aa@ms.uky.edu msunde01@mik.uky.edu (mark underwood) writes

i am somewhat familiar with the db measurements as they apply to
electrical circuits i.e. it is the gain of (for example) an amplifier
measured on a logarithmic scale. however , this requires that you have a
reference value i.e the ouput is 20db (e.g.) with respect to the input
signal.

stuff deleted

what you actually talking about here is dbm and not db. however , the terms
are used loosely by most people. ``dbm'' is power with respact to 1mw , whereas
db is a ratio. now , like these two english statement

1. i am doing well.
2. i am doing good.

similarly , people usually use db for dbm. another common mistake is spelling
``db'' instead of ``db'' as you did in your article. see the ``b'' is for
``bell'' company , the mother of at t and should be capitalized.

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.

good gravy ! decibels are all ratios. the question that remains in
any ratio is the reference unit used. sometimes , this will be a reference
power , such as 1 milliwatt (given a certain circuit impedance which
should also be included in the fine print or known , like 50 ohms
in an rf circuit of that impedance) , leading to an accepted
notation of dbm. maybe it might be dbv , disregarding the impedance of
the circuit and power developed , using 1 volt as reference amplitude
(rather than reference power). or , it might have an arbitrary or omitted
reference that is not included in the notation , leading to just plain db.
so. look at it this way 'db' has an implied reference while notation
such as 'dbm' has an explicit reference.

for power

db 10 log( p(measured) p(reference) )

for amplitude

db 20 log( a(measured) a(reference) )

'b' is for bel , which is a standard term for a log ratio to the base
10 , named after alexander graham bell. a 'deci' bel is 1 10 of a bel.
it has nothing to do with the bell telephone company except for
the common founder 's name. the small 'd' large 'b' is per si notation
convention. i do n't know anyone that 's been crucified for messing it up.

common references for audio are

0 dbm 1 milliwatt across 600 ohms
0 dbv 1 volt

0 vu (a zero on the vu meter) 4 dbm (pro gear line level)
0 vu 10dbv (consumer gear line level)


often times , a power amp vu meter will be aligned using
the rated power of the amp as the 0 db point. it is all
done to whatever reference is reasonable for the application
or moment.

note that in a circuit with a given (and maybe unknown) linear
impedance , if the amplitude goes up so many decibels , the
power will also increase the same amount. this proof can be done
with the above two identities and ohm 's law.



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from msf@skaro.as.arizona.edu (michael fulbright)
subject re analog switches balanced demodulators
distribution na
organization university of arizona unix users group
lines 13

caadams@atlas.cs.upei.ca (kenny adams) writes

hi ,
instead of using a 15vdc supply for the 4066 try using a 7 and 7
volt supply. i have some commercial audio equipment that uses this approach
for ground referenced audio. they use the 7 volt supply as the logic
ground.

in this case would the switch control voltages be 7v to turn the switch
off and 0v to turn the switch on \?

michael fulbright
msf@as.arizona.edu

from carlos@math.lsa.umich.edu (carlos montenegro)
subject low voltage lighting and x10 questions.
organization university of michigan , mathematics department , ann arbor
lines 12
nntp posting host sirius.math.lsa.umich.edu

1. can low voltage lights be controlled with an x10 module by putting it
before the transformer \? it seems to work , even the dimmer works. not very
reliable. will it damage the module \? can it be done reliably \?

2. i put a motion switch (heath) to a low voltage light , it worked but now it is
broken , too much current \? how can i get arround that \?

3. how can i increase the intensity of a light using the x10 pc computer
interface without having it go 100 on first and then down. i am doing
my own programing , not the x10 program.

thanks c. montenegro

from moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
nntp posting host bcarhdd
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 33

marrevola@rediris.es wrote
in article 1993apr6.132429.16154@bnr.ca , moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson) writes
joseph chiu (josephc@cco.caltech.edu) wrote

and the measure of current , amp , is actually named after both the amp company
and the amphenol company. both companies revolutionized electronics by
simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets
were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.

sorry. the unit for current is the ampere which is the name of a french man
named ampere who studied electrical current. the term amp is just an abbreviation
of it. the company amp came after the ampere unit was already in use.

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right.
are you (two) joking \?
is the entire internet flaming you (two) \?
ahh ! , now i remember that ohmite company was the first introducing the pink
colored resistor , only for electronics working females )

manuel arrevola velasco true e mail manolo@taf.fundesco.es
dod 1033

yes , i have taken a bit of flame on this one. i must 've been half asleep when
i posted a response to joseph.

greggo.

greg moffatt moffatt@bnr.ca
bell northern research inc. , ottawa canada
my opinions not bnr 's

from dgj2y@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu (david glen jacobowitz)
subject dumb question function generator
originator dgj2y@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu
organization university of virginia
lines 35


i have a new scope and i thought i 'd save a few bucks by
buying one with a function generator built in. after having it awhile
i noticed two things about the function generator. for one , there
seems to be a bias even when the 'pull offset' is pushed in. that is ,
i have to pull that know and adjust it to get a signal sans some
random 50mv bias.
the other really annoying thing is that the damn output
wo n't go below about 1v p p. i am a student ( you may have guessed
from my previous posts ) , and i often have to measure the input
impedances of various circuits i build.many of the circuits have
maximum input signals of way less than 500mv amplitude and most have
input impedances in the 10 's of kohm range. the thing is , in order to
use my function generator i have to divide the voltage to some thing
reasonable. then , of course , to measurethe input impedance of my
circuit i am going to have to throw in another resistor in series.
with the 50ohm output of the generator i could just ignore it , but now
with this little divider there i have to figure that in. it 's kind of
a pain in the ass.
is there any way i could make myself a little box that could
solve this little problem. the box would tkae the function generator
input , lower the voltage and give an output impedance that is some
low , unchanging number. i would want to lower the voltage by a factor
of one hundred or so. i could just build a little buffer amp , but i 'd
like to have this box not be active.
any quick ideas. the scope 's not broken. for other reasons i
had sent it to the shop to get repaired and they replaced it. the
function generator was the same way on that one , too.

please help as i am feeling very stupid
today ,

dave
dgj2y@virginia.edu


from segal@rtsg.mot.com (gary segal)
subject pinout needed for til311
nntp posting host corolla7
organization motorola inc. , cellular infrastructure group
lines 17

i 've recently picked up some til311 display chips , but i ca n't find
any information on them. it seems they are no longer made by ti , and
i do n't have an old enough data book. (

it appears to have a dot matrix led display capable of showing one hex
digit. it is in a 14 pin dip package , but pins 6 , 9 , and 11 are not
present.

if you have any information on this part (pinout , power requirments ,
functions , ...) please send me e mail.

thank you ,


gary segal motorola inc.
segal@oscar.rtsg.mot.com cellular infrastructure division
we are standing here only to gaze at the wind

from mont@netcom.com (mont pierce)
subject need pinouts for a g8870 dtmf decoder chip
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution usa
lines 19


i bought this chip from suncoast technology and tried to build their
dtmf decoder circuit. but it 's not working...

if anyone has the pinouts and possibly the voltage specs i 'd sure
appreciated it. if someone could fax , email , or snail mail a copy
of the spec sheet for this chip that would be even better. )

please email me if you can help.

thanks in advance ,

mont pierce


ham call km6wt internet mont@netcom.com
bands 80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm vnet mont@vnet.ibm.com
modes cw , ssb , fm


from lzahas@acs2.bu.edu (lukas zahas)
subject re how do di boxes work \?
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 19

in article lancer.93apr15150228@oconnor.wpi.edu lancer@oconnor.wpi.edu (stephe lewis foskett) writes

i'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need direct
input boxes for the keyboards. these are the little boxes that take a
line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low z for the run
to the mixer. sadly they cost like 50 (or more) each and i'm going
to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one (belonging to
another band) and it looks like just a transformer. does anyone have
any plans for building them \?

50 each ! ! do n't bother trying to make one yourself , just shop around a
little. i 've found dod brand di boxes for as cheap as 20 each. you can
get higher end ones for more , but for pa use for bands , i would n't bother.
making one yourself might work , but getting a sturdy enough enclosure might
be hard (they 're made of heavy guage metal , since they 're always on the floor ,
being kicked around a lot). for any additional questions on this topic , you
might want to post to rec.audio.pro
lukas zahas
lzahas@bu.edu

from mwtilden@math.uwaterloo.ca (mark w. tilden)
subject beam robot olympic games next week in toronto.
organization university of waterloo
lines 17


one week to the robot olympic games. fire up the mechanoids for combat
and come on down.

competitors please note that there has been a slight change the registration
desk will now be in the forward building of the science centre rather than
in the main competing hall. when you arrive , please go to this desk. those
that have pre registered by real mail will find badges waiting.

is all. see you here.



mark tilden (glitch ! ) m.f.c.f hardware design lab.
u of waterloo. ont. can , n2l 3g1
(519)885 1211 ext. 2454
my opinions , you hear ! \? mine ! mine ! mine ! mine ! mine ! ah hahahahahahahahaha ! !

from mustafa@seas.smu.edu (mustafa kocaturk)
subject how starters work really
keywords fluorescent bulb starter neon
nntp posting host turbo f.seas.smu.edu
organization smu school of engineering applied science dallas
lines 28

in article 734953838.aa00509@insane.apana.org.au peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch) writes

so when you turn on the power , this causes the bulb to work like a neon ,
heating up and shorting out , thus providing a loop to power the heaters in
the main tube. when the tube fires , insufficient current runs through the
starter to keep the heat up and the bi metalic strip straightens out
(o c).

imprecise. this description

1. ignores the role of the ballast ,
2. misrepresents the heating effects in the starter.

the bimetalic strip cools down immediately after the contacts
short circuit , because the neon discharge stops , and much less
heat is generated from the i 2r loss in the metal as compared to
the neon discharge.

the starter contacts open before the tube fires. actually ,
the tube fires as a result of the back emf generated in the ballast
because of this immediate opening of the starter 's contacts.

a capacitor is connected in parallel with the contacts to prevent
excessive arcing during the firing. the neon reionizes but does not draw
sufficient current to prevent firing of the tube itself.

mustafa kocaturk mustafa@seas.smu.edu ee dept. , room 305a , caruth bldg.
home 214 706 5954 office 214 768 1475 smu box 753190 , dallas , tx 75275

from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re help with ultra long timing
article i.d. shelley.1pr91ainnikg
distribution world
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 25
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article 1pqu12 pmu@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy) writes
in article c513wi.g5a@athena.cs.uga.edu , mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
(1) do n't use big capacitors. they are unreliable for timing due to
leakage.

true (especially for electrolytic capacitors at high temperature).

instead , use a quartz crystal and divide its frequency by 2 40 times
or something like that.

... would n't a crystal be affected by cold \? my gut feeling is that , as a
mechanically resonating device , extreme cold is likely to affect the
compliance ( \? terminology \? ) of the quartz , and hence its resonant frequency.

low power quartz oscillators are usually 32 khz (and these
have significant temperature drifts , which one does n't often notice
while wearing the watch on one 's wrist). low temperature sensitivity
is available in other crystal types , which unfortunately
are larger and higher frequency (1 mhz or so) and take more
battery power.

programmable timers might be less accurate , but they
are more power stingy than suitable crystal oscillators.

john whitmore

from geva@concave.cs.wits.ac.za (geva patz)
subject how do i make me own really short run cd 's
summary i want a really short production run of homemade music cds how \?
keywords cd mastering pressing homebrew short run music
lines 13
organization wits university electrical engineering

i want to be able to take a bunch of home made songs (from dat or other
suitable master) and output them to a short run (10 20 off) of standard
music cds. would one of the cd recorders designed for writeable cd roms work
for this purpose \? alternatively , is there a service that does this sort of
thing for a fee \?

i'm after as much information as possible on the alternatives (cost , lead
time , equipment required , procedure to follow , etc.) email replies would be
appreciated.

geva patz
geva department of computer science , wits university
geva@concave.cs.wits.ac.za

from krouth@slee01.srl.ford.com (kevin routh)
subject f.y.i. imagewriter to windows...
organization ford motor company research laboratory
lines 53
nntp posting host slee01.srl.ford.com
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5

article crossposted from comp.windows.ms
author was kevin routh
posted on 19 apr 1993 12 35 55 gmt

for your information

i hooked up my imagewriter i to my com1 serial port and used the c itoh
8510 driver in windows 3.1. the cable i am using is a straight thru
cable connected to a null modem adapter i got at radio shack (catalog
26 1496a) for 4.95. it seems to work fine with both dos and windows.
i used the following command in dos

c dos mode com1 9600 , n , 8 , 1 , p

and set up the port the same way in the windows ports setup.

the null modem connections are as follows

1 to 1
2 to 3
3 to 2
4 to 5
5 to 4
6 8 to 20
20 to 6 8
7 to 7

i printed from several applications and all seems ok.


kevin c. routh internet krouth@slee01.srl.ford.com
ford electronics ibmmail (profs) usfmctmf
eld ic engineering
17000 rotunda drive , b 121 voice mail (313) 337 5136
dearborn , mi 48121 6010 facsimile (313) 248 6244




kevin c. routh internet krouth@slee01.srl.ford.com
ford electronics ibmmail (profs) usfmctmf
eld ic engineering
17000 rotunda drive , b 121 voice mail (313) 337 5136
dearborn , mi 48121 6010 facsimile (313) 248 6244



kevin c. routh internet krouth@slee01.srl.ford.com
ford electronics ibmmail (profs) usfmctmf
eld ic engineering
17000 rotunda drive , b 121 voice mail (313) 337 5136
dearborn , mi 48121 6010 facsimile (313) 248 6244


from nhowland@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (neal patrick howland)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization kansas state university
lines 23
nntp posting host matt.ksu.ksu.edu

ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu (randy agee) writes

it used to be that the only way the law could be enforced was for
an officer to actually see the radar detector. not any more ! many
law enforcement agencies are now using radar detector detectors.
right , a super sensitive receiver that is capable of picking up rf
from the radar detector itself. my first reaction was no way !
but , guess again , these little buggers really work and the police
are writing citations right and left for people using radar
detectors. one news story quoted an officer as saying that he had
found the radar detector in all of the cars he stopped except one ,
and he could never figure out where it was but he knew it was
there. this tends to make one assume there are few false arrest.

from what i understand about radar dectectors all they are is a passive
device much like the radio in your car. they work as an antenna picking
up that radar signals that the radar gun sends out. therefore there would
be no way of detecting a radar detector any more than there would be of
detecting whether some one had a radio in their car.

neal howland
nhowland@matt.ksu.ksu.edu


from mg@cs.princeton.edu (michael golan)
subject how can 0.022 uf be different from two 0.047 in series \? !
originator news@nimaster
nntp posting host elan.princeton.edu
organization princeton university
lines 29

i was looking at the amps diagram for sony 1090 2090 receivers , and i
was amazed to find a difference between the us and canadian model
on the capacitor(s) that hangs off the output to the speakers

to speaker (identical both models
from amp
(idnetical both models)
10




0.022 canadian model only !
us model 0.047
and world wide
model only. candian model only !
0.047

gound

the board itself is also identical , with room for all three caps. the
us can versions is clearly indicated in both places.

how does that make sense \? 0.047 2 is 0.0235 , essentially 0.022 for caps
(there are just standard caps , no special w type precision).

please explain this
michael golan
mg@cs.princeton.edu

from rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tall cool one )
subject pads question how do i go from a schematic pcb \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 17

after i have produced a schematic with pads logic , how do i import it into
pads pcb to create a pcb pattern \? the only way i 've gotten it to work is
to output a futurenet netlist , and then import this into pads pcb. is there
another way of doing this \? i did n't see any information in the instructions
provided , but i might have missed something. any suggestions would be
greatly appreciated. thanks !


i i
( @ ) ( @ )
raymond yeung internet nimbus@uiuc.edu
rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
ee student at the
university of illinois compuserve 70700 , 1011
at urbana champaign
( ) ( )
i i

from acollins@uclink.berkeley.edu (andy collins)
subject voltage regulation and current limiting
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 37
nntp posting host uclink.berkeley.edu
summary need help ! ! !

one not so quick question to throw out there for you guys...

for our class project , we need to design and build a power supply
to the following specs

voltatge adjustable from 1 12v
current limited at 1a

voltage must stay within 2 of designated value for i from 0 1a
ac ripple less than 5 mv (rms)

of course , we ca n't just use an adjustable voltage , current limiting
regulator chip )

our problem is with the current limiting (i.e. we 've found stuff to
do the rest of the parts of the circuit). what the supply must do ,
if presented with a load which would draw more than 1a , given the
supply voltage , is reduce the voltage so that the current will equal
one amp. thus , if we were to short the thing with the ammeter , we
should read one amp. if we measure the current through a 1 ohm
resistor at 12v , we should read one amp (and the output voltage , by
necessity , must be 1v.

the only basic idea we have seen for the current limiter involves
a circuit which will pull current off of the base of the output
power transistor , and therefore reduce the output.

so , does anybody have any ideas we could work from \?

thanks in advance.

andy collins , kc6yey
acollins@uclink.berkeley.edu

ps if anybody wants to flame this as a stupid project , i agree fully ,
but i still have to do it , its graded )


from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re minimal boolean circuit
article i.d. shelley.1r2717inndjh
distribution usa
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 41
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article 1993apr9.041505.8593@ringer.cs.utsa.edu djimenez@ringer.cs.utsa.edu (daniel jimenez) writes
suppose we have a boolean function which is a minimal sum of products
(derived from a k map or something) , like this

f(a , b , c , d) bc 'd' acd' abc' ab'c

the books on logic design i have consulted all seem to imply that this
is where the analysis ends ... but by factoring out the
`a' term in the function , we can get fewer gates

f(a , b , c , d) bc 'd' a(cd' bc' b'c) ,

which yields 9 gates.

yes , but... the minimization of gates is important in part
because of timing considerations. a ttl gate has the basic structure
of and or invert , and an inversion of a sum of a product is just
exactly one gate delay. the reason to find a minimal sum of products
is that this matches a hardware optimization.

a positive or gate (such as the 9 gate solution uses) has
two gate delays (and there 's another gate delay in the second term)
so that the second solution , while simpler in logic symbols , can
be expected to be something less than optimal in the real world.
ecl is similar to ttl , in that it can support an or and
gate with the minimum delay (unlike ttl , you get both true and
inverse outputs for 'free' when using ecl).

pals are basically large programmable and or invert
gates (with your choice of internal connections between the
various sections , and perhaps some latches) , so a minimum sum
of products also is a way to shoehorn a logic design into
a few pals. it 's not comparably easy to design with a minimization
of logic gates , but some software packages claim to allow you to
do so , and will take just about any mess of gates (as a nodelist
with 74xxx series logic ics) and produce a description of
a logic cell array to do the same job. xilinx 's xact software
does this by treating each logic block as a macro , and expanding
it all out , then simplifying.

john whitmore

subject re principle of the breathalyzer
from srgxnbs@grace.cri.nz
organization industrial research ltd. , new zealand.
nntp posting host grv.grace.cri.nz
lines 3

in nz apparently things like aftershave are also giving positive
readings


from jung@rz.tu ilmenau.de (dirk junghanns)
subject w86c451 , w86c456 info wanted
nntp posting host dali.rz.tu ilmenau.de
reply to jung@rz.tu ilmenau.de (dirk junghanns)
organization technische universitaet ilmenau
lines 12

does anybody have informations about the

w 86 c 451 and w 86 c 456 chips (40pin dil pckg) \?

they are build in a multifunction io card for pc.

thanks
dirk


dirk junghanns junghanns@rz.tu ilmenau.de


from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization megatest corporation
lines 26

in article 1993apr15.100452.16793@csx.cciw.ca u009@csx.cciw.ca (g. stewart beal) writes
in article 120466@netnews.upenn.edu jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (jason haines) writes

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

so , if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
some simms 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing
about it.

one of the guys at work takes 20 of them , uses cyano acrylate glue to make
five four wide panels then constructs a box , with bottom , to use as a
pencil holder.


or , if you 've got some entreprenuerial (sp \? ) spirit , get a cheapy
clear plastic box , mount the simm inside , and sell it as a 'pet simm' !

i'm sure there are plenty of suckers out there who would go
for it !

aaron



from chin@ee.ualberta.ca (jing chin)
subject need info on dsp project
summary general info on building a dsp project that can manipulate music
keywords dsp , d a , a d , music , project
nntp posting host bode.ee.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
lines 10

i want to start a dsp project that can maniplate music in a stereo cassette.
is that any chip set , development kit and or compiler that
can equilize mix music \? ideally , the system should have d a a d converters
a dsp compiler. a rough estimate of the cost is greately appreciated.

thanks in advance.

regards ,
jing chin
e mail address chin@bode.ee.ualberta.ca

from randyd@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (randall elton ding)
subject re adcom gtp500ii ir sensor repeater spec 's \?
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee
lines 48
nntp posting host 129.89.7.4

in article 1r1996innijp@hp col.col.hp.com johnr@col.hp.com (john t. rasper) writes
does anyone know the details of the interface (5 wire din) for the
ir remote sensor (2 wire ir repeater) for the adcom gtp 500ii
preamp \? the adcom part numbers are the xr 500ii , spm 500ii , and
ira 500ii.

a cursory physical examination of the pre amp connector indicates
that the connector (5 pin din) may provide (viewed from connector front)


5 1 (pin \? ) \? v @ \? \? \? ma
4 2 (pin \? ) \? v @ \? \? \? ma
3 (pin 3) signal ground
(pin \? ) demodulated signal \? v pp , \? polarity , \? ma drive
(pin \? ) signal to drive repeater led (drives through 150ohm
resistor) \? v pp

i assume that the repeater connectors (mini plugs) drive the ir repeater
led 's directly. true \?

can anyone fill in the \? 's. thanks.


here 's the scoop. when you get your home brew receiver working , would
you be willing to share it with the rest of us \? i always wanted to
build my own but never have the time to fool around and design it.

pin 1 signal ground
pin 2 signal
pin 3 always hot 6 volts
pin 4 6 volts , hot only when preamp is turned on
pin 5 infrared repeater connectors

the infrared repeater jacks on the back of the preamp are not connected
to anything inside the preamp except the 5 pin connector pin 5. there
is a 150 ohm resistor between the two jacks , with a 1.5k from pin 5 to
ground.

the signal pin 2 in the preamp is summed with the built in ir receiver.
they use a chip called cx20106a and a bjt to amplify the signal. i would
imagine the logical way would be to duplicate this circuit and use
it as the external receiver.

if you need more info , let me know.

randy randyd@csd4.csd.uwm.edu



from karplus@cse.ucsc.edu (kevin karplus)
subject re decoupling caps onboard
organization university of california , santa cruz
lines 38
reply to karplus@ce.ucsc.edu (kevin karplus)
nntp posting host ararat.ucsc.edu


i 've used on chip capacitors to reduce ground bounce noise on a small
systolic array chip that had 50pf loads on the clock lines.
(design was in 2 micron n well cmos , using the mosis scalable design rules.)
here are some thoughts on the bypass capacitors

1) they do n't help much with simultaneous output switching there is
still a large inductance between the bypass capacitor and the
load capacitor (on both the signal line and the ground
return) , so you still get ground and power line bounce.

2) they do help a lot with on chip loads , as i had with the high load
on the clock lines.

3) the transients you are trying to suppress are really high
frequency , so forget about large areas of poly thin oxide diff
capacitors , since the rc time constant is too large.
what i did is to make a metal2 , metal , poly , diff sandwich ,
but put a lot of holes in the poly layer , allowing frequent
diff metal1 contacts. i forget exactly how wide the poly
lines were. if i were doing this design again , i 'd probably
omit the diff altogether , and use a solid poly sheet instead ,
using just m2 , m1 , and poly (and substrate , but that has such a high
resistance it can be ignored at these speeds).

4) you are probably better off trying to tune your circuit to run with
slightly slower edges and lower voltage swings (especially for
output signalling) , than spending chip area on capacitors.
i had spare space on the die since the circuit was too big for
a mosis tiny chip , and the next size up was twice as big as i
needed.

kevin karplus

kevin karplus karplus@ce.ucsc.edu

due to budgetary constraints the light at the end of the tunnel is
being turned off.

from markz@ssc.com (mark zenier)
subject re mc sbi mixer
article i.d. ssc.1993apr21.183146.19241
organization ssc , inc. , seattle , wa
lines 17
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

mark j. musone (musone@acsu.buffalo.edu) wrote
hi , i was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on twwo related
subjects. i am currently learning about am fm receivers and recieving
circuits.

p.s. any really good books on am fm theory along with detailed
electrical diagrams would help a lot.
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of
circuit books with no theory , but one without the other does not help.

a pretty serious book that still seems readable is

communication receivers , principes and design
by rohde and bucher.


mark zenier markz@ssc.wa.com markz@ssc.com

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject tdr plug in
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 15

if anyone out there has an hp180 series scope or mainframe , i
have the tdr plug in (the 1810 , i believe) for it and have no need
to keep it. interested \? e mail me.



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject ungrounded gfcis was re a question about 120vac outlet wiring.
nntp posting host aisun3.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 22

in article 1qmisf odp@sdl.warren.mentorg.com garyg@warren.mentorg.com writes

what you can do if you want three prong outlets without additional wiring is
to use a gfci outlet (or breaker , but the outlet will be cheaper). in fact ,
depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s) , a gfci may be required .

you still need to supply a proper ground for a ground fault circuit interrupter !

oddly enough , you do n't , at least according to the wiring faq that
is regularly posted on misc.consumers.house.

a gfci senses discrepancies between the live and neutral wire currents ,
and cuts them both off if a discrepancy is found. no ground connection
is needed for it to function.




michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from csulo@csv.warwick.ac.uk (mr m j brown)
subject 600rpm floopy drives update !
organization computing services , university of warwick , uk
lines 26
distribution world
nntp posting host clover.csv.warwick.ac.uk

many thanks to those who replied to my appeal for info on a drive i have
which is 3.5 600rpm ! !

i now have some information on how to modify this for use with a bbc b
computer. not only do you have to change the speed from 600 to 300 rpm
(tried that) but also change 8 components in the rec play section to allow
for the lower data rate (250kbit , not 500kbit as it was designed for) and also
change the recording current to allow for the low data rate rev speed !

hopefully this should sort it all out .... not bad for 9 quid (normally 32
quid and upwards ....)

the drive is a jvc mdp series drive ...



michael brown

csulo@csv.warwick.ac.uk
mjb@dcs.warwick.ac.uk


lost interest \? \? it 's so bad i 've lost apathy !




from betts@netcom.com (jonathan betts)
subject where to find cheap lcd displays \?
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 32

sci.e(e) netters

i am setting out to build and market a small electronic device that
requires an lcd display. all of the analog electronics are working
fine , i have ordered a pic ice (not vice versa) since the pics are so
cheap and low power , but i am having a devil of a time finding any
lcd displays in the 6 8 digit range that are priced as low as i need. i
am looking for somthing in the range of 1 in quantities of about
1000 10 , 000.

mainstream distributors like almac cannot help me without a part
number , or when they do look around for something in their line
they find a 15 8 digit lcd. even digikey 's cheapest offering is 5 in
quantity.

i know lcd displays like this must exist because i see whole
calculators for sale for 4.99 , meaning the retailer probably buys it
for 3.50 and the wholesaler probably gets it for 2.50 or so. this
2.50 includes assembly labor , packaging , sales , transportation ,
import duties , the case and keyboard , the pc board , the processor
chip , the solar cell and the lcd. the lcd ca n't cost much.

if anyone could put me in touch with some manufacturers and or
distributors that handle such things i would be much obliged.

joe betts
betts@netcom.com


p.s. i have tried tearing apart several cheap consumer devices that
have lcds only to find that the lcds are unlabelled. has anyone else
had better luck with this strategy \?

from advax@reg.triumf.ca (a.daviel)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization triumf tri university meson facility
lines 24
distribution world
nntp posting host reg.triumf.ca
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1pslckinnmn0@matt.ksu.ksu.edu , nhowland@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (neal patrick howland) writes...

from what i understand about radar dectectors all they are is a passive
device much like the radio in your car. they work as an antenna picking
up that radar signals that the radar gun sends out. therefore there would
be no way of detecting a radar detector any more than there would be of
detecting whether some one had a radio in their car.

from my rather rusty knowledge of radio , most radio receivers use a superhet
circuit , so that the incoming signal is mixed with a local oscillator , giving
a fixed intermediate frequency (if) that is more easily amplified. the
detector detectors work by picking up if re radiated from your radar
detector. in britain , where one has used to pay for a tv licence , there
are were tv detector vans prowling the streets , looking for people who had n't
paid their licence fee. they had a couple of long solenoid antennae on the
roof , and i believe could triangulate an operating tv from the if.

i wonder how much of the if is radiated back from the detector antenna , and
how much from the rest of the module. it might be worth putting the detector
in a proper rf shielded enclosure.


andrew daviel , vancouver , canada advax@triumf.ca
finger advax@reg.triumf.ca for pgp key

from gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
subject need to find out numb
distribution world
organization ozone online operations , inc. new orleans , la
reply to gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
lines 24

al question is there a certain device out there that i can
al use to find out the number to the line \?
al thanks for any response.
al al

al there is a number you can call which will return a synthesized
al voice telling you the number of the line. unfortunately , for the
al life of me i ca n't remember what it is. the telephone technicians
al use it all the time. we used to play around with this in our
al dorm rooms since there were multiple phone lines running between
al rooms.

it probably would n't help for you to post the number , since it appears
to be different in each area. for what it 's worth , in the new orleans
area the number is 998 877 6655 (easy to remember , what \? )


slmr 2.1 ask me anything if i do n't know , i 'll make up something.


the ozone hole bbs a private bulletin board service (504)891 3142
3 full service nodes usrobotics 16.8k bps 10 gigs 100 , 000 files
skydive new orleans ! rime network mail hub 500 usenet newsgroups
please route all questions or inquiries to postmaster@ozonehole.com

from levy@levy.fnal.gov (mark e. levy , ext. 8056)
subject sources for intel d87c51fb \?
nntp posting host levy.fnal.gov
organization fermilab computing division
lines 18

i am in the midst of designing a project which requires two motors and an led
illuminator driven with pulse width modulation. i'm using the 8751 , and
i understand that the fb version has a programmable counter array that can
essentially be set and forgotten to do the pwm. the problems is , that variant
is difficult to come by. i need two or three of the d prefix (ceramic window)
version for development , and then lots of the p prefix (plastic otp) for later
production. i 've tried avnet , arrow , and pioneer. they (might) have them , but
i'm looking for samples at this point , and they 're not too willing to provide
them. i would buy them , but these vendors have 100.00 minimums.

any help is appreciated.


mark e. levy , fermilab
bitnet levy@fnal unix is to computing
internet levy@fnald.fnal.gov as an etch a sketch is to art.
hepnet span fnald levy (vms ! )


from gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
subject food dehydrators
distribution world
organization ozone online operations , inc. new orleans , la
reply to gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
lines 39

does anybody out there have one of those food dehydrators i 've been seeing
all over late night tv recently \? i was wondering if they use forced air , hea
or both. if there 's heat involved , anybody know what temperature they run at
my wife would like one and i'm not inclined to pay 100.00 for a box , a fan
and a heater. seems to me you should be able to throw a dehydrator together
for just a few bucks. heck , the technology is only what \? 1 , 000 years old \?

you can learn how to build a deyhdrator very easily from the book , the
hungry hiker 's guide to good food , by gretchen mchugh. the heat source
is a 100 watt light bulb. basically , it 's a vertical wooden box with
ventilation holes in the top and bottom (lots of them , you want the air
to flow). the light bulb goes in the bottom , and wire cake racks are
spaced every 6 starting about 10 above the bulb.

or , at a slightly higher cost in electricity , you can do what i do use
your oven. (note i do this in an electric oven some gas ovens may
not have a low enough setting). put food to be dried on cookie tins or
racks in the oven. set oven to 140 degrees (the lowest setting on my
oven if yours goes down to 120 that 's probably even better.) stick a
wooden spoon or something across the front corner of the oven and close
the door on the spoon so that it stays open about an inch this allows
for airflow. leave the stuff in the oven for 6 to 8 hours check it
often , since this dries it much faster than the dehydrator. if you are
using cookie sheets instead of racks , turn the stuff over halfway
through.

if you want more info , e mail me since this is n't really the right sub
for this stuff.

gerald.belton@ozonehole.com


slmr 2.1 i still miss my boss , but my aim is improving.


the ozone hole bbs a private bulletin board service (504)891 3142
3 full service nodes usrobotics 16.8k bps 10 gigs 100 , 000 files
skydive new orleans ! rime network mail hub 500 usenet newsgroups
please route all questions or inquiries to postmaster@ozonehole.com

from cab@col.hp.com (chris best)
subject re food dehydrators
organization your service
lines 10
distribution usa
nntp posting host hpctdkz.col.hp.com

does anybody out there have one of those food dehydrators i 've been seeing
all over late night tv recently \? i was wondering if they use forced air , heat ,
or both. if there 's heat involved , anybody know what temperature they run at \?
my wife would like one and i'm not inclined to pay 100.00 for a box , a fan
and a heater. seems to me you should be able to throw a dehydrator together
for just a few bucks. heck , the technology is only what \? 1 , 000 years old \?



yeah , but 1000 years ago , you could n't buy it from a guy with sprayed on hair !

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 23

write a good manual to go with the software. the hassle of
photocopying the manual is offset by simplicity of purchasing
the package for only 15. also , consider offering an inexpensive
but attractive perc for registered users. for instance , a coffee
mug. you could produce and mail the incentive for a couple of
dollars , so consider pricing the product at 17.95.

you 're lucky if only 20 of the instances of your program in use
are non licensed users.

the best approach is to estimate your loss and accomodate that into
your price structure. sure it hurts legitimate users , but too bad.
retailers have to charge off loss to shoplifters onto paying
customers the software industry is the same.

unless your product is exceptionally unique , using an ostensibly
copy proof disk will just send your customers to the competetion.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from msunde01@mik.uky.edu (mark underwood)
subject re help how to construct home built battery for 3rd grade sci report
nntp posting host nx26.mik.uky.edu
reply to msunde01@mik.uky.edu
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
distribution usa
lines 29

in article c5qui4.4cf@spk.hp.com borowski@spk.hp.com (don t. borowski)
writes
dean anneser (anneser@pwa b.uucp) wrote
my 9 yr old son has signed up to do a science report on batteries. i
was
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how
to
construct a home built battery. in my grade school days , i remember

(snip ! )

i have n't been following this , so i'm sorry if somebody already mentioned
this , but you could grab a lemon (i think potatoes work too , but i'm not
sure) , a strip of copper , and a strip of zinc (i think you can get the
metal in a hardware store or hobby shop , maybe \? \? ). stick the strips in
the lemon (so they do n't touch ! ) and you 'll get a measurable voltage (not
a lot , but , hey , it 's a lemon ) ). as i recall we had to hook
something like ten of these things to get an appreciable amount of
current , because of the mondo internal resistance , but if you just need a
demo you might get it to run a tiny fan or something ! )


mark s. underwood
ee student , university of kentucky
lab assistant , boyd hall microlab
(a tiny little division of uk library microlabs)
e mail msunde01@mik.uky.edu



from rbn@apple.com (robert b. neville)
subject oscilliscopes for sale
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , california
lines 37
nntp posting host apple.com

recently i posted two oscilliscopes for sale. one has sold , the other is
still available
used , good condition
hitachi v 422 40mhz dual channel portable analog oscilliscope
o 1mv div
o dc offset
o alternate magnification (10x magnified non magnified
waveform)
o vert mode trigger
o tv sync separation circuit
list price 910.00 (...and the price fry 's electronics just
quoted ! ) (
sells for 699.99 (jdr microdevices current price)
745.95 (products international)
your price used 425.00 obo
...i have n't gotten an offer at the asking price , so 'obo' applies...

i also have a 'broken' version of the scope which sold
jdr 2000 20mhz dual channel portable analog oscilliscope
o 5mv div
o component tester (resistors caps diodes coils)
o tv video sync filter
o z axis input (intensity modulation)

'broken' means the crt produces a nice , bright trace , but the trace does
not correspond to the input signal. my guess is it 's repairable but more
than a simple calibration problem...but i honestly have not tried to
calibrate the scope or otherwise fix it. it 's 'as is'.
i paid 60 for it in its current state (i bought it thinking i 'd repair it ,
using the 'good' scope for side by side comparison...since i 've sold the
'good' scope , the 'bad' one does n't do me much good) and i 'd like to recoup
that amount. as above , i 'll accept offers and take the best one.

i 'd prefer a local (bay area , california) buyer , so (a) i do n't have to
ship it and (b) she or he can examine the scope prior to purchase.

rbn@apple.com

from fritzm@panix.com (fritz mueller)
subject electronic parts in nyc \?
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 18

hey all

i just moved to nyc and wondered if there are any electronics hackers
out there who could point me to places in nyc that sell individual
electronic components (switches , pots , transformers , caps ,
transistors , etc.) radio shack does n't count (they have almost no
selection , and their prices are outrageous ! )

i have particular interest in audio components (amplifier ic 's , power
mosfets , output transformers , tubes and tube sockets , pan pots ,
faders , etc.)

i have checked out a lot of 48th street and canal street so far with
no luck. am i missing places , looking in the wrong place , or do i
have to resort to mail order \?

thanks in advance ,
fritzm.

from dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (david f. newman)
subject arcade style buttons and joysticks
organization division of academic computing , northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 usa
lines 8

hi there ,
can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
on most arcade style games. many projects i am working on would
be greatly augmented if i could implement them. thanx in advance.

dave
dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu


from hooperw@spot.colorado.edu (wayne hooper)
subject re making copy of a video tape
keywords video
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 13

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (victor laking) writes

you are experiencing what is called macrovision. it is the protection
that they use on the video tapes. there are two ways around this that i
know of. first of all , you can try using a different vcr to copy onto.
it is the input of the vcr that reacts to the protection so sometimes
just switching the two vcrs around will take care of it. some models
just do n't react to it.

does this also affect the viewing of tapes \? i have had problems with
a couple of rented tapes they were virtually unviewable. i fiddled
with the tuning , tracking and vertical hold but it was no good.


from gsulliva@enuxha.eas.asu.edu (glenn a sullivan)
subject re making copy of a video tape
summary here is go video
organization arizona state university
lines 14

in article 136390006@hpcuhe.cup.hp.com , pi@hpcuhe.cup.hp.com (paul ilgenfritz) writes

i think the go video dual cassette machines do a direct tape to tape copy
which transfers macrovision to the copy. i you can find one of these , it
would be worth a try.

go video machines used in hq2 mode will copy even the macrovision.
go video phone number (602)998 3400.

ask for sales department. since the state of arizona does not go on
daylight savings time , we effectively are in pacific time zone.

allen sullivan
designing various stuff for go video

from cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gordon hlavenka)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization vpnet public access
lines 14

jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (jason haines) writes
i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms... so , if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
some simms 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing
about it.

about a month ago there was a photo posted on
alt.binaries.pictures.misc of a 17.5 inch northern pike which had been
caught on a lure made of 256k simms.



gordon s. hlavenka cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us
vote straight ticket procrastination party dec. 3rd !

from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re wire wrap questions (again \? )
article i.d. shelley.1pr803innh8e
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 36
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article pascal.93apr1160623@ap10.apd.cpg.sony.co.jp pascal@apd.cpg.sony.co.jp (pascal goguey) writes
in article 7376@blue.cis.pitt.edu macfitz @pitt.edu (mark d fitzsimmos) writes

after a considerable amount of research , review of discussions
on this group , and mainly fruitless time on breadboards , i have
decided that the path of least resistance for prototyping my (not
necessarily someone else 's) electronic designs is wire wrapping.

i have no idea about what you want to do , but be careful
wire wrapping increases a lot the wiring capacitance. that should n't
be a problem for slow applications (i.e a few mhz) , but as for
quicker ones (around 30 40 mhz) , i doubt that it can work.


fortunately , wire wrapping is a better wiring technique than
most at high frequencies cray computers (up to the x mp , at least)
all had wirewrapped backplanes. wirewrap gets into trouble at
much higher frequencies than any ttl can handle. the 'increase'
of wiring capacitance is not really relevant (you have to use
transmission line techniques , and the capacitance is no problem).

1) where can i get a decent wrapping tool \? i 'd like to spend less
than 150 for an ac powered unit including bit and sleeve.

hand powered is the best. there are good ac powered ones ,
but rather expensive. a low cost one does n't work very well.

hand powered is a terrible choice (imho) unless you are
a field maintenance person who will do maybe a dozen connections
at a time. your hands will cramp. battery powered wire wrap guns
are available in the 150 range , and so are the little
twiddle stick manual types ( 15). for a modest project , of
a couple hundred connections , i 'd prefer to borrow a professional
ac unit... or a pneumatic one.

john whitmore

from squish@endor.uucp (shishin yamada)
subject re atari 2600 processors
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 42

in article 93110.125951pca103@psuvm.psu.edu pca103@psuvm.psu.edu writes
does anyone know what processor the atari 2600 used \? what i'm looking for is th
e pin outs for the atari 2600.... the schematics for it it... does anyone have
any idea where i could find this or any related information \? this is very impor
tant. also , are the rom chips that were used fo rthe 2600 games still available
, or were they propreitary \? please email me with any responces , as this is very
important.. thanks a million...

btw anyone who works has worked for atari , i could really use your help with i
nfo on the old 2600 , please email me if you are willing to help me.... thatnks
alot ! !

peter

the atari 2600 used a 6502 cpu , just like their entire 8 bit line
(400 , 800 , 1200 , 1400 , 1440 , 130xe , 65xe computers , as well as the 5200
game machine). the 2600 had some extra asic chips that were basically
modified graphics chips and pia 's for the joysticks. later model 2600
might have incorporated many of the chips into one asci , as the weight
of the machines and part count decreased a lot over the years.

additionally , i think the 2600 used 2k , 4k , and up to 8k of rom for
their games. i have no idea how much ram it had to work with , but i
would hazard a guess of 2 or 4k ram. think comes from a lot of hacking
with the 800 and 130xe computers. and occasionally hacking with the
2600 (fixing it for monitor composite video use , and audio hookups).
also i tryed to make a cartridge less system that stored the rom into
a ram cartridge that could be loaded up at some prior time (a way to
backup cartridges). i 've heard of a setup like this where games could
be bought (cheaply) on fsk recorded tapes , then you would load them
into a special ram cartidge , and play them.

anyways , if you 're interested in looking for 2600 equipment , we 've got
two 2600 machines around (one composite a v modified) , and lotsa
cartridges. willing to sell for reasonable offer shipping and
handling. do n't play it anymore , since going to computers nintendo
(interested in that too \? ).

hope that helps your question... i might grab some 6502 's out too ,
since they must be fun to play with (as microcontrollers).
shishin squish yamada
squish@endor.harvard.edu

from wellison@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
subject re electronic odometers
article i.d. kuhub.1993apr15.153153.49197
organization university of kansas academic computing services
lines 10

i had the insturment panel go out in my car (a 1990 lincoln contenintal) which
is a digital dash. they replaced the whole thing with a 1991 dash (thank god it
was under the warrenty ! ) anyway , the odometer was reading the exact milage
from the old panel. it must have a eeprom of some sort in it that is up dated.
seems to me that removing the battery would erase it , but it does n't. so i
guess they swapped the nvm chip (non volitile memory) and installed it in the
new dash. no , they would n't let me have the old dash to tinker with (


wes

from dp@cec1.wustl.edu (david prutchi)
subject re cicuit cellar ink extras 4 trade
nntp posting host cec1
organization washington university , st. louis mo
lines 32

in article babb 190493113153@larc.sdsu.edu babb@sciences.sdsu.edu (j. babb) writes
fellow info junkies ,
i have an extra cci 27 (real time programming embedded sensors
storage) and an extra cci 32 (voice control of telescope , among other
articles). no labels. no torn , cut up , or missing pages.

would like to trade for cci 26 , or cci 23 , or cci 19 in same
condition (labels ok).

i mail mine you mail yours mutual trust kinda thang ok \?
you do n't actually throw them away , do you \?

thanx ,
jeff babb
babb@sciences.sdsu.edu

i have also been trying to complete my collection. i have an extra cci 16
(communications) and a 12 (applications in the arts) , both in mint
condition.

i would like to trade for (or buy) the following 1 , 3 , 22 , 23 , 25 , 26 , 30 ,
and 31.

thanks david


david prutchi hc1dt
washington university prutchi@mesun4.wustl.edu
campus box 1185 dp@cec1.wustl.edu
one brookings drive
st. louis , mo 63130 4899


from gerrit@laosinh.stgt.sub.org (gerrit heitsch)
subject re what 's a good ic for rs232 ttl signals \? \?
distribution world
organization lao sinh project (private uucp site)
lines 26

in article c5nz60.99z@scraps.uucp , frank holden ka3uww writes

i'm looking for an ic that will convert rs232 voltage levels to ttl voltage
levels. something relatively inexpensive would be nice , too. anyone have
a suggestion \? \? thanks.

well it looks as if digi key sells a chip with the number icl232 that does what
you want. they are selling it for about 3.50...

are you sure that he needs a two way converter \? if he wants only
rs232 ttl i would suggest the mc1489 , its very cheap (0.80 dm in
germany). this chip needs only 5v. the mc1488 ttl rs232 converter
uses 12v and 12v.

btw... the max232 and compatibles seem to be expensive in the usa...
i paid 2.95 dm for a its80272 (made by harris) , its absolutely
compatible with the max232 or the icl232.

gerrit


gerrit heitsch moenchweg 16 7038 holzgerlingen germany
logical adresses uucp gerrit@laosinh.stgt.sub.org fido (2 2407 106.9)
if we will ever be visited by aliens , it will be very hard to explain , why a
lifeform , that is intelligent enough to build atomic weapons can be stupid
enough to do it. (taken from geo special about space , page 88 91)

from dramalecki@electrical.watstar.uwaterloo.ca (david malecki)
subject re building a uv flashlight
lines 40
organization university of waterloo

in article c5r6lz.n25@panix.com jhawk@panix.com (john hawkinson) writes
my main question is the bulb where can i get uv bulbs \? do they
need a lot of power \? etc. , etc.

i 've seen them in surplus stores. all they are are fluorescent bulbs
without the phosphor , and a uv transparent bulb (special glass). i 've
also seen incandescent versions that you screw into an ordinary 120vac
socket , probably not what you want.


i'm not too concerned with whether it 's long wave or short wave
(but hey , if anyone has a cheap source of bulbs , i 'll take both).

one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near uv
light being cheaper to get at than actual uv light. does anyone
know what he was referring to \?

as far as i know , near uv (as opposed to far uv) is longwave uv (near
the visible spectrum). longwave uv is safer as far as accidental (i hope)
exposure to the eyes. as far as fluorescent minerals go (the reason a
friend has a uv lamp) , some only respond to only one of short or long uv.

hope this helps.

dave.




thanks much.



john hawkinson
jhawk@panix.com

who i am david malecki
who you think i am dramalecki@electrical.watstar.uwaterloo.ca



from berryh@huey.udel.edu (john berryhill , ph.d.)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
nntp posting host huey.udel.edu
organization little scraps of paper , mostly
lines 13

the object of a cooling tower is to distribute dissolved salts in
cooling water over large areas of farmland and to therefore decrease
farm subsidies for non producers by rendering their land infertile.

a side effect of this deficit reduction program is that they provide
a low t reservoir for a variety of industrial processes.

now you know.



john berryhill


from mkaschke@oasys.dt.navy.mil (martin kaschke)
subject 4 band equalizer
reply to mkaschke@oasys.dt.navy.mil (martin kaschke)
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 15


i was wondering if anyone out there in net land knew of a simple
way to make a 4 band equalizer (single channel). i need it to accept
line inputs (tape deck , cd player , etc.) and output to the same ! so
input impedance should equal output impedance. also , since i am driving
a line , i would need 1 volt p p output. final requirement is that i
can either
1. control it digitally
or
2. control it easily , or with few resistors

finally if anyone knows of any filter or equalizer chips , that might
be useful , please let me know. (i have seen a couple of them from national ,
and maxim). thanks in advance ,
martin

from sknapp@iastate.edu (steven m. knapp)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 16

in article oxenreid.734127163@chaos.cs.umn.edu oxenreid@chaos.cs.umn.edu () writes
in 1993apr06.173031.9793@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu (randy agee) writes

so , the questions are

are any brands quieter than others \?

yes some radar detectors are less detectable by radar detector
detectors. )

look in car and driver (last 6 months should do) , they had a big
review of the better detectors , and stealth was a factor.

steven m. knapp computer engineering student
sknapp@iastate.edu president cyclone amateur radio club
iowa state university ames , ia usa durham center operations staff

from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re wanted a to d hardware for a pc
article i.d. doug.1993apr6.053736.23113
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 22

in 3889@ncr mpd.ftcollinsco.ncr.com brad wright writes

if you know much about pc 's (ibm comp) you might try the joystick
port. though i have n't tried this myself , i 've been told that the port
has built in a d converters. this would allow the joystick to be a couple of
pots. if you could find the specs this might just work for you...

i believe that the a d converters found on a joystick port are really
timers that tick off how long it takes an r c circuit (the r being your
paddle) to charge up to something like 1 2 vcc. for games this works
pretty well , but you certainly would n't want to try to take lab
measurements off something as non linear as that.

hmm... i suppose you could linearize it in software , but the real problem
is that the precision of your measurement is no longer constant (higher
voltages would be more precise).

on the other hand , i could be wrong and perhaps the game card designers
splurged for the extra .50 to make a cheap constant current source out of
an op amp. but i would n't expect that...

joel kolstad

from robert.desonia@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (robert desonia)
subject re pc parallel i o
distribution world
organization hal 9000 bbs , w net hq , ann arbor , michigan , usa
reply to robert.desonia@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (robert desonia)
lines 24


r jd all pc parallel ports that are compatable with the ibm standard ,
r jd including the original ibm adaptor , are bi directional.

not all parallel ports are bi directional without modification.

my experience with the standard old zenith parallel port in their
original 286s proves that. they had the input direction disactiviated by
tieing them r w select line of the circuit to vcc. to make it bi ( which
i did ) i had to modify it by scraping off the trace and solder a jump to
the proper location. i thought that this was just lazy on the part of
zenith ( they were not zenith bull group at that time).

rdd


. winqwk 2.0b 0 . unregistered evaluation copy
kmail 2.95d w net hq , hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us , 1 313 663 4173 or 3959


hal 9000 bbs qwk to usenet gateway four 14400 v.32bis dial ins
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! pcboard 14.5am uupcb kmail
call 1 313 663 4173 or 663 3959
member of eff , asp , asad 1500mb disk serving ann arbor since 1988

from garyg@warren.mentorg.com (gary gendel)
subject re need to find out number to a phone lin
organization mentor graphics corp. ic group
lines 32
distribution world
reply to garyg@warren.mentorg.com
nntp posting host garyg.warren.mentorg.com

in article 1qub4minn7r3@rave.larc.nasa.gov , kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey) writes
in article 20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu alee@ecs.umass.edu writes

greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?


call a friend long distance , collect. ask to speak with yourself. when
the operator asks for you , you wo n't be there , so ask the operator to leave
your number. she 'll read it out in the clear.
scott

even easier , my area supports 311. dial this and a recording recites your number.
phone techs use it to verify an installed line.

gary gendel
vice president current consulting assignment
genashor corp mentor graphics corporation
9 piney woods drive 15 independence boulevard
belle mead , nj 08502 warren , nj 07059

phone (908) 281 0164 phone (908) 604 0883
fax (908) 281 9607 email garyg@warren.mentorg.com




from willisw@willisw.eng.clemson.edu (bill willis)
subject re mysterious mosfet
organization engineering services , clemson university
lines 23

in article 1qug3sinn90g@rave.larc.nasa.gov kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey) writes

i have a mosfet pulled out of a trygon power supply , for which i have no
manual. it 's a motorola part with a 1972 date code and the number

285 4

which the motorola folks assure me is a house number , which they ca n't
help me with. any suggestions from folks out there \? i ca n't put it on
a curve tracer to try to get an equivalent , since it 's completely shot.
scott
since your mosfet is a 1972 vintage , it 's probably not a very good one by
today 's standards. if you have an idea about its voltage and current
ratings , e.g. 60vdc @ 6a , you can probably get away with replacing it with
anything with better specs. early mosfets had a gate source voltage rating
of approximately 20 vdcmax , and they would usually turn completely on
at 10vdc. otherwise , mosfets are not really mysterious they 're more or
less voltage controlled current sources. if the mosfet in your circuit is
used as an open loop , voltage controlled current source , you may have to
experiment with various gain altering techniques.

bill willis willisw@coe nw.clemson.edu
(803) 656 5550

from oxenreid@chaos.cs.umn.edu ()
subject re radar detector detectors \?
nntp posting host chaos.cs.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 23

in 1993apr06.173031.9793@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu (randy agee) writes

so , the questions are
what do the radar detector detectors actually detect \?
would additional shielding grounding bypassing shield stray rf generated by
a radar detector , or is the rf actually being emitted by the detector
antenna \?
are any brands quieter than others \?

ok , so your a ham. well , tune in 10.7mhz or 455khz. these numbers sound
like some you have herd before \? thats right , you guessed it , they are
common if numbers. every super het receiver has a local oscillator(s)
which generates an if. this is what your detector detector is detecting (the
local oscillator).

some of these have two or more local oscillator which generate more ways to
receiver you. if you want to receiver something at say 10.525ghz you must
generate a local oscillator signal of 10.525ghz 10.7mhz your local osc
frequency. this 10.7mhz if is then fed into a normal agc ckt.
the detector is keyed uppon the agc voltage (your mileage may vary). since
the agc is a negative feed back device , a positive voltage sets off a ...
i think you get the picture.


subject re exploding tv !
from xhan@uceng.uc.edu (xiaoping han)
distribution usa
organization university of cincinnati
lines 12

in article 1qk4hj qos@vtserf.cc.vt.edu prasad@vtaix.cc.vt.edu (prasad ramakrishna) writes

... why would the picture tube explode or even smoke \?

it 's not the picture tube. more likely the flyback. emerson \? ca n't admire.
han

prasad
prasadr@vtvm1.cc.vt.edu




from craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (craig s. williamson)
subject re looking for a good spice book
article i.d. toontown.627
reply to craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (craig s. williamson)
organization ncr e m columbia , sc
lines 17

in article canright.734829385@convex.com canright@convex.com (robert canright) writes
you might try
computer aided circuit analysis using spice by walter banzhaf ,
at bookstores , paperback , 33 , lots of examples. dr. banzhaf
is a teacher.

is there another book. i have this one and do n't find it helpfull in
learning spice. it would make a good reference book but i found it lacking
for learning spice. are there any others \?

craig


you took the bull by the horns
craig williamson and stepped in something good.
craig.williamson@columbiasc.ncr.com balki bartokomas
craig@toontown.columbiasc.ncr.com (home) perfect strangers

from jam@ameslab.gov (jerry musselman)
subject uart needed
organization ames laboratory , isu
lines 9

i need to find a uart that will interface to an 8051 and do the following
250k baud , 8 data bits , 2 stop bits , no parity
ability to do break detect (irq or output pin)
irq on character received

i'm using a dallas ds2250 at 16 mhz (8051 clone) , but it wo n't do
break detect. i 've looked at the 6850 , 8251 , 7201 , 2661 , etc...

any help would be appriciated ! ! !

from schaefer@imag.imag.fr (arno schaefer)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
nntp posting host silene
organization institut imag , grenoble , france
lines 38

in article 1993apr21.085848.12704w@lumina.edb.tih.no , ketil@edb.tih.no (ketil albertsen , tih) writes
in article 1993apr20.230749.12821@reed.edu , mblock@reed.edu (matt block) writes

i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know \? do you need a good
one for a project you are working on \? how secure must it be \? are you trying
to crack one that someone else has used \? i can probably make suggestions ,
assuming the activity is strictly legal. (in general , it is a bad idea ,
legally , to tamper with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of
files which you necessarily do not have back ups of (being as they are copy
protected , ) which can be devestating.) do you have absolutely no ideas for
practical applications , and are merely curious \?
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i
can.

may we interpret this as an offer to volunteer as editor for a
copy protection faq \? i am quite sure that i am not alone welcoming such
an initiative ! i will volunteer to ask some of the questions , if you will
provide the answers )

ketil albertsen

hey , now will you stop encouraging him \? copy protection only serves one pur
pose to keep the honest buyer from making (legal) backup copies. it will
definitely not stop any pirates. if you want to protect you soft , supply a
good documentation and support. this is imho the only way of effectively pro
tecting software.

best regards ,

arno



arno schaefer ensimag , 2e annee
email schaefer@silene.imag.fr
tel. (33) 76 51 79 95 )
no , you 're not paranoid the world is really out to get you

from bell@hops.larc.nasa.gov (john bell)
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization nasa langley research center
lines 21
nntp posting host hops.larc.nasa.gov

in article mdonahue.15x9@amiganet.chi.il.us mdonahue@amiganet.chi.il.us (mike donahue) writes

as for adcoms mobil , they are going with amps that canb use balanced inputs , a
very nice toy , but i'm afraid its goig to push their amps beyound resonable
price ranges. especialy because taking advantage of those balanced inputs
requires a 120 rca to balanced adapter...

umm , when i was doing sound reinforcement for a living , i used to get direct boxes (which convert
unbalanced 1 4 jacks to balanced xlrs) for about 25 each , or a little more for higher
quality. you 'll need two for a stereo signal , of course , and a little adapter thingy from
radio sh t to convert from rca to 1 4 . total cost should be around 50. you can also buy
transformers for quite a bit less and wire them yourself. total cost there should be under 30.
you can get all this stuff from any pro music shop that sells sound reinforcement gear.
the benefit \? no noise that you can hear will be generated in the cables going to the component
with the balanced inputs , even when you run them in bad places , like next to power lines.


john bell
nasa langley research center
bell@hops.larc.nasa.gov


from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re motorola xc68882rc33 and rc50
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 14

in article sgberg.23xu@charon.bloomington.in.us sgberg@charon.bloomington.in.us (stefan berg) writes
... i do n't know why my fpu has an xc (my original 33mhz fpu
was label mc68882 33) , but it seems to work fine on my system...
p.s. or does it mean experimental chip instead of motorola chip \? . )

the rule for the designations is that if it says mc , that means it works
exactly the way the datasheet book specifies. if it says xc , that means
there is at least one known bug. often these bugs are small and obscure
you might never run into them in practice.

at least motorola admits it , unlike certain other companies...

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from tomb@hplsla.hp.com (tom bruhns)
subject re looking for 900mhz spread spectrum modules
organization hp lake stevens , wa
lines 12

butts@shocker.ee.twsu.edu (ronald w. butts , jr.) writes

i am looking for suppliers of 900mhz spread spectrum radio modules. i need
to implement a two way audio band link (essentially the guts of a cordless
900mhz phone is what i want.)

this is n't exactly audio , but take a look in rf design magazine ,
april 93 , for the article a robust signaling technique for part 15
rf control netowrk applications. page 29. sources of parts are
mentioned in the same issue is an article that features a chipset
for the digital european cordless telecommunications standard.


from cph@dmu.ac.uk (chris hand)
subject cheap lcd panels seeking info
organization de montfort university , leicester , uk.
lines 37

attention hardware hackers and bargain seekers !

i just bought a 640x200 pixel lcd panel for 25 uk pounds. i have
a datasheet for a similar panel , but i'm looking for proper data.

if anyone can help with locating data for this device (before i start
with the routine on the phone to hitachi and rummaging through the
library) , then i 'll pass on the source.

type lm225 (hitachi)
resolution 640w x 200h (so can do 80x25 chars on 8x8 matrix)

bought from

greenweld electronics ltd
27 park rd
southampton so1 3tb , uk

tel. 44 703 23 63 63
fax. 44 703 23 63 07
email compuserve 100014 , 1463

nb i only just bought this ! i do n't even know if it works !

price was 25 uk pounds including vat (17.5 ) , which is n't
payable if you 're outside the ec.

thanks for any info !


chris


chris hand , lecturer internet mail cph@dmu.ac.uk
dept of computing science , voice 44 533 551551 x8476
de montfort university , the gateway , fax 44 533 541891 fidonet 2 440 32.50
leicester , uk le1 9bh linux free unix for ibm pcs !

from wayne alan martin wm1h @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization senior , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 60
distribution world
nntp posting host po2.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 79694@cup.portal.com

excerpts from netnews.sci.electronics 16 apr 93 re what do nuclear
site 's .. by r tim coslet@cup.portal.
from r tim coslet@cup.portal.com
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
date fri , 16 apr 93 21 27 21 pdt

in article 1qlg9o d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.edu.au
swalker@uts.edu.au ( s87271077 s.walker man 50 ) wrote
i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?

except for their size , the cooling towers on nuclear power plants
are vertually identical in construction and operation to cooling
towers designed and built in the 1890 's (a hundred years ago) for
coal fired power plants used for lighting and early electric railways.

basicly , the cylindrical tower supports a rapid air draft when
its air is heated by hot water and or steam circulating thru a network
of pipes that fill about the lower 1 3 of the tower. to assist cooling
and the draft , water misters are added that spray cold water over the
hot pipes. the cold water evaporates , removing the heat faster than
just air flow from the draft would and the resulting water vapor is
rapidly carried away by the draft. this produces the clouds frequently
seen rising out of these towers.

that slight pinch (maybe 2 3 of the way up the tower) is there because
it produces a very significant increase in the strength and rate of
the air draft produced , compared to a straight cylinder shape.

the towers are used to recondense the steam in the sealed steam
system of the power plant so that it can be recirculated back to the
boiler and used again. the wider the temperature difference across
the turbines used in the power plant the more effecient they are and
by recondensing the steam in the cooling towers before sending it
back to the boilers you maintain a very wide temperature difference
(sometimes as high as 1000 degrees or more from first stage hot
turbine to final stage cold turbine).

r. tim coslet

usenet r tim coslet@cup.portal.com
technology , n. domesticated natural phenomena

great explaination , however you left off one detail , why do you always
see them at nuclear plants , but not always at fossil fuel plants. at
nuclear plants it is prefered to run the water closed cycle , whereas
fossil fuel plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot
water. as i recall the water is n't as hot (thermodynamically) in many
fossil fuel plants , and of course there is less danger of radioactive
contamination.

wayne martin




from ianchan@leland.stanford.edu (ian hin yun chan)
subject need help on...
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 24

i need help on 4 components

bat85 diode

i know digi key or newark sells them , but the minimum order is 25 !
does anyone know where i can get smaller orders of this diode , or
an equivalent replacement \?

bc546b transistor

ditto for this transistor.

74hc239 chip

digi key , newark and mouser do not appear to carry ths chip does anyone
know what this does and where i can obtain it \?

ym3623b chip

this yamaha chip decodes s pdif data (from cd or dat). where can i obtain
one of these \?

thanks in advance ,
ian

from kehoe@netcom.com (thomas david kehoe)
subject re telephone controlled power bar needed
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 25


i had a similar idea , for a fax answering machine switch ,
to put both machines on one line. you order distinctive
ringing from your phone company. this is 3 month here.
you get a second (unpublished) phone number. when
someone calls this number , your phone rings with short
rings instead of long rings.

you set up your answering machine on 4 rings and your fax
on six rings. you 'd give out the new as your fax .
a device would measure the length of rings. when it
detects a short ring , it turns off your answering machine.
five rings later your fax picks up the call.

this should be cheaper and more elegant than the 80
switches now available.

but that 's not what i did. i'm giving out the new
to my friends and customers. this should leave the
old for telemarketers , etc. i wo n't pick up the
phone when i hear the long rings.

why my thoughts are my own , when they are in , but when they are out
they are another 's. susannah martin , hanged for witchcraft , 1692.
thomas david kehoe kehoe@netcom.com (408) 354 5926

from moselecw@elec.canterbury.ac.nz (moz chris moseley )
subject re building a uv flashlight
nntp posting host betelgeux.canterbury.ac.nz
organization electrical engineering , university of canterbury , new zealand
lines 23

jhawk@panix.com (john hawkinson) writes
my main question is the bulb where can i get uv bulbs \? do they
need a lot of power \? etc. , etc.


he ones i have seen are all fluorescent tubes. maybe you could find a
small tube to go in one of those hand held fluoro lanterns \?

one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near uv
light being cheaper to get at than actual uv light. does anyone
know what he was referring to \?

blue lights. ultra violet (by definition \? ) goes from the blue end of the
spectrum that people see to the radio spectrum (x rays , cosmic rays etc).

possibly you could get light at the fringe of visibility (which people
with false eye lenses can see easily , since it 's your lenses that soak up
most of the uv) , however since most people use uv to get other things
to `glow' , and the near blue is less energetic , it would probably not
work as well , if it worked at all. (lecture on basic atomic physics
fits in here , about electron transitions (quantum leaps) and stuff.

moz

from ptorre@hardy.u.washington.edu (phil torre)
subject re suggestions on audio relays \? \? \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 18
nntp posting host hardy.u.washington.edu

in article c5qsbf.iek@ms.uky.edu billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn) writes
i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched.

is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.

i missed the first part of this thread are you switching line level or
speaker level audio \?
if line level , there 's a single chip 4x1 stereo audio switch available
that switches 4 two channel inputs into 1 two channel output , and also
has a mute function , all controllable with ttl inputs. lm1037 , i think \?

if speaker level , never mind. (

phil torre (ptorre@u.washington.edu)



from mvanhorn@desire.wright.edu (h.i.t. ( hacker in training ))
subject re need to find out number to a phone
organization wright state university
lines 12

since i have seen various different numbers to dial to get your number read
back to you by the phone company , could someonepost a list or point me to a
book where i could get a list of all the different numbers for the u.s. \?
failing that , could someone tell me ohio 's \?



\? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \?
\? 451 \? i do n't speak for wright \?
\? mvanhorn@desire.wright.edu \? state , i just give them \?
\? wright state university \? huge amounts of money. \?
\? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \?

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization megatest corporation
lines 24

in article 20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu alee@ecs.umass.edu writes

greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al

there is a number you can call which will return a synthesized
voice telling you the number of the line. unfortunately , for the
life of me i ca n't remember what it is. the telephone technicians
use it all the time. we used to play around with this in our
dorm rooms since there were multiple phone lines running between
rooms.

sorry !

aaron


from einari@rhi.hi.is (einar indridason)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
lines 31
nntp posting host hengill.rhi.hi.is

in 1993apr21.085848.12704w@lumina.edb.tih.no ketil@edb.tih.no (ketil albertsen , tih) writes

may we interpret this as an offer to volunteer as editor for a
copy protection faq \? i am quite sure that i am not alone welcoming such
an initiative ! i will volunteer to ask some of the questions , if you will
provide the answers )


ok , here could be the first question or answer or something

q i want to copyprotect a program i wrote. how should i do it \?
a you would be wise not to copyprotect that program. you see , those
people that wants to get a cracked copy of your program will go to
various length to crack your program , and some of those crackers
are good , and know the common tricks.
so , the copy protection would n't stop those.
ok , then. what about legitimate users \? copy protection can be a hassle
for legitimate users , and can hinder them in their work , expecially
if there is some key item that can get lost.
so , the copy protection would n't help much of the legitimate users , but
would make life somewhat of a misery for them.



(this is my opinion , and i speak as a legitimate user )
you are of course free to have your opinion about this subject....




einari@rhi.hi.is

from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re can radio freq. be used to measure distance \?
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 25

in article c5v13m.c37@bcstec.ca.boeing.com rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter) writes
i'm wondering if it 's possible to use radio waves to measure the
distance between a transmitter(s) and receiver \?

yes , you could.

seems to me that you should be able to measure the signal strength
and determine distance. this would be for short distances (2000 ft) ,
and i would need to have accuracy of 6 inches , or so.

well , letsee (whipping out hp 48sx , soon to be gx) 6 inches 3 10 8 m s .5
nanoseconds resolution. hmm. that 'll be rather difficult !

the more standard (read better) method is to use ultrasound , generally
somewhere around 40khz. sound travels a heck of a lot slower than light
(radio waves) , and is therefore much easier to deal with.

what frequencies would be best for this \? or does matter \?

it might be easiest to visit a hardware store and look at the numerous
sonic estimator type devices that do what you want here. many are pretty
cheap too 30. (in fact , for awhile the stanley estimator was selling
for something like 8. that 's the one i bought ! ) )

joel kolstad

from rg@futserv.austin.ibm.com (r.g. keen)
subject re all electronics press and peel pcb transfer
reply to ...futserv.austin.ibm.com ! rg
organization ibm coporation advanced workstations and systems.
lines 12

i think there is a huge difference in the materials and
process for printer toner pcb 's. i get first time , everytime
results from a local hp postscript , and hardly ever works from
copies of the same artwork. the printer results are so good
that i have quit even looking for pc board processes. if i had
to use the copier version , i would think i would look elsewhere.
the moral \? experiment and find what works. toner transfer can
give excellent results. it , like any process , gives erratic
results with variable inputs.

r.g.


from gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
subject mc sbi mixer
distribution world
organization ozone online operations , inc. new orleans , la
reply to gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
lines 32

mjm hi , i was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on twwo related
mjm subjects. i am currently learning about am fm receivers and recieving
mjm circuits. i understand a lot of things , but a few things i am confused
mjm abuot. the first is the mixer , to mix the rf and local oscillator
mjm frequencies to make the if. does anyone have any cicruit diagrams (as
mjm simple as possible) for this kind of mixer \? i have come across a
mjm mc sbl mixer chip but i have not been able to find it in any catalogs
mjm (active , etc...)

mjm along the same note , are there any simple fm receiver circuits anyone
mjm may have stashed away somewhere and they couold let me see \? .

mjm p.s. any really good books on am fm theory along with detailed
mjm electrical diagrams would help a lot.
mjm i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of
mjm circuit books with no theory , but one without the other does not help.

digi key has the ne 622 chip which has a local oscillator and mixer on
one chip.

for a great combination of theory with actual circuits , the best
reference for non engineers is probably the radio amateur 's handbook
from the arrl. most library 's have it in the reference section.


slmr 2.1 if ignorance is bliss , why are n't there more happy folk \?


the ozone hole bbs a private bulletin board service (504)891 3142
3 full service nodes usrobotics 16.8k bps 10 gigs 100 , 000 files
skydive new orleans ! rime network mail hub 500 usenet newsgroups
please route all questions or inquiries to postmaster@ozonehole.com

from russotto@eng.umd.edu (matthew t. russotto)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park
lines 33
nntp posting host tea.eng.umd.edu

in article 1993apr14.174857.28314@porthos.cc.bellcore.com dje@bmw535.nosubdomain.nodomain (don eilenberger) writes
in article 1993apr14.153740.18542@nimbus.com , jimiii@nimbus.com (jim warford) writes

there are two simple procedures for alterating any odometer.

1. mechanical driven odometer
remove the speedo cable from the transmission.
attach a drill and run at max speed until the speedo turns over.
continue until the desired mileage is reached.

2. electronically driven odometer
remove the sensor wire from the sensor.
attach the calibration out signal from an oscope to the wire.
run until the speedo turns over and attains the desired mileage.

dear faster.. i kinda wonder.. have you ever tried version 2 \? on what \?
since the sensor wire on a bmw feeds also into the computer.. and we
do n't know what signal voltage is expected from it.. bad things
could happen... also since we do n't know the pulse rate , we
may damage the analog part of the speedo (yes.. bmw uses a combined
instrument.. speed in analog , trip and total milage is digital) with
the needle pegged up against the 160mph stop..

just a thought...

you 've got the oscilliscope , so you connect it up to the sensor wire
and measure this stuff. that way you know what it expects.


matthew t. russotto russotto@eng.umd.edu russotto@wam.umd.edu
some news readers expect disclaimer here.
just say no to police searches and seizures. make them use force.
(not responsible for bodily harm resulting from following above advice)

from webb@itu1 (90 29265 webber ah)
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization rhodes university , grahamstown , south africa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 52

aaron lung (alung@megatest.com) wrote
i was also sceptical about the amps being built in the far east
or where ever. but if you look in the amp and see what components
they use and how it was designed , you can easily see why the
amplifiers sound so brilliant.

good point...also , i would n't be surprised that the components
they use off shore are of inferior quality. as long as it was
properly designed and robust , premium components are used , it
should n't matter where it is assembled.

definately , i agree wholeheartedly. if they can build the amp where
the labour is not so expensive , they can afford to put decent
components in and go to more effort to improve the design of the
amplifier as adcom has done.

i cannot see why people say the amplifier wo n't last not with
those quality components inside. sure the amp runs very fairly
hot but that 's how you get an amp to sound incredibly good.

an amp that runs hot has no bearing on how it 's gonna sound.
the amp you have probably is running class a the whole day.

actually , i 'd be wary of excessively hot amps , 'cauz even though
the components inside may be rated to run that way , excessive
heat will dramatically shorten the life of any electronic component
regardless of quality. in fact , an amp that does run hot to the touch is
because either the engineer or manufacturer of that amp wanted
to skimp on heatsinking or cooling to save costs ! hmmmmm....

sure , i did n't mean to imply that because of the heat generated , the
amp sounds good. my adcom gfp 535ii runs fairly warm not hot to
the touch but enough to satisfy me that the amp is running nicely.
i do n't like it when an amp runs dead cold. it makes one think that
the amp is doing nothing )
the heatsinks that adcom uses in their amps are certainly far for
skimpy they 're massive things with heating vents both below
and above. more than enough to carry away excessive heat.

my opinions once again.



alan webber
webb@itu1.sun.ac.za
webb@itu2.sun.ac.za

the path you tread is narrow and the drop is sheer and very high
the ravens all are watching from a vantage point near by
apprehension creeping like a choo train up your spine
will the tightrope reach the end will the final couplet rhyme


from john@gu.uwa.edu.au (john west)
subject re protection of serial (rs232) lines
keywords serial protection
article i.d. uniwa.1pqp7f h16
organization the university of western australia
lines 13
nntp posting host mackerel.gu.uwa.edu.au

laird@stable.ecn.purdue.edu (kyler laird) writes

there is at least one optically isolated rs 232 transceiver chip. i
do n't remember where i saw it.

rs components (they exist in australia and the uk. do n't know about the us) have
little chips called isolated max 250 and 251. they give you isolated rs 232 from
a single 5v supply. external components are 4 caps , 4 optoisolators , a diode ,
and an isloting transformer. they go up to 19.2k baud..

john west

for the humour impaired insert a ) after every third word

from jimc@tau ceti.isc br.com (jim cathey)
subject re few video questions
organization olivetti north america , spokane , wa
lines 28

in article 7480224@hpfcso.fc.hp.com myers@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (bob myers) writes
situation sometimes called block sync). you can generate such a combined
(or composite ) sync in two simple ways or the h. and v. syncs together ,
which gives you the non serrated block sync , or exor them , which makes
serrations. (try it ! ) actually , the exor does n't really do kosher serrated
sync , since it puts the rising (and falling , for that matter) edge of the h.
sync pulse off by a pulse width. but that usually makes no difference.

sometimes. it depends on your monitor and your timing. if you do n't
have enough vertical front porch and you use xor composite sync you can
get even odd tearing at the top of the screen , which is very sensitive
to the hhold control. it looks like what you would expect if you
scanned the even fields (say) onto a sheet of mylar and had pinched the
upper left corner with your fingers and started to tear it off the tube.
with proper composite sync (equalizing pulses) the interlace is rock
solid.



! ii cccccc ! jim cathey
! ii sssscc ! isc bunker ramo
! ii cc ! taf c8 spokane , wa 99220
! iissss cc ! uucp uunet ! isc br ! jimc (jimc@isc br.isc br.com)
! ii cccccc ! (509) 927 5757

one design to rule them all one design to find them.
one design to bring them all and in the darkness bind
them. in the land of mediocrity where the pc 's lie.

from wex@cs.ulowell.edu (paul m. wexelblat)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
reply to wex@cs.ulowell.edu
organization univ. of lowell cs dept.
lines 11

in article 1993apr15.100452.16793@csx.cciw.ca , u009@csx.cciw.ca (g. stewart beal) writes
i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

we use them as christmas tree decorations , the cat does n't eat these.



...wex

subject pace modem
from mora@verdi.cineca.it (stefano mora)
distribution world
nntp posting host verdi.eng.unipr.it
lines 19

hi ,
i 've got a pace modem , series four 2400s ( made in england by
pace micro technology ) with a broken power supply .
so i 'd like to know

the voltage and current values of the original
power supply ps1001.
the pinout of the power supply connector.
the pinout of the user port and how to use it.

many thanks in advance to all the people help me.
please post the reply also to my e mail..........



sender stefano mora
email mora@verdi.eng.unipr.it



from cmwolf@mtu.edu (engineer by day asleep by night)
subject re los angeles freeway traffic reports
organization michigan technological university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 21

charlie brett (cfb@fc.hp.com) wrote
you were right the second time , it is knx. believe it or not , i also
listen to knx in the evenings here in colorado ! it 's kind of fun driving
through the country listening to traffic jams on the 405. back to your
original question. yes , there are sensors just past every on ramp and
off ramp on the freeways. they 're the same sensors used at most stoplights
now (coils in the pavement). you might want to give caltrans a call or
even ask bill keene (knx 's traffic reporter). i doubt if just anyone can
get the information , but it would be worth asking just in case you can
get it.

i seem to remember that they sell the information (and a computer connection)
to anyone willing to pay.

on the subject of the pavement sensors , can anyone tell me more about them \?



christopher wolf electrical engineer cmwolf@mtu.edu

remember , even if you win the rat race you 're still a rat.

from frankh@scraps.uucp (frank holden ka3uww)
subject re what 's a good ic for rs232 ttl signals \? \?
organization none
lines 34

in c57zsc.9fl@news.cso.uiuc.edu rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tall cool one ) writes



i'm looking for an ic that will convert rs232 voltage levels to ttl voltage
levels. something relatively inexpensive would be nice , too. anyone have
a suggestion \? \? thanks.


well it looks as if digi key sells a chip with the number icl232 that does what
you want. they are selling it for about 3.50...

hope this helps...
frank




customer asked what 's that thing \? .
i answered chuckling well , it 's a highly technical , sensitive
instrument i use in computer repair ! being a layman , you probably
can n't grasp exactly what it does. i call it a b.f.h.....
frank w. holden ka3uww the radio doctor

snailmail inter net
685 addison st. frankh@scraps.pittsburgh.sgi.com
washington , pa. 15301 5601 packet ka3uww@n3idi. wpa.pa.usa.na

disclaimer disclaimer.h i confess , you did it ! ! !



customer asked what 's that thing \? .
i answered chuckling well , it 's a highly technical , sensitive

from rg@futserv.austin.ibm.com (r.g. keen)
subject eico tube tester repairs \?
reply to ...futserv.austin.ibm.com ! rg
organization ibm coporation advanced workstations and systems.
lines 14

i had the good luck to obtain an eico dynamic conductance
tube tester for a song. unfortunately , i was a little out of
key the only thing wrong with it was an open meter movement.
does anyone know where i can find either another meter movement
like it , a dead but not the meter dead unit , or schematics
to specify the current scale of the meter movement \? i can cut
and paste a more sensitive movement in if i can find what the
full scale current was. or... is eico still contactable \?

the thing is a model 666 nope , not a joke or any sort of snide
reference.

r.g.


from wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
subject re 74act \? \? \?
organization nrk clinic for habitual netnews abusers beltway annex
lines 29
reply to wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
nntp posting host skybridge.scl.cwru.edu

others said
74s later modification of 74 for even higher speed , at some cost in
power consumption. effectively obsolete use 74f.

74ls combination of 74l and 74s , for speed comparable to 74 with lower
power consumption. best all round ttl now , widest variety of
devices.

74f fast as blazes , power not too bad. the clear choice for high
speed in ttl. availability and prices generally good.

i hate to disagree w a fellow as smart as henry , but...

a few years back , i worked on a project using lots of high speed
stuff. (my part was slow parallel , whew.) the mild mannered designer
working on the fast (serial) stuff cussed swore at 74f all the time.
it was the harry reams of ttl. one ultra tiny power line glitch , one
hickup , one eyeblink across the board , and bang the f had
toggled counted whatevered. at times he swore it would count even
without any 5 volt supply you can guess what the f stood for....

they would do anything to push s or work around it to avoid using f. i
do n't think i 'd consider using f to replace s unless the consequences
were fully understood.......

a host is a host from coast to coast..wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu
no one will talk to a host that 's close............(301) 56 linux
unless the host (that is n't close).........................pob 1433
is busy , hung or dead....................................20915 1433

from jeh@cmkrnl.com
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
distribution sci.electronics
organization kernel mode systems , san diego , ca
lines 14

in article afge02wb3dvu01@juts.ccc.amdahl.com ,
dws30@p1ps110cd.amdahl.com (david sharpe) writes
there are a few more details to radar and some
rumors that are not true. a common one is that two beams are sent one
reading the car speed and one the ground speed. if this were true then
calabration would be murder. hope this helps (flame on)

gee , then i guess the extra horn that 's mounted in the floor of some sdpd cars ,
firing at the ground at a shallow angle , is just for show , huh \?

(for calibration , they simply turn off one horn or the other.)

jamie hanrahan , kernel mode systems , san diego ca
internet jeh@cmkrnl.com uucp uunet ! cmkrnl ! jeh cis 74140 , 2055

from rmf@bpdsun1.uucp (rob finley)
subject re rams roms with ale latches (for 8051 's)
organization harris allied broadcast div. , quincy , il
lines 22


intel also makes some neat memory and peripheral chips

old technology (early 1980 's)
8155 ram plus io (slow ram as i recall)
8755 eprom plus io (expensive and slow)


intel does make eproms with built in address latches.
i fear that you would need a very flexible and up to date eprom
programmer to write to them.

give them a call. i am not able to locate their memory products book
yet.



sigh... now , who borrowed it...

robert



subject re looking for electronics dept info in austrailia
from matgbb@lure.latrobe.edu.au (byrnes , graham)
organization la trobe university
in reply to hjkim@hyowon.pusan.ac.kr 's message of mon , 19 apr 93 00 38 00 gmt
x news reader vms news 1.24
lines 20

in 1993apr19.003800.18288@worak.kaist.ac.kr hjkim@hyowon.pusan.ac.kr writes

hi netters !

i am looking for the list of universities in austrailia , which has electronics department.
i am considering to spend a year for research in austrailia about communication area. i am interested in mobile communication areas and spread spectrum communications etc.
but i do n't have any information about austrailian universities.
can anybody recommend a good university in co mmunic ation area \?
any comments will be welcomed !

bye.

jaehyung kim

well , i honestly do n't know if they are good , bad or indifferent , but there
is an electronics dept here at la trobe
la trobe university , bundoora vic 3083 australia
fax 613 471 0524
chairman is prof ian white. sorry , do n't have an email address.
graham b

from mike diack mike d@staff.tc.umn.edu
subject anyone got 200 schadow switches with led \?
x xxmessage id a7fc6a05a602655f@dialup slip 1 95.gw.umn.edu
x xxdate thu , 22 apr 93 15 28 05 gmt
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 95.gw.umn.edu
organization persian cat carpet co.
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d7
lines 3

name your price , cap colours quantity available.
cheers
mike

from loving@lanai.cs.ucla.edu (mike loving)
subject specs on eprom data formats
nntp posting host lanai.cs.ucla.edu
organization ucla , computer science department
lines 10


i need the specs on various eprom data formats such as intel hex , motorola s
jedec etc.


can anyone out there provide such info or a pointer to it \?
the one i want the most is intel hex.

mike


from dclaar@cup.hp.com (doug claar)
subject los angeles freeway traffic reports
nntp posting host hprtnyc.cup.hp.com
organization hewlett packard
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.9
lines 4


oops , that 's knx 1070. knbr is up in 'frisco , and down at 680.

doug san fran ca n't be 'the city' jack webb told me so claar

from scst83@csc.liv.ac.uk (mr. c.d. smith)
subject voltage multiplier problem.
organization computer science , liverpool university
lines 53
nntp posting host goyt.csc.liv.ac.uk

hi ,

i 've just built a valve preamp and use a diode capacitor
voltage multiplier to step the 12vac supply voltage up to approx
260vdv. as the load resistance increases , the rc constant decreases
and hence the output voltage drops. i need as high an output
voltage as possible. (about 260v).
the circuit consists of seven voltage multiplier stages
(ie 14 diodes and 14 capacitors) each capacitor develops about 38v
across them , and i take the output from across seven capacitors 260v.
each capacitor is 100mfd at 68v.
if i increase each of the capacitors rating (220 470mfd) , that will
increase the rc constant , and hence alleviate some of the problem.
these capacitors are going to be a little expensive as i need 14 of
them , so

1. what would happen if i connected a 470mfd at 400v capacitor in parallel
with the output (and hence in parallel with the seven 100mfd capacitors) \?
will it , as i assume , increase the c in circuit and hence increase
the rc time constant \? if it does , and my output voltage becomes more
stable by doing this , then i will have killed two birds with one stone...
as i am experiencing some 50hz ripple (and hence amp hum) , and this new
capacitor will 'smooth' this out.

and
2. can anyone recomend a suitable value for an inductor (choke) to
be placed in the output line of the power supply to filter out
the 50hz mains hum. lowest resistance possible !

i 've not got my preamp with me at the moment because it is too much
of a distraction.... (i'm at university and i 've got to get my
dissertation finished in two weeks ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) hence i'm mailing not
playing with my solderoing iron (it 'll be cheaper too in the long
run... especially if 14 new large capacitors do n't work as planned ! )

email please.... ca n't always read the net.....

thanks in advance..


chris )


name mr chris smith twang on that 'ole guitar !
addrs scst83@uk.ac.liv.csc
uni liverpool university quest to build more and more hardware
dgree computer science


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas !
d.h. lawrence.

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought.

from mark@wdc.sps.mot.com (mark shaw)
subject re rumors
nntp posting host 223.199.55.11
organization motorola western mcu design center , chandler arizona
lines 17

in article 1993apr2.174851.22659@cs.unca.edu , kepley@photon.phys.unca.edu (brad kepley) writes
i just heard an unbelievable rumor that motorola has decided to drop their
integrated circuit manufacture business. apparently a digikey rep called
one of our production coordinators , for out information so that we could
make plans to deal with this , that moto was getting out. anybody else
get a call about this \?

too much for me. it 's about like intel announcing they were getting out
of the ic business.


this rumor did n't happen to appear on april 1st \?

if this digikey rep was serious , i think i will buy my parts elsewhere.
if that is the way they do business , you cannot trust them.

mark

from mneideng@thidwick.acs.calpoly.edu (mark neidengard)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
article i.d. zeus.1993apr06.232039.106816
organization academic computing services , cal poly san luis obispo
lines 13

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right.

damn right it does n't ! ohm 's come from the greek letter omega , which
is used for resistance impedance.

of course , the original poster may have been being facetious (let 's hope
so).

mark neidengard
mneideng@cosmos.acs.calpoly.edu

from keith@radio.nl.nuwc.navy.mil
subject tektronix 453 scope for sale
article i.d. radio.623
lines 19
x received by usenet.pa.dec.com id aa26719 tue , 6 apr 93 14 52 02 0700
x received by inet gw 1.pa.dec.com id aa16140 tue , 6 apr 93 14 51 56 0700
x to sci.electronics.usenet

tektronix 453 scope for sale

50mhz bandwidth
portable (not one of the 5xx series boatanchors ! )
delayed sweep
works fine
i do n't have the manual (they are available from various places)
no probes

275 shipping

email me for more info...

regards ,
keith


keith kanoun , wa2q
kdk@radio.nl.nuwc.navy.mil

from avm1993@sigma.tamu.edu (mamishev , alexander valentino)
subject digital voltmeter how does it work \?
organization texas a m university , academic computing services
lines 34
distribution world
nntp posting host sigma.tamu.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

hello ,

let me introduce a problem

when i measure a sinusoidal wave (voltage) with a digital voltmeter , using
ac mode , my output is an rms value (a peak value over 2 squared). right \?
when i measure a square wave in the same mode (ac) , my output is equal
to a peak value , actually , to the upper flat boundary of the wave.
i assumed , that a digital voltmeter makes some kind of integration of the
input value , and divides it over the wave period. right \?
now , i used it to measure the same square wave as above , but distorted
by high frequency harmonics. ideally , output should be the same , but...
the output value was only about 10 of the previous one !
why \? what is the nature of this output value \? what does the voltmeter
actually measure \? and what does it show \?

related question (less important to me)
what are advantages and disadvantages of digital voltmeters to compare with
analog ones \?

thank you for your attention , you could mail me your opinion at
avm1993@zeus.tamu.edu or open a discussion here. i would appreciate either
way.


alexander v. mamishev


power system automation laboratory phone office (409) 845 4623
department of electrical engineering phone home (409) 846 5850
texas a m university fax (409) 862 2282
college station , tx 77843 , usa internet avm1993@zeus.tamu.edu



from bryan@philips.oz.au (bryan ryan)
organization philips public telecommunications systems , melbourne , australia
subject re rams roms with ale latches (for 8051 's)
lines 28

spp@zabriskie.berkeley.edu (steve pope) writes

in article 1qg98sinnokf@sheoak.ucnv.edu.au jeff@redgum.ucnv.edu.au (j. pethybridge) writes
hello again ,
i asked this a year ago , but i am still looking.
i am getting sick of having to use a hc373

jeff , just use the damned 373. sure , there are oddball
latched memory chips , but do you really want to use them \?

sorry if i'm pedantic but design your circuit using
reasonably available parts , and move on to more important
problems.

we 're looking at a series of chips by wsi , the psd3xx series. they have
mega address decoding logic on them , various rom sizes (upto 1mbit) ,
various ram sizes (upto 16 k) , and 19 i o ports which can be chip select
lines , i o or the buffered address lines.

cute chip , 44 pin plcc package.

second sourcing may be a problem though (


bryan ryan , vk3tkx
melbourne , australia
bryan@philips.oz.au


from peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch)
subject telephone on hook off hok
lines 17

allmichael covingtontelephone on hook off hok

mc from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
mc organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
mc aye , there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , th
mc equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off hook.
mc in the on hook state you 're not supposed to draw current.

ok lets have some calculation here going by australian standards , which i
presume might be similar to other countries ( if not , lets have some
input) a phone uses 600ohm to loop a 48v line 80ma. a standard led
drains 20ma. so what is the actual loop current required for an off hook
indication , do you know \?

cheers
peter t.


from mtrek@netcom.com (chuck l. peterson)
subject 40mhz oscilloscope for sale
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 11

i'm giving up hardware design and
am selling my oscilloscope

bk precision model 1541b
40 mhz dual trace
barely used
450 firm (fry 's sells it for 589 tax)

prefer people in silicon valley , so i do n't have to ship it.

mtrek@netcom.com

from howeg@p4.cs.man.ac.uk (monty mole)
subject fm transmitter
keywords old question i know
lines 14

can anyone please email a diagram or give me details of an ftp site where there
is a diagram of a simple , small fm mono voice transmitter for trasnmitting in
the 90 104 range (preferably above 100 mhz). only a short distance requiered ,
and frequency variation no too important but must run from 9v or smaller dc
supply.

thanx in advance

monty.

howeg@uk.ac.man.cs
howeg@cs.man.ac.uk

save the vinyl !

from jmichael@vnet.ibm.com
subject electric power line balls
article i.d. almaden.19930406.142616.248
lines 4

power lines and airplanes do n't mix. in areas where lines are strung very
high , or where a lot of crop dusting takes place , or where there is danger
of airplanes flying into the lines , they place these plastic balls on the
lines so they are easier to spot.

from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 12
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article c5jch1.frc@ulowell.ulowell.edu wex@cs.ulowell.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.100452.16793@csx.cciw.ca , u009@csx.cciw.ca (g. stewart beal) writes
i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

we use them as christmas tree decorations , the cat does n't eat these.

yes , but they do n't look appropriate. i much prefer used 833 tubes on
my tree.
scott

from patter@dasher.cc.bellcore.com (patterson , george r)
subject re power , signal surges in home...
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
lines 20

in article 1993apr20.232804.24632@mprgate.mpr.ca vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl) writes
kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey) writes

my car , unfortunately , has so much computer junk under the hood that it 's
astonishingly sensitive to rfi.

hmmmmm... this has possibilities
if the police are in pursuit of a vehicle , maybe they can bombard it with
high energy rfi. )

right. so all the cops will be buying antique muscle cars for chase cars
otherwise the police cars will die too !


to get the attention of a large animal , be it an
elephant or a bureaucracy , it helps to know what
george patterson part of it feels pain. be very sure , though , that
you want its full attention.
kelvin throop


from ravin@eecg.toronto.edu (govindan ravindran)
subject decoupling caps onboard
organization department of electrical and computer engineering , university of toronto
lines 10

(posted for a friend)
hello there ,
i would like to know if any one had any experience with having
on board decoupling capacitors (inside a cmos chip) for the power
lines. say i have a lot of space left im my pad limited design.
any data on the effect of oxide breakdown \? any info or pointers
are appreciated.

rs


from mycal@netacsys.com (mycal)
subject atari 2600 processors
distribution world
organization acsys , inc.
lines 19


for all people that are interested in every aspect of the 2600 try the
zine

2600 connection
1 cash to
timothy duarte
po box n , 664
westport , ma 02790

for sample




pgp key on request. mycal@netacsys.com

mycal 's way of skiing moguls
turn , turn , turn , air , survive , survive , survive... no risk , no rush

from cs000rdw@selway.umt.edu (richard d warner)
subject uart cpu rom ram subsystem
keywords cheap , low cost , small
organization university of montana
lines 21

this is a followup post to something i 've written previously. several
people responded with good information , but i do n't think i communicated
exactly what i am looking for.
i'm working on a custom i o device that will communicate with a host
via rs 232. my custom circuitry will use an 80c186eb or ec cpu and require
about 64k of ram (preferably flash ram). in looking around , i see that lots
of people have engineered uart cpu rom ram subsystems that are ready to be
interfaced to your custom i o devices. it 's been done so much , that it
would be best if i can avoid reinventing a system. it just needs to use
an 80c186 (or 188) cpu , and be able to load a program from the host then
transfer control to that program. well , there 's one other thing the rom
needs to know how to do. it should have routines to send and receive bytes
to from the host , that utilize the hardware control lines (dtr , rts , dts , cts).
everything i 've seen is in the 200.00 and up range. that 's too much for
this application. i need something around 100.00. the cpu has the uart
built in , so you 're only looking at a few chips. does anyone know a
company that markets a good board in this range , or some public domain
circuitry i can use \? thanks in advance for the info.

rich


from neale@ee.rochester.edu (reg neale)
subject pioneer laser player
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science
lines 5

i'm trying to figure out how to operate a pioneer laserdisc ld 1000 that i bought at a surplus store. it is reputedly from some kind of computerised viewing
and or ordering system. there is what may be an hpib connector on the back. when
i power it up , the front panel power light comes on , but no activity , and the
door does n't open. anyone have any experience with this unit or any ideas on how
to obtain documentation \?

from gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
subject help how to constru
distribution world
organization ozone online operations , inc. new orleans , la
reply to gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
lines 27

dean anneser (anneser@pwa b.uucp) wrote
my 9 yr old son has signed up to do a science report on batteries. i was
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to
construct a home built battery. in my grade school days , i remember seei
the 'ice cube tray' version , but i do n't remember what to use as a good
electrolyte or what the easily obtainable metals were.

thank you in advance.

i remember watching a whole mr. wizzard program on this subject when
i was a kid. the battery constructed on the program which made the
biggest impression on me , and generated the most power , was made using
a galvanized bucket (for the zinc) and a copper toilet tank float. the
electrolyte was sauerkraut !

take a lemon. stick a copper strip into the lemon. stick a galvanized
nail in about 1 to 1 1 2 inches from the copper strip. you should get
about 1 2 volt from it enough to light an led.


slmr 2.1 support your medical examiner , die strangely.


the ozone hole bbs a private bulletin board service (504)891 3142
3 full service nodes usrobotics 16.8k bps 10 gigs 100 , 000 files
skydive new orleans ! rime network mail hub 500 usenet newsgroups
please route all questions or inquiries to postmaster@ozonehole.com

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re hv diodes
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 36

in article 7480220@hpfcso.fc.hp.com , myers@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (bob myers) writes
nope. the dag is on the outside of the tube , and is grounded. the inside
aluminization is the second anode , and is connected to the 'anode'
suction cup. this (with the glass of the tube in between) is a capacitor ,
and is used as the power supply bypass filter for the hv supply. some
smaller scope tubes do n't have an aquadag coating on the outside. if they
are in mu metal shields , you still have a capacitor.

actually (and i think i said this in the original , but perhaps was n't clear
enough) there is usually both an internal and an external dag. of the two ,
the internal dag is the more important the aluminization of the back of the
phosphor is in most cases not adequate to guarantee connection to the anode
button (and in the case where the gun assembly includes an accelerating
electrode at anode potential , most definitely does not provide that
connection).

bob is indeed correct here in more than one way. a look in the old
rca picture tube manual backs this up , as does sams reference data
handbook. the internal coating around the perimeter of the crt
(not the aluminum or tin crt face coating) is referred to as a
dag as well as the outer coating.

thankfully , i did n't need to go to a f library to find it , either.
one sparkling water for mr. vanderbyl (no caffeine in that , is there).



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
article i.d. shelley.1qngqlinnnp8
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 25
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article c5l5x0.kj7@vcd.hp.com johne@vcd.hp.com (john eaton) writes
s87271077 s.walker man 50 (swalker@uts.edu.au) wrote

during the nuclear fission reaction the uranium fuel can get hot enough
to melt. when this happens the liquid uranium is pumped to the cooling
tower where it is sprayed into the air.

nonsense. first , the uranium fuel is sealed in zirconium
alloy cylinders (which do n't melt in any circumstances short of
major failure of the power plant). second , the primary water
(that circulates inside the reactor core) is never pumped into the
cooling tower (it 's the secondary water cycle that goes
through the cooling tower). third , liquid uranium would burst
into flame on contact with air.

contact with the cool outside air
will condense the mist and it will fall back to the cooling tower floor.
there it is collected by a cleaning crew using shop vacs and is then
reformed into pellets for reactor use the next day.

cleaning crew working in a mist of uranium \? this is a
toxic heavy metal , even if it weren't radioactive. should n't there
be some smileys here \? or frowneys \?

john whitmore

from massey@travis.llnl.gov
subject re jacob 's ladder
article i.d. travis.1993apr6.093828.1
organization lawrence livermore national laboratory
lines 15
nntp posting host travis.llnl.gov

in article c4z6x7.16b@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , dgj2y@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu (david glen jacobowitz) writes
i 've been wanting to build a tesla coil for quite awhile now (
who does n't , right \? ) and i thought it would be a good intermidiate
step to build a jacob 's ladder first.
well , i have been looking for a high voltage transformer that
is reasonable inexpensive ( neon sign transformers cost mucho ).


in the past i 've managed to buy used neon sign transformers from sign shops
for about 20. try calling around.


warren n. massey massey@travis.llnl.gov
lawrence livermore national laboratory 7000 east ave. , p.o. box 808 , l 495
livermore , calif. 94550 my opinions are mine alone (510)422 1958

from jack@multimedia.cc.gatech.edu (tom rodriguez)
subject composite video what are hd and vd \?
article i.d. multimed.jack.93apr6032642
organization multimedia computing group
lines 19


i 've got an rgb mistubishi monitor and on the back it has 5
bnc connectors labeled like this

composite
hd vd

sync red green blue

i 've used it as a straight rgb monsitor but i ca n't figure out
how to use it for composite. could someone explain what these markings
mean \? thanks for any help.

tom

tom rodriguez (jack@cc.gatech.edu)
multimedia computing group gvu lab
georgia institute of technology
atlanta , georgia 30332 0280

from klg@mookie.mc.duke.edu (kim greer)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization duke medical center radiology
lines 27
nntp posting host mookie.mc.duke.edu

in article 1993apr15.044636.29924@slcs.slb.com dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (dan day) writes
that 's scary if there 's a way to set an arbitrary mileage figure
into the odometer , you ca n't trust any odometer reading , even
if you can prove that the odometer itself is the same one that
came on the car originally.

i was wondering if anyone can shed any light on just how it is that these
electronic odometers remember the total elapsed mileage \? what kind of
memory is stable reliable enough , non volatile enough and independent enough
(of outside battery power) to last say , 10 years or more , in the life of a
vehicle \? i'm amazed that anything like this could be expected to work for
this length of time (especially in light of all the gizmos i work with that
are doing good to work for 2 months without breaking down somehow).

side question how about the legal ramifications of selling a used car with
a replaced odometer that starts over at 0 miles , after say 100 200 300k
actual miles. looks like fraud would be fairly easy for the price of a
new odometer , you can say it has however many miles you want to tell the
buyer it has.

thanks for any insight.


kim greer
duke university medical center klg@orion.mc.duke.edu
div. nuclear medicine pob 3949 voice 919 681 5894
durham , nc 27710 fax 919 681 5636

from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re history question
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 16
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article 2775@snap paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson) writes

i recall reading of a phonograph which used mechanical amplification.
compressed air was squirted out of a valve which was controlled by the
pickup. the result was noisy and distinctly lo fi , but much louder
than a conventional phonograph. it tended to wear the disks out
pretty quickly though.

this was the pathe you are thinking of , although there were other imitators.
it did n't wear the disks any more than conventional acoustic designs , but
it did have a high noise level due to the continual hiss of escaping air.
there are a lot of them still operating , and they are pretty ingenious.

there was a pneumatic amplifier designed by alexander graham bell , as well ,
but i do n't know if it was ever constructed.
scott

from monta@image.mit.edu (peter monta)
subject re mc sbi mixer
in reply to musone@acsu.buffalo.edu 's message of 19 apr 93 21 10 14 gmt
organization mit advanced television research program
lines 24

musone@acsu.buffalo.edu (mark j. musone) writes

p.s. any really good books on am fm theory along with detailed
electrical diagrams would help a lot.
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of
circuit books with no theory , but one without the other does not help.

mixers have a wide variety of implementations the mini circuits
part you mention is a doubly balanced diode mixer , but active ones
(bjt , fet) seem more popular in consumer receivers. you might
call mcl they have a nice catalog.

the universal answer for wide coverage , theory practice , rf design
is the arrl handbook , published by the american radio relay
league , the radio amateur organization. any technical bookstore
can order you one. the book is superb , with lots of accessible
theory , construction projects , and generally interesting stuff.

you might also check out solid state design for the radio amateur
(i think) , by hayward and someone . this has sharper design
and test information about subsystems like mixers.

peter monta monta@image.mit.edu
mit advanced television research program

from rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert g. carpenter)
subject can radio freq. be used to measure distance \?
organization boeing computer services
lines 19

i'm wondering if it 's possible to use radio waves to measure the
distance between a transmitter(s) and receiver \?

seems to me that you should be able to measure the signal strength
and determine distance. this would be for short distances (2000 ft) ,
and i would need to have accuracy of 6 inches , or so.

how about measuring vertical distance as well , any chance or am i getting
ridiculous \?

what frequencies would be best for this \? or does matter \?

sorry if i'm mucking up the network with one of those questions best
answered by bill willis via us mail... and i apologize for not being
tuned in to electronics. )


r.g. carpenter , ph.d. , p.e. (sorry... only an me)


from surfer@world.std.com (internet surfer)
subject 6551a and 6551 compatibility
organization boston computer society isig
lines 10

does any one know if the 6551 is timing pin compatible with the 6551..
it seems the 6551 has in iheirent bug with cts rts handshaking and i need
a suitable pin replacement to put in my serial card... possibly a buffered
version perhaps \?



jolt@gnu.ai.mit.edu its not impossible , just improbable
johnp@pro.angmar.uucp (zaphod beeblbrox)
bl298@cleveland.freenet.edu n1nig@amsat.org (being a ham is so grand)

from ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu (randy agee)
subject radar detector detectors \?
organization virginia 's public education network (richmond)
lines 50

here 's one i hope some knowledgeable readers will make a comment or
contribution to

in the state of virginia radar detectors are illegal , period. if
you are caught with one it will be confiscated on the spot and will
not be returned until after you appear in court and pay your fine.
the fine for having a radar detector accessible in a motor vehicle
(even if it is not on) is 250.00. sorry , tourist , ignorance of
the law is no excuse they will get you too !

it used to be that the only way the law could be enforced was for
an officer to actually see the radar detector. not any more ! many
law enforcement agencies are now using radar detector detectors.
right , a super sensitive receiver that is capable of picking up rf
from the radar detector itself. my first reaction was no way !
but , guess again , these little buggers really work and the police
are writing citations right and left for people using radar
detectors. one news story quoted an officer as saying that he had
found the radar detector in all of the cars he stopped except one ,
and he could never figure out where it was but he knew it was
there. this tends to make one assume there are few false arrest.

now , before i get flamed , please understand that i do drive at or
near the speed limit. i do not need a radar detector to keep me
from getting a speeding ticket. but , i do like to know when my
speed is being clocked or a speed trap is functioning. my radar
detector now stays locked in my trunk when i am in virginia (which
is what they want and yes , what the law says , and i intend to
obey the law ! ) and is only used in states where it is legal.

for my fellow hams , i am not a microwave person my mind only
works in the hf spectrum between 10 and 80 meters. microwave
enlightment may be necessary.

so , the questions are
what do the radar detector detectors actually detect \?
would additional shielding grounding bypassing shield stray rf generated by
a radar detector , or is the rf actually being emitted by the detector
antenna \?
are any brands quieter than others \?


randy t. agee ars wb4bzx at some point , you probably pondered the
p.o. box 2120 20th floor meaning of life , and you came up with a
virginia department of education satisfactory answer , which has or has not
richmond , va 23216 2120 stood the test of time , or you shrugged
phone (804) 225 2669 mightily , muttered beats the heck out of
ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu me , and ordered a cheeseburger.



from mniederb@pws2.itr.ch (niederberger markus)
subject characterization of opamps
organization interkantonales technikum rapperswil (itr) switzerland
lines 23

hi ,

right now i should do some characterization of opamps. because i do n't
have
special equipment for this task , i have to do this job with relativly
simple
equipments (frequency sweeper , dso , etc.).
does anyone know good test circuitry for characterization of opamps \?
especially for measuring open loop gain , phase margin , pssr , cmmr and so
on.
are there any books or application notes on this subject available \?

please reply vi e mail or nn.

thanks
mark



mark niederberger
e mail mniederb@itr.ch



from wayne alan martin wm1h @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re help with ultra long timing
organization senior , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 7
distribution world
nntp posting host po4.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 1pqk9b ib4@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au

sounds like a job for a universal time reciever. i do n't know the
logisitics of the situation , but if you could just place a reciever in
snow and place the oscillator in a nice lab somewhere else , your
problems should be solved.
just a suggestion.

wayne martin

from ali@cns.nyu.edu (alan macaluso)
subject microphone pre amp low noise phantom powered
nntp posting host liu.cns.nyu.edu
reply to ali@cns.nyu.edu
organization new york university
lines 13

i'm looking to build a microphone preamp that has very good low noise characteristics , large clean gain , and incorportates phantom power (20 48 volts (dc)) for a pzm microphone. i'm leaning towards a good , low cost ( \? \? ) instrumentation amplifier to maintain the balanced input from the microphone , for its good cmrr , internal compensation , and because i can use a minimal of parts.

does anyone out there have any experience , suggestions , advice , etc...that they 'd like to pass on , i 'd greatly appreciate it.



a l a n m a c a l u s o purple moon giants
ali@cns.nyu.edu 158 e. 7th. st. b5
(212) 998 7837 nyc 10009
(212) 982 6630




from ba1634807@ntuvax.ntu.ac.sg
subject pwm control thru software
lines 17
nntp posting host v9001.ntu.ac.sg
organization nanyang technological university singapore


currently i am using the 8051 microcontroller with external eprom..

in order to drive the dc motor (with direction) i use the pulse width modultion

thru software control(assembly language programming). however i am afraid that

they will be overheads and thus alter the pulse timing. my question is

is the software pwm control reliable \? . i understand that port 0 is a latch

and so i vary the duty cycle by setting it high first and at the desire

duty cycle then i set low.. \? any improments \?




from jeh@cmkrnl.com
subject re need help with car stereo....
organization kernel mode systems , san diego , ca
lines 38

in article 1qih53 9ho@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , ae454@cleveland.freenet.edu
(paul simundza) writes
my friend has a nice alpine car stereo , and it only has 2 channels ,
but one of them does not work. it does not put out any current or voltage
at all , is that channel therefore blown \? i then shut the radio off and
ran continuity into the two speaker ouputs of the channel , and it charged
and discharged so i know the wires just aint bad....

this probably only tells you that the dc blocking capacitor that 's in series
between the one chip , single ended audio amp and the speaker terminal is there.

any ideas \?

open it up and look for the power amp ics . they 'll be fairly obvious.
replace the one connected to the dead output.

also ,
how would i locate where the signal of the radio tape unit is before it
gets amplified , because then could n't i hook up rca outputs to that signal
so then he could just use a little amplifier \?

well , one thing you should do is poke around the terminals of the power amp
chips. use a probe with a 10m resistor (like a scope probe) connected to the
input of a small audio amp w speaker. if you find line level input to both
chips , one of the chips is bad and can probably replaced pretty easily.

if you want to pick off a near line level signal , suitable for feeding to an
outboard amp , the outer legs of the volume control pot will often be good
enough. this is before the volume control (and usually before the tone and
balance controls too). if you take off from the center and ground legs of
the volume pot , this will be after the volume control (but again , probably
before the other controls).

if the unit is a modern type with an electronic volume control chip , you should
probably forget the whole thing.

jamie hanrahan , kernel mode systems , san diego ca
internet jeh@cmkrnl.com uucp uunet ! cmkrnl ! jeh cis 74140 , 2055

from tron@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (tron r.)
subject modulation over rf
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 11

i would like to modulate a 40khz squarewave over rf. this is for a rf
remote control project. the squarewave has a high of 5 v and low of 0v.

thanks.

tron

t
t t
t t t
t t t

from cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us (cyberman)
subject re what to do with old 2
lines 19
x maildoor waflinemail 1.00r

kris gleason said
re what to do with old 2
to all on 04 15 93 11 02
kg yeah... keychains. i have seen 64k simms with a silver
kg keyring attached , big seller at the computer store. i'm
kg sure you could find a bunch of geeks h h h h h h computer
kg science majors around that would buy them for 10. maybe
kg 15 , if you 're lucky.

untrue they would check jdr first and say 5. that 's how much
they are worth at most. my guess is they are worth 1 buck
a peice.

stephen cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us
mangled on sat 04 17 1993 at 20 26 37

... this tagline is a duplicate. this tagline is a duplicate.
blue wave qwk v2.12


from rdell@cbnewsf.cb.att.com (richard.b.dell)
subject re fujitsu 8 hdd
keywords m2321k , m2322k , fujitsu , microdisk (
organization at t
distribution na
lines 15

in article 1993apr17.204351.2256@aber.ac.uk cjp1@aber.ac.uk (christopher john powell) writes

deletions

it appears to use two balanced line connections , but what each connection
corresponds to i know not. one connection is a 30 way idc , the other a
60 way idc.

sounds like it is an smd interface to me , not being at work now
to actually count pins. there are two varients , smd and
smdc (i think) , only minor differences between them. widely used
prior to the advent of scsi for large drives (or all drives) on minis
(and mainframes( \? ) no experience on those).

richard dell

from mabbot@stellenbos.csir.co.za (mike abbot)
subject high level language compilers for ucontrollers \?
article i.d. stellenb.mabbot.30.0
organization csir
lines 15
nntp posting host 146.64.23.16
x disclaimer none of the opions expressed herein are the official
x disclaimer opinions of the csir or any of its subsidiaries.
x disclaimer so do n't freak out at us about anything

howdy chaps

has anybody got any pointers to good c , pascal , etc compilers for
microcontrollers , shareware or otherwise \?

my specific need is for 8051 c , but if the responses are many and varied i
will post a summary.

cheers
mike


mike abbott mabbot@stellenbos.csir.co.za
cape town mabbot@fred.csir.co.za
south africa

from harton@owlnet.rice.edu (tracy brian harton)
subject wireless transmitter receivers at rs
organization rice university
lines 12


does anyone know what frequencies the wireless transmitter receiver
microphone systems that radio shack sells operate at \? i 've tried
everything short of opening one up (not actually owning one makes
this difficult...) and just looking.. any help would be greatly
appreciated.. these systems are designed for wireless pa systems , etc..


thanks ,

tracy


from gt0869a@prism.gatech.edu (waters , clyde gordon)
subject re history question
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 23

in article 2775@snap paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson) writes
this is vague , so i am posting it in case anyone else knows more.

i recall reading of a phonograph which used mechanical amplification.
compressed air was squirted out of a valve which was controlled by the
pickup. the result was noisy and distinctly lo fi , but much louder


nasa and related agencies apparently used this same principles to create
the loudest reported reproduced sound. they used an analog electrically
controlled valve to control the flow of air across a horn throat. if i
remember correctly it was called a modulated air blast transducer . there
were reports of the thing being able to produce 106 db @ 80 hz @ 10 mile
distance , communicate directly with fighter pilots @ 5000 ft , etc.

regards ,
gordon.


waters , clyde gordon bme '93 georgia institute of technology atlanta ga.
out of the mountain of despair , we can hew the stone of hope mlk jr.
uucp ... ! decvax , hplabs , ncar , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! gt0869a
internet gt0869a@prism.gatech.edu

from alee@ecs.umass.edu
subject need to find out number to a phone line
lines 13


greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al



from vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
subject re hv diodes
nntp posting host chip
reply to vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
organization mpr teltech ltd.
lines 15

in article 1pohuq 4sq@grouper.mkt.csd.harris.com , wdh@grouper.mkt.csd.harris.com (w. david higgins) writes
i believe the only thing that needs correction , mr. vanderbyl , is your
attitude.

nope , mr. myers has found the bad mistake and posted a correction , thank god.

acting the child wo n't gain you any favors or make a

who 's acting \?

positive impression with anybody. ghod knows you 've make an impression
on me just not a positive one.

oh no , i have n't impressed mr. higgins.


from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
article i.d. rave.1pseebinnhn6
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 14
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article 1993apr6.092913.18724@sei.cmu.edu rsd@sei.cmu.edu (richard s d'ippolito) writes

in article 1pkveuinnduk@gap.caltech.edu , joseph chiu writes

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...


yeah , right. and the company was started by george simon ohmite.

that 's completely inaccurate. the ohm was an original standard made equal
to a the resistance of a standardized electric stove heating element. that 's
where the song ohm on the range came from , of course.
scott

from mtearle@gu.uwa.edu.au (mark tearle)
subject re looking for electronics dept info in austrailia
organization the university of western australia
lines 37
nntp posting host mackerel.gu.uwa.edu.au

hjkim@hyowon.pusan.ac.kr (hojoong kim) writes

hi netters !

i am looking for the list of universities in austrailia , which has electronics department.
i am considering to spend a year for research in austrailia about communication area. i am interested in mobile communication areas and spread spectrum communications etc.
but i do n't have any information about austrailian universities.
can anybody recommend a good university in co mmunic ation area \?
any comments will be welcomed !

can i suggest the university of western australia in perth.
the weathers great , the people are great and our electronic engineering department is great.
i am a first year student here ... so i do n't know much about what projects but i do know they have a good reputation in the fields of dsp and communications. ever heard of qpsx \? the people who own are ex uwa ... so that gives an indication of what the department is like.

for more information
email yianni@swanee.ee.uwa.edu.au
with the above request and he should be able to tell some more info

or write

department of electrical and electronic engineering
university of western australia
stirling highway
crawley 6009
western australia
australia


yours
mark

mtearle@tartarus.uwa.edu.au


mark tearle

email mtearle@tartarus.uwa.edu.au

from rkim@mars.uucp (richard h.s. kim)
subject need sources for hv capacitors.
article i.d. nic.1993apr5.213718.4721
distribution usa
organization triacus inc.
lines 26
nntp posting host mars.calstatela.edu

recently , my video monitor went dead , no picture , some low distorted sound.
i did n't hear the tell tale cracking that indicated hv at work , nor are the
filaments at the far end of the tube glowing orange , just nothing.

on examining the power board , i noticed the largest capacitor with a very
bad bulge at the top. naturally , i want to replace it , but i ca n't find
any sources.

the electrolytic capacitor is 330 mf at 250wv. it has radial leads , and is
roughly 1 1 2 inches long , 1 1 8 wide. the dimensions are important since
the whole board fits in a metal cage , leaving little room.

living in the los angeles area , i 've been to numerous stores (dow radio ,
all electronics , itc elect , sandy 's , yale elect) with empty hands.

can anyone suggest sources for high voltage capacitors \? mail order is
fine , although i 'd rather check out a store to compare the can. i'm going
to try a video electronics store , hopefully they 'll have hv caps.

(by the way , the monitor is a atari sc1224 , goldstar circuitry , masushita
tube. anyone else had problems \? )

thanks in advance ,
rich k.

email rkim@opus.calstatela.edu

from kng@pt.com (ken gravenstede)
subject decent , cheap 20 mhz scopes \?
organization performance technologies , incorporated
lines 12

any info on modern 20mhz or better dual trace scopes would be appreciated.
should i buy a used one or a new one \? and where \?

please e mail.

thanks in advance.

ken


ken gravenstede , performance technologies incorporated kng@pt.com
315 science parkway , rochester , new york 14620 uupsi ! ptsys1 ! kng

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re where to buy parts 1 or 2 at a time \?
nntp posting host aisun3.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 15

the pricing of parts reminds me of something a chemist once said to me

a gram of this dye costs a dollar.
it comes out of a liter jar which also costs a dollar.
and if you want a whole barrel of it , that also costs a dollar.

i.e. , they charge you almost exclusively for packaging it and delivering
it to you the chemical itself (in that particular case) was a byproduct
that cost almost nothing intrinsically.


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from dhembrow@eoe.co.uk (david hembrow)
subject re sid chip to ibm system bus
organization eo europe limited , cambridge , uk
lines 10
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6

mr mc howell (g90h6721@hippo.ru.ac.za) wrote
please do n't ask questions like why do n't you buy a soundblaster . the
answer is simple overpriced considering the sound quality .

why not try one of the projects to build a dac connected to the parallel
port as documented in some files which come with modplay \? these vary from
a 4 dac design to a simple single dac made only of resistors.
david hembrow eo europe ltd. ,
email dhembrow@eoe.co.uk abberley house , granhams road ,
great shelford , cambridge cb2 5lq , england

from cab@col.hp.com (chris best)
subject re illusion
organization your service
lines 15
nntp posting host hpctdkz.col.hp.com

this is not a new idea. at least 10 years ago i got this little gadget with
a keyboard on the back and 8 led 's in a vertical row on the front. it has a
long handle and when you wave it in the air it writes the message you typed
on the keyboard in the air.



this is not news. in fact it 's where i got the idea from , since it was
such a neat item. mattell made it , i believe , modeled after a space
saber or light sword or something likewise theme y. my addition was
using a motor for continuous display , and polar effects in addition to
character graphics. i should have protected it when i had the chance.
no one to kick but myself...

ten years ago is about right , since i built mine in '84 or '85.

from rsf@cbnewsb.cb.att.com (roberto.s.freire)
subject fluke scopemeter
organization at t
lines 14

has anybody out there used tested these new fluke scopemeters \?
how do they compare to a low end tectronix oscilloscope \? are
there any big drawbacks about these handheld scopes when
compared to the benchtop scopes of the same price range
( 1000 2000) \?

any info on the fluke scopemeters would be greatly appreciated.

thanks ,

bob freire
rsf@houxa.att.com



from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re flyback squeal in video monitors
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 41

in article 1993mar31.204036.4359@ssc.com , markz@ssc.com (mark zenier) writes
zack lau (zlau@arrl.org) wrote
in sci.electronics , xhan@uceng.uc.edu (xiaoping han) writes
in article 1993mar24.163510.158@hubcap.clemson.edu michaet@hubcap.clemson.edu (michael d. townsend) writes
brendan@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (brendan jones) writes

my mom 's 25 magnavox does this as well. i put chewing gum all around
the horizontal sync transformer so it would n't resonate the board as
much. do n't flame , it worked. i realize that there is a more suitable
substance available for this purpose , but i do n't remember what and
where it is.

adhesive silicon , from hardware store.

if it smells like vinegar , it may damage metal surfaces by
promoting corrosion.

anybody tried superglue (cyanoacrylate \? ). this should sneak
into the cracks better , and is stiffer than silicone.

i 've found this works pretty well on noisy laminated power
transformer cores and windings (the 60hz kind). likewise , if
anybody has tried this on a flyback i 'd like to hear about it.

i would suspect it would not be as effective as it was on power
transformers as the material would n't damp as well something
i suspect would be critical at the frequencies involved (in other
words , you want absorption rather than prevention which would be
real difficult at 15 khz).



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
subject re power , signal surges in home...
nntp posting host chip
reply to vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
organization mpr teltech ltd.
lines 15

kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey) writes

my car , unfortunately , has so much computer junk under the hood that it 's
astonishingly sensitive to rfi. if i key a 2w ht over the engine with
the hood open , the car loses timing due to the rf leaking into the
distributor pickup. very poor design.

there was a news article a little while ago reporting a type of car (was
it a volvo \? ) was found to stall if you used a certain brand model of cellular
phone in it. i seem to remember the car was recalled to fix the problem.

hmmmmm... this has possibilities
if the police are in pursuit of a vehicle , maybe they can bombard it with
high energy rfi. )


from hanavin@huey.udel.edu (chuck hanavin)
subject re heathkit zenith
nntp posting host huey.udel.edu
organization university of delaware , newark
lines 7

in article c52egz.27t3@austin.ibm.com login@austin.ibm.com writes

does anyone out there have the toll free (catalog request and order line) for
heathkit zenith \? please post the number if you 've got it ! thanks.


1 800 253 0570

from domain@cbnewsf.cb.att.com (george.d.hodge)
subject dayton hamfest
summary where and when is dayton hamfest
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 14


some weeks ago , someone posted an article telling when and where
a hamfest and computerfest was going to be help in dayton , oh.
unfortunately , i lost the article and i was wondering if someone
could repost it.

i believe it was being held the 23 , 24 , and 25 of this month at
the dayton convention center but i'm not sure.

any help and more details would be greatly appreciated.

george.d.hodge
domain@cbcat.att.com


from u934132@student.canberra.edu.au (ogawa taro stephen (ise))
subject help wanted
summary decoders
organization university of canberra
lines 9

could someone please tell me if a 1 4 decoder is the same as a 1 to 4
demultiplexer. i know how to link 2 of these to get an 8 output circuit ,
but how do i link 5 of these to make a 1 16 multiplexer. sorry if this
seems like a lame question , but i'm only a newbie to electronics , and i
have to do this circuit. please make any mail as droolproof as possible.

thanx ,
taro ogawa
(u934132@student.canberra.edu.au)

from ray@ole.cdac.com (ray berry)
subject re 25 network
organization cascade design automation
lines 11

zjoc01@hou.amoco.com (jack o. coats) writes

the same folks now have out lbl (little big lan) for 75. i think you
get it for 50 if you already own 25 network. lbl works with arcnet ,
parallel ports , and serial ports in any combination for up to 250 or so
nodes.

lbl now offers ethernet support also , although presently it is limited
to ne1000 ne2000 style boards. lbl owners can get an update for 8.50.

ray berry kb7ht ray@ole.cdac.com rjberry@eskimo.com 73407.3152@compuserve.com

from billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn)
subject suggestions on audio relays \? \? \?
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 22

i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. i was doing
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using relays and
nothing seemed to get rid of the clicks.


my question is

is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part
numbers company names etc. for the relays will help !

thanks !




bill quinn billq@ms.uky.edu


from sundar@fiber one.ai.mit.edu (sundar narasimhan)
subject how much would a tektronix 2465a oscilloscope fetch
reply to sundar@ai.mit.edu
organization mit artificial intelligence laboratory
lines 7
nntp posting host fiber one.ai.mit.edu

hi i 'd like to know how much the foll. equipment will fetch in the used
equipment market (without manuals or other accessories)
1. tektronix 2465 scope
2. tektronix 2465a scope
3. tektronix 1240 logic analyser

thanks much for your help.

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 23

i have an adcom gfa 555 that i got in 1985. there certainly is n't
anything magic about it. the components used are decent , but
nothing uncommon with respect to consumer grade components.

the gfa 555 is a nice piece of equipment. i'm glad that adcom had
the guts to not over do the packaging. it irks me when i see
audiophile oriented equipment whose case and heat sinks probably
cost much more and receive more attention than the electronics they
are supposed to serve.

i do n't see any big deal about the geographic region in which
something is assembled. this is especially true for something as
low technology as a gfa 555.

i 'd hope that a gfa 545 would still work well after several years.
except under conditions of extreme abuse , there is n't much there to
go wrong.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from jmichael@vnet.ibm.com
subject re a to d hardware for a pc
article i.d. almaden.19930406.072523.946
lines 7

if you can find a copy of 8088 assembler language programming the ibm pc
by willen and krantz , 2nd ed. pub. by sams , there is a discussion of the
game control adapter , monostable multivibrators , and conversion to other
uses , as well as an assembler program. if you need greater accuracy , there
is no reason you could n't modify the approach to suit your needs.

jim

from rcook@gfx.engga.uwo.ca (richard cook)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization university of western ontario , london
nntp posting host server.gfx.engga.uwo.ca
lines 23

in article 20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu alee@ecs.umass.edu writes

greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al




how about calling someone with the caller id service and have them call you back
with the number \?



richard cook (519) 641 1985 e mail rcook@gfx.engga.uwo.ca
elect. eng. fax (519) 661 3488

from jhawk@panix.com (john hawkinson)
subject building a uv flashlight
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 23

yes , i know it sounds crazy. call it an urge. call it what you want.
just do n't ask why )

anyway , i 'd like to build a uv flashlight , cheaply. flashlight means
it should be reasonably portable , but could have a power pack if
necessary.

my main question is the bulb where can i get uv bulbs \? do they
need a lot of power \? etc. , etc.

i'm not too concerned with whether it 's long wave or short wave
(but hey , if anyone has a cheap source of bulbs , i 'll take both).

one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near uv
light being cheaper to get at than actual uv light. does anyone
know what he was referring to \?

thanks much.



john hawkinson
jhawk@panix.com

from rsd@sei.cmu.edu (richard s d'ippolito)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
organization the software engineering institute
lines 10


in article 1pkveuinnduk@gap.caltech.edu , joseph chiu writes

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...


yeah , right. and the company was started by george simon ohmite.

rich

from s5600043@nickel.laurentian.ca
subject re cd player going wonky advise needed !
lines 18
organization laurentian university

in article 1993apr13.150525.17978@nessie.mcc.ac.uk , sl@nessie.mcc.ac.uk (stuart lea) writes
hello ,
i 've got a problem with my cd player (sony cdp 35) in that it refuses
to play discs more than a minor inconvenience ! the player itself does n't
recognise that there is a disc in. it 's an intermitant problem , but one
that is becoming more frequent.

is this a common problem with older cd players and , if so , what
can be done to rectify it \? if there is no obvious answer , how can i begin to
start fault finding. to start off with , how does thet mach recognise that
there is a disc in in the first place \?


my experience is that the cd drawer becomes a bit loose , and the cd either skips
or ca n't be read. try seeing if all the screws that hold down the drawer
assembly are tightened properly. other than that , my next guess would be one of
the motors. hope this helps.
dave haans , laurentian university , sudbury , ontario.

from edhall@rand.org (ed hall)
subject re building a uv flashlight
organization rand
lines 26
nntp posting host ives.rand.org

in article c5r6lz.n25@panix.com jhawk@panix.com (john hawkinson) writes
one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near uv
light being cheaper to get at than actual uv light. does anyone
know what he was referring to \?

i do n't want to get into a semantic argument , but contrary to some other
postings near uv light is actual uv light. the near means that
it is close to the visible spectrum (i.e. of relatively long wavelength) ,
not that it is nearly uv. (i'm sure you can figure out now just what
far uv is.)

regular incandenscent flashlight bulbs emit tiny amounts of uv in the
near end of the spectrum , such that a filter can be used to remove the
visible light and thus create a weak uv source. stronger sources are
going to require gas (probably mercury vapor) discharge tubes (such as
fluorescent tubes with uv phosphor). be careful , though strong uv
sources can cause physiological damage , especially to the eyes. the
shorter wavelengths are the most dangerous.

it would n't project a beam like a flashlight , but replacing the tubes
in a portable fluorescent lantern with uv tubes would be a relatively
cheap way to create a portable source. it would be bright enough to
be useful , but not dangerously so.

ed hall
edhall@rand.org

from cantrell@sauron.msfc.nasa.gov (eric cantrell)
subject eeg kit \?
nntp posting host sauron.msfc.nasa.gov
organization nasa msfc
x newsreader nn version 6.4.19
lines 9

awhile back someone posted some information on where you can get
kits to build an eeg. does anyone remember where you could get
this. i'm very interested in getting some info on this. thanks
in advance.

eric

cantrell@sauron.msfc.nasa


from haynes@cats.ucsc.edu (jim haynes)
subject re history question
organization university of california santa cruz
lines 30
nntp posting host hobbes.ucsc.edu


in article 1qnroe d1n@usenet.ins.cwru.edu wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher) writes
an now deceased prof told us willing students about a project he had
worked on during wwii.

they needed a mega power pa with very clear audio quality. the purpose
was to bellow at refugees from aircraft.

their solution was a giant compressed air source , and a horn with
parallel shutters worked by a small audio system. i think he said it
worked very well , thus the war dept. cancelled the project .

gee , i got the idea from somewhere that devices like this were in common
use in wwii , so that commanders on board ships could bellow at the troops
landing on a beach , for example.

which reminds me of an anecdote from the mid 60s. at a communications
conference a marine corps communications officer said he did n't care
much for all the spread spectrum multi access expensive communication
systems that people were talking about at the time what he wanted
was a kilowatt broadcast transmitter on the ship and a 4.95 japanese
transistor radio stuck in the ear of every marine hitting the beach.

haynes@cats.ucsc.edu
haynes@cats.bitnet

ya can talk all ya wanna , but it 's dif 'rent than it was !
no it aint ! but ya gotta know the territory !
meredith willson the music man


from zstewart@nyx.cs.du.edu (zhahai stewart)
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 13

the father of a friend of mine is a police officer in west virginia. not
only is his word as a skilled observer good in court , but his skill as an
observer has been tested to be more accurate than the radar gun in some
cases . . .. no foolin ! he can guess a car 's speed to within 2 3mph just
by watching it blow by whether he 's standing still or moving too ! (yes ,

1) how was this testing done , and how many times \? (calibrated speedometer \? )

2) it 's not the some cases that worry me , it 's the other cases )

(eg suboptimal viewing conditions even the best subjective viewer can only
partial compensate for certain distortions and optical illusions).


from fsset@bach.lerc.nasa.gov (scott townsend)
subject electric power line balls
nntp posting host bach.lerc.nasa.gov
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio
distribution usa
lines 18

i got a question from my dad which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate
some net.wisdom.

his question is about some 18 24 diameter balls which are attached to
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between
two poles. neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution.
my only guess was that they may be a capacitive device to equalize the
inductance of the grid , but why so many between two poles \? .

anyone know what they really are \? is there a related faq for this \?
is there a better group to submit to \?

we 'd both appreciate some enlightenment.



scott townsend , sverdrup technology inc. nasa lewis research center group
fsset@bach.lerc.nasa.gov

from schuch@phx.mcd.mot.com (john schuch)
subject re re using old databooks
nntp posting host bopper2.phx.mcd.mot.com
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az.
lines 23

in article 1993apr3.110048.4636@hemlock.cray.com kilian@cray.com (alan kilian) writes
jeh@cmkrnl.com

this is almost exactly the reason i keep only the latest databook around.
too many times last years books turn into three years ago and the data
in them does n't match the current production parts.
tanstaafl ,
alan kilian

but... if you are in the habit of trying to repair old and obsolete
machines , the old data books are a goldmine of information you can
not get anywhere else. if you are trying to find a modern replacement
for an obsolete part , the original specs really come in handy. design
out of the new books but save the old ones (or donate them to a ham).

if anybody in phoenix disagrees , i 'll drive over and help them 'get rid'
of all their old data books.

john
(450 data books and growing)




from vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
subject re mysterious tv problem source \?
nntp posting host chip
reply to vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
organization mpr teltech ltd.
lines 30

llbgb@utxdp.dp.utexas.edu writes
initial symptoms
no picture or sound
crt filament does not glow
flyback ticking as described abovew

discovered when hooked up the scope
if strip is not putting out audio or video signals
everything is making simple 20 30 hz pulses
horiz out transistor collector (case of the to 3) is a 20 30 hz downgoing
sawtooth with ca. 15khz ring at front end

guys , what s going on here \? anyone seen this before \?

what is happening is this
1) you turn the tv on.
2) the horizontal output begins normal operation. this powers up the
high voltage and most of the rest of the circuitry.
3) a problem is sensed and the horizontal oscillator shuts down.
4) after it powers down the cycle repeats.

things to check
first check for a shorted high power component. your best bet is the vertical
output transistor(s) or , if there is one , the voltage regulator. the most
common cause of this type of failure is too much current being drawn
somewhere.
also look for shutdown circuits (which your tv may or may not have) ,
if you can find one that is shutting down the horizontal oscillator
then it should n't be too hard to find the problem from there.


from conradie@firga.sun.ac.za (gerrit conradie)
subject re arcade style buttons and joysticks
organization university of stellenbosch , sa
lines 8

in article 1993apr21.024036.7394@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu dnewman@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (david f. newman) writes
subject arcade style buttons and joysticks
can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
on most arcade style games. many projects i am working on would

what about the common joystick found in all computer shops \?

gerrit

from baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (baden de bari)
subject mosfet help...
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 204 488 1607
lines 28


since i'm not all too keen on this area of hooking them up , i'm
asking for help. i know better than to hook a 12v , 1a stepper line to
one , unless it can take it however what about if i 've got a 24 60v
stepper. what sort of curent limmiting circuitry would be involved (a
small schematic would probably be helpfull).
also , i 've looked into the tipc2701n by ti , and i was wondering
if i should use the same suggested (by you replying to this message)
current limiting circuitry on each of the 7 mosfets in the package as
that illustrated in the schematic (which you the replyer would hopefully
help me with).

... hmm... different request...

thanks.



inspiration
comes to o baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca
those who ( ) baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
seek the baden de bari
unknown.



baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

from dwo@zerberus.gud.siemens.co.at (f.dwo)
subject dsp 56001
nntp posting host zerberus.gud.siemens austria
organization siemens ag oesterreich
lines 15

hi ! ! !

is there somebody using a 56001 dsp from motorola \? \? \?
i am searching for programms concerning audio effects.
i built a 4 channel mixer (4adc 1dsp) for audio signals.
i built some digital filters and echos , but now i want to
include some effects like harmonic equalizer or chorus.
the problem is , i dont know how these effects work (so i cant
write a programm).
so if someone has programms or just knows how such effects work ,
please contact me in the newsgroup or via e mail.
(also if there are books about this problem)

thanks in advance
(dwo)

from schuch@phx.mcd.mot.com (john schuch)
subject food dehydrators
nntp posting host bopper2.phx.mcd.mot.com
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az.
distribution usa
lines 9

does anybody out there have one of those food dehydrators i 've been seeing
all over late night tv recently \? i was wondering if they use forced air , heat ,
or both. if there 's heat involved , anybody know what temperature they run at \?
my wife would like one and i'm not inclined to pay 100.00 for a box , a fan
and a heater. seems to me you should be able to throw a dehydrator together
for just a few bucks. heck , the technology is only what \? 1 , 000 years old \?

john


from peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch)
subject swr meter for cb radios
lines 28

allthe devil reincarnateswr meter for cb radios

td from ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate)
td organization cdac , wa
td what
td is a good choice for a cb \? 1 4 or 1 8 wave \?
td i read the installation instructions on a 1 4 wave antenna ,
td and they suggested that i use an swr to tune it at channel 12
td and channel 32 for a minimum reading. question is , why channel
td 12 and 32 \?

the best antenna is one that will let out the most wave (probably not the
best explanation , but the rest makes sense) a one wave will cancell itself
out (btw no such beastie) . the best is a 1 2 wave antenna , followed by
1 4 , then 1 8 etc.

as for swring in , what you actually do is trim the antenna to the correct
length for the specific wavelength you will be transmitting on. since the
wavelength varies with the channel you use , then it 's recommended to swr
in using the middle channel of those you are going to use.
anyway in the beginning of cb 's , all new antennas had to be swr'ed in ,
nowdays manufactures trim the antennas almost spot on , so that there 's not
much point in swring. then again you may be a fanatic and whish to do it
anyway.

cheers
peter t.


from jkeais@ucssun1.sdsu.edu (keais j)
subject re pioneer laser player
article i.d. gondor.1pr8nn 46v
organization sdsu computing services
lines 17
nntp posting host ucssun1.sdsu.edu

in article 1993apr6.005150.10250@ee.rochester.edu neale@ee.rochester.edu (reg neale) writes
i'm trying to figure out how to operate a pioneer laserdisc ld 1000 that i bought at a surplus store. it is reputedly from some kind of computerised viewing
and or ordering system. there is what may be an hpib connector on the back. when
i power it up , the front panel power light comes on , but no activity , and the
door does n't open. anyone have any experience with this unit or any ideas on how
to obtain documentation \?

what you have is one of the ld players from a video game (dragon 's lair ,
space ace , etc). call pioneer technicial support 213 498 0300 (at least
that 's the number i called them at) and ask for the ld v1000 interface
guide. it shows how the parallel interface should be wired and the codes
for the commands (play , pause , reject , etc). the guide is mainly for hooking
the player to a computer , but with a little work , you could build a wired
controller.


jim keais jkeais@ucssun1.sdsu.edu

from bob@kc2wz.bubble.org (bob billson)
subject re subliminal message flashing on tv
organization color computer 3 tandy 's 'game' machine
lines 13

kennehra@logic.camp.clarkson.edu (rich theman kennehan) says
hi. i was doing research on subliminal suggestion for a psychology
paper , and i read that one researcher flashed hidden messages on the
tv screen at 1 200ths of a second. is that possible \? i thought the

take a look over in alt.folklore.urban. there is a thread about subliminal
messages on tv. the fact that subliminal messages do n't work aside , an image
ca n't be flashed on a tv screen fast enough to not be noticed.

bob billson , kc2wz internet bob@kc2wz.bubble.org
nail 21 bates way , westfield , nj 07090 uucp ... ! uunet ! kc2wz ! bob

friends do n't let friends run dos microware

from jml@norman.vi.ri.cmu.edu
subject re radar jammers and stealth cars
nntp posting host westend.vi.ri.cmu.edu
reply to jml@visus.com
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
distribution usa
lines 6

eric h. taylor writes
... if you are determined
to go faster , get an airplane. they dont have speed limits.

just do n't make a habit of buzzing your local airport at 200 knots
(250 knots if you 're flying a jet). )

from iisakkil@gamma.hut.fi (mika iisakkila)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
in reply to rubin@cis.ohio state.edu 's message of 17 apr 1993 14 05 06 0400
nntp posting host gamma.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
1qpgsiinn31p@diplodocus.cis.ohio state.edu
lines 15

rubin@cis.ohio state.edu (daniel j rubin) writes
how hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular
motorola microcontrollers.

not hard , you can do the refreshing and access cycles by software , but
this hogs most of the available cpu cycles on a low end controller.
i 've seen some application note from philips that used one of their
8051 derivatives as a printer buffer , with up to 1mb of dynamic ram
that was accessed and refreshed with software bit banging.

another alternative would be to use one of those nice dram controller
chips that create static ram appearance and all that , but they may
be too expensive to make it worthwhile.

segmented memory helps structure software

from tsp@ccd.harris.com (timothy s. pillsbury)
subject need acs tutorial and or netlist examples
originator tsp@sp1
keywords acs , spice , simulation
organization harris controls
lines 18


i recently ftp 'd al 's circuit simulator (acs) and i'm looking for
the tutorial which is mentioned in the users manual (but not found there).
i do n't have any experience constructing a netlist (such as for spice)
and i need a little help.

the examples which come with acs are n't explanatory about the translation
between schematic and netlist. does anyone have the fabled tutorial
or any other reference which could help me in constructing a netlist from
a schematic diagram \?

(i also emailed al himself but received no response yet. he 's probably
busy with his next release.)


tim pillsbury internet tsp@ccd.harris.com
uunet uunet ! ccd.harris.com ! timothy.pillsbury


from tchannon@black.demon.co.uk (tim channon)
subject re laser vs bubblejet \?
reply to tchannon@black.demon.co.uk
distribution world
x mailer cppnews revision 1.20
organization null
lines 53

here is a different viewpoint.

fyi the actual horizontal dot placement resoution of an hp
deskjet is 1 600th inch. the electronics and dynamics of the ink
cartridge , however , limit you to generating dots at 300 per inch.
on almost any paper , the ink wicks more than 1 300th inch anyway.

the method of depositing and fusing toner of a laster printer
results in much less spread than ink drop technology.

in practice there is little difference in quality but more care is needed
with inkjet because smudges etc. can happen.

it does n't take much investigation to see that the mechanical and
electronic complement of a laser printer is more complex than
inexpensive ink jet printers. recall also that laser printers
offer a much higher throughput 10 ppm for a laser versus about 1
ppm for an ink jet printer.

a cheap laser printer does not manage that sort of throughput and on top of
that how long does the first sheet take to print \? inkjets are faster than
you say and in both cases the computer often has trouble keeping up with the
printer. (i have a 486 33 and a lot of drivers cannot keep up with the
printer)

a sage said to me do you want one copy or lots of copies \? , one ,
inkjet .

something else to think about is the cost of consumables over the
life of the printer. a 3000 page yield toner cartridge is about
us 75 80 at discount while hp high capacity ( 500 1000 page yield)
cartridges are about us 22 at discount. it could be that over the
life cycle of the printer that consumables for laser printers are
less than ink jet printers. it is getting progressively closer
between the two technologies. laser printers are usually desinged
for higher duty cycles in pages per month and longer product
replacement cycles.

paper cost is the same and both can use refills. long term the laserprinter
will need some expensive replacement parts (consumables) and on top of that
are the amortisation costs which favour the lowest purchase cost printer.

hp inkjets understand pcl so in many cases a laserjet driver will work if the
software package has no inkjet driver.

there is one wild difference between the two printers a laserprinter is a
page printer whilst an inkjet is a line printer. this means that a
laserprinter can rotate graphic images whilst an inkjet cannot. few drivers
actually use this facility.
(there is also the matter of downloadable fonts and so on)

tc.
e mail tchannon@black.demon.co.uk or tchannon@cix.compulink.co.uk


from urbina@novax.llnl.gov
subject telcom wiring question...need help
organization lawrence livermore national laboratory , ncd
lines 26
nntp posting host novax.llnl.gov


i 've got two lines coming into my apartment. two different telephone numbers.
when i ordered the second line installed , instead of bringing out another 4
wire bundle , the telco just connected up to my yellow and black wires. so i
have one line on red green and the other on yellow black.

today i was monitoring the voltage on both lines. i had a voltmeter across
the red and green and read back 52 volts. i then lifted up the receiver on my
second line.(black yellow wires) the voltage dropped to 31 volts on the first
line. (red green wires) i repeated this experiment with the second
line(monitoring black yellow and lifting the handset off the cradle on the
red and green line.) it also dropped to 31 volts.

why is this \? i thought these were separate lines.

next i went to the 66 block and disconnected the blue and white lines coming in
from the telco cable. i then disconnected all the phones in my apartment and
went back to the 66 block and did some resistance measurements. both lines read
open.

i 'll appreciate any help on this. is this considered normal \?

guy urbina

urbina@novax.llnl.gov


from daniel.j.stern@dartmouth.edu (daniel j. stern)
subject seeking info on wear on monitors
x posted from internews 1.0b16@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
lines 12

we are dartmouth engineering students.we are looking for documented
data regarding the wear associated with turning on an off a monitor and
how it relates to power consumption. interested in a comparison
between the wear on a monitor which is left on continuously and one
which is turned off when not in use.

please personalize e mail to ds@dartmouth.edu

thank you ,

dan stern
oliver weir

from jsc52962@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (jeffrey s. curtis)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 19

moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson) writes
out of what hat did you pull this one \? db is a ratio not an rboc !
...
sorry. the unit for current is the ampere which is the name of a french man
named ampere who studied electrical current. the term amp is just an abbreviation
of it. the company amp came after the ampere unit was already in use.
...
i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right.
...
well you got one thing right !

hello \? john \? oh , nevermind...

jeff

jeffrey s. curtis sidewinder@uiuc.edu resplendent in full regalia , they
the power of 37 free2207 at uiucvmd revel in their role as self appointed
sony phase linear sanyo sennet critics of the establishment...
jensen polk streetwires proton inxs welcome to wherever you are

from chris@alien.saar.de (christian reisel)
distribution world
organization chaos live
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
reply to chris@alien.saar.de
x software hermes gus 1.10 rev. mar 3 1993
mime version 1.0
content type text plain charset us ascii
content transfer encoding 7bit
lines 82

in c5l5x0.kj7@vcd.hp.com , john eaton writes

...
during the nuclear fission reaction the uranium fuel can get hot enough
to melt. when this happens the liquid uranium is pumped to the cooling
tower where it is sprayed into the air. contact with the cool outside air
will condense the mist and it will fall back to the cooling tower floor.
there it is collected by a cleaning crew using shop vacs and is then
reformed into pellets for reactor use the next day.

cooling towers are a lot taller than they really need to be. power companies
are forced to make them that tall by some enviromental law that requires the
raw uranium emisions to be held to under 1 . this law is now under attack
by lawyers arguing that the 1 should be measured at the edge of the property
rather than the edge of the cooling tower. eliminating this law will save
power companies thousands of dollars in concrete costs for new nukes.

john eaton
! hp vcd ! johne


i think you posted your article 15 days too late )) april 1st is over.
i do n't like nuclear powerplants but i think it 's not fair to tell such
storys about them. ok \?
let me try to explain what that tower is used to
1st. even the modernst nuclear powerplant is only a simple steam engine.
it has an hightech boiler but the rest is still verry verry
conventional. and if you 've already visited any condensation
powerstation you'l have seen the cooling towers too.
if you look at any good book about thermophysics you 'll find
a chapter about the carnot process which describes how to
get energy from a temperature difference ! and that is the reason
for cooling towers too ! ! ! you only can get energy if you 've an
temperature gradient. that means that you have steam on the one
side and need to cool down the steam 'till you get water
again on the other side if you want to get aprox. 30 of the
energy you (or better the uranium) brought into the water to
let it boil. if you only have hot steam on the one and cold
steam on the other side you 'll loose much more of the energy.
and so they cool down the steam to get at least the 30 of
energy that carnot will give them.
the cooling towers are for cooling the steam !
the vapor you 'll see is not the steam of the main core circulation ,
because that steam is radioactive ! the circulation is divided in
at least 2 circuits connected about heat exchangers to prevent
radioactive pollution of the environment !

2nd. ok , the main core is hot , but even in the modernst hightemperature
reactors (htr) they only run at 800 deg celsius. this is still
verry far away from uraniums melting point which is somewhere
around 2000 deg. celsius ! but you 'll have lot 's of problems with
the boiler 's steel. that 's because at this temperature the
metal is attacked by steam and will corrode verry fast.
this is only for bwr 's. the new he cooled reactors have temperatures
up to 1200 deg. celsius. but this is only experimental.

3rd. i personaly think that nuclear waste should be as low as ever
possible because the dose you get will accumulate about the
years. today 1 mrem and next year 0.5 mrem wo n't be 0.75 mrem
at all. it accumulates and even in 80 years you 'll still have
1.5 mrem. and i'm not interested in glowing in the night and
getting children with 2 heads. this is my point of view.


only my 0.02 !

christian reisel

student of electronic sciences


christian reisel , goldammerweg 2 , w 6601 buebingen , germany
voice 49 6805 22179 fax email 49 6805 22179

pgp pubkey

begin 777 pcr.pub
mf5l`p` s q 296es96pl( h fes ea ox ! p7r5'f0qy1q . sy( dz0l 6
mmo( 0` k \? vh u 6mx 7g mf `h5kl , m 89 5fi6 w t 9m ! q
04` 0` @
``
end

from paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson)
subject re history question
reply to paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson)
organization gec marconi research centre , great baddow , uk
lines 25

in article kazel.15.734728882@uiuc.edu kazel@uiuc.edu (mitch kazel) writes
sorry if this is n't the correct news group . . . but . . .

a colleague of mine is trying to find out when the first public use of
electronic voice amplification was . . . i.e. a p a system.

any reference would be appreciated. please reply via e mail.

mitch kazel (n9hdq)
internet kazel@uiuc.edu

this is vague , so i am posting it in case anyone else knows more.

i recall reading of a phonograph which used mechanical amplification.
compressed air was squirted out of a valve which was controlled by the
pickup. the result was noisy and distinctly lo fi , but much louder
than a conventional phonograph. it tended to wear the disks out
pretty quickly though.

paul.

paul johnson (paj@gec mrc.co.uk). tel 44 245 73331 ext 3245

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist. responsible for my opinions

from skipper@traider.ersys.edmonton.ab.ca (mark bevan)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
reply to skipper@traider.ersys.edmonton.ab.ca (mark bevan)
organization traiders of the lost .arc ! edmonton , alberta , canada
lines 21

alee@ecs.umass.edu writes


greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al



dial 511 and it sound tell you the number.


skipper@traider.ersys.edmonton.ab.ca (mark bevan)
traiders of the lost .arc ! edmonton , alberta , canada

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re motorola xc68882rc33 and rc50
organization megatest corporation
lines 21

in article c5qwv2.bz0@zoo.toronto.edu henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer) writes
in article sgberg.23xu@charon.bloomington.in.us sgberg@charon.bloomington.in.us (stefan berg) writes
... i do n't know why my fpu has an xc (my original 33mhz fpu
was label mc68882 33) , but it seems to work fine on my system...
p.s. or does it mean experimental chip instead of motorola chip \? . )

the rule for the designations is that if it says mc , that means it works
exactly the way the datasheet book specifies. if it says xc , that means
there is at least one known bug. often these bugs are small and obscure
you might never run into them in practice.


xc units are often pre production sample devices. those are normally
distributed for evaluation as freebies and are not guaranteed to
meet every spec.

at least motorola admits it , unlike certain other companies...

yep , that 's for sure...that 's one thing i like most about motorola.

aaron

from obrien@hri.com (jim obrien)
subject ibm pc xt switch settings
organization horizon research , inc.
lines 7
distribution world
reply to obrien@bigbird.hri.com
nntp posting host sparc28.hri.com

i just got an ibm pc xt with no documents. its a true
ibm , and i was wondering if anyone had the definitions
of the 2 8 position dip switches \?

thankx jim



from mjhill@eos.ncsu.edu (michael james hill)
subject new applications of electronics
originator mjhill@c00483 224wi.eos.ncsu.edu
reply to mjhill@eos.ncsu.edu (michael james hill)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 8



i'm looking for brief information on new
applications of electronics (or new electronics in
applications.) if you know of any interesting new
stuff , i would be intrested in hearing about it.

thanks , mjh

from pat@fegmania.wustl.edu (pat niemeyer)
subject re 25 network
organization washington university in saint louis , mo usa
lines 14
reply to pat@fegmania.wustl.edu
nntp posting host fegmania.wustl.edu
originator pat@fegmania

the same folks now have out lbl (little big lan) for 75. i think you
get it for 50 if you already own 25 network. lbl works with arcnet ,
parallel ports , and serial ports in any combination for up to 250 or so
nodes.

no flames please , but i picked up this discussion a bit late and i
am really curious...

what exactly is the 25 network \?
something to hack together n serial cables \?
something with n serial drivers \?

thanks ,
pat

from agodwin@acorn.co.uk (adrian godwin)
subject re single chip receiver for fsk \?
organization acorn computers ltd , cambridge , uk
lines 26

in article c5l0xm.e25@law7.daytonoh.ncr.com jra@law7.daytonoh.ncr.com (john ackermann x 2966) writes

my goal is to come up with an inexpensive design for a receiver back
end with if input on one end and an fsk demondulator on the other. i'm
particularly interested in ways to use a higher if than 10.7 do any
current chips work up to , say 150mhz with internal downconversion so a
normal if filter can be used \?


gec plessey specify a series of fm demodulators (sl1454 etc) for use in
satellite tv receivers 150 or 600mhz in , 10mhz of baseband video out.
i think there 's also a related data slicer clock recovery circuit intended
for use in dmac decoders , though that is n't used in the most common
implementation it may not be in volume production.

the most easily available components probably vary with local satellite
standards , and i think the european systems vary rather widely from those
in the us so it may be worth investigating locally available receiver
designs to find out what 's in common use.

adrian



adrian godwin agodwin@acorn.co.uk adrian@fangorn.demon.co.uk g7hwn@gb7khw
obdisclaimer i believe this rubbish .. do n't imagine that anyone else does.

from frode@dxcern.cern.ch (frode weierud)
subject magstrip card reader info
keywords magstripe , card reader , american magnetics , magnetics
reply to frode@dxcern.cern.ch
organization cern european lab for particle physics
lines 26


can somebody please help me with information about an
american magnetics corporation magstripe card reader that
i recently bought locally from a surplus dealer.

on the rear it has the following information

american magnetics corporation
carson , ca , usa
magstripe card reader
model 41 ,
p n 507500 2300112311

it is fitted with a cable with a rs232 cannon 25 pin connector on
the end and has a separate power connector like the once used with
wall chargers.

frode


frode weierud phone 41 22 7674794
cern , sl fax 41 22 7823676
ch 1211 geneva 23 e mail frode@dxcern.cern.ch
switzerland or weierud@cernvm.cern.ch



from babb@sciences.sdsu.edu (j. babb)
subject re electric power line balls
article i.d. larc.babb 060493164354
distribution usa
organization sdsu larc
lines 16
nntp posting host larc.sdsu.edu

in article 1993apr6.203237.20841@eagle.lerc.nasa.gov ,
fsset@bach.lerc.nasa.gov (scott townsend) wrote

i got a question from my dad which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate
some net.wisdom.

his question is about some 18 24 diameter balls which are attached to
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between
two poles. neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution.
my only guess was that they may be a capacitive device to equalize the
inductance of the grid , but why so many between two poles \? .
i 'll bet there 's a runway nearby.

jeff babb
babb@sciences.sdsu.edu babb@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
programmer , sdsu larc

from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
keywords outlet
article i.d. shelley.1qkm8iinn92t
distribution world
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 34
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article 1qids1innebl@chnews.intel.com crichmon@sedona.intel.com (chris richmond) writes

in article 1993apr14.193122.20818@mprgate.mpr.ca , vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl) writes
in article 1993apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu , crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) writes

i'm considering modernizing some old wiring in my home , and
i need a little advice on outlet wiring. several outlets
are the old 'two prong' type , without the ground. naturally ,
the wire feeding these outlets is 12 2 , without the ground
wire. i noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground
wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.

this is contrary to the electrical code and should be fixed.

well , my house was built just last year , and the breaker box is wired the
same way.

there should be a connection of the ground wire to a ground
in the breaker box. there also should be a connection of the neutral
wire to a ground in the breaker box. there should be no other
place in the building where such a connection occurs (i.e. not in
any of the outlet boxes).

the neutral (white) wire is a 'grounding conductor' for
the plug , and is not safe to touch , while the ground (green)
wire is a 'protective ground' and carries no current unless
some kind of electrical fault has occurred. it 's safe
to touch the protective ground , but not to touch the
grounding conductor (because there is current in the grounding
conductor , its outlet box end will not be at the same ground
potential as its breaker box end).

john whitmore

from wb9omc@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu (duane p mantick)
subject re ir remote control receiver
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 29

ab616@freenet.carleton.ca (marc dion) writes


for a project of my own , i would like to build a infra red remote control
receiver (for regular vcrs and tvs remotes). does anybody have any info
or tips on how to build such receiver \?
in particular ,
a) which photo detector should i use (which wavelength do remotes use) \?
b) which ics or circuit should i use \?
c) any suggestions for circuit layout

please reply to this group (if you wish) , but as well via e mail (my
link to usenet is not always available).

i 'd like to see this info as well. as for wavelength , i think
you 're primarily going to find two 880 nm a bit , and or 950 nm
a bit. usually it is about 10 nm either way. the two most common
i have seen were 880 and 950 but i have also heard of 890 and 940.
i'm not sure that the 10 nm one way or another will make a great deal of
difference.

another suggestion find a brand of tv that uses an ir remote ,
and go look at the sams photofact for it. you can often find some very
detailed schematics and parts list for not only the receiver but the
transmitter as well , including carrier freq. specs. and tone decoding
specs. if the system uses that.

duane


from wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
subject re exploding tv !
organization nrk clinic for habitual netnews abusers beltway annex
lines 11
distribution usa
reply to wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
nntp posting host skybridge.scl.cwru.edu

others said
... why would the picture tube explode or even smoke \?

naw , it was the penguin on top of the set that exploded...



a host is a host from coast to coast..wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu
no one will talk to a host that 's close............(301) 56 linux
unless the host (that is n't close).........................pob 1433
is busy , hung or dead....................................20915 1433

from rubin@cis.ohio state.edu (daniel j rubin)
subject re arcade style buttons and joysticks
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info. science
lines 17
nntp posting host zion.cis.ohio state.edu

hi there ,
can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
on most arcade style games. many projects i am working on would
be greatly augmented if i could implement them. thanx in advance.

try parts express in dayton , ohio also. they have a complete line of
professional arcade buttons , joysticks etc...

the have a 1 800 number so call 1 800 555 1212 and ask them what the 1 800
number for part express in dayton , ohio is. i love the free 1 800 directory
assistance...

dan

daniel joseph rubin rubin@cis.ohio state.edu

go bengals ! go bucks !

subject re power , signal surges in home...
from emd@ham.almanac.bc.ca
distribution world
organization robert smits
lines 21

vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl) writes

drand@spinner.osf.org (douglas s. rand) writes

hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. it is very unlikely , however ,
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car.

not possible either. you 'd need about a 300 amp alternator for
just the amplifier.

it is too possible. as the original poster said it is very unlikely
but definately possible. (can you say batteries \? )


i 've even seen pictures of an installation where the ham pulled a little
trailer behind his car with a 4kw generator , and ran the full legal limit
while mobile. i do n't know what his gas mileage was like , though , or
where he found resonators able to stand the gaff.


emd@ham.almanac.bc.ca (robert smits ladysmith bc)

from borowski@spk.hp.com (don t. borowski)
subject re help how to construct home built battery for 3rd grade sci report
distribution usa
organization hewlett packard
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
lines 20

dean anneser (anneser@pwa b.uucp) wrote
my 9 yr old son has signed up to do a science report on batteries. i was
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to
construct a home built battery. in my grade school days , i remember seeing
the 'ice cube tray' version , but i do n't remember what to use as a good
electrolyte or what the easily obtainable metals were.

thank you in advance.

i remember watching a whole mr. wizzard program on this subject when
i was a kid. the battery constructed on the program which made the
biggest impression on me , and generated the most power , was made using
a galvanized bucket (for the zinc) and a copper toilet tank float. the
electrolyte was sauerkraut !


donald borowski wa6omi hewlett packard , spokane division
angels are able to fly because they take themselves so lightly.
g.k. chesterton


from rubin@cis.ohio state.edu (daniel j rubin)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info. science
lines 18
nntp posting host diplodocus.cis.ohio state.edu

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

how hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular
motorola microcontrollers. i am a novice at microcontrollers , but i am
starting to get into them for some of my projects. i have several 256k
simms laying around from upgraded macs and if i could use them as free
memory in one or two of my projects that would be great. one project that
comes to mind is a caller id device that would require quite a bit of ram
to store several hundered cid records etc...

dan

daniel joseph rubin rubin@cis.ohio state.edu

go bengals ! go bucks !

from mtearle@gu.uwa.edu.au (mark tearle)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization the university of western australia
lines 14
nntp posting host mackerel.gu.uwa.edu.au

well here in australia you dial
11544
to get the number read back to you
if you live in the country include the area code of the nearest capital city
eg for wa 09 11544

yours
mark



mark tearle

email mtearle@tartarus.uwa.edu.au

from mcole@spock (cole)
subject 8051 microcontroller
organization new mexico state university
lines 3
nntp posting host spock.nmsu.edu

i would like to experiment with the intel 8051 family. does anyone out
there know of any good ftp sites that might have compiliers , assemblers ,
etc. \?

from wayne alan martin wm1h @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re dayton hamfest
organization senior , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 5
distribution usa
nntp posting host po5.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 1993apr19.163122.20454@cbfsb.cb.att.com

yes , it is the 23 , 24 and 25 , in but does anyone have directions how to
get there after i get to dayton. thanks

wayne martin


from gleasokr@rintintin.colorado.edu (kris gleason)
subject re electric power line balls
nntp posting host rintintin.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution usa
lines 23

fsset@bach.lerc.nasa.gov (scott townsend) writes

i got a question from my dad which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate
some net.wisdom.

his question is about some 18 24 diameter balls which are attached to
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between
two poles. neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution.
my only guess was that they may be a capacitive device to equalize the
inductance of the grid , but why so many between two poles \? .

anyone know what they really are \? is there a related faq for this \?
is there a better group to submit to \?

we 'd both appreciate some enlightenment.

i think those are to make the lines more visible to airplanes and
helicopters... cheaper than blinking red lights.

'course i could be wrong.

kris


from tomb@hplsla.hp.com (tom bruhns)
subject re do analog systems need ground planes \?
organization hp lake stevens , wa
lines 25

engp2254@nusunix1.nus.sg (soh kam yung) writes

i understand the need for a ground plane in a digital system. however , i
would like to know if such a ground plane is also necessary in an analog
system.

(note this ground plane will not be connected , except at one point , to
the signal ground).

i keep getting conflicting answers over this. does having a ground plane
in an analog system help reduce noise also \? my system only deals with
low frequency signals (up to 100hz only ! ! ! ).

well , one reason for getting conflicting answers is that it depends on
what you want the ground plane to do. a continuous conductor is a good
electrostatic shield. do you have signals on your board that need
shielding rom other things \? this shielding wo n't do much good for magnetic
fields , unless you make it continuous around the circuit to be shielded ,
like a faraday cage.

the flip side of the coin if you are working with (very) high impedances ,
you could end up with capacitances to the gound plane that cause problems.
you are n't likely to encounter this at 100hz , but at 20khz , it can be a
real problem (one that bit me once).


from fishman@panix.com (harvey fishman)
subject re electronic parts in nyc \?
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 11

there are also a couple or three places on west 45th between fifth and
sixth.

harvey




harvey fishman
fishman@panix.com you do n't get smart except by asking stupid questions.
718 258 7276

from fmg@alpha.smi.med.pitt.edu (filip gieszczykiewicz)
subject scope questions
summary what is a storage scope
distribution na
organization medical informatics , pittsburgh , pa usa
lines 33


greetings. i 've been seeing the word storage mentioned
around oscilliscopes but i'm curious , what does it mean \?

if my life depended on it , i 'd say that it 's a scope that
uses long persistance phosphor to keep the successive
taces on the screen for some unit of time store them.
do i get to live \?

also , i 've been shopping for a decent , used , old scope
since my tek 514a (portable...not ! ) and my heathkit o 1000
are all single trace and i need more... like 2 or 3 and at
least 50mhz (maybe 100...)

during my shopping at hamfests etc. i 've run into the
problem of old scope terminology. i can imagine what
a mainframe and plug in are but some things like
the above storage , coax input (hey , where do i get a
probe that fits this \? i had to fiddle with mine for a week
before i got anything resembling a good trace they all
come with bnc connectors ! ) , unblanking (huh \? ) , and , oh ,
just like my 514 manuals , many changes were made along the
way to the schematic scopes , even with identical model
numbers , have different (better \? ) response performance than
others how can i pick the better one \? does the rule of the
higher sn the better apply \?

take care.

filip i 'll buy a vowel gieszczykiewicz. best e mail fmgst @pitt.edu
all ideas are mine but they can be yours for only 0.99 so respond now ! ! ! !
i live for my ee major , winsurfing , programming , sca , and assorted dreams.
200mb drive linux has 100mb and ms dos has 100mb. ms dos is worried )

from schellew@wu2.wl.aecl.ca (wayne schellekens)
subject wanted dram controller for use with mc68hc16
keywords dram , hc16
nntp posting host wu2.wl.aecl.ca
organization aecl research , whiteshell laboratories
distribution na
lines 25

for an upcoming project i want to use 4 megs of dram configured as two 2
meg banks of 16 bit data. i was wondering if anyone out there knows of a
dram controller which will handle refreshing the data. it 's ok if the
controller does n't handle bank switching that part is easy.

the only controllers i know of are the ones out of the national
semiconductor dram management handbook (1988 edition) eg. dp8429. i would
like to know if another manufacturer produces one which may be easier to
implement in my circuit.

btw , if anyone is wanting to hook up dram to a microcontroller , dallas
semiconductor makes a neat chip the ds1262 serial dram nonvolatizer
chip. it uses the spi (i2c) bus and refreshes controls up to 16mx1 of dram
memory. it can use an external battery to refresh the dram when the
power is off. price is 11.75 from dallas (quan 1). i wish i could use
this chip but its maximum spi clock rate is 1 mhz (too slow for me...).

thanks in advance ,

wayne schellekens
schellew@wu2.wl.aecl.ca

wayne schellekens , ve4wts internet schellew@wu2.wl.aecl.ca
aecl research ax.25 ve4wts@ve4kv. wpg.mb.can
whiteshell laboratories twisted pair (204)753 2311 x2317

from wagner@mala.bc.ca (tom wagner , wizzard of old audio visual equipment........nanaimo campus)
subject re suggestions on audio relays \? \? \?
organization malaspina college
lines 63

in article c5r60r.4id@megatest.com , alung@megatest.com (aaron lung) writes
in article c5qsbf.iek@ms.uky.edu billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn) writes
i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. i was doing
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using relays and
nothing seemed to get rid of the clicks.


my question is

is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part
numbers company names etc. for the relays will help !

are you switching high level signals or low level signals like pre amp
out level signals \? also , are the clicks you mentioning the big
clack that happens when it switches or are you refering to contact
bounce \? how are you driving the relays \? ttl gate output \? switching
transistor \? how are the relays connected to what you are driving \?

need more specifics to answer your question ! ! )

as a general rule , no relay will cleanly switch audio if you try to tranfer
the circuit with the contacts. the noise you hear is due to the momentary
opening and closing of the path.

the noiseless way of transfering audio is to ground the circuit. in high
impedance audio circuits a resistive t is constructed close to characteristic
impedance of the circuit. grounding the imputs (connected to the t) transfers
the audio.

in low impedance circuits transformers are usually used , and the inputs are
shorted out or grounded. secondaries are paralleled at the characteristic
impedance.

sometimes if it is necessary to actually switch audio , a second contact is used
to momentarily short the circuit output for the duration of the switching time.

telephone relays are handy , because contacts can be adjusted to make before
break and vica versa but i have n't seen any of these for years.

nowadys switching is done electronically with op amps , etc.

a novel circuit i used to build was a primitive optical isolator .. it consists
of a resistive photocell and a lamp , all packaged in a tube. when the lamp is
off the cell is high resistance. turn the lamp on and the resistance lowers
passing the audio. once again this device in a t switches the audio. varying
the lamp resistance give a remote volume control. use 2 variable resisters and
you have a mixer !

lots of luck !

73 , tom

tom wagner , audio visual technician. malaspina college nanaimo british columbia
(604)753 3245 , loc 2230 fax 755 8742 callsign ve7gda weapon .45 kentucky rifle
snail mail to site q4 , c2. rr 4 , nanaimo , british columbia , canada , v9r 5x9

i do not recyle..... i keep everything ! (all standard disclaimers apply)


from webb@itu1 (90 29265 webber ah)
subject re adcom cheap products \?
article i.d. hippo.1993apr16.105738.20864
organization rhodes university , grahamstown , south africa
lines 44
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

i want to upgrade my system and was thinking of buying adcom seperates.
i have heard from alot of people , though , that adcom sounds great but
that the components are made cheaply and therefore wo n't last very long.
the time estimates i 've heard are like only 3 or 4 years. is this true \?

i own the adcom 60w power amp. as far as i'm concerned , there 's no
amp which can touch it at the price range.
the build quality is very impressive and is far superior to other
amps in the price range. the whole amplifier is extremely solid
with massive heat sinks and very solid casing.
if you open the amp up , there are only very good quality components
in and the amp seems to be designed extremely well. perfect
symmetry for both channels and two transformers one for each
channel. the binding posts on the back of the amplifier are
virtually the same as those on the classe model 70 ie. very good.

i was also sceptical about the amps being built in the far east
or where ever. but if you look in the amp and see what components
they use and how it was designed , you can easily see why the
amplifiers sound so brilliant.
i cannot see why people say the amplifier wo n't last not with
those quality components inside. sure the amp runs very fairly
hot but that 's how you get an amp to sound incredibly good.

my last point , i recently auditioned the adcom preamp something like
the 545 or something. it was two years old and it still sounded
like new.

if you build an amplifier decently , like the adcom 's , they will
sound brilliant and last a long time period.

just my thoughts , but then i do own one of adcom 's amps.



alan webber
webb@itu1.sun.ac.za
webb@itu2.sun.ac.za

the path you tread is narrow and the drop is sheer and very high
the ravens all are watching from a vantage point near by
apprehension creeping like a choo train up your spine
will the tightrope reach the end will the final couplet rhyme


from johnr@col.hp.com (john t. rasper)
subject adcom gtp500ii ir sensor repeater spec 's \?
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 25
nntp posting host hplsdvf.col.hp.com

does anyone know the details of the interface (5 wire din) for the
ir remote sensor (2 wire ir repeater) for the adcom gtp 500ii
preamp \? the adcom part numbers are the xr 500ii , spm 500ii , and
ira 500ii.

a cursory physical examination of the pre amp connector indicates
that the connector (5 pin din) may provide (viewed from connector front)


5 1 (pin \? ) \? v @ \? \? \? ma
4 2 (pin \? ) \? v @ \? \? \? ma
3 (pin 3) signal ground
(pin \? ) demodulated signal \? v pp , \? polarity , \? ma drive
(pin \? ) signal to drive repeater led (drives through 150ohm
resistor) \? v pp

i assume that the repeater connectors (mini plugs) drive the ir repeater
led 's directly. true \?

can anyone fill in the \? 's. thanks.


john rasper hewlett packard col
johnr@col.hp.com p.o. box 2197
(719) 590 5895 colorado springs , co 80901 2197

from jott@scarecrow.cse.nd.edu (john ott)
subject re pinout needed for til311
reply to jott@scarecrow.cse.nd.edu (john ott)
organization univ. of notre dame
lines 64

in article segal.734995860@corolla7 , segal@rtsg.mot.com (gary segal) writes
i 've recently picked up some til311 display chips , but i ca n't find
any information on them. it seems they are no longer made by ti , and
i do n't have an old enough data book. (

it appears to have a dot matrix led display capable of showing one hex
digit. it is in a 14 pin dip package , but pins 6 , 9 , and 11 are not
present.

if you have any information on this part (pinout , power requirments ,
functions , ...) please send me e mail.

thank you ,


gary segal motorola inc.
segal@oscar.rtsg.mot.com cellular infrastructure division
we are standing here only to gaze at the wind


pin function
1 led supply voltage
2 latch data input b
3 latch data input a
4 left decimal point cathode
5 latch strobe input
6 omitted
7 common gnd
8 blanking input
9 omitted
10 right decimal point cathode
11 omitted
12 latch data input d
13 latch data input c
14 logic supply voltage (5v)

latch strobe input , pin 5 , when low , the data in the latches follow the data on the latch data
inputs. when high , the data in the latches will not change. if the
display is blanked and then restored while the enable input is high ,
the previous character will again be displayed.

blanking input , pin 8 , when high , the display is blanked regardless of the levels of the other
inputs. when low , a character is displayed as determined by the data
in the latches. the blanking input may be pulsed for intensity modulation.

latch data inputs , pins 2 , 3 , 12 , 13 , data on these inputs are entered into the latches when the enable
input is low. the binary weights of these inputs are a 1 ,
b 2 , c 4 , d 8

decimal point cathodes , pins 4 , 10 , these leds are not connected to the logic chip. if a decimal point
is used , an external resistor or other current limiting
mechanism must be connected in series with it.

led supply , pin 1 this connection permits the user to save on regulated vcc current by using
a separate led supply , or it may be externally connected to the logic
supply (vcc).

logic supply (vcc) , pin 14 separate vcc connection for the logic chip

common ground , pin 7 , this is the vegative termnal for all logic and led currents except for the
decimal points.

john
jott@dickens.helios.nd.edu

from rmah@panix.com (robert mah)
subject re electronic parts in nyc \?
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 23

in fritzm.93apr20225937@sun.panix.com fritzm@panix.com (fritz mueller) writes
i just moved to nyc and wondered if there are any electronics hackers
out there who could point me to places in nyc that sell individual
electronic components (switches , pots , transformers , caps ,
...

try cables and chips ... let me dig out a reciept ...

here we are...

cables chips at 121 fulton street , that 's near south street seaport and
wall street. phone is 212 619 3132 and 800 843 4117.

however , when ordering there , be very exact or there 's a good chance they 'll
screw up. otherwise , they 're pretty good , and they deliver too.

cheers ,
rob


robert s. mah voice 212 947 6507 every day an adventure ,
one step beyond email rmah@panix.com every moment a challenge


from lancer@oconnor.wpi.edu (stephe lewis foskett)
subject how do di boxes work \?
organization zikzak corporation
lines 19
distribution world
nntp posting host oconnor.wpi.edu


i'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need direct
input boxes for the keyboards. these are the little boxes that take a
line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low z for the run
to the mixer. sadly they cost like 50 (or more) each and i'm going
to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one (belonging to
another band) and it looks like just a transformer. does anyone have
any plans for building them \? perhaps in anderton 's electronic
projects for musicians book (which i am having a hell of a time
tracking down...) \?

thanks a lot !

.s.

ps post or email. i read this group...

lancer@wpi.wpi.edu 0 modimidofrsaso
mein kopf ist ein labyrinth , mein leben ist ein minenfeld

from lgardi@uwovax.uwo.ca
subject re long distance ir detection
organization university of western ont , london
nntp posting host hydra.uwo.ca
lines 31

in article 1993apr20.183416.18744@dres.dnd.ca , sburton@dres.dnd.ca (stan burton) writes



i would like to be able to detect the angular position (low accuracy) of an
ir emitting source at a distance of about 100 meters (more is better) in
daylight. the ir source could be emitting a signature i'm leaning toward
30 khz square wave with 50 duty cycle.

i am considering the use of a quadrant detector from centronic inc. to give
information to a pan tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the
angles. for the source i am considering wazing the heck out of an ir led(s) ,
possibly an optek op290 or motorola mled81. wazing would mean at least 1 amp
current pulses. at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required.

has anyone done something like this \?

why do n't you just run one led at 60 khz and use a flip flop at the receiving
end to divide by 2 and give you a good square 30khz signal.
just a thought.
lori

stan burton (dnd crad dres dtd mss agcg) sburton@dres.dnd.ca
(403) 544 4737 dre suffield , box 4000 , medicine hat , ab , canada , t1a 8k6

red fishy wins
lori gardi (519) 661 2111 ext 8695
dept. of astronomy , lgardi@uwovax.uwo.ca
university of western ontario
london , on , canada , n6a 3k7

from gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
subject re a question about 120v
distribution world
organization ozone online operations , inc. , dba the ozone hole bbs
reply to gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (gerald belton)
lines 38

so.. here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the
same electrical circuit if i hooked the neutral jumper from the
neutral over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding
outlets. what 's wrong with my reasoning here \?

first , go to the local hardware store and pick up a copy of wiring
simplified by h.l. richter. now if your house is wired with metal
conduit , you do n't need a seperate ground wire (assuming the house
is wired correctly and the pipes are connected to a cold water
pipe in your basement). the outlets that have a neutral hooked to
the ground screw seem wrong. anyone else think so \?

back in the 70 's i was a service technician for a cash register company.
the cash registers used microprocessor circuits and back then they were
very susceptible to electrostatic discharge and line noise. the biggest
problems came from outlets that were not properly grounded.

in almost every place we went to do an installation , we found outlets
with the ground connected to the neutral. for 99.9 of the things you
can plug into one of these , they work fine. for our cash registers they
were a nightmare line noise tended to scramble the memory
periodically.

with modern electronics using switching power supplies this should be
less of a problem. even the company i used to work for is no longer
recommending a dedicated line with a seperate ground for their
equipment. i imagine if you check most household wiring you will find
that the ground and neutral are connected. although not ideal , it
should be o.k. for most applications.


. slmr 2.1 . my reality check just bounced.


the ozone hole bbs a private bulletin board service (504)891 3142
3 full service nodes usrobotics 16.8k bps 10 gigs 100 , 000 files
skydive new orleans ! rime network mail hub 500 usenet newsgroups
please route all questions or inquiries to postmaster@ozonehole.com

subject pattern generator wanted
from grimwood@ccu1.aukuni.ac.nz (tony grimwood)
organization university of auckland , new zealand.
keywords pattern
summary mda ega vga pat. gen.
lines 15

i repair a lot of monitors here , and i 'd like to know where i can get a
pattern generator (or a circuit for one) that will provide mda , ega and vga
signals. using a whole pc to do this takes up too much space on my bench , and
is somewhat less than portable. i guess i could sit down and design something ,
but i do n't have the time right now any (reasonable) suggestions would be
appreciated.

tnx

tg

tony grimwood , zl1ttg make no friendship with an elephant
biomedical engineering services keeper , unless you have room to
university of auckland entertain an elephant.
auckland , new zealand saadi of shiraz

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re telephone on hook off hok
nntp posting host aisun3.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 26

in article 734953838.aa00506@insane.apana.org.au peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch) writes

mc aye , there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , th
mc equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off hook.
mc in the on hook state you 're not supposed to draw current.

ok lets have some calculation here going by australian standards , which i
presume might be similar to other countries ( if not , lets have some
input) a phone uses 600ohm to loop a 48v line 80ma. a standard led
drains 20ma. so what is the actual loop current required for an off hook
indication , do you know \?

up to 60 microamperes on hook

over something like 10 ma off hook

in between defective line , and the phone company comes looking
for leaky insulation.




michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from scst83@csc.liv.ac.uk (mr. c.d. smith)
subject re homebuilt pal (epld) programer \?
organization computer science , liverpool university
lines 27
nntp posting host goyt.csc.liv.ac.uk

in sci.electronics timd@fenian.dell.com writes

anyone know a reasonable circuit for programming pals \? i am interested
in programming a wide range of eplds but would be happy with something
that could handle a 22v10 or thereabouts.

i too would be interested in any information on the subject of programing
pals etc.....

better to know what your on about before you start something , i always
say. often saves you a packet as well ! !

thanks in advance..

chris )


name mr chris smith twang on that 'ole guitar !
addrs scst83@uk.ac.liv
uni liverpool university quest to build more and more hardware
dgree computer science


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas !
d.h. lawrence.

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought.

from henslelf@nextwork.rose hulman.edu. (lige f hensley)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization computer science department at rose hulman
lines 11
nntp posting host g222 26.nextwork.rose hulman.edu

in article 120466@netnews.upenn.edu jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (jason
haines) writes

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

so , if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
some simms 8 ) )
sure i 'll give you 10 bucks for all of them

from babb@sciences.sdsu.edu (j. babb)
subject cicuit cellar ink extras 4 trade
organization sdsu larc
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host larc.sdsu.edu

fellow info junkies ,
i have an extra cci 27 (real time programming embedded sensors
storage) and an extra cci 32 (voice control of telescope , among other
articles). no labels. no torn , cut up , or missing pages.

would like to trade for cci 26 , or cci 23 , or cci 19 in same
condition (labels ok).

i mail mine you mail yours mutual trust kinda thang ok \?
you do n't actually throw them away , do you \?

thanx ,
jeff babb
babb@sciences.sdsu.edu

subject re picking up cable tv with an aerial.
from ganter@ifi.unibas.ch (robert ganter)
organization institut fuer informatik
nntp posting host schroeder.ifi.unibas.ch
lines 11

great , the first advantage of cheap coax , i 've ever heard.

cheers robert (hb9nby)


robert ganter
universitaet basel i am a fan
institut fuer informatik of my plan
basel switzerland
ganter@ifi.unibas.ch
amateurradio hb9nby packet hb9nby@hb9eas.che.eu

from harry@neuron6.jpl.nasa.gov (harry langenbacher)
subject re uninterruptible power supply
article i.d. jato.1993apr15.225326.22831
organization jpl pasadena ca
lines 25
nntp posting host neuron6.jpl.nasa.gov

in article nurden1.25.734866568@elaine.ee.und.ac.za nurden1@elaine.ee.und.ac.za (dale nurden) writes
i'm wanting to build a simple ups for my pc. ... sustain the computer long enough to complete
the current task and save , 5 to 10 minutes should be enough....
i think , though i do n't really need to keep the monitor active (i can try to
remember what to do) so maybe i can avoid a dc ac inverter and just use a
battery to directly supply the motherboard and peripherals.

now there 's a good idea ! all you need is 20 amps dc for a few minutes , and
a good (wetware) memory (was i using wp or autocad or ...). i thought of the
same idea myself a few days ago. i 've got a fairly new car battery that i take
along in my 4x4 when i go camping , and it sits around useless when i'm home.
i wish i could get a batteryless ups to use it with , or use it with a heavy
duty 5 volt regulator to supply the pc. but i guess you 'd need 5v and 12v
(and 12) too (2 more batteries \? ).

an alternative would be to leave a 40 amp battery charger hooked up to the battery
and run a 12vdc to 110vac converter running all the time , and when the power
goes out , voi la ! the 110vac converter keeps on running off the battery ! and
then i could take the 110vac converter and my computer on the camping trips ! )



harry langenbacher 818 354 9513 harry neuron6@jpl mil.jpl.nasa.gov
fax 818 393 4540 , concurrent processing devices group , jet propulsion
laboratory , m s 302 231 , 4800 oak grove dr , pasadena ca 91109 usa

from prasad@vtaix.cc.vt.edu (prasad ramakrishna)
subject exploding tv !
organization virginia tech , blacksburg , va
lines 19
distribution usa
nntp posting host vtaix.cc.vt.edu

i had a ge emerson 13 color tv for about 3 years and one fine day ,
while we were watching something (i doubt if the program was the cause) ,
we heard a mild explosion. our screen went blank but there was sound ,
so we thought , 'oh we have special effects on the program'. but soon
the sound stopped and smoke started to appear at the back of the tv.
the brilliant ees we are , we unplugged the tv and called customer service
only to be thrown around by please hold , i will transfer u to blah blah..
finally we abandoned the idea of trying to fix the tv and got a new one
(we wanted a bigger one too ! ).
after all the story , what i wanted to know is is my problem an isolated
incident or a common one \? (i recall reading about russian tvs exploding , but
not here , in the us). why would the picture tube explode or even smoke \?
i still have the left over tv set , i might dig into it this summer. any
idea where i can get parts for these things \? (probably will cost more than tv).

w my 0.02
prasad
prasadr@vtvm1.cc.vt.edu


from billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn)
subject re radio shack battery of the month club
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 18

donrm@sr.hp.com (don montgomery) writes


radio shack has canceled their battery of the month club. does
anyone know why \?

they say they 'll honor existing cards in customer hands , but no new
cards will be issued.

i was told that this is an environmental based move. i was also told that
there will be 'somthing' else to replace the battery club. like maybe
the 360k floppy club ).

we 'll see ....


bill quinn billq@ms.uky.edu


from lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (bruce g. bostwick)
subject re how can 0.022 uf be different from two 0.047 in series \? !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 13
distribution usa
nntp posting host doc.cc.utexas.edu

in article c5uc68.19k@zoo.toronto.edu henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer) writes

this may be a safety issue the csa is more paranoid in certain areas than
ul and such. two caps in series means that you do n't have a short if one
of them shorts.

not necessarily true a short in one , if near the maximum series
voltage drop , will overvoltage the other one and short it too , more

bgb
lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu the only reason the world has n't
(really bruce bostwick) dissolved into total chaos is that
from the great state of texas murphy 's law also applies to murphy.

from jeh@cmkrnl.com
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
organization kernel mode systems , san diego , ca
lines 43

in article 1993apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu , crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) writes
i'm considering modernizing some old wiring in my home , and
i need a little advice on outlet wiring. several outlets
are the old 'two prong' type , without the ground. naturally ,
the wire feeding these outlets is 12 2 , without the ground
wire. i noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground
wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.

so.. here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the
same electrical circuit if i hooked the jumper from the neutral
over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding outlets.
what 's wrong with my reasoning here \?

no. no. nooo ! ! !

the ground (green) wire is for safety. no current is supposed to flow in it
under normal conditions. this means that there 's normally no voltage drop in
it either. it is supposed to be safe to touch the ground wire... even if
you 're grounded in some other way at the same time.

the neutral (white) wire is , as dave vanderbyl correctly said , the return for
the hot wire. since current flows in it , there 's a voltage drop. if you
plug a heavy load into a properly wired grounded outlet , you can commonly
measure a volt or so of difference between neutral and ground.

they are supposed to be connected together at the breaker panel... but nowhere ,
repeat nowhere , else. (well , almost. there are strange exceptions for things
like sub panels.)

what you can do if you want three prong outlets without additional wiring is
to use a gfci outlet (or breaker , but the outlet will be cheaper). in fact ,
depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s) , a gfci may be required .

there is a faq on electrical wiring , posted regularly to rec.woodworking and
news.answers. it goes into great detail on these issues (including gfcis) and
you should probably read it before asking any more questions. i 'll mail a copy
to you , append a copy here , and will ask the writers to cross post it here in
the future.

jamie hanrahan , kernel mode systems , san diego ca
internet jeh@cmkrnl.com uucp uunet ! cmkrnl ! jeh cis 74140 , 2055


from payne@crl.dec.com (andrew payne)
subject wanted tcm3105 chips , small quantities
organization dec cambridge research lab
lines 16


does anyone know if a source for the tcm3105 modem chips (as used in the
baycom and my pmp modems) \? ideally , something that is geared toward
hobbyists small quantity , mail order , etc.

for years , we 've been buying them from a distributor (marshall) by the
hundreds for pmp kits. but orders have dropped to the point where we can
no longer afford to offer this service. and all of the distributors i 've
checked have some crazy minimum order ( 100 , or so).

i 'd like to find a source for those still interested in building pmp kits.
any suggestions \?


andrew c. payne
dec cambridge research lab

from martinkm@leland.stanford.edu (kenneth michael martin)
subject pads model of a 68hc11.
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 5

has anyone done a model of the 52 pin version of the 68hc11 \? it does n't
seem to be too big a job , but if someone else has already done it ...

many thanks
ken martin

from griffin@camelot.bradley.edu (mark valentine)
subject help 20ma current loop to rs232 converter needed.
summary i need a device that will convert 20ma current loop to rs232.
keywords 20 , current , loop , converter , rs232
nntp posting host camelot.bradley.edu
organization bradley university
distribution usa
lines 10


where can i buy or build a device that will convert 20 ma
current loop signals to rs232 voltages \? i know some old terminals
came with that option , but none of the ones i own have that. anyway ,
i want to connect a computer to this old industrial computer to use
the computer with communications software as a console instead of
an old decwriter. please e mail me if you have any info that would
point me in the right direction.



from behnke@fnalf.fnal.gov (m.l. 'broomen' behnke)
subject re peltier effect heat pumps
organization fermi national accelerator lab
lines 66
reply to behnke@fnalf.fnal.gov
nntp posting host fnalf.fnal.gov

in article 2745@snap , paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson) writes

i was having a look through a couple of components catalogues when i
came across a range of peltier effect heat pumps intended for cooling
components. for those who have not heard of this effect , you put a
current through one of these devices , and it pumps heat from one side
to the other. reverse the current and you reverse the effect. i
think a temperature difference can give you an emf as well.

anyway , it struck me that you could make a nice cool hot box for
picnics with one of these , a power regulator , a thermostat and a
couple of heat sinks. the biggest device can shift 60w with an
efficiency of 80 90 , which ai n't bad (although it would flatten my
car battery in about half an hour).

so called cool hot boxes have been advetised for several years. i recall
damark advertising them in a recent catalog. problem with the units is they do
a sh y job of keeping food cold warm. the peliter devices used just do n't
seem to have enough punch to keep up. if you want something hot , you need to
heat it up before you put it in the box , and end up hours later with food thats
only moderately warm. same goes for cold items.

unfortunately the catalogue did n't list anything more than the basic
specs as a heat pump. i imagine that you would get a back emf as the
temperature gradient across the device increases. if so , presumably
its power decreases as the back emf increases , until eventually we
have a steady state with no current being consumed (assuming no
leakage). if so , then the final temperature difference between the
two sides could be set by the supply voltage and nothing more
(although that would be a lousy way to control it).

what i would like to know is

1 are the above guesses correct \?

2 what is the open circuit thermal resistance of a typical device \?
(i just want to be sure that my coolbox is not going to get warm
too fast when i unplug it)

you 'de probably be better off getting a good coleman(tm) cooler and stocking
up on blue ice blocks.


3 how does a peltier effect heat pump actually work \? it looks like
magic !

4 why do n't they use these things in domestic fridges freezers \?

same as above. not enough punch in them to keep get things cold hot.

thanks in advance ,

paul.

paul johnson (paj@gec mrc.co.uk). tel 44 245 73331 ext 3245

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist. responsible for my opinions
mike behnke senior tech advisor quid est illuidin aqua \? \?
fermi nat accel lab equipment suuport
batavia , il. computing div pistrix ! ! pistrix ! !
behnke@fnalf.fnal.gov

my opinions are my own , not of the lab. so , if you do n't like them , call

1 800 uwh iner

from pauls@trsvax.tandy.com
subject re need info on dsp project
nf id r ee.ualberta.ca 735344986 trsvax 288200082 000 164
nf from trsvax.tandy.com ! pauls apr 21 09 31 00 1993
lines 6


motorola has a good app note on a 10 band equalizer using a 56000 dsp. it
could be easily ported to an ariel board , or even a turtle beach 56k
development system.



from babb@sciences.sdsu.edu (j. babb)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization sdsu larc
lines 8
distribution world
nntp posting host larc.sdsu.edu

i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.

try sci.energy

jeff babb
babb@sciences.sdsu.edu babb@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
programmer , sdsu larc

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re tv reception heelllppp ! ! !
nntp posting host aisun3.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 14

at 50 miles , a conventional set of tv antennas on a pole (one aimed
at each transmitter location) should work well.

rabbit ears inside the house are probably not adequate.

gadgets to plug into your house wiring are even worse.
at vhf , you do n't want a big antenna , you want a resonant
antenna.


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from babb@sciences.sdsu.edu (j. babb)
subject re circuit cellar ink address \?
organization sdsu larc
lines 14
distribution na
nntp posting host larc.sdsu.edu

in article 1qvlmainnhuu@shelley.u.washington.edu ,
ptorre@hardy.u.washington.edu (phil torre) wrote

is cci still published \? if so , does anyone have their address \?


circuit cellar inc.
4 park st. suite 20
vernon , ct 06066
(203)875 2751

jeff babb
babb@sciences.sdsu.edu babb@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
programmer , sdsu larc

from sean oliver@mindlink.bc.ca (sean oliver)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 28

joseph mich krzeszewsk writes

msg id 1quomg f6m@bigboote.wpi.edu
posted 19 apr 1993 17 49 04 gmt

org. worcester polytechnic institute

well , this is my second try at posting on this subject. here goes...
in texas (corpus christi at least) if you pick up the phone and
dial
890 the phone company will read the number of the phone you are on
back to you. i believe the service department uses this to make
certain they are repairing the correct lines when they open the big
junction boxes. i do n't know if it will work but you can give it a
try. good luck.



where i live , i use bctel. the number to dial is 211 for the same result.



sean oliver
internet address a8647@mindlink.bc.ca

mindlink ! bbs (604)576 1412



from myers@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (bob myers)
subject re subliminal message flashing on tv
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa
lines 18

hi. i was doing research on subliminal suggestion for a psychology
paper , and i read that one researcher flashed hidden messages on the
tv screen at 1 200ths of a second. is that possible \? i thought the
maximum rate the tv was even capable of displaying images was 1 30th
of a second. (or 1 60th of a second for an image composed of only odd
or even scan lines)

you are correct the fastest complete image that could be presented on
tv would be one field , which is 1 60 of a second (approximately). of course ,
the phrase tv screen is often thrown around in reference to any crt
display , so perhaps this researcher was n't using normal tv rates. might
even be a vector ( strokewriter ) display , in which case the lower limit
on image time is anyone 's guess (and is probably phosphor persistence limited).


bob myers kc0ew hewlett packard co. opinions expressed here are not
systems technology div. those of my employer or any other
myers@fc.hp.com fort collins , colorado sentient life form on this planet.

from heke@stekt.oulu.fi (heikki paananen)
subject re how do di boxes work \?
in reply to lancer@oconnor.wpi.edu 's message of 15 apr 93 15 02 28
lines 38
organization university of oulu , dept. of ee , finland

in article lancer.93apr15150228@oconnor.wpi.edu lancer@oconnor.wpi.edu (stephe lewis foskett) writes

i'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need direct
input boxes for the keyboards. these are the little boxes that take a
line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low z for the run
to the mixer. sadly they cost like 50 (or more) each and i'm going
to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one (belonging to
another band) and it looks like just a transformer. does anyone have
any plans for building them \? perhaps in anderton 's electronic
projects for musicians book (which i am having a hell of a time
tracking down...) \?

an easy way to solve the problem is to use two op amps to form the
balanced low z output , but this solution does not provide any
galvanic isolation between keyboard (or whatever plugged) and
mixer. if no tight requiremets are demanded and some hum , snap ,
crackle and pop sounds (formed by ground loops) can be tolerated ,
the op amp solution is just what you are looking for ! (it is
cheap...somewhat 10 di box).
not sure , but craig anderton did introduce one di box project
in guitar player mag years ago (transformerless).....

thanks a lot !

hope this helps. email , if more details wanted....

lancer@wpi.wpi.edu 0 modimidofrsaso
mein kopf ist ein labyrinth , mein leben ist ein minenfeld


heikki paananen heke@stekt.oulu.fi
the university of oulu
department of electrical engineering just a student
finland

home is where the heart lies ,
but if the heart lies where is home \?
fish

from morrow@cns.ucalgary.ca (bill morrow)
subject need source for old radio shack stereo amp chip
nntp posting host cns9.cns.ucalgary.ca
organization university of calgary
lines 13

last week i asked for help in getting an old homemade amp working with
my sun cd rom drive. it turns out that the channel i was testing with
was burned out in the amp. the other channel works fine.

so now i need a new amplifier chip. my local radio shack no longer
carries components ! the chip is a 12 pin sip ( \? ) labelled with ba5406
and then 502 515 below that.

does anyone have a source \? thanks ,

bill morrow clinical neurosciences , university of calgary
e mail morrow@cns.ucalgary.ca voice (403) 220 6275 fax (403) 283 8770
3330 hospital drive nw calgary , alberta , canada t2n 4n1

from peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch)
subject dmm advice needed
lines 28

allmartin emdedmm advice needed

me from mce5921@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (martin emde)
me organization boeing
me
me i an currely in the market for a dmm and recently saw an add
me for a kelvin 94 ( 199). does anyone own one of these or some
me other brand that they are extremely happy with. how do the
me small name brands compare with the fluke and beckman brands \?
me i am willing to spend 200 for one.
me
me any help is greatly appreciated. (please email)
me
me martin

if you are going to use one where it counts (eg aviation , space scuttle ,
etc) then i suggest you go and buy a fluke (never seen a beckman) , however
for every other use you can buy a cheapie. i have a metex which is some
made up name , as i have seen the same dmm with other brand names on it , i
bought it about 4 yrs ago for aus 125.00 (convert that to us and you see
that it 's definetly a cheapie.) so far it has proved to be accurate , taken
moderate abuse , and has many features on it (cap , freq , transistor check ,
etc). i am very happy with it and would definetly not buy a fluke just for
the name. hope this helps.

cheers
peter t.


from corwin@igc.apc.org (corwin nichols)
subject re fujitsu 8 hdd
lines 13
nf id r 1993apr17.204351.2256@aber.ac.uk 1606259317 cdp 1466200011 000 729
nf from cdp.uucp ! corwin apr 19 08 23 00 1993


the fujitsu 2322 uses what is known as an 'smd' interface (storage module
device \? ). a lot of older minis used it. sun still does on their server
models. there are several different speeds of smd , and i think that the
fuji drive you have is rated at about 24 mb sec (thats megabits). there
used to be several companies that made couplers for the pc (interphase in
texas being one) , but i think that the market pretty much has dried up.
controllers for this type of drive are readily available for vme buses
though. rumor has it that there is a smd to scsi adapter available , but
i think that it was designed for slower smd devices. in other words ,
if you have a pc or mac , that drive is pretty much dogmeat.
cheers ,
corwin

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re where do u look \? \?
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 43

in article 1993apr2.170955.1749@cmkrnl.com , jeh@cmkrnl.com writes

i might add that collecting last year 's data books (or even ones two years out
of date) is usually pretty cheap , and has benefits besides you usually don't
want to base a design on a brand new chip. there may be bugs availability may
be limited the data sheets may be missing critical information that will show
up in the ap notes in next year 's data books. kinda like buying version 1.0 of
a major new software package sometimes you get lucky , but do n't count on it.

there are two more reasons to save old databooks and then beyond two
years obsoleted parts and better application notes and tutorials.

when a part is dropped from future production planning , such as the
national mm series white noise generators , camera sync generators , etc. ,
it will disappear from current databooks although it still may be produced
for a short time (or be available from stock somewhere). now , if you
have some old plans calling for such a device , or you have a dead
gadget on your workbench and it has such a part in it , you 'll know
the functions so you can troubleshoot and substitute as necessary.

the old ge thyristor data books contain real good tutorials on
scr and triac applications that are not found elsewhere , for
example.

in summary , read. read ! read ! ! ! that 's how you 'll know what to
design in , which parts to use , and how to solve the intractable problem
that your boss has presented you with.

it helps to have a prodigous memory for details...

here , here ! ...



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from yxy4145@ucs.usl.edu (yu yingbin)
subject does someone know what is the news group for ieee.
organization univ. of southwestern la. , lafayette
distribution usa
lines 2

yxy4145@usl.edu thanks a lot.


from sburton@dres.dnd.ca (stan burton)
subject long distance ir detection
content type text plain charset iso 8859 1
nntp posting host stan
content transfer encoding 8bit
organization defence research establishment suffield
x newssoftware grn beta 1.16g (04.01.93) by michael b. smith mike schwartz
mime version 1.0
lines 19




i would like to be able to detect the angular position (low accuracy) of an
ir emitting source at a distance of about 100 meters (more is better) in
daylight. the ir source could be emitting a signature i'm leaning toward
30 khz square wave with 50 duty cycle.

i am considering the use of a quadrant detector from centronic inc. to give
information to a pan tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the
angles. for the source i am considering wazing the heck out of an ir led(s) ,
possibly an optek op290 or motorola mled81. wazing would mean at least 1 amp
current pulses. at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required.

has anyone done something like this \?

stan burton (dnd crad dres dtd mss agcg) sburton@dres.dnd.ca
(403) 544 4737 dre suffield , box 4000 , medicine hat , ab , canada , t1a 8k6

from heuvel@neptune.iex.com (ted van den heuvel)
subject motorola mc143150 and mc143120
originator heuvel@neptune.iex.com
organization iex
lines 6


does anyone out there know of any products using motorola 's neuron(r) chips mc143150 or mc143120. if so , what are they and are they utilizing standard network variable types (snvt) \?


ted van den heuvel heuvel@neptune.iex.com
kx5p

from caryd@a.cs.okstate.edu (cary david allen)
subject self modifying hardware
organization oklahoma state university , computer science , stillwater
lines 70

permit me to quote fragments of
praetzel@sunee.uwaterloo.ca 's article
out of context.

newsgroups sci.electronics , comp.lsi.cad
from praetzel@sunee.uwaterloo.ca (eric praetzel)
date 10 feb 93 15 46 41 gmt

currently the xnf format is propierty and i know of at least on person at
a university who was able to get it after signing a non disclosure agreement.
the xilinx bit map format is pretty well top secret. i would love to know it
because then you could make self modifying hardware ) as it is i had to
reverse eng. the xilinx tools to dump the bit map to the fpga because it only
runs on the computer with the hardware key.

self modifying hardware could be very interesting
computers that could write thier own programs (assemblers , compilers)
were an immense breakthrough from calculators that could n't.

i eagerly await a programmable gate array which uses a pd format and does
not cost your first born to program. till then we will keep on reverse
engineering whatever we can. as it is one company that i worked at has gone
under. fpgas are what they needed to make their product competitive. they
could not afford them. in the end you could say that they could not afford
to not use them but the management discovered that too late.
eric

my condolences.

i ca n't even imagine what i could do with self modifing hardware.
i can imagine self modifying software ,
and even though all my teachers say that 's bad , even worse than goto ,
check out what the experts used to say about self modifying code
(he uses orders rather than opcodes )


on the principles of large scale computing machines
by goldstine and von neumann ,
collected in
john von neumann collected works , vol. v
reprinted here with absolutely no permission from anyone.
we plan... to have a full size (40 binary digit) word hold
either contain
1 full size number (... equivalent to 12 decimal digits ,
but we will use the first binary digit to denote the sign)
or two (20 binary digit) orders.
....
it should be added that this technique of
automatic substitutions into orders ,
i.e. the machine 's ability to modify its own orders
(under the control of other ones among its orders)
is absolutely necessary for a flexible code. thus , if
part of the memory is used as a function table , then
looking up a value of that function for a value of the
variable which is obtained in the course of the computation
requires that the machine itself should modify , or
rather make up , the reference to the memory in the order which
controls this looking up , and the machine can only make this
modification after it has already calculated the value of the
variable in question.
on the other hand , this ability of the machine to modify its
own orders is one of the things which makes coding
the non trivial operation which we have to view it as.

david cary , tenor , e and comp. engineering (finger caryd@a.cs.okstate.edu).
227 s. 163 e. ave , tulsa , ok 74108 3310 , usa , sol 3 , universe v. 1.2


david cary , tenor , e and comp. engineering (finger caryd@a.cs.okstate.edu).
227 s. 163 e. ave , tulsa , ok 74108 3310 , usa , sol 3 , universe v. 1.2

from psgwe01@sdc.boeing.com (gerald edgar)
subject re help how to construct home built battery for 3rd grade sci report
keywords 3rd grade science report
distribution usa
organization boeing computer services (esp) , seattle , wa
lines 15
nntp posting host crystal

in making batteries you could use copper and zinc in an acid electrolyte.
copper copper wire (pennies are now mostly zinc if i recall correctly)
zinc zinc strip (hardware stores arround here (seattle) sell this to prevent
moss buildup on the roof. an alternative would be to use a galvanized
(zinc coated) nail
electrolyte lemon juice citric acid is the active ingrediant(sp).

volta (late 18th century scientist) used a stack for his batteries
copper disk , paper disk soaked in acid , zinc disk , copper disk , paper ....
they were advanced technology for the time.

gerald edgar
gwe3409@atc.boeing.com
the opinions expressed in this communication may not reflect those of my
employer

from johne@vcd.hp.com (john eaton)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization hewlett packard vcd
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 30

s87271077 s.walker man 50 (swalker@uts.edu.au) wrote


i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?
i hope someone can help

during the nuclear fission reaction the uranium fuel can get hot enough
to melt. when this happens the liquid uranium is pumped to the cooling
tower where it is sprayed into the air. contact with the cool outside air
will condense the mist and it will fall back to the cooling tower floor.
there it is collected by a cleaning crew using shop vacs and is then
reformed into pellets for reactor use the next day.

cooling towers are a lot taller than they really need to be. power companies
are forced to make them that tall by some enviromental law that requires the
raw uranium emisions to be held to under 1 . this law is now under attack
by lawyers arguing that the 1 should be measured at the edge of the property
rather than the edge of the cooling tower. eliminating this law will save
power companies thousands of dollars in concrete costs for new nukes.

john eaton
! hp vcd ! johne



subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
from ganter@ifi.unibas.ch (robert ganter)
organization institut fuer informatik
nntp posting host schroeder.ifi.unibas.ch
lines 34

in article 1qlg9o d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.edu.au writes


i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?
i hope someone can help


this is definitely the wrong newsgroup for this , but never mind.
any machine powered by heat (motor , steam or gasturbine , steamengine ,
thermoelement , etc) work the better , the bigger the temperature difference
between input and output is. because you never get all thermic energy out of
the powering medium (steam , burning gaz , etc) , you have to eliminate the rest
of the energy to keep the efficency high. a thermal electric power plant (coal ,
oil or atomic power) works just the same way. you heat water (steam) to power
the turbine and generators. because you do n't get the whole energy out of the
steam (efficency is never 100 ) you have to cool down this steam again by
something else. most power plants use cooling towers for this purpose (some
type of mega refrigerator...). others use water of a river (ecologically not
unobjectionable). got it \?

cheers robert (hb9nby)

robert ganter
universitaet basel i am a fan
institut fuer informatik of my plan
basel switzerland
ganter@ifi.unibas.ch
amateurradio hb9nby packet hb9nby@hb9eas.che.eu

subject re cable tvi interference
from ganter@ifi.unibas.ch (robert ganter)
organization institut fuer informatik
nntp posting host schroeder.ifi.unibas.ch
lines 56

in article 1qevrf 4t@hpscit.sc.hp.com writes

as is typical nowadaze , you will probably have to do somebody else 's job
for them. although this should n't be needed , you might take a few minutes
to wander around the neighborhood with an ht sniffing for cable leakage
on your freq. after shutting down your system for a while.

if you are fortunate enough to the find the hole , call the cable company and
get the highest link in the chain of command you can. explain the problem ,
whose job it really is to maintain their equipment , and how much of a nice
guy you are to have tracked down their problem for them.

you may have been lucky and made a new contact that could be helpful in the
future.

you should always try the 'honey' approach before bringing out the
jack nicholson impressions..... )

this has worked for me in the past with the power company when tring to
find loose noisy high voltage lines hardware. only once did i have to
tell them i was narrowing the problem down to a specific pole by bumping
a whole line of poles with my car. got 'em out there that night. and , they
did n't have to meet jack !

as a disclaimer , their method for finding loose hardware was usually
whacking the poles with a huge sledgehammer after their high tech arc
finding 'scope could n't find the problem.



bill
wb6 rotten zucchini garden

here in switzerland , the situation is exactly the same. the cable tv companies
even tried to stop amateur radio in switzerland in the beginning of cable
tv(they seem to be too stupid to know anything about international frequency
conferences or so). even today , they use the cheapest possible coax running
into problems they ca n't solve anymore. as bill noted , the only way is to look
for a solution with the neighbours before calling for the cable tv guys or
the fcc. the chance to find neighbours with some sense for reason is by far
bigger than with these people (especially the first ones). as anywhere in an
administration people do n't like , if you tell them to work for the money they
get...
the problem is , that radio amateurs do n't have the power to put trough their
rights in all cases. so let 's hope they start soon with optical fibers and get
out of our freqencies.


cheers robert (hb9nby)

robert ganter
universitaet basel i am a fan
institut fuer informatik of my plan
basel switzerland
ganter@ifi.unibas.ch
amateurradio hb9nby packet hb9nby@hb9eas.che.eu

from fculpepp@norfolk.vak12ed.edu (fred w. culpepper)
subject cad program for electronics \?
organization virginia 's public education network (norfolk)
lines 19

i am making a search for a cad program that does a decent job
of making schematic drawings. the program needs to be in
ms dos , windows if possible.

what i want the cad program to do is to draw diagrams by
dragging elements onto the screen , and in this the elements
needed are as diverse as vacuum tubes to ics (case with pins).
it also needs to have provision for adding legends to the
components as well as their values. in other words i want to
produce quality drawings. printout would be to either 24 pin
dot matrix and or laser printer.

if you know of such a cad program that is of reasonable cost ,
please respond.

fred w. culpepper
old dominion university (retired)
fculpepp@norfolk.vak12ed.edu


from aj008@cleveland.freenet.edu (aaron m. barnes)
subject realistic pro 2024 scanner for sale was 200 , sell for 150
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 45
nntp posting host slc10.ins.cwru.edu




article 10886 of alt.radio.scanner
path usenet.ins.cwru.edu ! cleveland.freenet.edu ! aj008
from aj008@cleveland.freenet.edu (aaron m. barnes)
newsgroups alt.radio.scanner
subject realistic pro 2024 for sale was 200 , sell for 150 obo
date 20 apr 1993 16 01 28 gmt
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 26
message id 1r16oo 3du@usenet.ins.cwru.edu
nntp posting host slc10.ins.cwru.edu


hello.

i have a realistic pro 2024 scanner for sale.here is a small desc
ription

60 programible chanels
fully detailed backlighted digital display
headphone jack
antenna jack
removable telescoping antenna
auto search

coverage
30 50mhz
118 174mhz
380 512mhz

it originally cost 200 , but i will sell for 150.

thank you.

buchanan in `96 !
fear the goverment that fears your guns.
without the 2nd amendment , we cannot guarantee ou
r freedoms. aj008@cleveland.freenet.edu

buchanan in `96 !
fear the goverment that fears your guns.
without the 2nd amendment , we cannot guarantee ou
r freedoms. aj008@cleveland.freenet.edu

from et@teal.csn.org (eric h. taylor)
subject holes practical questions , was philosophical question
summary how do we preferentially amplify holes instead of electrons \?
keywords holes electrons semi conductors mobility
nntp posting host teal.csn.org
organization 4 l laboratories
expires sun , 9 may 1993 06 00 00 gmt
lines 48

in article 12426@sun13.scri.fsu.edu jac@ds8.scri.fsu.edu (jim carr) writes
...
i agree. i come at this from nuclear physics , where one often discusses
particle hole excitations and certain reactions have the effect of
applying an annihilation operator and creating a hole , and it is a
subtle question. the longer one works with them , the more real they
become. there are also quasi particles , which raise the same sort
of question about how real the entity is. the phenomenon is most
certainly a real one.

ok , i 've asked this before , and with a new thread on these lines , i
ask this again

1 if a large hole current is run thru a resistor , will there be
i 2 r cooling instead of heating \?

2 can anyone design an amplifier that preferentially amplifies
hole currents over normal electron currents \?

3 what semiconductor materials have the highest ratio of
hole mobility to electron mobility \? (please quote actual
test samples rather than estimates based on theory. also ,
do n't be limited to semiconductors consider also insulators ,
resistors , dielectrics , piezo electrics , conductors ,
magnets (metal , ceramic) , magnetostrictives , etc).

notes

to summarize , this thread has so far stated that the only area
where holes are not detectable is the vacuum. that is , hole
particles only exist in the presence of matter.
previous threads have stated that holes only exist in certain
semi conductors. the question that naturally arises is if
the hole currents inside a semi conductor vanish at the point
where the semiconductor is joined to a conductor (say , copper).
i do n't want a theoretical discussion here about whether
holes could exist inside metal conductors , rather i ask for
an experimental discussion on how to amplify and detect such
currents if they exist.
also note that i have cross posted this to sci.electronics
since this is now becoming an electronic discussion.

thanx ,
eric.


et a force of nature


from ptorre@hardy.u.washington.edu (phil torre)
subject circuit cellar ink address \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 2
distribution na
nntp posting host hardy.u.washington.edu
summary address or phone number for subscriptions \?

is cci still published \? if so , does anyone have their address \?


from wb9omc@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu (duane p mantick)
subject re long distance ir detection
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 44

sburton@dres.dnd.ca (stan burton) writes

i would like to be able to detect the angular position (low accuracy) of an
ir emitting source at a distance of about 100 meters (more is better) in
daylight. the ir source could be emitting a signature i'm leaning toward
30 khz square wave with 50 duty cycle.

i am considering the use of a quadrant detector from centronic inc. to give
information to a pan tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the
angles. for the source i am considering wazing the heck out of an ir led(s) ,
possibly an optek op290 or motorola mled81. wazing would mean at least 1 amp
current pulses. at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required.

has anyone done something like this \?


yeesh , you will be nailing those irleds. may i suggest getting your
mitts on the siemens sfh484 2 irled \? this unit is designed to take some big
current pulses if you can get your duty cycle down a bit. it will output
nearly a watt (975 mw) with real short duty cycle times.

(nice thing about the sfh484 2 is that it is cheap. i got mine for about
50 cents a piece , even though i had to buy 100 of them....)

btw , i have seen irleds with outputs up to 6 watts...honest ,
6 watts. i do n't have the book here at work so i ca n't recall the company
name. the 6 watter ai n't cheap , around 108 but if you want some power ,
mamamia , that 's pretty hot. they also have a 4 watt , a 2 watt and a
1 watt device in their line , and will sell small quan. to individuals.
if you are interested , i can find the book at home and get the
pertinent info.

now , as for the position detector , you might try eltec in florida.
phone number listed in the 92 93 etid is 904 253 5328. they seem like
nice people. their specialty is passive infrared detection devices ,
so they might be able to help you out.

i'm curious about your applications if you do n't mind saying.
the device sounds like it could be useful in a lasertag game , although you 'd
need to up your carrier signal concept to 58.8 khz......

duane


from rob@dexter.psych.umn.edu (robert stephens)
subject compressor problem
nntp posting host dexter.psych.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 18

i have a stereo compressor limiter by
audio logic (model mt 66). the gates work ,
but the compressor seems to be gone on one
channel , and very weak on the other.

i 'll probably need an ocsilloscope to trace it
down (no pun intended) , but if any one with
experience with this type of equipment could
point me in a certain direction as to where the
circuit is most likely to fail , i 'd sure appreciate it.



robert c. stephens rob@dexter.psych.umn.edu

human factors research lab
university of minnesota


from cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us (gordon hlavenka)
subject re making copy of a video tape
keywords video
organization vpnet public access
lines 19

there are devices you can buy and or make. look in radio popular
electronics mags for the devices. if all else fails , you can build one
using the curcuit design from the dec. '87 issue of radio electronics.

my very favorite ad for such a device is on the back of the latest
damark catalog. quoting from memory

big flashy type
dual deck vcr copies any tape even those that are copy protected !

(and underneath the ad in very small print this device is not intended
for making illegal copies of copyrighted material.)

)



gordon s. hlavenka cgordon@vpnet.chi.il.us
vote straight ticket procrastination party dec. 3rd !

from cfb@fc.hp.com (charlie brett)
subject re los angeles freeway traffic reports
nntp posting host hpfcmgw.fc.hp.com
organization hewlett packard fort collins site
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.5
lines 21

while driving through the middle of nowhere , i picked up knbr , am 1070 ,
a clear channel station based in los angeles. they had an ad
claiming that they were able to get traffic flow information from
all of the thousands of traffic sensors that caltrans has placed
under the pavement. does caltrans sell this info \? does knbr have
an exclusive \? what 's the deal \?

doug former l.a. commuter claar

you were right the second time , it is knx. believe it or not , i also
listen to knx in the evenings here in colorado ! it 's kind of fun driving
through the country listening to traffic jams on the 405. back to your
original question. yes , there are sensors just past every on ramp and
off ramp on the freeways. they 're the same sensors used at most stoplights
now (coils in the pavement). you might want to give caltrans a call or
even ask bill keene (knx 's traffic reporter). i doubt if just anyone can
get the information , but it would be worth asking just in case you can
get it.

charlie brett (former la commuter) ft. collins , co


from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re dmm advice needed
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 19

i 've had my fluke 8060a here at work for just over 10 years now.
it is a wonderful meter. several colleagues here have some of the
newer fluke meters , though i still would just as soon hang on to my
8060. the 8060 a is the 1980s digial analog to the simpson 260
analog dmm of the 1950 1960s. there was is ( \? ) an 8060b that had
extended frequency response.

i 've got a nifty little pen shaped meter made by soar that i keep
in my toolbox at home. i 've had that for six or seven years now
and only replaced the batteries a couple of timees it is more than
adequate for day to day hobby use. i think soar oems their stuff
for a number of vendors. some of jdr microdevices' stuff looks
rather similar to soar 's.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (bruce g. bostwick)
subject re membrane keypad with custom legend.
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 21
distribution usa
nntp posting host doc.cc.utexas.edu

in article 1993apr21.125530.18387@texhrc.uucp pyeatt@texaco.com (larry d. pyeatt) writes
i had a catalog with membrane keypads , but i dunno what
happened to it , and it was so long ago that i forget the
name of the company. anyway , you could make your own
legend and slip it behind the bezel. really nice and
reasonably priced. can anyone tell me where to get some
more of these critters \?

for some reason the name grayhill springs to mind saw something
like that in a grayhill catalog , along with options for custom printed
overlays and a neat little electroluuminescent backing that would make
the whole shebang glow a nice shade of green ..

mighty handy if you 're trying to key a door combination in the dark
and do n't want to turn on the ! ! light ..


bgb
lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu the only reason the world has n't
(really bruce bostwick) dissolved into total chaos is that
from the great state of texas murphy 's law also applies to murphy.

from vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
nntp posting host chip
reply to vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
organization mpr teltech ltd.
lines 22

in article 1993apr6.161107.2235@b30news.b30.ingr.com , dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin) writes
in article 1993apr2.182402.28700@walter.bellcore.com , deaddio@ski.bellcore.com (michael deaddio) writes

the 'beam' is split in two , with one beam aimed at the target car (sort of) and
the other at the ground. the speeds of each are calulated for the final
number

actually , this is true on the more expensive ones , but the cheaper ones
just read the speedometer.

i 've never seen a speedometer reading model. are you sure \? who makes
them \? consider the difficulty of reading the speedo on various makes
of cars in use... i 've seen single beam moving mode and split beam
moving mode.

obviously the police officer reads the speedometer.
i cannot believe the nit picking in this group.
there 's 2 beams , there is not , is too , etc....


dave medin 's 10 line sig deleted


from kehoe@netcom.com (thomas david kehoe)
subject re how starters work really
keywords fluorescent bulb starter neon
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 35

so when you turn on the power , this causes the bulb to work like a neon ,

imprecise. this description

1. ignores the role of the ballast ,
2. misrepresents the heating effects in the starter.

the bimetalic strip cools down immediately after the contacts

i 've been thinking of sending into mad magazine an idea for a
parody , of those books entitled how things work that
engineers buy their sons , which explain how engines , elevators ,
flourescent lights , etc. work.

the parody would be how things really work. under canned
food , on the left page you 'd see the description from
how things work gleaming stainless steel equipment
pasteurizing the food to precisely the right temperature ,
then sealing the can in an oxygen free environment , etc.

on the right page you 'd see how things really work
brain dead workers sending disgusting food to the
gleaming equipment rotting vegetables , parts of
animals people do n't eat , barrels of sugar and chemicals.

under elevators you 'd see (on the left) computer geniuses
working out algorithms so that x number of people
waiting for y elevators will get to z floors in the shortest
time. on the right , you 'd see giggling elevator controllers
behind a one way mirror in the lobby choosing which people
appear to be in the biggest hurry and making them wait longest.

why my thoughts are my own , when they are in , but when they are out
they are another 's. susannah martin , hanged for witchcraft , 1692.
thomas david kehoe kehoe@netcom.com (408) 354 5926

from cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us (cyberman)
subject re what to do with old 2
lines 33
x maildoor waflinemail 1.00r

jason haines said
what to do with old 256k
to all on 04 15 93 04 38

jh i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
jh 256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
jh and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
jh sell them but have gotten no interest.

how about collecting them all together (ie everyones) and
selling them as a lot \? the other thing is to give to a
recycler.

jh so , if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
jh some simms 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing
jh about it.

if they are free and you can send them real cheap ! i would
be intrested in them. hehehe are these 2 chip or 8 chip
devices what speed \?

jh i have seen ram disc storage devices but they have been
jh very pricey (plus i am still a little worried about having data
jh stored on ram).

why \? do you use a ram disk \? )

stephen cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us
mangled on fri 04 16 1993 at 19 58 29

... badgers... we do n't need no steenking badgers !
blue wave qwk v2.12


from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re oscilloscope triggering
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 55

in article c4vs0g.5ux@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , dgj2y@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu (david glen jacobowitz) writes
can someone out there explain exactly what the 'trigger'
feature found on oscilloscopes does \?

lots og good explanation deleted

lots more deleted
is it just me , or does anybody else out there not like digital
scopes. my school has some beauutful 100mhz hp that are digital with
all the bells and whistles , including soft keys , which i think are a
loveley touch. ( that is , software keys. ) you do n't forget that you
are dealing with a computer. those scopes even with all their
neatness , still make the ickyest looking waves. lotsa features , but
ugly output. and those are the best digitals i have ever seen. i 've
seen a lot of cheaper digitals and they look terrible.

i think the hangup with digital scopes is that you have to know so much
more about them and how they work on a scope by scope basis , and
some of the functions are typically presented , in my opinion ,
in a counter intuitive fashion (hp has made some strides in their
54600 series , imo). automatic setups are fine for simple ,
repetitive waveforms , but can give you some crazy results on more
complex events where you need to understand how the scope is
actually measuring processing the event. for example , is the scope
in equivalent time or in real time sampling mode (equivalent time
being a mode where samples are built up slowly by adding a delay to
the trigger event each sweep) \? what was the scope 's actual sampling
rate at the time \? how is the data being massaged after capture but
before display , etc. one common misconception is the speed of the scope.

is the hp scope you 're using really a 100 mhz scope \? or is it a 20 mhz
sample rate scope ( 5 mhz single shot significance) whose front
end including s h can support 100 mhz waveforms (important for
equivalent time sampling) \? the 100 mhz input in this case really
only helps you when your waveform is repetitive , or on a single
sample , when you get lucky and hit a transient event during a sample time.

so , there are a lot more variables in understanding how to get
useful information from a digital scope. i prefer an analog scope for
general use and the digital for events where i need storage for
later analysis or comparison , when the event is within the capability
of the scope. now , for the price of true 100 mhz digital scopes to
fall...



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from laird@pasture.ecn.purdue.edu (kyler laird)
subject re telephone on hook off hok ok circuit
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 6

these circuits abound in most electronic project books. if you 're more
inclined to buy something , try radio shack. i think they still have a
device that is designed to disconnect an answering machine when an
extension line is lifted. it has led indicators also.

kyler

from jvannes@vms.macc.wisc.edu
subject re long distance ir detection
organization university of wisconsin academic computing center
distribution na
lines 26

in article wb9omc.735430855@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu , wb9omc@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu (duane p mantick) writes...

btw , i have seen irleds with outputs up to 6 watts...honest ,
6 watts. i do n't have the book here at work so i ca n't recall the company
name. the 6 watter ai n't cheap , around 108 but if you want some power ,
mamamia , that 's pretty hot. they also have a 4 watt , a 2 watt and a
1 watt device in their line , and will sell small quan. to individuals.
if you are interested , i can find the book at home and get the
pertinent info.


you are probably referring to the products of

opto diode corp.
750 mitchell road
newbury park ca 91320
805 499 0335

the make some amazing irled 's. the really high powered devices are arrays of
3 , 6 , or 9 , led 's on a to 66 header. the 9 chip model puts out 6.5 watts in
response to a 5 amp , 10 us. pulse at a .5 duty cycle. i think these are
designed as illuminators for ir vision systems.

i would also be interested in the application here. i work with a dance and
technology program , and want to build something to track dancers on a 30 foot
wide stage from 50 feet away.

from ah499@cleveland.freenet.edu (john daniels)
subject help ! apple ii expansion chassis by mountain computer
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 25
nntp posting host slc10.ins.cwru.edu


i recently bought an apparantly complete expansion chassis by mountain
computer inc. it consists of a box with 8 apple compatible slots ,
powersupply brick , interface card and ribbon cable to attach it to the computer
to be expanded. there was also included a small card with empty sockets on top
and pins on the bottom that looks like it would plug into the motherboard
somewhere after pulling a chip. there 's an empty socket also on the interface
card and a short 16 pin dip jumper like the ones used with language cards.

this technological marvel came with no docs and i have n't a clue as how to hook
this thing up. if anyone has docs and or users disk of any sort for this i
could really use copies of them or at least some help.

i need to know

o how to orient the ribbon cable between the card and the chassis.
o how to attach the short cable from the motherboard to the card
and if the small card is used.
o the purposes of the various jumper pins on the card (it has more
of those than my cms scsi card ! )


thanks john daniels
ah499@cleveland.freenet.edu


from jeh@cmkrnl.com
subject electrical wiring faq (was a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
reply to wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
keywords 120 240 ac outlets wiring power shock gfci
expires 15 may 93 21 35 16 pdt
distribution world
organization kernel mode systems , san diego , ca
lines 1547

since electrical wiring questions do turn up from time to time on
sci.electronics (and the answers are n't always apparent , even to those skilled
in electronics) , i am hijacking the following faq and posting a copy here.
i 've asked the writers to cross post to sci.electronics in the future.

jeh@cmkrnl.com


x news cmkrnl news.answers 6685
newsgroups misc.consumers.house , rec.woodworking , news.answers , misc.answers , rec.answers
subject electrical wiring faq
message id wirefaq 733900891@ecicrl
from clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (chris lewis)
date 4 apr 93 05 21 49 gmt
reply to wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (wiring faq commentary reception)
followup to poster
expires 2 may 93 05 21 31 gmt
organization elegant communications inc. , ottawa , canada
summary a series of questions and answers about house wiring
supersedes wirefaq 732691289@ecicrl
lines 1524

archive name electrical wiring
last modified sun feb 21 16 56 10 est 1993

frequently asked questions on electrical wiring

steven bellovin (smb@ulysses.att.com)
chris lewis (clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca)

comments to (automatic if you reply to this article)
wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca

this faq is formatted as a digest. most news readers can
skip from one question to the next by pressing g.

answers to many other topics related to houses can be obtained from
the misc.consumers.house archive send an empty piece of mail to
house archive@dg rtp.dg.com for information.

changes to previous issue marked with in left column. watch
particularly for new in the questions list for new or substantively
changed answers.

note that this is now a registered faq cross posted to news.answers
and should appear in the faq list of lists.

subject questions answered in this faq

introduction disclaimers
what is the nec \? where can i get a copy \?
what is the cec \? where can i get a copy \?
can i do my own wiring \? extra pointers \?
what do i need in the way of tools \?
what is ul listing \?
what is csa approval \?
are there any cheaper , easier to read books on wiring \?
inspections how and what \? why should i get my wiring inspected \?
my house does n't meet some of these rules and regulations.
a word on voltages 110 115 117 120 125 220 240
what does an electrical service look like \?
what is a circuit \?
grounding versus grounded versus neutral .
what does a fuse or breaker do \? what are the differences \?
breakers \? ca n't i use fuses \?
what size wire should i use \?
where do these numbers come from \?
what does 14 2 mean \?
what is a wirenut marrette marr connector . how are they used \?
what is a gfi gfci \?
where should gfcis be used \?
where should n't i use a gfci \?
what is the difference between a gfci outlet and a gfci breaker \?
what 's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet , then \?
why is one prong wider than the other \? polarization
what kind of outlets do i need in a kitchen \?
where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms \?
what is romex nm nmd \? what is bx \? when should i use each \?
should i use plastic or metal boxes \?
junction box positioning \?
can i install a replacement fixture \?
what does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts \?
what is 3 phase power \? should i use it \? can i get it in my house \?
is it better to run motors at 110 or 220 \?
what is this nonsense about 3hp on 110v 15a circuits \?
how do i convert two prong receptacles to three prong \?
are you sure about gfcis and ungrounded outlets \?
should the test button work \?
how should i wire my shop \?
underground wiring
aluminum wiring
i'm buying a house ! what should i do \?
what is this weird stuff \? old style wiring
where do i buy stuff \?


subject introduction disclaimers

although we 've done a fair bit of wiring , we are not
electricians , and we cannot be responsible for what you do. if
you 're at all uncertain about what is correct or safe , do n't
do it . contact someone qualified a licensed electrician ,
or your local electrical inspector. electricity is no joke
mistakes can result in shocks , fires , or electrocution.

furthermore , our discussion is based on the u.s. national
electrical code (nec) and the canadian electrical code (cec).
to the best of our abilities , we have confirmed every detail
with the electrical code , but we do n't quote sections
simply to keep this thing readable. if you think we 're wrong ,
we invite you to correct us , but please quote references !

the nec and the cec do not , in and of themselves , have the
force of law. many municipalities adopt it en toto. others ,
however , do not. check your with your local building
department (and provincial hydro inspection offices in
canada) to find out what applies in your area. also ,
your local electrical utility may also have special requirements
for electrical service installation. bear in mind , too , that
we say here applies primarily to ordinary single family
residences. multi family dwellings , mobile homes , commercial
establishments , etc. , are sometimes governed by different
rules.

also note that , contrary to popular belief in the u.s. (and in
some parts of canada) , canada is not a wholly owned subsidiary
of the u.s. consequently , the nec does not apply in canada.
lots of things are the same , including voltages , line
frequencies , and the laws of physics. but there are a number
of crucial differences in the regulations. where we can , we 've
noted them , flagging the relevant passages with ``nec'' or
``cec''.

remember that the cec and nec are minimal standards. it is often
smart to go beyond their minimal requirements.

subject what is the nec \? where can i get a copy \?

the nec is a model electrical code devised and published by the
national fire protection association , an insurance industry group.
it 's revised every three years. the 1993 version has been released.
you can buy a copy at a decent bookstore , or by calling them directly
at 800 344 3555. the code exists in several versions. there 's the
full text , which is fairly incomprehensible. there 's an abridged
edition , which has only the sections likely to apply to most houses.
and there 's the nec handbook , which contains the ``authorized
commentary'' on the code , as well as the full text. that 's the
recommended version. unfortunately , there 's no handbook for
the abridged edition. and the full handbook is expensive
us 65 plus shipping and handling.

subject what is the cec \? where can i get a copy \?

the canadian standards association is an organization made up
of various government agencies , power utilities , insurance
companies , electrical manufacturers and other organizations.
the csa publishes csa standard c22.1 which is updated every two
or three years. each province adopts , with some amendments ,
this standard and publishes a province specific code book.
since each province publishes its own slightly modified
standard , it would be somewhat confusing to obtain the csa
standard itself. in this faq , cec really means the
appropriate provincial standard. in particular , this faq is
derived from the ontario hydro electrical safety code , 20th
edition (1990). which is in turn based on csa c22.1 1990 (16th
edition). while differences exist between the provinces , an
attempt has been made to avoid specific to ontario detail.

the appropriate provincial code can be obtained from electrical
inspection offices of your provincial power authority. in
ontario , it 's ontario hydro. the ontario hydro book is n't
overly fat. it 's about c 25 , and includes mailed updates. i
hear that these standards are somewhat easier to read than the
equivalent nec publications.

do n't bother asking in quebec diy wiring is banned throughout
the province.

subject can i do my own wiring \? extra pointers \?

in most places , homeowners are allowed to do their own wiring.
in some , they 're not. check with your local electrical
inspector. most places wo n't permit you to do wiring on other 's
homes for money without a license. nor are you permitted to do
wiring in commercial buildings. multiple dwellings (eg duplexes)
are usually considered semi commercial or commercial . however ,
many jurisdictions will permit you to work on semi commercial
wiring if you 're supervised by a licensed electrician if you can
find one willing to supervise.

if you do your own wiring , an important point

do it neat and well ! what you really want to aim for is a better
job than an electrician will do. after all , it 's your own home ,
and it 's you or your family that might get killed if you make
a mistake. an electrician has time pressures , has the skills
and knows the tricks of the trade to do a fast , safe job.
in this faq we 've consciously given a few recommendations that
are in excess of code , because we feel that it 's reasonable ,
and will impress the inspector.

the inspector will know that you 're an amateur. you have to
earn his trust. the best way of doing this is to spend your
time doing as neat a job as possible. do n't cut corners.
exceed specifications. otherwise , the inspector may get extremely
picky and fault you on the slightest transgressions.

do n't try to hide anything from the inspector.

use the proper tools. ie do n't use a bread knife to strip
wires , or twist wires with your fingers. the inspector
wo n't like it , and the results wo n't be that safe. and it
takes longer. and you 're more likely to stick a hunk of
12ga wire through your hand that way.

do n't handle house wire when it 's very cold (eg below 10c
or 16f). thermoplastic house wire , particularly older types
become very brittle.

subject what do i need in the way of tools \?

first , there 's the obvious a hammer , a drill , a few
screwdrivers , both straight and phillips head. if you 're
lucky enough to live in canada (or find a source of csa approved
devices) you need robertson ( square recess ) screwdrivers
( 1 and 2) instead of phillips.

for drilling a few holes , a 3 4 or 1 spade bit and 1 4 or
3 8 electric drill will do. if you 're doing a lot , or
are working with elderly lumber , we recommend a 1 2 drill
(right angle drills are wonderful. can be rented) and
3 4 or 1 screw point auger drill bits. these bits pull
you through , so they 're much faster and less fatiguing , even
in 90 year old hardwood timbers.

screw driver bits are useful for drills , expecially if you
install your electrical boxes using screws (drywall screws
work well).

for stripping wire , use a real wire stripper , not a knife or
ordinary wire cutters. do n't buy the 3 k mart combo stripper ,
crimper and bottle opener types. you should expect to pay
15 to 20 for a good plier type pair. it will have sized
stripping holes , and wo n't nick or grab the wire it should
be easy to strip wire with it. one model has a small hole in the
blade for forming exact wire loops for screw terminals. there
are fancier types (autostrip cut) , but they generally are n't
necessary , and pros usually do n't use them.

a pair of diagonal side cutter pliers are useful for clipping ends
in constricted places. do n't use these for stripping wire.

you will need linesman pliers for twisting wires for wire nuts.

you should have a pair of needle nose pliers for fiddling
inside boxes and closing loops , but it 's better to form wire
loops with a loop former hole on your wire stripper more
accurate.

if you 're using non metallic cable , get a cable stripper for
removing the sheath. or , do what some pros do , they nick the
end of the sheath , grab the ground wire with a pair of pliers ,
and simply rip the sheath back using the ground wire as a
zipper , and cut the sheath off. you should n't try to strip
the sheath with a knife point , because it 's too easy to
slash the insulation on the conductors. apparently stanley
utility knives fitted with linoleum cutters (hooked blades)
can be used to strip sheath , but there is still the possibility
that you 'll gouge the conductors.

for any substantial amount of work with armored cable , it 's well
worth your while to invest in a rotary cable splitter ( us 18).
hack saws are tricky to use without cutting into the wire
or the insulation.

three prong outlet testers are a quick check for properly wired
outlets. about 6. multimeters tell you more , but are a lot more
expensive , and probably not worth it for most people. a simple
voltage sensor , which can detect potential through an insulated
wire not supplying any devices , is extremely helpful they cost
about us 10 at radio shack.

you should have a voltage detector to check that the wires are
dead before doing work on them. neon bulb version are cheap ( 2 3)
and work well. if you get more serious , a audible alarm type is
good for tracing circuits without a helper. (though i 've been known
to lock the drill on , and hit breakers until the scream stops )

for running wires through existing walls , you need fish tape.
often , two tapes are needed , though sometimes , a bent hanger or
a length of thin chain will suffice. fish tapes can be rented.

electrical tape. lots of it ) seriously , a good and competent
wiring job will need very little tape. the tape is useful for
wrapping dicy insulation in repair work. another use is to wrap
around the body of outlets and switches to cover the termination
screws i do n't do this , but drywall contractors prefer it (to
prevent explosions when the drywall knife collides with a live outlet
that has no cover plate).

subject what is ul listing \?

the ul stands for underwriters laboratory . it used to be
an insurance industry organization , but now it is independent
and non profit. it tests electrical components and equipment
for potential hazards. when something is ul listed , that means
that the ul has tested the device , and it meets their requirements
for safety ie fire or shock hazard. it does n't necessarily
mean that the device actually does what it 's supposed to , just
that it probably wo n't kill you.

the ul does not have power of law in the u.s. you are
permitted to buy and install non ul listed devices. however ,
insurance policies sometimes have clauses in them that will
limit their liability in case of a claim made in response to
the failure of a non ul listed device. furthermore , in
many situations the nec will require that a wiring component
used for a specific purpose is ul listed for that purpose.
indirectly , this means that certain parts of your wiring
must be ul listed before an inspector will approve it and or
occupancy permits issued.

subject what is csa approval \?

every electrical device or component must be certified by the
canadian standards association before it can be sold in
canada. implicit in this is that all wiring must be done
with csa approved materials. they perform testing similar to
the ul (a bit more stringent) , except that csa approval is
required by law.

again , like the ul , if a fire was caused by non csa approved
equipment , your insurance company may not have to pay the
claim.

in canada , there is a branch organization of the ul , called ulc
(ul of canada). ulc does not have power of law , and seems to
be more a liason group between the csa and insurance
companies.

subject are there any cheaper , easier to read books on wiring \?

usa the following three books were suggested by our readers

residential wiring
by jeff markell ,
craftsman books ,
carlsbad ca for 18.25. isbn 0 934041 19 9.

practical electrical wiring
residential , farm and industrial , based on the national
electrical code ansi nfpa 70
herbert p. richter and w. creighton schwan
mcgraw hill book co.

wiring simplified
h. p. richter and w. c. schwan
park publishing co.

try to make sure that the book is based on the latest nec
revision. which is currently 1990.

canada p.s. knight authors and publishes a book called
electrical code simplified . there appears to be a version
published specific to each province , and is very tied into the
appropriate provincial code. it focuses on residential wiring ,
and is indispensible for canadian diy'ers. it is better to get
this book than the cec unless you do a lot of wiring (or answer
questions on the net ).

it is updated each time the provincial codes are. this book is
available at all diy and hardware stores for less than c 10.

subject inspections how and what \? why should i get my wiring inspected \?

most jurisdictions require that you obtain a permit and
inspections of any wiring that is done. amongst other more
mundane bureaucratic reasons (like insurance companies not
liking to have to pay claims) , a permit and inspections
provides some assurance that you , your family , your neighbors
or subsequent owners of your home do n't get killed or lose
their homes one night due to a sloppy wiring job.

most jurisdictions have the power to order you to vacate your
home , or order you to tear out any wiring done without a
permit. california , for instance , is particularly nasty about
this.

if fire starts in your home , and un inspected wiring is at
fault , insurance companies will often refuse to pay the damage
claims.

in general , the process goes like this
you apply to your local inspections office or building
department for a permit. you should have a sketch or
detailed drawing of what you plan on doing. this is
a good time to ask questions on any things you 're not
sure of. if you 're doing major work , they may impose
special conditions on you , require loading
calculations and ask other questions. at this point
they will tell you which inspections you will need.
if you 're installing a main panel , you will need to
have the panel and service connections inspected
before your power utility will provide a connection.
this is sometimes done by the local power authority
rather than the usual inspectors.
after installing the boxes and wiring , but before
the insulation walls go up , you will need a
rough in inspection.
after the walls are up , and the wiring is complete ,
you will need a final inspection .

subject my house does n't meet some of these rules and regulations.
do i have to upgrade \?

in general , there is no requirement to upgrade older dwellings ,
though there are some exceptions (ie smoke detectors in some
cases). however , any new work must be done according to the
latest electrical code. also , if you do ``major'' work , you
may be required to upgrade certain existing portions or all
of your system. check with your local electrical inspector.

subject a word on voltages 110 115 117 120 125 220 240

one thing where things might get a bit confusing is the
different numbers people bandy about for the voltage of
a circuit. one person might talk about 110v , another 117v
or another 120v. these are all , in fact , exactly the same
thing... in north america the utility companies are required
to supply a split phase 240 volt ( 5 ) feed to your house.
this works out as two 120v 5 legs. additionally , since there
are resistive voltage drops in the house wiring , it 's not
unreasonable to find 120v has dropped to 110v or 240v has dropped
to 220v by the time the power reaches a wall outlet. especially
at the end of an extension cord or long circuit run. for a number
of reasons , some historical , some simple personal orneryness ,
different people choose call them by slightly different numbers.
this faq has chosen to be consistent with calling them 110v and
220v , except when actually saying what the measured voltage will
be. confusing \? a bit. just ignore it.

one thing that might make this a little more understandable
is that the nameplates on equipment ofen show the lower (ie 110v
instead of 120v) value. what this implies is that the device
is designed to operate properly when the voltage drops that
low.

208v is not the same as 240v. 208v is the voltage between
phases of a 3 phase y circuit that is 120v from neutral to any
hot. 480v is the voltage between phases of a 3 phase y
circuit that 's 277v from hot to neutral.

in keeping with 110v versus 120v strangeness , motors intended
to run on 480v three phase are often labelled as 440v...

subject what does an electrical service look like \?

there are logically four wires involved with supplying the
main panel with power. three of them will come from the utility
pole , and a fourth (bare) wire comes from elsewhere.

the bare wire is connected to one or more long metal bars pounded
into the ground , or to a wire buried in the foundation , or sometimes
to the water supply pipe (has to be metal , continuous to where
the main water pipe entering the house. watch out for galvanic
action conductivity breaks (often between copper and iron pipe)).
this is the grounding conductor . it is there to make sure that
the third prong on your outlets is connected to ground. this wire
normally carries no current.

one of the other wires will be white (or black with white or
yellow stripes , or sometimes simply black). it is the neutral wire.
it is connected to the centre tap (cec center tap in the
nec) of the distribution transformer supplying the power. it
is connected to the grounding conductor in only one place (often
inside the panel). the neutral and ground should not be connected
anywhere else. otherwise , weird and or dangerous things may happen.

furthermore , there should only be one grounding system in
a home. some codes require more than one grounding electrode.
these will be connected together , or connected to the neutral
at a common point still one grounding system. adding additional
grounding electrodes connected to other portions of the house
wiring is unsafe and contrary to code.

if you add a subpanel , the ground and neutral are usually
brought as separate conductors from the main panel , and are
not connected together in the subpanel (ie still only one
neutral ground connection). however , in some situations
(certain categories of separate buildings) you actually do
have to provide a second grounding electrode consult your
inspector.

the other two wires will usually be black , and are the hot
wires. they are attached to the distribution transformer as
well.

the two black wires are 180 degrees out of phase with each
other. this means if you connect something to both hot wires ,
the voltage will be 220 volts. if you connect something to the
white and either of the two blacks you will get 110v.

some panels seem to only have three wires coming into them.
this is either because the neutral and ground are connected
together at a different point (eg the meter or pole) and one
wire is doing dual duty as both neutral and ground , or in some
rare occasions , the service has only one hot wire (110v only
service).

subject what is a circuit \?

inside the panel , connections are made to the incoming wires.
these connections are then used to supply power to selected
portions of the home. there are three different combinations
1) one hot , one neutral , and ground 110v circuit.
2) two hots , no neutral , and ground 220v circuit.
3) two hots , neutral , and ground 220v circuit neutral ,
and or two 110v circuits with a common neutral.

(1) is used for most circuits supplying receptacles and
lighting within your house. (3) is usually used for supplying
power to major appliances such as stoves , and dryers they
often have need for both 220v and 110v , or for bringing several
circuits from the panel box to a distribution point. (2) is
usually for special 220v motor circuits , electric heaters , or
air conditioners.

note in the us , the nec frequently permits a circuit similar
to (2) be used for stoves and dryers namely , that there
are two hot wires , and a wire that does dual duty as neutral
and ground , and is connected to the frame as well as providing
the neutral for 110v purposes three prong plugs instead
of four ( only for stoves dryers connected to the main panel.
when connected to most sub panels , 4 prong plugs and receptacles
are required). in our not so humble opinion this is crazy , but
the nfpa claims that this practice was re evaluated for the 1992 nec ,
and found to be safe. check your local codes , or inquire as to
local practice there are restrictions on when this is
permissible.

(1) is usually wired with three conductor wire black for hot ,
white for neutral , and bare for grounding.

(2) and (3) have one hot wire coloured red , the other black , a
bare wire for grounding , and in (3) a white wire for neutral.

you will sometimes see (2) wired with just a black , white and ground
wire. since the white is hot in this case , both the nec and cec
requires that the white wire be permanently marked at the ends
to indicate that it is a live wire. usually done with paint , nail
polish or sometimes electrical tape.

each circuit is attached to the main wires coming into the
panel through a circuit breaker or fuse.

there are , in a few locales , circuits that look like (1) , (2)
or (3) except that they have two bare ground wires. some places
require this for hot tubs and the like (one ground is frame ground ,
the other attaches to the motor). this may or may not be an
alternative to gfci protection.

subject grounding versus grounded versus neutral .

according to the terminology in the cec and nec , the
grounding conductor is for the safety ground , i.e. , the green
or bare wire. the word neutral is reserved for the white when
you have a circuit with more than one hot wire. since the white
wire is connected to neutral and the grounding conductor inside the
panel , the proper term is grounded conductor . however , the
potential confusion between grounded conductor and grounding
conductor can lead to potentially lethal mistakes you should
never use the bare wire as a grounded conductor or white wire
as the grounding conductor , even though they are connected
together in the panel.

but not in subpanels subpanels are fed neutral and ground
separately from the main panel. usually.

in the trade , and in common usage , the word neutral is used
for grounded conductor . this faq uses neutral simply to
avoid potential confusion. we recommend that you use neutral
too. thus the white wire is always (except in some light
switch applications) neutral. not ground.

subject what does a fuse or breaker do \? what are the differences \?

fuses and circuit breakers are designed to interrupt the power
to a circuit when the current flow exceeds safe levels. for
example , if your toaster shorts out , a fuse or breaker should
trip , protecting the wiring in the walls from melting. as
such , fuses and breakers are primarily intended to protect the
wiring ul or csa approval supposedly indicates that the
equipment itself wo n't cause a fire.

fuses contain a narrow strip of metal which is designed to melt
(safely) when the current exceeds the rated value , thereby
interrupting the power to the circuit. fuses trip relatively
fast. which can sometimes be a problem with motors which have
large startup current surges. for motor circuits , you can use
a time delay fuse (one brand is fusetron ) which will avoid
tripping on momentary overloads. a fusetron looks like a
spring loaded fuse. a fuse can only trip once , then it must be
replaced.

breakers are fairly complicated mechanical devices. they
usually consist of one spring loaded contact which is latched
into position against another contact. when the current flow
through the device exceeds the rated value , a bimetallic strip
heats up and bends. by bending it trips the latch , and the
spring pulls the contacts apart. circuit breakers behave
similarly to fusetrons that is , they tend to take longer to
trip at moderate overloads than ordinary fuses. with high
overloads , they trip quickly. breakers can be reset a finite
number of times each time they trip , or are thrown
when the circuit is in use , some arcing takes place , which
damages the contacts. thus , breakers should not be used in
place of switches unless they are specially listed for the
purpose.

neither fuses nor breakers limit the current per se. a dead
short on a circuit can cause hundreds or sometimes even
thousands of amperes to flow for a short period of time , which
can often cause severe damage.

subject breakers \? ca n't i use fuses \?

statistics show that fuse panels have a significantly higher
risk of causing a fire than breaker panels. this is usually
due to the fuse being loosely screwed in , or the contacts
corroding and heating up over time , or the wrong size fuse
being installed , or the proverbial replace the fuse with a
penny trick.

since breakers are more permanently installed , and have better
connection mechanisms , the risk of fire is considerably less.

fuses are prone to explode under extremely high overload. when
a fuse explodes , the metallic vapor cloud becomes a conducting
path. result \? from complete meltdown of the electrical panel ,
melted service wiring , through fires in the electrical
distribution transformer and having your house burn down.
breakers do n't do this.

many jurisdictions , particularly in canada , no longer permit
fuse panels in new installations. the nec does permit new
fuse panels in some rare circumstances (requiring the special
inserts to key the fuseholder to specific size fuses)

some devices , notably certain large air conditioners , require fuse
protection in addition to the breaker at the panel. the fuse
is there to protect the motor windings from overload. check the
labeling on the unit. this is usually only on large permanently
installed motors. the installation instructions will tell you
if you need one.

subject what size wire should i use \?

for a 20 amp circuit , use 12 gauge wire. for a 15 amp circuit ,
you can use 14 gauge wire (in most locales). for a long run ,
though , you should use the next larger size wire , to avoid
voltage drops. 12 gauge is only slightly more expensive than
14 gauge , though it 's stiffer and harder to work with.

here 's a quick table for normal situations. go up a size for
more than 100 foot runs , when the cable is in conduit , or
ganged with other wires in a place where they ca n't dissipate
heat easily

gauge amps
14 15
12 20
10 30
8 40
6 65

we do n't list bigger sizes because it starts getting very dependent
on the application and precise wire type.

subject where do these numbers come from \?

there are two considerations , voltage drop and heat buildup.
the smaller the wire is , the higher the resistance is. when
the resistance is higher , the wire heats up more , and there is
more voltage drop in the wiring. the former is why you need
higher temperature insulation and or bigger wires for use in
conduit the latter is why you should use larger wire for long
runs.

neither effect is very significant over very short distances.
there are some very specific exceptions , where use of smaller
wire is allowed. the obvious one is the line cord on most
lamps. do n't try this unless you 're certain that your use fits
one of those exceptions you can never go wrong by using larger
wire.

subject what does 14 2 mean \?

this is used to describe the size and quantity of conductors
in a cable. the first number specifies the gauge. the second
the number of current carrying conductors in the wire but
remember there 's usually an extra ground wire. 14 2 means
14 gauge , two insulated current carrying wires , plus bare ground.

2 wire usually has a black , white and bare ground wire. sometimes
the white is red instead for 220v circuits without neutral. in
the latter case , the sheath is usually red too.

3 wire usually has a black , red , white and bare ground wire.
usually carrying 220v with neutral.

subject what is a wirenut marrette marr connector \? how are they
used \?

a wire nut is a cone shaped threaded plastic thingummy that 's used
to connect wires together. marrette or marr connector
are trade names. you 'll usually use a lot of them in diy wiring.

in essence , you strip the end of the wires about an inch , twist them
together , then twist the wirenut on.

though some wirenuts advertise that you do n't need to twist the
wire , do it anyways it 's more mechanically and electrically
secure.

there are many different sizes of wire nut. you should check
that the wire nut you 're using is the correct size for the
quantity and sizes of wire you 're connecting together.

do n't just gimble the wires together with a pair of pliers or
your fingers. use a pair of blunt nose ( linesman ) pliers ,
and carefully twist the wires tightly and neatly. sometimes
it 's a good idea to trim the resulting end to make sure it
goes in the wirenut properly.

some people wrap the open end of the wirenut with electrical
tape. this is probably not a good idea the inspector may
tear it off during an inspection. it 's usually done because
a bit of bare wire is exposed outside the wire nut instead
of taping it , the connection should be redone.

subject what is a gfi gfci \?

a gfci is a ``ground fault circuit interrupter''. it measures
the current current flowing through the hot wire and the
neutral wire. if they differ by more than a few milliamps , the
presumption is that current is leaking to ground via some other
path. this may be because of a short circuit to the chassis of
an appliance , or to the ground lead , or through a person. any
of these situations is hazardous , so the gfci trips , breaking
the circuit.

gfcis do not protect against all kinds of electric shocks. if ,
for example , you simultaneously touched the hot and neutral
leads of a circuit , and no part of you was grounded , a gfci
would n't help. all of the current that passed from the hot
lead into you would return via the neutral lead , keeping the
gfci happy.

the two pairs of connections on a gfci outlet are not symmetric.
one is labeled load the other , line. the incoming power feed
must be connected to the line side , or the outlet will not be
protected. the load side can be used to protect all devices
downstream from it. thus , a whole string of outlets can be
covered by a single gfci outlet.

subject where should gfcis be used \?

the nec mandates gfcis for 110v , 15a or 20a single phase
outlets , in bathrooms , kitchens within 6' of the sink , garages ,
unfinished basements or crawl spaces , outdoors , near a pool , or
just about anywhere else where you 're likely to encounter water
or dampness. there are exceptions for inaccessible outlets ,
those dedicated to appliances ``occupying fixed space'' ,
typically refrigerators and freezers , and for sump pumps and
laundry appliances.

the cec does not mandate as many gfcis. in particular , there
is no requirement to protect kitchen outlets , or most garage or
basement outlets. basement outlets must be protected if you
have a dirt floor , garage outlets if they 're near the door to
outside. bathrooms and most exterior outlets must have gfcis.

even if you are not required to have gfci protection , you may
want to consider installing it anyway. unless you need a gfci
breaker (see below) , the cost is low. in the u.s. , gfci
outlets can cost as little as us 8. (costs are a bit higher in
canada c 12.) evaluate your own risk factors. does your
finished basement ever get wet \? do you have small children \?
do you use your garage outlets to power outdoor tools \? does
water or melted snow ever puddle inside your garage \?

subject where should n't i use a gfci \?

gfcis are generally not used on circuits that (a) do n't pose a
safety risk , and (b) are used to power equipment that must run
unattended for long periods of time. refrigerators , freezers ,
and sump pumps are good examples. the rationale is that gfcis
are sometimes prone to nuisance trips. some people claim that
the inductive delay in motor windings can cause a momentary
current imbalance , tripping the gfci. note , though , that most
gfci trips are real if you 're getting a lot of trips for no
apparent reason , you 'd be well advised to check your wiring
before deciding that the gfci is broken or useless.

subject what is the difference between a gfci outlet and a gfci breaker \?

for most situations , you can use either a gfci outlet as the
first device on the circuit , or you can install a breaker with
a built in gfci. the former is generally preferred , since gfci
breakers are quite expensive. for example , an ordinary ge
breaker costs us 5 the gfci model costs us 35. there is one
major exception if you need to protect a ``multi wire branch
circuit'' (two or more circuits sharing a common neutral wire) ,
such as a canadian style kitchen circuit , you 'll need a
multi pole gfci breaker. unfortunately , these are expensive
the cost can range into the hundreds of dollars , depending on
what brand of panel box you have. but if you must protect such
a circuit (say , for a pool heater) , you have no choice.

one more caveat gfci outlets are bulky. you may want to use
an oversize box when installing them. on second thought , use
large (actually deep) boxes everywhere. you 'll thank yourself for it.

incidentally , if you 're installing a gfci to ensure that one
specific outlet is protected (such as a bathroom) , you do n't
really have to go to all of the trouble to find the first
outlet in the circuit , you could simply find the first outlet
in the bathroom , and not gfci anything upstream of it. but
protecting the whole circuit is preferred.

when you install a gfci , it 's a good idea to use the little
ground fault protected stickers that come with it and mark
the outlets downstream of the gfci. you can figure out which
outlets are downstream , simply by tripping the gfci with the
test button and see which outlets are dead.

subject what 's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet , then \?

apart from their use in electronics , which we wo n't comment on ,
and for certain fluorescent lights (they wo n't turn on without
a good ground connection) , they 're intended to guard against
insulation failures within the device. generally , the case of
the appliance is connected to the ground lead. if there 's an
insulation failure that shorts the hot lead to the case , the
ground lead conducts the electricity away safely (and possibly
trips the circuit breaker in the process). if the case is not
grounded and such a short occurs , the case is live and if
you touch it while you 're grounded , you 'll get zapped. of
course , if the circuit is gfci protected , it will be a very
tiny zap which is why you can use gfcis to replace
ungrounded outlets (both nec and cec).

there are some appliances that should never be grounded. in
particular , that applies to toasters and anything else with
exposed conductors. consider if you touch the heating
electrode in a toaster , and you 're not grounded , nothing will
happen. if you 're slightly grounded , you 'll get a small shock
the resistance will be too high. but if the case were
grounded , and you were holding it , you 'd be the perfect path to
ground...

subject why is one prong wider than the other \? polarization

nowadays , many two prong devices have one prong wider than the
other. this is so that the device could rely (not guaranteed ! )
on one specific wire being neutral , and the other hot.
this is particularly advantageous in light fixtures , where the
the shell should neutral (safety) , or other devices which want to
have an approximate ground reference (ie some radios).

most 2 prong extension cords have wide prongs too.

this requires that you wire your outlets and plugs the right
way around. you want the wide prong to be neutral , and the
narrow one hot. most outlets have a darker metal for the
hot screw , and lighter coloured screw for the neutral.
if not , you can usually figure out which is which by which
prong the terminating screw connects to.

subject what kind of outlets do i need in a kitchen \?

the nec requires at least two 20 amp ``small appliance
circuits'' for kitchens. the cec requires split duplex
receptacles. outlets must be installed such that no point is more
than 24 (nec) (900 mm cec) from an outlet. every counter wider
than 12 (nec) or 300 mm (cec) must have at least one outlet.
the circuit these outlets are on may not feed any outlets except
in the kitchen , pantry , or dining room. furthermore , these circuits
are in addition to any required for refrigerators , stoves , microwaves ,
lighting , etc. non dedicated outlets within 6' of a sink must be
protected by a gfci (nec only).

split duplex receptacles are fed with a 220v circuit. the tab
is broken on the hot side of the outlet , and one hot goes to
the upper outlet , and the other hot goes to the lower outlet.
the neutral connects to both outlets through one screw. when
carrying through to another outlet , the neutral must be
pigtailed , such that removing the outlet , or having the neutral
connection fall off does n't cause the neutral to disconnect
from downstream outlets.

subject where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms \?

there must be at least one outlet in each bathroom , adjacent to
the sink , in addition to any outlet that may be incorporated in
the light fixture. all such outlets must be gfci protected.

subject what is romex nm nmd \? what is bx \? when should i use each \?

romex is a brand name for a type of plastic insulated wire.
sometimes called non metallic sheath. the formal name is nm.
this is suitable for use in dry , protected areas (ie inside
stud walls , on the sides of joists etc.) , that are not subject
to mechanical damage or excessive heat. most newer homes are
wired almost exclusively with nm wire. there are several
different categories of nm cable.

bx cable technically known as armored cable or ac has a
flexible aluminum or steel sheath over the conductors and is
fairly resistant to damage.

teck cable is ac with an additional external thermoplastic
sheath.

protection for cable in concealed locations where nm or ac cable
is run through studs , joists or similar wooden members , the outer
surface of the cable must be kept at least 32mm 1.25 (cec nec)
from the edges of the wooden members , or the cable should be protected
from mechanical injury. this latter protection can take the form of
metal plates (such as spare outlet box ends) or conduit.

note inspector permitted practise in canada suggests that armored
cable , or flexible conduit can be used as the mechanical protection ,
but this is technically illegal.

additional protection recommendations (these are rules in the
canadian codes they are reasonable answers to the vague
references to exposed to mechanical damage in both the nec
and cec)

nm cable should be protected against mechanical damage
where it passes through floors or on the surface of walls
in exposed locations under 5 feet from the floor.
ie use ac instead , flexible conduit , wooden guards etc.
where cable is suspended , as in , connections to furnaces
or water heaters , the wire should be protected. canadian
practise is usually to install a junction or outlet
box on the wall , and use a short length of ac cable
or nm cable in flexible conduit to jump to the appliance.
stapling nm to a piece of lumber is also sometimes used.
where nm cable is run in close proximity to heating
ducts or pipe , heat transfer should be minimized by
means of a 25mm 1 air space , or suitable insulation
material (a wad of fiberglass).
nm cable shall be supported within 300mm 1' of every box
or fitting , and at intervals of no more than 1.5m 5'.
holes in joists or studs are considered supports .
some slack in the cable should be provided adjacent to
each box. while fishing cable is technically in violation ,
it is permitted where proper support is impractical
2 conductor nm cable should never be stapled on edge.
knight also insists on only one cable per staple , referring
to the workmanship clause , but this seems more honoured
in the breach...
cable should never be buried in plaster , cement or
similar finish.
cable should be protected where it runs behind baseboards.
cable may not be run on the upper edge of ceiling joists
or the lower edges of rafters where the headroom is more
than 1m (39 ).

whenever bx cable is terminated at a box with a clamp , small
plastic bushings must be inserted in the end of the cable to
prevent the clamps forcing the sharp ends of the armor through
the insulation.

bx is sometimes a good idea in a work shop unless covered by
solid wall coverings.

in places where damage is more likely (like on the back wall of
a garage ) , you may be required to use conduit , a
ul (or csa ) approved metal pipe. you use various types of
fittings to join the pipe or provide entrance exit for the
wire.

service entrances frequently use a plastic conduit.

in damp places (eg buried wiring to outdoor lighting) you will
need special wire (eg cec nmw90 , nec uf). nmw90 looks like
very heavy duty nmd90. you will usually need short lengths of
conduit where the wire enters exits the ground. see underground
wiring section.

thermoplastic sheath wire (such as nm , nmw etc.) should not be
exposed to direct sunlight unless explicitly approved for that
purpose.

many electrical codes do not permit the routing of wire through
furnace ducts , including cold air return plenums constructed
by metal sheeting enclosing joist spaces. the reason for this
is that if there 's a fire , the ducting will spread toxic gasses
from burning insulation very rapidly through the building.
teflon insulated wire is permitted in plenums in many areas.

canada appears to use similar wire designations to the us ,
except that canadian wire designations usually include the
temperature rating in celsius. eg ac90 versus ac .
in the us , nm b is 90 degrees celcius.

note local codes vary. this is one of the items that changes
most often. eg chicago codes require conduit everywhere .
there are very different requirements for mobile homes.
check your local codes , especially if you 're doing anything
that 's the slightest out of the ordinary.

wire selection table (incomplete the real tables are enormous ,
uncommon wire types or applications omitted)

condition type cec nec

exposed concealed dry plastic nmd90 nm
armor ac90 ac
teck90

exposed concealed damp plastic nmd90 nmc
armor acwu90
teck90

exposed concealed wet plastic nmwu90
armor acwu90
teck90

exposed to weather plastic nmwu
tw etc.
armor teck90

direct earth burial plastic nmwu uf
service entrance rwu
twu
armor ra90
teck90
acwu90
nmwu not for service entrance

subject should i use plastic or metal boxes \?

the nec permits use of plastic boxes with non metallic cable
only. the reasoning is simple with armored cable , the box
itself provides ground conductor continuity. u.s. plastic
boxes do n't use metal cable clamps.

the cec is slightly different. the cec never permits cable
armor as a grounding conductor. however , you must still
provide ground continuity for metallic sheath. the cec also
requires grounding of any metal cable clamps on plastic boxes.

the advantage of plastic boxes is comparatively minor even for
non metallic sheathed cable you can avoid making one ground
connection and they sometimes cost a little less. on the other
hand , plastic boxes are more vulnerable to impacts. for
exposed or shop wiring , metal boxes are probably better.

subject junction box positioning \?

a junction box is a box used only for connecting wires together.

junction boxes must be located in such a way that they 're accessible
later. ie not buried under plaster. excessive use of junction
boxes is often a sign of sloppy installation , and inspectors may
get nasty.

subject can i install a replacement light fixture \?

in general , one can replace fixtures freely , subject to a few
caveats. first , of course , one should check the amperage
rating of the circuit. if your heart is set on installing half
a dozen 500 watt floodlights , you may need to run a new wire
back to the panel box. but there are some more subtle
constraints as well. for example , older house
wiring does n't have high temperature insulation. the excess
heat generated by a ceiling mounted lamp can and will cause the
insulation to deteriorate and crack , with obvious bad results.
some newer fixtures are specifically marked for high
temperature wire only. (you may find , in fact , that your
ceiling wiring already has this problem , in which case
replacing any devices is a real adventure.)

other concerns include providing a suitable ground for some
fluorescent fixtures , and making sure that the ceiling box and
its mounting are strong enough to support the weight of a heavy
chandelier or ceiling fan. you may need to install a new box
specifically listed for this purpose. a 2x4 across the ceiling
joists makes a good support. metal brackets are also available
that can be fished into ceilings thru the junction box hole and
mounted between the joists.

there are special rules for recessed light fixtures such as
pot lamps or heat lamps. when these are installed in insulated
ceilings , they can present a very substantial fire hazard.
the cec provides for the installation of pot lamps in insulated
ceilings , provided that the fixture is boxed in a coffin (usually
8'x16 x12 made by making a pair of joists 12 high , and covering
with plywood) that does n't have any insulation. (yes , that 's 8 feet
long)

nec rules are somewhat less stringent. they require at least 3
clearance between the fixture and any sort of thermal insulation.
the rules also say that one should not obstruct free air movement ,
which means that a cec style ``coffin'' might be worthwhile.
presumably , that 's up to the local inspector. the cec does n't
actually mandate the coffin per se , this seems to be an inspector
requirement to make absolutely certain that the fixture ca n't get
accidentally buried in insulation. ie if you have insulation blown
in later.

there are now fixtures that contain integral thermal cutouts and
fairly large cases that can be buried directly in insulation. they are
usually limited to 75 watt bulbs , and are unfortunately , somewhat
more expensive than the older types. before you use them , you should
ensure that they have explicit ul or csa approval for such uses.
follow the installation instructions carefully the prescribed location
for the sensor can vary.

there does not yet appear to be a heat lamp fixture that is approved
for use in insulation. the coffin appears the only legal approach.

subject what does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts \?

this usually means that the neutral wire in the panel is
loose. depending on the load balance , one hot wire may end up
being more than 110v , and the other less than 110v , with
respect to ground. this is a very hazardous situation it can
destroy your electronic equipment , possibly start fires , and in
some situations electrocute you (ie some us jurisdictions
require the stove frame connected to neutral).

if this happens , contact your electrical authority immediately
and have them come and check out the problem.

note a brief ( 1 second) brightening is sometimes normal with
lighting and motors on the same 220v with neutral circuit. a
loose main panel neutral will usually show increased brightness
far longer than one second. in case of doubt , get help.

subject what is 3 phase power \? should i use it \? can i get it in my house \?

three phase power has three hot wires , 120 degrees out of
phase with each other. these are usually used for large motors
because it is more efficient , provides a bit more starting torque ,
and because the motors are simpler and hence cheaper.

you 're most likely to encounter a 3 phase circuit that shows
110 volts between any hot and ground , and 208 volts between
any two hots. the latter shows the difference between a normal
220v 110v common neutral circuit , which is 240 volts between the
two hots. there are 3 phase circuits with different voltages.

bringing in a 3 phase feed to your house is usually
ridiculously expensive , or impossible. if the equipment you
want to run has a standard motor mount , it is much cheaper to
buy a new 110v or 220v motor for it. in some cases it is
possible to run 3 phase equipment on ordinary power if you have
a capacitor start unit , or use a larger motor as a
(auto )generator. these are tricky , but are a good solution if
the motor is non standard size , or too expensive or too big to
replace. the taunton press book ``the small shop'' has an
article on how to do this if you must.

note that you lose any possible electrical efficiency by using
such a converter. the laws of thermodynamics guarantee that.

subject is it better to run motors at 110 or 220 \?

theoretically , it does n't make any difference. however , there
is a difference is the amount of power lost in the supply
wiring. all things being equal , a 220v motor will lose 4 times
less power in the house wiring than a 110v motor. this also
means that the startup surge loss will be less , and the motor
will get to speed quicker. and in some circumstances , the
smaller power loss will lead to longer motor life.

this is usually irrelevant unless the supply wires are more
than 50 feet long.

subject what is this nonsense about 3hp on 110v 15a circuits \?

it is a universal physical law that 1 hp is equal to 746
watts. given heating loss , power factor and other inefficiencies ,
it is usually best to consider 1 hp is going to need 1000 1200
watts. a 110v 15a circuit can only deliver 1850 watts to a motor ,
so it cannot possibly be more than approximately 2 hp. given rational
efficiency factors , 1.5hp is more like it.

some equipment manufacturers (sears in particular , most router
manufacturers in general ) advertise a hp rating that is far
in excess of what is possible. they are giving you a stall
horsepower or similar. that means the power is measured when
the motor is just about to stop turning because of the load.
what they do n't mention is that if you kept it in that
condition for more than a few seconds hopefully your breaker
will trip , otherwise the motor will melt it 's drawing far
more current than it can continuously.

when comparing motors , compare the continuous horsepower. this
should be on the motor nameplate. if you ca n't find that figure ,
check the amperage rating , which is always present.

subject how do i convert two prong receptacles to three prong \?

older homes frequently have two prong receptacles instead
of the more modern three. these receptacles have no safety
ground , and the cabling usually has no ground wire. neither
the nec or cec permits installing new 2 prong receptacles anymore.

there are several different approaches to solving this
1) if the wiring is done through conduit or bx , and the
conduit is continuous back to the panel , you can connect
the third prong of a new receptacle to the receptacle
box. nec mainly cec frowns on this practise.
2) if there is a copper cold water pipe going nearby , and
it 's continuous to the main house ground point , you can
run a conductor to it from the third prong.
3) run a ground conductor back to the main panel.
4) easiest install a gfci receptacle. the ground lug
should not be connected to anything , but the gfci
protection itself will serve instead. the gfci
will also protect downstream (possibly also two prong
outlets). if you do this to protect downstream outlets ,
the grounds must not be connected together. since it
would n't be connected to a real ground , a wiring fault
could energize the cases of 3 prong devices connected
to other outlets. be sure , though , that there are n't
indirect ground plug connections , such as via the sheath
on bx cable.

the cec permits you to replace a two prong receptacle with a three
prong if you fill the u ground with a non conducting goop.
like caulking compound. this is not permitted in the nec.

subject are you sure about gfcis and ungrounded outlets \?
should the test button work \?

we 're sure about what the nec and cec say. remember , though ,
that your local codes may vary. as for the test button there 's
a resistor connecting the load side of the hot wire to the line
side of the neutral wire when you press the test button. current
through this resistor shows up as an imbalance , and trips the gfci.
this is a simple , passive , and reliable test , and does n't require
a real ground to work. if your gfci does not trip when you press
the test button , it is very probably defective or miswired. again
if the test button does n't work , something 's broken , and potentially
dangerous. the problem should be corrected immediately.

the instructions that come with some gfcis specify that the ground
wire must be connected. we do not know why they say this. the
causes may be as mundane as an old instruction sheet , or with the
formalities of ul or csa listing perhaps the device was never
tested without the ground wire being connected. on the other hand ,
ul or csa approval should only have been granted if the device
behaves properly in all listed applications , including ungrounded
outlet replacement. (one of us called leviton their gfcis are
labeled for installation on grounded circuits only. the technician
was surprised to see that he agreed that the nec does not require
it , and promised to investigate.)

subject how should i wire my shop \?

as with any other kind of wiring , you need enough power for all
devices that will be on simultaneously. the code specifies
that you should stay under 80 of the nominal capacity of the
circuit. for typical home shop use , this means one circuit for
the major power tools , and possibly one for a dust collector or
shop vac. use at least 12 gauge wire many power tools have
big motors , with a big start up surge. if you can , use 20 amp
breakers (nec) , though cec requires standard 20a receptacles
which means you 'd have to replug all your equipment. lights
should either be on a circuit of their own and not shared
with circuits in the rest of the house or be on at least two
separate circuits. the idea is that you want to avoid a
situation where a blade is still spinning at several thousand
rpm , while you 're groping in the dark for the off switch.

do install lots of outlets. it 's easier to install them in the
beginning , when you do n't have to cut into an existing cable.
it 's useful if at least two circuits are accessible at each
point , so you can run a shop vac or a compressor at the same
time as the tool you really want. but use metal boxes and
plates , and maybe even metal sheathed cable you may have
objects flying around at high speeds if something goes a bit
wrong.

note that some jurisdictions have a no horizontal wiring
rule in workshops or other unfinished areas that are used
for working. what this means is that all wiring must be
run along structural members. ie stapled to studs.

other possible shop circuits include heater circuits , 220v
circuits for some large tools , and air compressor circuits.
do n't overload circuits , and do n't use extension cords if you
can help it , unless they 're rated for high currents. (a coiled
extension cord is not as safe as a straight length of wire of
the same gauge. also , the insulation wo n't withstand as much
heat , and heat dissipation is the critical issue.)

if your shop is located at some remove from your main panel ,
you should probably install a subpanel , and derive your shop
wiring from it. if you have young children , you may want to
equip this panel with a cut off switch , and possibly a lock.
if you want to install individual switches to ``safe''
particular circuits , make sure you get ones rated high enough.
for example , ordinary light switches are not safely able to
handle the start up surge generated by a table saw. buy
``horsepower rated'' switches instead.

finally , note that most home shops are in garages or unfinished
basements hence the nec requirements for gfcis apply. and
even if you ``know'' that you 'd never use one of your shop
outlets to run a lawn mower , the next owner of your house might
have a different idea.

note fine woodworking magazine often carries articles on shop
wiring. april 1992 is one place to start.

subject underground wiring

you will need to prepare a trench to specifications , use
special wire , protect the wire with conduit or special plastic
tubing and possibly lumber (do n't use creosoted lumber , it rots
thermoplastic insulation and acts as a catalyst in the corrosion
of lead). the transition from in house to underground wire is
generally via conduit. all outdoor boxes must be specifically
listed for the purpose , and contain the appropriate gaskets ,
fittings , etc. if the location of the box is subject to immersion
in water , a more serious style of water proof box is needed. and
of course , do n't forget the gfcis.

the required depths and other details vary from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction , so we suggest you consult your inspector about
your specific situation.

a hint buy a roll of bright yellow tape that says buried power
line and bury it a few inches above where the wire has been placed.

subject aluminum wiring

during the 1970 's , aluminum (instead of copper) wiring became
quite popular and was extensively used. since that time ,
aluminum wiring has been implicated in a number of house fires ,
and most jurisdictions no longer permit it in new installations.
we recommend , even if you 're allowed to , that do not use it for new
wiring.

but do n't panic if your house has aluminum wiring. aluminum
wiring , when properly installed , can be just as safe as copper.
aluminum wiring is , however , very unforgiving of improper
installation. we will cover a bit of the theory behind potential
problems , and what you can do to make your wiring safe.

the main problem with aluminum wiring is a phenomenon known as
cold creep . when aluminum wiring warms up , it expands. when
it cools down , it contracts. unlike copper , when aluminum goes
through a number of warm cool cycles it loses a bit of tightness each
time. to make the problem worse , aluminum oxidises , or corrodes
when in contact with certain types of metal , so the resistance
of the connection goes up. which causes it to heat up and corrode
oxidize still more. eventually the wire may start getting very hot ,
melt the insulation or fixture it 's attached to , and possibly even
cause a fire.

since people usually encounter aluminum wiring when they move
into a house built during the 70 's , we will cover basic points of
safe aluminum wiring. we suggest that , if you 're considering purchasing
a home with aluminum wiring , or have discovered it later , that you
hire a licensed electrician or inspector to check over the wiring
for the following things

1) fixtures (eg outlets and switches) directly attached to
aluminum wiring should be rated for it. the device will
be stamped with al cu or co alr . the latter supersedes
the former , but both are safe. these fixtures are somewhat
more expensive than the ordinary ones.

2) wires should be properly connected (at least 3 4 way around
the screw in a clockwise direction). connections should be
tight. while repeated tightening of the screws can make the
problem worse , during the inspection it would pay off to snug
up each connection.

note that aluminum wiring is still often used for the
main service entrance cable. it should be inspected.

3) push in terminals are an extreme hazard with aluminum wire.
any connections using push in terminals should be redone with
the proper screw connections immediately.

4) there should be no signs of overheating darkened connections ,
melted insulation , or baked fixtures. any such damage should
be repaired.

5) connections between aluminum and copper wire need to be
handled specially. current canadian codes require that the
wire nut used must be specially marked for connecting
aluminum to copper. the nec requires that the wire be
connected together using special crimp devices , with an
anti oxidant grease. the tools and materials for the latter
are quite expensive not practical to do it yourself unless
you can rent the tool.

6) any non rated receptacle can be connected to aluminum wiring
by means of a short copper pigtail . see (5) above.

7) shows reasonable workmanship neat wiring , properly stripped
(not nicked) wire etc.

if , when considering purchasing a home , an inspection of the wiring
shows no problems or only one or two , we believe that you can consider
the wiring safe. if there are signs of problems in many places ,
we suggest you look elsewhere. if the wrong receptacles are used ,
you can replace them with the proper type , or use pigtails having
this professionally done can range from 3 to 10 per receptacle switch.
you can do this yourself too.

subject i'm buying a house ! what should i do \?

congratulations. but... it 's generally a good idea to hire
an inspector to look through the house for hidden gotchas.
not just for wiring , but plumbing and structural as well. if an
inspection of the wiring shows no problems or only one or two minor
ones , we believe that you can consider the wiring safe (after any
minor problems are fixed). if there are signs of problems in many
places , we suggest you look elsewhere.

here 's some hints on what to look for

obvious non code wiring can include

zip cord wiring , either concealed or nailed to walls
hot wiring on the identified (neutral) conductor without
proper marking.
ungrounded grounding outlets (except when downstream of
a gfci)
splices hanging in mid air (other than proper knob and tube)
switched neutrals
unsecured romex swinging about like grapevines

certain wiring practises that are actually to code (or were at one
time) sometimes reveal diy wiring that may have hidden violations

switches that seem to control nothing (abandoned , perhaps
not properly terminated wiring)
a wall switch that shuts off a group of lights that are
separately controlled by other wall switches. (except when
it 's really convenient )
switches and outlets in bizarre locations
great numbers of junction boxes without outlets or lamps
junction boxes with great numbers of wires going into them
wiring that passes through a closet instead of a wall or
ceiling
backwrapped grounding wires

subject what is this weird stuff \? old style wiring

in the years since edison invented electricity , several different
wiring styles have come and gone. when you buy an older home you
may encounter some of this stuff. this section describes the old
methods , and some of their idiosyncrasies.

the oldest wiring system you 're likely to encounter is called
knob and tube (k t). it is made up of individual conductors with
a cloth insulation. the wires are run along side structural
members (eg joists or studs) using ceramic stand offs (knobs).
wire is run through structural members using ceramic tubes. connections
were made by twisting the wire together , soldering , and wrapping
with tape. since the hot and neutral were run separately ,
the wiring tends to be rather confusing. a neutral often runs
down the centre of each room , with taps off to each fixture.
the hot wire tended to run from one fixture to the next. in some
cases k t is n't colour coded , so the neutral is often the same
colour as the hot wires.

you 'll see k t in homes built as late as the 40 's.

comments on k t

the people installing k t were pretty paranoid about
electricity , so the workmanship tends to be pretty good.
the wire , insulation and insulators tend to stand up
very well. most k t i 've seen , for example , is in
quite good condition.
no grounding. grounding is usually difficult to install.
boxes are small. receptacle replacement (particularly with
gfci) can be difficult. no bushing on boxes either ,
so wiring changes need special attention to box entry.
sometimes the neutral is n't balanced very well between
separately hot circuits , so it is sometimes possible to
overload the neutral without exceeding the fusing on
any circuit.
building code does not permit insulation in walls
that contain k t.
connection to existing k t from new circuits can be
tricky. consult your inspector.
modern wiring practise requires considerably more
outlets to be installed than k t systems did.

since k t tends to be in pretty decent condition it generally is n't
necessary to replace it simply because it 's k t. what you should
watch out for is renovations that have interfered with it and
be cautious about circuit loading. in many cases it 's perfectly
reasonable to leave existing k t alone , and add new fixtures on
new circuits using modern techniques.

after k t , they invented multi conductor cable. the first type
you will see is roughly a cloth and varnish insulation. it looks
much like the romex cable of the last decade or two. this stuff was
used in the 40 's and 50 's. again , no grounding conductor.
it was installed much like modern wiring. its major drawback
is that this type of insulation embrittles. we 've seen whole
systems where the insulation would fracture and fall off at
a touch. bx cable of the same vintage has similar problems.

this stuff is very fragile , and becomes rather hazardous if
the wires become bare. this wiring should be left untouched as
much as possible whenever an opportunity arises , replace it.
a simple receptacle or switch replacement can turn into a several
hour long frustrating fight with electrical tape or heat shrink
tubing.

after this wiring technique , the more modern romex was invented.
it 's almost a asphalt impregnated cloth. often a bit sticky.
this stuff stands up reasonably well and does n't present a hazard
and is reasonably easy to work with. it does not need to be
replaced it should be considered as safe as the modern stuff
thermoplastic insulation wire. just do n't abuse it too much.

subject where do i buy stuff \?

try to find a proper electrical supply outlet near you. their
prices will often be considerably better than chain hardware stores or
diy centres , have better quality materials , have wider variety
including the odd stuff , and have people behind the counter that
know what you 're talking about. cultivate friendly knowledgeable
sales people. they 'll give you much valuable information.

chris lewis clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca phone canada 613 832 0541
psroff 3.0 info psroff request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
ferret list ferret request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca

from sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari)
subject how to the disks copy protected.
originator sehari@marge.ecss.iastate.edu
organization iowa state university of science and technology , ames , iowa.
lines 10



i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are avaliable , and how
effective are they \? has anyone have any experience in this area \?

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.




from wex@cs.ulowell.edu (paul m. wexelblat)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring.. (the truth)
keywords outlet
reply to wex@cs.ulowell.edu
organization univ. of lowell cs dept.
lines 6

i suggest that misc.consumer.house is a better forum for this , several
electricians , a huge faq that adresses all the issues raised here.



...wex

from ulan@ee.ualberta.ca (dale ulan)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
nntp posting host eigen.ee.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
lines 21

alee@ecs.umass.edu writes


greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al

there usually is a way , however , often , telephone companies like to
keep all of their internal numbers private. depends on your exchange.
any modern electronic switching equipment usually have voice synth
lines that echo the number you called from. the line service guys use this
to make sure they connect up the right pairs of lines.



from victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (victor laking)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 204 488 1607
lines 30

alee@bmerh794.bnr.ca (louis leclerc) writes


in article 34263@oasys.dt.navy.mil you write
va , ct , wash dc and i think bc canada where i 've heard they actually
use radar detector detectors.

nope , not in british columbia. detectors are legal here in bc , i 've even
got one.

in alberta and ontario they 're illegal , and detection devices are sometimes
used. i 've heard the police in ontario prefer a much more direct method of
detection. just trigger the radar gun , watch for people slamming on the
brakes , and search the car.


david lee
leex@sfu.ca



they are illegal here in manitoba as well though i do n't know what
methods are used to detect them.

it has always amazed me with the way the laws work. it is not illegal to
sell them here in manitoba , only to have them within a vehicle. (last i
heard , they do n't have to be installed to be illegal.)

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

from kenh@sail.labs.tek.com (ken hillen)
subject rf data transmission
article i.d. sail.13601
distribution usa
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 10

i need a off the shelf method of transmitting small amounts of data up to
300 feet. the data is low speed and can be encoded as needed. low power
on the transmitting end would be a plus. an fcc certified product would
be prefered.

if you have any pointers to products or companies i 'd appreciate hearing from
you.

thanks ,
ken

from khairon@usc.edu (rosli bin khairon)
subject looking for address of noise cancellation tech.
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 14
distribution na
nntp posting host sal sun130.usc.edu

i am new to this newsgroup so i apologise if this is not the appropriate
forum to ask this question. i am looking for the address of noise cancellation
technologies. it is rather important. so if you can help me in this regard ,
please do. thank you.








rosli
khairon@aludra.usc.edu

subject re looking for a good spice book
from juhan@piko (juhan poldvere)
organization tartu university , department of chemistry
nntp posting host piko.chem.ut.ee
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8 lines 17
lines 17

in c5gia7.7x9@acsu.buffalo.edu neil b. gandler
(v064mb9k@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu) wrote

i am an electrical engineering student and its a must that i get familiar
with spice. i have been using it and getting used to it but it would
be great to have a good reference manual that explains everything in an
organized and concise. i current have a guide to circuit simulation
analysis using spice . i feel it has the information is just randomly placed
in the book and its not easy to look up small things when you just
need a good reference book. i would appreciate any info. thanks

there is a postscript manual at ic.berkeley.edu in pub spice3 um.3f.ps
directory (about 650kbytes , 126 pages).

juhan poeldvere , es5qx juhan@chem.ut.ee
tartu university , dept. of chemistry fax 372 (34) 35440
2 jakobi st. , ee 2400 , tartu , estonia , via stockholm voice 372 (34) 35429

from alan@apple.com (alan mimms)
subject re uart needed (really break detect)
organization apple computer , inc.
lines 26

in article jam.19.735404158@ameslab.gov , jam@ameslab.gov (jerry
musselman) wrote

i need to find a uart that will interface to an 8051 and do the following
250k baud , 8 data bits , 2 stop bits , no parity
ability to do break detect (irq or output pin)
irq on character received

i'm using a dallas ds2250 at 16 mhz (8051 clone) , but it wo n't do
break detect. i 've looked at the 6850 , 8251 , 7201 , 2661 , etc...

any help would be appriciated ! ! !

actually detecting a break is done by watching for a character containing
all zero bits with the framing error resulting from its receipt. this
means that the line stayed in the zero bit state even past the stop bit
time slot , which basically indicates a break. there is no special way to
detect break that i have found other than this there 's no magic signal
generated by uarts , etc.

alan mimms (alan@apple.com , ... ! apple ! alan) my opinions are generally
portable macintosh software group pretty worthless , but
apple computer they are my own...
art without engineering is dreaming. engineering without art is
calculating.
steven k. roberts in computing across america

from tg@cs.toronto.edu (tom glinos)
subject 12v to 3v and 48v at 3a
organization department of computer science , university of toronto
distribution na
lines 11

the subject line says it all. i'm working on a project
that will use a car battery. i need to pull off 3v and possibly
48v at 3a.

i have several ideas , but i 'd prefer to benefit from all you
brilliant people )


conquest is easy , control is not tom glinos @ u of toronto statistics
star trek tos tg@utstat.toronto.edu
usl forgot this simple history lesson

from henslelf@nextwork.rose hulman.edu. (lige f hensley)
subject re 68hc16 public domain software \?
organization computer science department at rose hulman
lines 14
nntp posting host g222 26.nextwork.rose hulman.edu
keywords 68hc16

in article murashiea.15@mail.beckman.com writes
does anyone know of an ftp site where i might find public
domain software for the motorola 68hc16 microprocessor \?
i am looking for a basic interpreter compilier or a 'c'
compiler. thanks in advance.
ed murashie
yep , at
oak.oakland.edu
they have a couple different 68hc16 things in
pub msdos emulators
and get the file
00 index.txt
for a list of what they have.
lige

from cab@col.hp.com (chris best)
subject re need help with car stereo....
organization your service
lines 16
nntp posting host hpctdkz.col.hp.com

just a shot here , but ya never know

i once bought a (real) cheap equalizer power amp for my car tape player
at one of those motel room truckload sales , and it sounded great. for a
while , that is. then one channel quit entirely. i opened it up , and the
amplifier chip for the bad channel had simply melted some of its solder
joints attaching it to the pcb. i soldered them back and it worked fine.
i just had to keep the volume a bit lower than i did before. probably
lousy heat sinking.

you said a nice alpine which i'm sure is a few orders of mag higher
in quality than the p.o.s. i had. but the point is look inside before
you scrap it , since you occasionally find something you can repair.
maybe even the same thing i found.

good luck !

from adykes@jpradley.jpr.com (al dykes)
subject help how to reduce the rpms of a boxer fan \?
organization unix in nyc
distribution na
lines 16


i need to reduce the speed of a boxer fan by about 30 50 . i recall
reading somewhere that the right capacitor in series will do it.

if this is n't a case of brain fade , can someone suggest the cap value \?

the specifics it 's a real boxer fan (tm). the label says 115 v , .2 amps.

al dykes

adykes@jpr.com






from tomb@hplsla.hp.com (tom bruhns)
subject re trace size for a 15 amp supply
organization hp lake stevens , wa
lines 34

acollins@uclink.berkeley.edu (andy collins) writes

how thick do i need to make a pcb trace for 15 amps of current \? and
does anybody have any other thoughts on the process (what kind of pcb
to use , materials , thickness of copper , any advice graciously accepted) \?

in four replies , i 've seen no hard numbers , so here goes for traces
on the outside (not inner layers) , expect , in 1 oz copper , at 15 amps ,
the following temperature rises versus width. this is from sams'
reference data for engineers , seventh edition , pg 5 30 , which claims
in turn to be from mil std 275c...

width temp rise
inches degrees c

.125 100
.15 75
.17 60
.20 45
.24 30
.33 20

at 10 amps , the rise for the .125 width is only about 30 degrees.
power goes as square of the current , plus the copper resistance goes
up as temperature goes up... certainly .20 ( 5mm) traces should be
ample for what you want to do. and 2 ounce copper almost cuts the
required width in half. (i 'd do 2 oz at about 0.08 width myself ,
i think...given that the rated current is 10 amps and the 15 is
a transient or fault condition.)

(there 's another question will the voltage drop be low enough \?
but you should be able to figure this one out with wire tables or
just the resistivity of copper. keep traces short and use separate
sensing traces where appropriate , as mentioned by another poster.)

from larryhsu@mtl.mit.edu (lawrence hsu)
subject shrunken monitor window \?
organization mit microsystems technology laboratories
lines 12
nntp posting host mtl.mit.edu

does anyone know what causes the ever growing black border around the
edges of my computer screen \? the growth has been gradual so i do n't
know how long it 's taken to get this bad. i have a 19 dec ( \? )
color monitor , maybe five years old , and the black border is about 1.1
inches on the left and right sides , about 1.75 inches on the bottom and
negligible at the top of the screen. the only controls are
brightness knob , contrast knob , degauss switch , and power switch.

is there anything to be done , or are the monitor 's days numbered \?

larry hsu
larryhsu@mtl.mit.edu

from davidj@rahul.net (david josephson)
subject re microphone pre amp low noise phantom powered
nntp posting host bolero
organization a2i network
lines 26

in c5jjj2.1tf@cmcl2.nyu.edu ali@cns.nyu.edu (alan macaluso) writes

i'm looking to build a microphone preamp that has very good low noise characteristics , large clean gain , and incorportates phantom power (20 48 volts (dc)) for a pzm microphone. i'm leaning towards a good , low cost ( \? \? ) instrumentation amplifier to maintain the balanced input from the microphone , for its good cmrr , internal compensation , and because i can use a minimal of parts.

does anyone out there have any experience , suggestions , advice , etc...that they 'd like to pass on , i 'd greatly appreciate it.



a l a n m a c a l u s o purple moon giants
ali@cns.nyu.edu 158 e. 7th. st. b5
(212) 998 7837 nyc 10009
(212) 982 6630




without doing anything really tricky , the best i 've seen is the
burr brown ina103. their databook shows a good application of this
chip as a phantom power mic pre.




josephson engineering , san jose california microphones
tel 408 238 6062 fax 408 238 6022 instrumentation
email david@josephson.com ftp info from rahul.net pub davidj

from robert.desonia@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (robert desonia)
subject a d board bus speed probl
distribution world
organization hal 9000 bbs , w net hq , ann arbor , michigan , usa
reply to robert.desonia@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (robert desonia)
lines 39


c hi
c i have a 486dx2 66mhz computer to use with an a d board
c for data acquisition on an at bus...i'm having problems.
c the at bus runs at 12.5 mhz correct \? so there should
c be no bus speed conflict. but i read somewhere that the
c new 486dx2 66 mhz cpu runs on a 33 mhz bus is that for
c the local bus or the at bus also if so then i have a problem.
c
c when i run on non turbo mode the speed goes to 8 mhz and the
c a d does n't work. please mail your views ! thanks.
c vincent
c cyl5@musica.mcgill.ca
c

the standard at bus (isa) runs at 8mhz , not 12.5 mhz , but some
non stnadard isa buses do have higher clock rates , but be careful , since
some boards do n't work with faster than standard rates. for instance , my
486 has adjustable at bus speeds , and my pas16 audio card chokes when i do
ad data acquisition with a bus speed faster than 10mhz.

the fact that non turbo mode speed a d does n't work is weird. you may
have a motherboard with a hardware 'bug'.

33 mhz bus on the 486dx2 66 does refer to the local bus. fyi the at bus
operates asynchronously , and is linked to the local bus via a 'bus
interface' , which is one function that your 'chipset'.

rdd


. winqwk 2.0b 0 . unregistered evaluation copy
kmail 2.95d w net hq , hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us , 1 313 663 4173 or 3959


hal 9000 bbs qwk to usenet gateway four 14400 v.32bis dial ins
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! pcboard 14.5am uupcb kmail
call 1 313 663 4173 or 663 3959
member of eff , asp , asad 1500mb disk serving ann arbor since 1988

subject re can microwaves be used to collect xyz coordinates
from ganter@ifi.unibas.ch (robert ganter)
organization institut fuer informatik
nntp posting host schroeder.ifi.unibas.ch
lines 63

in article 1993apr15.103953.66252@cc.usu.edu writes
in article c5hs5j.ag7@bcstec.ca.boeing.com , rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com
(robert g. carpenter) writes

it seems reasonable to me that a microwave transmitter receiver setup
could
do the job. for example , say you want to map an acre lot , it 'd be
convenient
to place mw transmitters around the lot 's periphery (either 2 or 3) and
then
carry a hand held recorder and walk to a point on the lot , press a button
and
the coords of the recorder 's location is stored as digital data.

what 's the chance of this working \? any systems like this already exist \?
what kind of accuracy could you expect \? what would something like this
cost to prototype \? is there a better alternative than microwaves \?

of course you could develope this system , but there is already a system
called global
positioning satellites. it gives three dimensional coordinates anywhere on
earth.
many surveyors use this system with a differential receiver transmitter to
get
coordinates within centimeters. basic receivers with resolution of a few
meters (on
a good day) are available from many sources.



wmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmwmw

weston r beal
sldf3@sol.ee.usu.edu
sldf3@cc.usu.edu
electrical engineer
utah state university

that 's the wonderful thing about crayons they can take you to
more places than a starship can. guinon



thought it means global positioning system. there are two precision levels , one
for army applications (killing has to be very accurate today) and one for civil
ones. the civil precision is about 20 to 30m (correct me , if i'm wrong) ,
though , it may be insufficiant for mapping buildings. but there is a way with
an additional reference point (e.g. one fixed gps system in a house) to get the
same high precision as the military version , but it gets pretty complicated
then. if you use a microwave system (actually this means some type of radar) ,
you need quite a lot of number crunching to get accurate vectorized data out of
your original signals. so the gps system seems to be the better (and running)
idea for your application(there have been discussions in this newsgroup , do n't
know of an address anymore).

cheers robert (hb9nby)

robert ganter
universitaet basel i am a fan
institut fuer informatik of my plan
basel switzerland
ganter@ifi.unibas.ch
amateurradio hb9nby packet hb9nby@hb9eas.che.eu

from ardai@wizard.atb.teradyne.com (michael ardai)
subject re source for carbide pc board drills \?
organization teradyne , inc. boston ma
lines 18

in article c5ejl7.lin@news2.cis.umn.edu mike diack mike d@staff.tc.umn.edu writes
in article c5dgg7.5ox@wang.com , pvr@wang.com writes
who sells the special carbide drills used to drill pc boards \?
i am looking for sizes smaller than 60 , 65 or 70 would be good.

best deal i ever saw on carbides was at eli electronics cambridge
mass. quite close to mit , 70 drills @ 5.00 for a box of 50. eli are
in the boston fone book.

actually , i think they are all 57. their phone number is 617 547 5005
and i will probably have some over at the mit flea this sunday.
mike



michael l. ardai n1ist teradyne atg boston

ardai@maven.dnet.teradyne.com

from morrow@cns.ucalgary.ca (bill morrow)
subject amplifier into cd rom earphone plug \?
nntp posting host cns16.cns.ucalgary.ca
organization university of calgary
lines 16

we have a sun cd rom drive which i would like to play audio cd 's in.
i have an old 10 watt amplifier which works fine when connected to a
junk walkman style am fm radio. this amp ties the common path of the
earphone connection to ground.

however , it does n't work with my sony walkman cassette player , or the cd drive ,
it produces of loud low frequency tone. obviously sony does n't ground
the earphone output common. does anyone have specs on the cd drive 's
output \? will an audio transformer help \? what are others using to
play there cd 's in the sun drive so that more than one can listen \?

thanks for the help.

bill morrow clinical neurosciences , university of calgary
e mail morrow@cns.ucalgary.ca voice (403) 220 6275 fax (403) 283 8770
3330 hospital drive nw calgary , alberta , canada t2n 4n1

from young dick@macmail2.rtsg.mot.com (dick young)
subject attn h. wheaton , ucal davis
nntp posting host 136.182.211.36
organization motorola , inc. (cellular infrastructure)
distribution usa
lines 11

i tried to e mail you , but the message bounced.

motorola has a university support program through which (i 've been told) folks
at schools can get sample quantities of parts. if you 'd like to try this
route , e mail me for the address phone ...i do n't wish to post it for all the
world to see.

dick young
motorola , inc.
(who does n't have a thing to do with my opinions they 're my own fault.)


from wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization nrk clinic for habitual netnews abusers beltway annex
lines 19
reply to wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (david lesher)
nntp posting host skybridge.scl.cwru.edu

others said
actually , fossil fuel plants run hotter than the usual
boiling water reactor nuclear plants. (there 's a gripe in the industry
that nuclear power uses 1900 vintage steam technology). so it 's
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system
as cold as possible. hence big cooling towers.

when the utility gave up on that cinnci , oh plant (zimmer \? ) and
announced they were going to convert it to a coal fired scheme , the
turbines were already in place , and they were the low temp type. so the
plan was install a second set of high temp turbines , and feed the
low temp ones with the output of the new ones.

never saw anything more on this. did they ever really build it \?

a host is a host from coast to coast..wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu
no one will talk to a host that 's close............(301) 56 linux
unless the host (that is n't close).........................pob 1433
is busy , hung or dead....................................20915 1433

from ianmc@spartan.ac.brocku.ca (ian mcpherson)
subject re chip chipset for code 39 barcode \?
organization brock university , st. catharines ontario
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 26

llbgb@utxdp.dp.utexas.edu wrote
distribution usa
reply to lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu

while i'm on the net bugging everyone , is there such a thing as a chip
or chipset to decode code 39 barcode \? i ask for a couple of reasons
mainly i want a reasonably compact encoding scheme to write information
on magstripe cards and code 39 appears to be about right. (if the 'right'
way to do it is something else , and it 's reasonably easy , can someone let
me know \? )

i might not get a chance to reply too quickly to this or my earlier post ,
but i 'll get to them within a couple days , i think ..

thanx everyone ! bgb lihan@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu

hewlett packard has a series of barcode decoder ics hbcr 1800 , hbcr 2000 ,
and hbcr 2010 and they support 3of9 extended 3of9 interleaved 2of5
and upc codes. the 2000 and 2010 pieces add codabar and code 128.

these chips support hp 's barcode wands and slot readers.

an 1800 a heds 3050 wand run about 150 cdn .

ian.


from mont@netcom.com (mont pierce)
subject re 8051 microcontroller
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 20

in article 1993apr19.194525.3888@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov bday@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov (brian day) writes
mcole@spock (cole) writes

i would like to experiment with the intel 8051 family. does anyone out
there know of any good ftp sites that might have compiliers , assemblers ,
etc. \?

try lyman.pppl.gov pub 8051

great. this site is a complete shadow of the signetics bbs 8051 directory.

thanks brian ,

mont pierce


ham call km6wt internet mont@netcom.com
bands 80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm vnet mont@vnet.ibm.com
modes cw , ssb , fm


from shanlps@ducvax.auburn.edu
subject tv reception heelllppp ! ! !
lines 18
nntp posting host ducvax
organization auburn university , al
lines 18

hello ,

i just canceled my support of the cable regime and i would like to at
least pick up the 3 networks and nbc. ) i do not have tons of
money nor even a few pounds so what i am looking for is the best solution
for reception for under 100 dollars. i have seen modules that you plug
into your wall outlet that supposedly make your entire house an
antenna. i have to admit , even with my limited knowledge of wavelength
and aerial reception , this seems dubious in its claims for excellent
reception at best. i 'll try anything , though , if it works. i am in
a non mountainous area , approximately 50 miles from the transmitting stations
which are pretty large (montgomery alabama pop. 200 , 000) and colombus goergia ,
pop. 100 , 000 . any recommendations of products , brand names , prices and
company info (catalog ordering numbers , addresses etc.) \? thank you in
advance.

paul sylvester shanley pshanley@humsci.auburn.edu voice 205 887 7440


from schmidt@auvax1.adelphi.edu
subject grounding power wiring , was re a question about 120vac outlet wiring
lines 163
nntp posting host auvax1
organization adelphi university , garden city ny

there has been quite a bit of discussion about house wiring and grounding
practices here. a few points need to be clarified

the equipment grounding conductor , green , green with a yellow stripe , bare , or
the metal sheath or pipe of some wiring methods , is used as a safety ground , to
carry fault currents back to the circuit breaker panel , and to limit the
voltage on the metal case of utilization equipment or other metal objects. it
should never (except for a few exceptions to be discussed later) carry the
normal operating current of a connected load. some equipment has filters in
the power supply which may cause some slight current flow through the grounding
conductor.

much communications or audio equipment is sensitive to noise or slight voltages
on the grounding conductor , and may require special wiring of the grounding
conductors to provide reliable operation ( orange outlets are often used for
this , with insulated grounding conductors wired back to the panel box , and in
many cases back to the service. anyone installing such a system should read
both the section on grounding in the national electric code and publications on
installing quiet isolated ground systems. the code requires the insulated
grounding conductors (green wires) to run with the current carrying conductors
back to the panel box , and , if required , back all the way to the service
entrance , where it is bonded to the service ground (water pipe or rod) many
of these systems are installed illegally or unsafely , where they do not provide
a safe ground or a quiet ground or either.

the grounded conductor of a circuit , often called the neutral , which is
referred to in the code as the identified conductor and is supposed to be
white or natural grey. this conductor is supposed to be connected to ground in
most electrical systems at a single point , generally at the service entrance
panel. this connection is through the main bonding jumper. (in many household
service panels , the main bonding jumper is actually a bonding screw which
attaches the neutral busbar to the case of the panel)

the grounded conductor (neutral) is generally a current carrying conductor. in
the case of a 120 volt circuit it is one of the two conductors completing the
circuit from the panel to the load device.

since the grounded conductor (neutral) is only connected to the grounding
conductor (bare or green) at the service entrance , if the load is any distance
from the service and draws any significant current , there will be a small but
measurable voltage between the grounded and grounding conductors at the load ,
under normal operating conditions. if you should (incorrectly) connect the
grounded (neutral) conductor to the grounding conductor at the load , some of
the neutral current will flow instead through the grounding conductor. since
there will now be current flowing through the grounding conductor , it will also
no longer be quite at ground potential at the load end. if the load equipment
has a metal case , which is connected to the grounding conductor through the u
ground plug , the metal case is now also no longer quite at ground potential.
the difference (under normal , non short circuit conditions) may be only a few
tenths of a volt , but it could also be a volt or two. this normally does not
present a shock hazard.

however , if you let the metal case of the grounded equipment come into contact
with an independently grounded object such as a water or gas pipe , a radiator ,
a metal air conditioning duct or such , part of the neutral current will try to
flow through this aalternate ground path. if the contact is not solid , you
will get a significant arc (a low voltage , but possibly moderate current arc)
under the wrong conditions , this arcing could start a fire. it is possible in
some cases that the sneak ground current could also flow through a wire of
inadequate size , causing it to overheat.

with the incorrect non single point grounding of the neutral , if there is a
short circuit from hot to neutral , the high short circuit current which may
flow will cause a much higher voltage on the grounding conductor , which
increases the possibility for shock or fire.

also if you incorrectly multiply connect the neutral and ground , the voltage on
the ground system is seen as noise bu computer or audio equipment , often
causing malfunction. i have spent some hours tracking down such shorts in
technical facilities where they were inducing severe hum into equipment.

the neutral is usually bonded to the ground at the distribution transformer as
well as at the service entrance of each dwelling. this is done primarily for
lightning protection , so that induced lightning currents have a short path back
to ground , and also to assure that the currents drawn by shorts to grounded
objects like pipes draw enough current to trip circuit breakers or blow fuses
quickly. the bad side of this is that not all the neutral current from the
dwelling goes through the neutral wire back to the transformer. some of it
flows through the grounding electrode (water pipe , etc.) this may cause
corrosion in the pipes and possibly in things like underground fuel oil tanks ,
and it may also cause measurable ac magnetic fields due to the large loop
between the hot conductors in the service and the neutral current in the
water pipe and ground. there are those who feel these fields may be unhealthy.
(do n't flame me on this , i'm just telling you where the field comes from , not
it 's health effect , as far as i'm concerned , the jury is still out on this.)

note that the bonding jumper is only installed at the main panel , not at any
sub distribution panels. this is one reason why it is illegal to run service
entrance cable with the sheath used as a neutral to a sub panel , you must have
a seperate insulated conductor for the neutral. the sheath can be used in this
application only as the grounding conductor. if the neutral is bonded to the
grounding conductor in the sub panel , say by forgetting to remove the bonding
screw , all the grounding conductors of the loads on that panel will be above
ground , with the possible problems listed above.

the code makes exceptions for ranges and dryers , as well as feeds from one
building to another. in the cases of the range and dryer , the neutral may be
used as the equipment ground under certain conditions , instead of a seperate
wire. every time the code is revised , these exceptions come up for review.
these exceptions were , in fact the first required safety grounds , in the days
before u ground outlets and such. the appliance manufacturers do n't want to
have to redesign their ranges and driers , and the contractors do n't want to
have to run four wire cable (with four fairly heavy , expensive wires) in place
of three wire to the appliances. no question it would be safer with seperate
neutrals to the stove , but the neutral current is low for most burner settings
(since most current is in the 220 volt hots except at some low settings , the
wires are large gauge , and there are few reported cases of injury or damage.
so far , the exceptions have survived. in the case of feeds between buildings ,
it 's primarily for lightning protection.

people doing wiring should be aware what is and what is n't a legal grounding
conductor. obviously , the bare wire in romex 'with ground' is. anywhere
there is a green wire installed , such as in a portable cord , that is a good
grounding conductor. the sheath of bx clamped in bx connectors in metal boxes
is a legal grounding conductor (in the us). (bx has an aluminum band run under
the steel sheath to lower the resistance of the sheath. you can just cut this
aluminum band off at the ends , you do n't have to bond it to anything , it does
its job by touching every turn of the bx sheath.) conduit or emt (thinwall
tubing) is generally a legal grounding conductor , but may require a bonding
locknut where it enters a box or panel , particularly for larger pipes.

greenfield (looks like big bx , but you pull your own wires in the empty
sheath after you run it) is not a legal grounding conductor , as it does n't have
the aluminum band to bond it , and the spiral steel has too much resistance and
inductance. you have to run a seperate green grounding conductor inside the
greenfield.

wiremold is also not a legal grounding conductor , as the paint on the boxes
often prevents good contact , and the feed to the wiremold extension is often
from a box in the wall that may not be well connected to the first wiremold
box. i have personally discovered cases where the entire run of wiremold and
the cases of everything plugged into all the outlets on the run were hot with
120 volts (why do i get a shock every time i touch my computer and the radiator
here in the office \? ) because there was no ground wire in the wiremold and one
of the outlets had shorted to the edge of the wiremold box. you must run a
ground wire back in the wiremold from the outlets at least to the first box in
the original wiring (conduit , bx , etc.) where you can bond the wire to the
box with a screw , bnding clip , or whatever.

on another issue , while you should ground the green wire lug on gcfi outlets
when ever there is a place to ground them , it is legal in the nec to use them
without a ground if no ground is available. it is better to have the
protection of the ground fault interrupter than no protection if you do n't
install it. the interrupter does n't depend on the ground to trip. it is
desirable to connect the ground if available , because if the ground is
connected , the interrupter will trip as soon as a faulty device is plugged in ,
whereas without the ground , it will not trip until someone or something
provides a ground path. for those questioning the legal use of ungrounded
gcfi 's , read in the nec , 210 7 (d) exception. (this is the 1990 code , my '93
code is in the city , but i know the rule has n't changed. it might be
renumbered though.)

we have only touched the surface concerning grounding , there is much more
to this subject , but most of you have fallen asleep by now.

john


john h. schmidt , p.e. internet schmidt@auvax1.adelphi.edu
technical director , wbau phone days (212)456 4218
adelphi university evenings (516)877 6400
garden city , new york 11530 fax (212)456 2424


from pierson@cimill.enet.dec.com (dave pierson)
subject re swr meter for cb radios
organization digital equipment corporation
lines 31
nntp posting host cimill

in article 734953838.aa00508@insane.apana.org.au ,
peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch) writes...
allthe devil reincarnateswr meter for cb radios

td from ssave@ole.cdac.com (the devil reincarnate)
td organization cdac , wa
td what
td is a good choice for a cb \? 1 4 or 1 8 wave \?
td i read the installation instructions on a 1 4 wave antenna ,
td and they suggested that i use an swr to tune it at channel 12
td and channel 32 for a minimum reading. question is , why channel
td 12 and 32 \?

the best antenna is one that will let out the most wave (probably not the
best explanation , but the rest makes sense) a one wave will cancell itself
out (btw no such beastie).
yes there is. not common for cb. the pattern is different (sort of
a cloverleaf , with four main lobes.

the best is a 1 2 wave antenna , followed by 1 4 , then 1 8 etc.
use of anything under 1 4 wave for transmitting is very uncommon. (the
usual rubber duck uses a coil to fool itself into looking like a
quarter wave.
i reccomend the arrl antenna handbook , or a good basic book.

thanks
dave pierson the facts , as accurately as i can manage ,
digital equipment corporation the opinions , my own.
40 old bolton rd i am the nra
stow , mass 01775 usa pierson@msd26.enet.dec.com
he has read everything , and , to his credit , written nothing. a j raffles

from rich1@netcom.com (richard soennichsen)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 1

the bmw speedo is triggered by a reed switch magnet assembly in the differential. i would think that this signal would be easy to reproduce.

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re hc11 blues no can find
organization macquarie university
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article pat.734048757@fegmania.wustl.edu , pat@fegmania (patrick niemeyer) writes
ree88132@zach.fit.edu (keith ledig) writes

was told by other people that it just takes a long time. i heard
rumors that the hc11 is very hard to get these days and is being
replaced by the 711 series. the sales person is trying to push
the 711. can someone please tell me what is going on with these
microcontrollers. i ca n't seem to get a straight answer.

i too had trouble finding hc11 's when i looked for them a while back.
i 'd be interesting in hearing if anyone knows about their availability now...

thanks ,
pat


the hc711 is an eprom version of the hc11. raw hc11 parts have factory set
rom images , and as such are useless to the hobbyist. hc811 parts have
eeprom , allowing for electrical erasure and reprogramming.

some motorola parts (such as the hc705k1) have eprom , making them user
programmable , but come with options of either windowed or sealed. the
more expensive windowed packages allow multiple use , the plastic dip
varieties are one time programmable , since there is no way of exposing
the eprom array to light.

johnh



electronics department
( ) ( ( ( school of mpce
macquarie university
sydney , australia 2109

email johnh@mpce.mq.edu.au , ph 61 2 805 8959 , fax 61 2 805 8983



from randall@informix.com (randall rhea)
subject re power , signal surges in home...
organization informix software , inc.
lines 39

gstovall@crchh67.nosubdomain.nodomain (greg stovall) writes
anyway , over the weekend , i was resting on the sofa (in between chores) ,
and noticed that i briefly picked up what sounded like ham radio traffic
over my stereo and television , even though both were off. also , all the
touch sensitive lights in my house start going wacko , cycling through
their four brightness states.

i presume that some ham operator with an illegal amplifier drove past
my house (i live on a busy thoroughfare) would this be a correct presumption \?
what kind of power must he be putting out to cause the effects \?
the affected equipment is about 100 feet from the road...

hams can legally run up to 1500 watts. it is very unlikely , however ,
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. ham rigs
for cars put out around 100 watts. it is possible that a 100 watt
radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet
away. most tvs , stereos , and vcrs have very poor rf shielding.
if you experience the problem frequently , it may be
caused by a ham , cber , or other radio operator in a base station
nearby. the interference may have been caused by a radio
transmitter used for other purposes , such as police , fire ,
etc. if you heard voices over your stereo , i think you are
correct in assuming that the source is an rf transmitter.

if you have frequent trouble , you may want to try the rf ferrite
chokes available at radio shack. the interference is probably
being picked up by your speaker wires , and those chokes can
be installed on the wires very easily (without cutting them).
good instructions are included with the chokes.
if that does not solve the problem , you may want to search your
neighborhood for a radio operator. look for antennas on the roof
or car. talk to him her about your problem. there are things
a radio operator can do to reduce interference.




randall rhea informix software , inc.
project manager , mis sales marketing systems uunet ! pyramid ! infmx ! randall

from andrew.payne@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (andrew payne)
subject wanted tcm3105 chips , small quantities
distribution world
organization hal 9000 bbs , w net hq , ann arbor , michigan , usa
reply to andrew.payne@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (andrew payne)
keywords rec mod
summary reposted by keith petersen
lines 29

from payne@crl.dec.com (andrew payne)
message id 1993apr20.004418.11548@crl.dec.com
organization dec cambridge research lab
date tue , 20 apr 1993 00 44 18 gmt


does anyone know if a source for the tcm3105 modem chips (as used in the
baycom and my pmp modems) \? ideally , something that is geared toward
hobbyists small quantity , mail order , etc.

for years , we 've been buying them from a distributor (marshall) by the
hundreds for pmp kits. but orders have dropped to the point where we can
no longer afford to offer this service. and all of the distributors i 've
checked have some crazy minimum order ( 100 , or so).

i 'd like to find a source for those still interested in building pmp kits.
any suggestions \?


andrew c. payne
dec cambridge research lab

. r110b wnet hal 9000


hal 9000 bbs qwk to usenet gateway four 14400 v.32bis dial ins
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! pcboard 14.5am uupcb kmail
call 1 313 663 4173 or 663 3959
member of eff , asp , asad 1500mb disk serving ann arbor since 1988

from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re subliminal message flashing on tv
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 19
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article 7480237@hpfcso.fc.hp.com myers@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (bob myers) writes
hi. i was doing research on subliminal suggestion for a psychology
paper , and i read that one researcher flashed hidden messages on the
tv screen at 1 200ths of a second. is that possible \? i thought the
maximum rate the tv was even capable of displaying images was 1 30th
of a second. (or 1 60th of a second for an image composed of only odd
or even scan lines)

you are correct the fastest complete image that could be presented on
tv would be one field , which is 1 60 of a second (approximately). of course ,
the phrase tv screen is often thrown around in reference to any crt
display , so perhaps this researcher was n't using normal tv rates. might
even be a vector ( strokewriter ) display , in which case the lower limit
on image time is anyone 's guess (and is probably phosphor persistence limited).

actually , a lot of this work used to be done with a crt that had a beamsplitter
mounted in front , and a tachistoscope driving it. the tachistoscope is really
just a slide projector with a very fast shutter. low tech , but it does the job.
scott

from aras@ziggy.csl.ncsu.edu (caglan m. aras)
subject polaroid range finder interference help !
organization etc organization
lines 26

we have a setup with with 13 polaroid transducers and rangefinders. we
would like to fire these three at a time with about 5 ms between
firings. the three that are being fired do not fire in the same
direction.

to further explain the situation , assume we are firing sonars a , b , c
5 ms apart each other. we should normally see an echo on a that
corresponds to the distance. however , sonar a detects the init line
of sonar b ! the detection is actually through the transducer of sonar a
we can see a very faint 50khz signal on the transducer , exactly at the
time the init line of sonar b is activated.

we feel that there is some ground coupling that is causing this interference.
we came to this conclusion since we are using a separate power supply
for sonars b and c.

has anyone else had any problems with these particular units and
this type of experience \? your suggestions for remedies will be greatly
appreciated.



caglan m. aras aras@eceris.ece.ncsu.edu
ece department ph 919 515 5405
north carolina state university fx 919 515 5523
raleigh , nc 27695

from wagner@mala.bc.ca (tom wagner , wizzard of old audio visual equipment........nanaimo campus)
subject correction re audio relay followup
organization malaspina college
lines 12

gremilins have attacked my keyboard and the correction to my followup on audio
relays got fouled up.
varying lamp resistance , should read , varying lamp voltage

73 , tom

tom wagner , audio visual technician. malaspina college nanaimo british columbia
(604)753 3245 , loc 2230 fax 755 8742 callsign ve7gda weapon .45 kentucky rifle
snail mail to site q4 , c2. rr 4 , nanaimo , british columbia , canada , v9r 5x9

i do not recyle..... i keep everything ! (all standard disclaimers apply)


from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re ic packages
organization megatest corporation
lines 58

in article 1993apr16.142715.12613@sol.ctr.columbia.edu seema@madvlsi.columbia.edu (seema varma) writes
hi ,
i am looking for some help in choosing a package
for a high speed silicon adc (100mhz) currently being
fabricated. this is a phd research project and i have to test
the chip at speed on a pcb. i expect to have roughly 100
packaged circuits and will do dc , low speed and high speed
testing using 3 different set ups for the test chip.

i know for sure that a dip will not work
(the long lead lines have too high an inductance).
getting a custom made package is too expensive , so
i am trying to choose between a flatpak and a
leadless chip carrier. the flatpack would be hard
to test since it has to be soldered on to the test
setup and i would spend loads of time soldering
as i kept changing the test chip. the leadless chip
carrier sockets also have long lead lines and may
not work at high speeds.

does anyone out there have experience knowledge
of this field \? i would greatly appreciate help ! any ideas
names of companies manufacturing holders sockets packages
would help.

p.s. the multi layer fancy gaas packages seem like a bit
of overkill( \? )

seema varma


you did n't mention whether or not cost is an issue. where
exactly are you running 100mhz \? \? the digital side \? ttl \?
ecl \? we run 200mhz and 100mhz all over our ic test equipment
all day long in the ecl domain , and we use dip 's along
with plcc 's , 25mil and 20mil pitch 256pin qfp 's to name
a few. i do n't see a problem in packaging as long
as you adhere to sound engineering practices.

a good source of information is motorola 's mecl system design
handbook. the latest ed. is dated 2 88. that is considered
to be one of the bibles in high speed design.

the very fact that you need to build a test fixture means
you 're most likely going to need a socket. it in itself
has far more inductance per pin than the package you are
testing , not to mention any impedance discontinuities. i
do n't see the big concern over the packaging because it
probably is n't going to make that much difference

if you 're trying to get ttl to run at 100mhz , have fun...
ttl was never designed to run in a 100mhz environment.
(

aaron

p.s. my opinions have nothing to do with my company...the
standard disclaimer applies.

from bill@thd.tv.tek.com (william k. mcfadden)
subject re cable tvi interference
keywords catv cable television tvi
article i.d. tvnews.1993apr15.193218.13070
organization tektronix tv products
lines 15

in article vl812b2w165w@inqmind.bison.mb.ca jim@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (jim jaworski) writes
what happens when dvc (digital videon compression) is introduced next
year and instead of just receiving squiggly lines on 2 or 3 channels
we 'll be receiving sqigglies on , let 's see 3 10 30 channels eventually.

since the digital transmission schemes include error correction and
concealment , the performance remains about the same down to a very low
carrier to noise ratio , below which it degrades very quickly. hence ,
digitally compressed tv is supposed to be less susceptible to interference
than amplitude modulated tv.


bill mcfadden tektronix , inc. p.o. box 500 ms 58 639 beaverton , or 97077
bill@tv.tv.tek.com , ... ! tektronix ! tv.tv.tek.com ! bill phone (503) 627 6920
how can i prove i am not crazy to people who are \?

from msunde01@mik.uky.edu (mark underwood)
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
nntp posting host nx35.mik.uky.edu
reply to msunde01@mik.uky.edu
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 32

in article 1pqb8ainn9vg@hp col.col.hp.com cab@col.hp.com (chris best)
writes

the manual also got into the cosine effect , wherein the motorist
always gets the benefit of the doubt (effectively). depending on
relative directions of the radar gun and target car , the reading
will always be the same as or lower than the actual speed of the car.
never higher.

and always remember that the cop does n't even need radar to ticket you.
his (her \? ) word as a skilled observer is enough.

the father of a friend of mine is a police officer in west virginia. not
only is his word as a skilled observer good in court , but his skill as an
observer has been tested to be more accurate than the radar gun in some
cases . . .. no foolin ! he can guess a car 's speed to within 2 3mph just
by watching it blow by whether he 's standing still or moving too ! (yes ,
i realize that calibrated guns are more accurate than this , but . . .).
his ability is not that uncommon among people who watch moving things for a
living , i have heard . . ..

so what good is a radar detector except to give you a split second warning
that the guy who just cut you off to pass the guy ahead and to your left
is about to panic stop from 85 on a crowded freeway \? \? \?

mark s. underwood
ee student , university of kentucky
lab assistant , boyd hall microlab
(a tiny little division of uk library microlabs)
e mail msunde01@mik.uky.edu



from wout@dutentb.et.tudelft.nl (wout serdijn)
subject re how can 0.022 uf be different from two 0.047 in series \? !
nntp posting host duteela.et.tudelft.nl
organization delft university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering
lines 43

in 1993apr19.185326.9830@princeton.edu mg@cs.princeton.edu (michael golan) writes

i was looking at the amps diagram for sony 1090 2090 receivers , and i
was amazed to find a difference between the us and canadian model
on the capacitor(s) that hangs off the output to the speakers

to speaker (identical both models
from amp
(idnetical both models)
10




0.022 canadian model only !
us model 0.047
and world wide
model only. candian model only !
0.047

gound

the board itself is also identical , with room for all three caps. the
us can versions is clearly indicated in both places.

how does that make sense \? 0.047 2 is 0.0235 , essentially 0.022 for caps
(there are just standard caps , no special w type precision).

please explain this
michael golan
mg@cs.princeton.edu

the only explanation i can think of is that two capacitors in series
can handle twice the output voltage. sometimes two elco 's in antiseries
(you know , positive sides facing eachother) are used to obtain a large
capacitor that can handle positive and negative voltages as well.

so there probably is no design philosophical reason , but a production cost
one.

best 73 's

wouter

organization penn state university
from pca103@psuvm.psu.edu
subject atari 2600 processors
lines 12

does anyone know what processor the atari 2600 used \? what i'm looking for is th
e pin outs for the atari 2600.... the schematics for it it... does anyone have
any idea where i could find this or any related information \? this is very impor
tant. also , are the rom chips that were used fo rthe 2600 games still available
, or were they propreitary \? please email me with any responces , as this is very
important.. thanks a million...

btw anyone who works has worked for atari , i could really use your help with i
nfo on the old 2600 , please email me if you are willing to help me.... thatnks
alot ! !

peter

from kthompso@donald.wichitaks.ncr.com (ken thompson)
subject re 68hc11 problem
organization ncr corporation wichita , ks
lines 21

mdanjou@gel.ulaval.ca (martin d'anjou) writes
b
) votre host est mal configure...


)bonjour sylvain ,
) j'ai travaille avec le hc11 il y a 3 ans et je ne me souviens pas de toutes les possibilites mais je vais quand meme essayer de t'aider.

) je ne crois pas que downloader une programme directement dans le eeprom soit une bonne idee (le eeprom a une duree de vie limitee a 10 000 cycles il me semble). le communication break down vient peut etre du fait que le eeprom est long a programmer (1ms par 8 bytes mais c'est a verifier) et que les delais de transfer de programme s19 vers la memoire sont excedes. normalement , les transferts en ram du code s19 est plus rapide car le ram est plus rapide que le eeprom en ecriture.

) c'est tout ce que ma memoire me permet de me souvenir !

)bonne chance ,

oh yeah easy for him to say ! ...


ken thompson n0itl
ncr corp. peripheral products division disk array development
3718 n. rock road wichita ks 67226 (316)636 8783
ken.thompson@wichitaks.ncr.com

from sciamanda@edinboro.edu
subject re outdoor fm antennas
organization edinboro university of pa
lines 25

in article beerb.9.0@ccmail.dayton.saic.com , beerb@ccmail.dayton.saic.com (bradlee beer) writes
i'm interested in buying or building an omnidirectional antenna for the
commercial fm band (88 108mhz). the commonly sold ones are a folded dipole
bent in an s shape and one with a pair of crossed dipoles. i do n't see
either of these designs as exhibiting any gain , and they probably are n't
truely omnidirectional.


i'm intrigued by the discone antenna. does anyone have detailed information
on how to design one for the fm band (with 75 ohm impedence) \? \? is one
commercially available \? \? are there other designs that have gain \? \?

i already own a 10 element fm yagi. it works great , but requires frequent
rotation for those distant stations.

brad beer , 4414 castle gate drive , beavercreek , oh 45432 1814

brad ,
for an antenna , gain is synonymous with directionality. the only way
to get gain ( 1) out of an antenna is to design in directionality. the
gain of an antenna is defined as the signal increase (for a preferred
direction) over the signal obtained by an isotropic antenna.

bob sciamanda
edinboro univ of pa

from v064mb9k@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (neil b. gandler)
subject radio electronics free information card
organization university at buffalo
lines 8
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
nntp posting host ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu


how does the radio electronics free information cards work.
do they just send you some general information about the companies that
advertise in their magazine or does it also give you sign you up for a
catalog.


neil gandler

from randy@ve6bc.ampr.ab.ca (randy j. pointkoski)
subject needed 24 volt 4 circuit flasher
organization amateur radio ve6bc
lines 17


i am looking for a source for a 4 circuit sequence flasher.

input 24 volts ac , 8 amps

output sequence to 4 channels (knob to vary frequency) (max 2 amps
per leg)
switch to put all channels on full time

please email any assistance you can provide.

randy email randy@ve6bc.ampr.ab.ca


) randy j pointkoski p.eng
o compression technologies
( ( ) ) ( ) ) ( ) 7141 77 ave

from donrm@sr.hp.com (don montgomery)
subject radio shack battery of the month club
organization hp sonoma county (srsd mwtd mid)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9.2
lines 10


radio shack has canceled their battery of the month club. does
anyone know why \?

they say they 'll honor existing cards in customer hands , but no new
cards will be issued.

don montgomery
donrm@sr.hp.com


from rainer@spot.colorado.edu (rainer malzbender)
subject re hc11 blues no can find
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 10

in article pat.734048757@fegmania.wustl.edu pat@fegmania (patrick niemeyer) writes
i too had trouble finding hc11 's when i looked for them a while back.
i 'd be interesting in hearing if anyone knows about their availability now...

the newest jdr microdevices catalog has at least one variant of the hc11.


rainer m. malzbender
fyzzicks , cu boulder
(303)492 1366

from dp@cec1.wustl.edu (david prutchi)
subject re long distance ir detection
nntp posting host cec1
organization washington university , st. louis mo
lines 88

in article 1993apr20.183416.18744@dres.dnd.ca sburton@dres.dnd.ca (stan burton) writes



i would like to be able to detect the angular position (low accuracy) of an
ir emitting source at a distance of about 100 meters (more is better) in
daylight. the ir source could be emitting a signature i'm leaning toward
30 khz square wave with 50 duty cycle.

i am considering the use of a quadrant detector from centronic inc. to give
information to a pan tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the
angles. for the source i am considering wazing the heck out of an ir led(s) ,
possibly an optek op290 or motorola mled81. wazing would mean at least 1 amp
current pulses. at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required.

has anyone done something like this \?

stan burton (dnd crad dres dtd mss agcg) sburton@dres.dnd.ca
(403) 544 4737 dre suffield , box 4000 , medicine hat , ab , canada , t1a 8k6

a method which will directly (almost) provide you with the information that
you require is that which is commonly used for coordinate measurements of
human body landmarks (eg. the selspot system by selspot ab , sweden , and the
watsmart system \? \? ). these use lateral photoeffect detectors lindholm and
oberg , 1974 woltring and marsolais , 1980 to determine the position of a
spot of light projected (using a camera lens) over its surface. in escence ,
the detector is a large photodiode with four cathodes (one on each of the
four sides of the square detector crystal) and a single anode (the back of
the crystal). a spot of light will produce currents which are proportional
to the position of the spot on the detector 's face. let 's try some ascii
graphics in 2 d (so the detector has two cathodes to detect linear position)



1


cathode 1
xxxxx
xxxxx
light xxxxx divider output
xxxxx
xxxxx
xxxxx 1 2
xxxxx gnd
xxxxx
xxxxx anode
xxxxx
cathode 2


2

if the dot of light from the led is the only source of light , then the position
of the projection is given by this circuit regardless of the level of illumina
tion (the divider is used to normalize relative to total received power). when
this circuit is used in the presence of other sources of light , then the way of
tuning to it is to sample for a few msec the background signal , light the led
for an equal time and sample that signal separately. the difference between
the two is the position of the led.

hamamatsu photonics sells linear and 2 d lateral photoeffect detectors , and
they also sell the required signal processing electronics. the ready made
systems by selspot and others are not cheap ...

lindholm , l.e. , and k.e. oberg , an optoelectronic instrument for remote
on line movement monitoring , biotelemetry , 1 , 94 95 , 1974.

woltring , h.j. , and e.b. marsolais , opto electronic (selspot) gait measure
ments in two and three dimensional space a preliminary report , bull. pros
thetics research , 46 52 , 1980.

most probably this technique can provide you with a much more accurate
measurement than you need , but i think that its simplicity beats scanning
a quadrant detector with a pan tilt system until you reach zero difference.

david




david prutchi hc1dt
washington university prutchi@mesun4.wustl.edu
campus box 1185 dp@cec1.wustl.edu
one brookings drive
st. louis , mo 63130 4899


from victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (victor laking)
subject re info on nec 3d multisync monitor
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 204 488 1607
lines 43

myers@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (bob myers) writes

i am looking for any info i can get on the nec 3d monitor.
i know that it is a multisync but that is about all.
i plan on buying one second hand in a while depending on its specs.

does anyone know the min max frequencies , whether it is interlaced ,
non interlaced , or both , video compatability , etc \?
i have seen a reference to it being .28 pitch with 1024 x 720 resolution
and that it supports svga from one source and that it does n't support
svga from another source. (neither source seemed to have much reliable
info so i do n't want to take a guess.)

i'm at home right now , and so am away from my monitor files the following
is off the top of my head , subject to revision , worth what ya pay for it
sort of info. if you do n't hear from anyone who has spec sheet in hand ,
e mail me and i 'll look it up.

if i'm remembering correctly , the 3d is a 14 0.28 mm pitch multisync that
covers at least vga (31.5 khz horizontal , 60 hz vertical) to 1024 x 768
60 hz (which is going to be about 48 khz horizontal). it may go somewhat
higher than that on the horizontal , but you wo n't be happy with anything
beyond 1024 x 768 on a 14 0.28 tube you probably wo n't be too thrilled
with the 1024 x 768 on this tube , but it will sync up and display it.
(i prefer at least a 16 0.28 for this resolution.) since svga is 800x600 ,
it 'll do that too. the horizontal range probably goes lower than 31.5 , but
i do n't know if it goes all the way down to straight ntsc rate tv (which need
about 15.75 khz sweep). as far as video compatibility (if i'm reading
the question right it wo n't take anything but analog rgb inputs. in other
words , it has no way to decode ntsc or y c video inputs. you would need
some sort of board to to this conversion like the sorts of things that
let you display ntsc on a vga display.

hopefully , now , i 'll see this response of mine , and it 'll remind me to
look this stuff up and confirm it. (or force me to post a hasty retraction ! )

ok , i was under the impression that it accepted digital input.

i still do n't know for sure if it accepts both interlaced and
non interlaced as i have gotten conflicting info.

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

from gmc@cthulhu.semi.harris.com
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
nntp posting host cthulhu.mlb.semi.harris.com
organization analog
lines 57

in article 1993apr6.132429.16154@bnr.ca
moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson) writes

joseph chiu (josephc@cco.caltech.edu) wrote

thus , a decibell (deci , l. , tenth of bell) is a fractional part of the
original bell. for example , southwestern bell is a decibell.

out of what hat did you pull this one \? db is a ratio not an rboc !

and the measure of current , amp , is actually named after both the amp company
and the amphenol company. both companies revolutionized electronics by
simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets
were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.

sorry. the unit for current is the ampere which is the name of a french man
named ampere who studied electrical current. the term amp is just an abbreviation
of it. the company amp came after the ampere unit was already in use.

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers ,
thus our use of the ohms...

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right.


alexander graham bell , actually , is where bell came from...
well you got one thing right !


actually , i think j. chiu knows the score and is just being
silly. however , decibel is in fact 1 10th of a bel. he is
right on that one , but i do n't know if it was accidental or not.

strictly defined , a bel is the ratio of the log of two power levels ,
and a decibel is 1 10th of a bel so you have 10x decibels for every bel ,
hence bel log(p2 p1) and decibel 10xlog(p2 p1).

the bel , ohm , volt , farad , ampere , watt , hertz , henry , etc. are
all named for pioneers in the field. it 's a traditional and fine
way to honor researchers who discover new knowledge in a new field.
hertz was one of the most important of the early electronics explorers ,
but had been left out in having a term or unit named after him
until recently , (1960 's , prior to that what is now a hertz was a cps.)
all the other units were defined many decades earlier.














from koops@gaul.csd.uwo.ca (luke koops)
subject speaker design software \?
organization computer science dept. , univ. of western ontario , london , canada
summary searching for speaker deisn software shareware freeware
keywords speaker , design , software
nntp posting host obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca
lines 13

hi. i'm looking for software to aid a friend of mine with designing speakers.
does this type of software exist \? if anyone can point me toward a shareware or
freeware product with this description , that would be ideal.

...steve van der burg (using a friend 's account)

(p.s. excuse the terseness of the message i'm having difficulty stringing
readable sentences together today , for some reason.)



luke koops


from sidhu@ee.ualberta.ca (kenneth sidhu)
subject dimming incand. lamps
article i.d. kakwa.1993apr6.221848.6569
reply to sidhu@ee.ualberta.ca (kenneth sidhu)
organization university of alberta electrical engineering
lines 22
nntp posting host bode.ee.ualberta.ca





what 's the latest and greatest way to dim incandescent lamps \?

march '93 circuit cellar has part one of an article about
dimming 120vac lamps , but it seems to lead into phase
control as the best method for controlling brightness.
i 've always hated phase control for the rfi , buzzing
filaments and non linear adjustment range. i had
heard that you can modulate the ac line on a cycle by
cycle basis to get better results. to cut the lamp 's
power to 50 you would givemsay 20 cycles of ac , then
nothing for another 20 cycles. i wonder if anyone has
tried this or knows what the pro stuff is using. any
advice is appreciated !

ken


email sidhu@bode.ee.ualberta.ca

from adler@netcom.com (bruce adler)
subject re ibm pc xt switch settings
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 26

in article 1qk158 kcp@bigbird.hri.com obrien@bigbird.hri.com writes
i just got an ibm pc xt with no documents. its a true
ibm , and i was wondering if anyone had the definitions
of the 2 8 position dip switches \?

sw8 , sw7 number of 5.25 drives
0 , 0 1 drive
0 , 1 2 drives
1 , 0 3 drives
1 , 1 4 drives

sw6 , sw5 type of display
0 , 0 reserved
0 , 1 40x25 color (mono mode)
1 , 0 80x25 color (mono mode)
1 , 1 mono 80x25

sw4 , sw3 amount of memory on system board
64k chips 256k chips
0 , 0 64k 256k
0 , 1 128k 512k
1 , 0 192k 576k
1 , 1 256k 640k

sw2 co processor installed
sw1 loop on post

from pyeatt@texaco.com (larry d. pyeatt)
subject membrane keypad with custom legend.
nntp posting host 211.2.1.197
organization texaco
lines 16

i had a catalog with membrane keypads , but i dunno what
happened to it , and it was so long ago that i forget the
name of the company. anyway , you could make your own
legend and slip it behind the bezel. really nice and
reasonably priced. can anyone tell me where to get some
more of these critters \? i 've tried several places , but
none of them seem to have keypads which allow you to use
your own legend.

any suggestion would be appreciated.


larry d. pyeatt the views expressed here are not
internet pyeatt@texaco.com those of my employer or of anyone
voice (713) 975 4056 that i know of with the possible
exception of myself.

from wellison@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
subject re help with ultra long timing
organization university of kansas academic computing services
lines 33

thanks for the resposes as they were all good ideas and i am looking at using a
couple of the ideas. i recieved in the mail today the spec sheets on the mil.
spec version of exar 's xr 2240 timer counter chip. it is stable down to 50 c
and sucks very little power. they show an application for a ultra long time
delay (up to several years depending on the rc time constant). in this
application , they have two of them cascaded together. the reset and trigger
pins of both chips are tied together and the timebase of the second chip is
disabled. in this configuration , the output is high when the system is reset.
when triggered , the output goes low and stays that way for a total of 65 , 536 x
the timing cycle of the first chip. the total timing cycle of the two chips can
be programmed from to 256 x r x c to 65 , 536 x r x c in 256 steps by selecting
any combination of the counter outputs to the timer output. the beauty of it
is , the timebase chip would only have to have a 100uf timing cap and a 391k
resistor for 39.1 seconds per timing cycle. so i can get a maximum of
2 , 562 , 457.6 seconds between timing cycles (39.1 x 65 , 536 or about 29 days ! )
of course , that 's much more than i need (14 days). but the counter allows for
256 binary steps that can be selected for the output for the 'pellet puker'.
after the first 14 days and it trips , it would reset its self for the next 14
day timing cycle and so forth.

power is still a problem though. a few ideas that you suggested was to bury the
electronics in a hole dug in the snow (as an insulator) and put the pellet
puker up on a tower above the estimated snow fall with a solar panel on it to
keep a charge on a lithium battery pack. i like that idea ) this thing has to
work for at least six weeks for three samples and the gas valves are 12 volts
to spit the pellets out onto the snow. anyway , i ordered the xr 2240 's to see
what i can do with them. should be interesting (as long as i'm not the one that
has to go digging up the pellets in the middle of antartica freezing my buns
off )

thanks again everyone...

wes

from johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (john haddy)
subject re what to do with old 256k simms \?
organization macquarie university
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au

in article 120466@netnews.upenn.edu , jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (jason haines) writes

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old
256k simms. i have a bunch of them for the apple mac
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to
sell them but have gotten no interest.

so , if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
some simms 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing
about it.

the most practical use i 've seen for them is as key ring ornaments )

johnh

organization queen 's university at kingston
from leek@qucdn.queensu.ca
subject re adc card for computer
distribution world
lines 54

in article 1qi8e3 b5e@lll winken.llnl.gov , you say

i would like to digitize the output of a squid magnetometer (range 10 v
to 10 v) and do digital signal processing in a computer , say a macintosh
ii or a 486 pc. i would like a good 16 bit adc with good linearity and a
high conversion speed , at least 50 khz , preferably 200 khz. other concerns

(2) must i use an adc external to my computer to avoid digital noise
feedback into my sensitive squid electronics \?

might be a good idea... the resolution you requested is about 0.3mv
in order to get what you 've paid for , noise level better be lower than
that. it is kind of hard to do it in a noisy box like you can expect
inside a pc.

before you pay for a pc card , test it out by sampling a low
distortion sine wave (i think there is a sine wave on a cd. digital
domain \? there are possibly other low thd sources) run the digitized
waveform through a fft transform and take alook at the noise floor on
the spectrum. that 's should give you a good indication of the design.
(that 's what i am doing to test a data acquistion system i have designed
i got the idea from maxim data sheet.)

if you can live with 14 bit resolution , i would recommend looking at
the max121 from maxim. it is a high speed (308khz) complete
sampling a d with dsp interface. the input range is 5v and it
uses a serial interface (which can easily be optically isolated
from the computer to elinimate a major noise source) the analog design
guide i got from them shows a 100db noise level. they claim a 77db
max ( 85 typ.) thd. looks pretty good for the 12 @ 1000 pieces

a evaluation kit is available. might want to give these nice folks a
call. 1 800 998 8800 or fax (408)737 7194 and (408) 737 7600 ext4000
for application assistance.

this assumes that you can build your own das and write your own software.
(hey you can get the max121 as a free sample just by calling the 1 800 )

i would appreciate discussion of your personal experience with a mac or pc
based adc system.

i would recommend you to find out the resolution that can be gotten out
of your system by looking at the noise level , otherwise you might be
throwing out your money.

charles cunningham
cec@imager.llnl.gov

k. c. lee
elec. eng. grad. student

i have no connection with maxim except i do in general recommend
companies that give samples to students to others. i feel they
deserve that for being nice to me.

from martyj@mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu (martin johnson)
subject hi volt from battery
keywords capacitive discharge
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 13

i need a small battery powered hi voltage capacitive discharge supply to
deliver 6 joules at 250 volts. this implies a 200uf cap. i have built
a very satisfactorily operating version from a max641 , but do not like
the idea of using a 6 single source part. it seems that the ubiquitous
camera flash circuit is what i want , but i cant get mine apart without
breaking it. i would appreciate receiving the circuit description or
a source of one. i have already looked in several electronics circuits
handbooks to no avail. thanx


martin johnson martyj@uiuc.edu
mind your business , on first us coin


from jeh@cmkrnl.com
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring.
distribution world
organization kernel mode systems , san diego , ca
lines 35

in article 1qmisf odp@sdl.warren.mentorg.com , garyg@warren.mentorg.com (gary gendel) writes
in article 1834@cmkrnl.com , jeh@cmkrnl.com writes
what you can do if you want three prong outlets without additional wiring is
to use a gfci outlet (or breaker , but the outlet will be cheaper). in fact ,
depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s) , a gfci may be required .

you still need to supply a proper ground for a ground fault circuit interrupter !

not according to the nec nor the cec , as explained in the electrical wiring
faq , which i posted here separately. note the material under the headings

subject how do i convert two prong receptacles to three prong \?

and

subject are you sure about gfcis and ungrounded outlets \?
should the test button work \?

of course , as they said local codes may vary .

so rewiring is still a part of this job , however , the ground may be connected to
a local earth ground , rather than back at the breaker box.

i'm not sure about this. if the ground connections on the outlets are
connected to anything , they should be connected to a wire that runs back to the
main panel , where it is bonded to the neutral connector and to the house ground
rod. a connection to a local earth ground would not necessarily meet one of
the goals of the ground wire , which is that if a short develops from hot
to the ground wire , enough current would flow to trip the breaker.

hmmm. how are those orange isolated ground outlets (often used in
computer rooms) wired \?

jamie hanrahan , kernel mode systems , san diego ca
internet jeh@cmkrnl.com uucp uunet ! cmkrnl ! jeh cis 74140 , 2055

from cobust@seagoon.ee.sun.ac.za (cobus theunissen)
subject wide band analog time delay
organization rhodes university , grahamstown , south africa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 6

hi there ,

i am looking for a wide band analog time delay (not phase delay)
variable from 200 microseconds to 2 milliseconds.

please reply via email to rrc@firga.sun.ac.za

from tchannon@black.demon.co.uk (tim channon)
subject re can i use a cd4052 analog multiplexer for digital signal
reply to tchannon@black.demon.co.uk
distribution world
x mailer cppnews revision 1.20
organization null
lines 19

as the subject says can i use a 4052 for digital signals \? i do n't see
why it could n't handle digital signals , but i could be wrong. anyone have
any advice \? thanks.

yes.

i use 74hc4066 and others commerically for this purpose so rest assured it
works fine. in one case i route bit serial digital audio using these and it
is difficult to see any signal degradation at all which surprised me given
some pretty fast edges. hc4066 is spec 'd at something like 3db @ 200mhz into
50 ohms. the more complex types are generally a little slower and more
resistive.

plain 4000 series are not so good at handling 5v logic.

remember that the output load is seen by the input device.

tc.
e mail tchannon@black.demon.co.uk or tchannon@cix.compulink.co.uk


from then@snakemail.hut.fi (tomi h engdahl)
subject re telephone on hook off hok ok circuit
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 17
laird.734044906@pasture.ecn.purdue.edu
1ptolq p7e@werple.apana.org.au
nntp posting host lk hp 11.hut.fi
in reply to petert@zikzak.apana.org.au 's message of 7 apr 1993 05 26 18 gmt

in article 1ptolq p7e@werple.apana.org.au petert@zikzak.apana.org.au (peter t.) writes

since an on hook line is aprox 48 50v , and off hook it usually drops below 10v.
how about an led in series with a zener say around 30v.
on hook led on
off hook led off.
would this work \? if anyone tries tried it , please let me know.

not recommended. your circuit would take too much current , when
telephone is on hook. telephone company does not like it.



tomi.engdahl@hut.fi ! lowery's law
then@niksula.hut.fi ! if it jams force it. if it breaks ,
! it needed replacing anyway.
this text is provided as is without any express or implied warranty

from kthompso@donald.wichitaks.ncr.com (ken thompson)
subject re cable tvi interference
keywords catv cable television tvi
organization ncr corporation wichita , ks
lines 14

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (victor laking) writes

)do you know what frequencies chanels 17 to 19 use and what is usually
)allocated to those frequencies for broadcast outside of cable \?

17 is air comm.
18 is amateur
19 is business and public service


ken thompson n0itl
ncr corp. peripheral products division disk array development
3718 n. rock road wichita ks 67226 (316)636 8783
ken.thompson@wichitaks.ncr.com

from baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca (baden de bari)
subject a d board quiry
organization system 6626 bbs , winnipeg manitoba canada
lines 21


on an a d board i 've got , i'm using the a d lines. it measures
the voltages properly , ie with a 7v power supply it reg 's 7v and with
5v , it reg 's 5v. problem is when i 've got the input voltage , and i wish
to lower it via a resistor. the sensitivity of the board is so great
that i can triger it with holding the 5 7v wire in one hand , and touch
the probe and it will register the full input voltage. a 1m resistor
only lowers voltage by .1v so this is not too feesable.

what could the problems be and what else could i use
to lower the input voltage \? (btw i 've got it grounded correctly)



inspiration
comes to o baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca
those who ( ) baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
seek the baden de bari
unknown.



from cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us (cyberman)
subject crt driver transistors
lines 28
x maildoor waflinemail 1.00r

device........ lt1839 @ ic (ma)..... 50
v(br)ceo (v).. 70 ccb (pf)...... 2.5
v(br)cbo (v).. 120 vce (v)....... 15
ic (ma) max... 300 polarity...... npn
hfe min....... 20 package....... 79 04
hfe max....... 60 material...... metal
ft (ghz)...... 1 price (100 )..

device........ lt5839 @ ic (ma)..... 60
v(br)ceo (v).. 65 ccb (pf)...... 1.5
v(br)cbo (v).. 80 vce (v)....... 10
ic (ma) max... 300 polarity...... pnp
hfe min....... 15 package....... 79 04
hfe max....... 60 material...... metal
ft (ghz)...... 1.5 price (100 )..
@ vce (v)..... 10

anyone know of a source for these parts (other than straight from
motorolla) \? i need 4 lt1839 's and 2 lt5839 i 've tried standard
and they said we are out !

stephen cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us
mangled on fri 04 16 1993 at 13 50 28

... if there 's one thing i ca n't stand , it 's intolerance.

blue wave qwk v2.12


from andrew.payne@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (andrew payne)
subject wanted tcm3105 chips , small quantities
distribution world
organization hal 9000 bbs , w net hq , ann arbor , michigan , usa
reply to andrew.payne@hal9k.ann arbor.mi.us (andrew payne)
keywords rec mod
lines 29

from payne@crl.dec.com (andrew payne)
message id 1993apr20.004418.11548@crl.dec.com
organization dec cambridge research lab
date tue , 20 apr 1993 00 44 18 gmt


does anyone know if a source for the tcm3105 modem chips (as used in the
baycom and my pmp modems) \? ideally , something that is geared toward
hobbyists small quantity , mail order , etc.

for years , we 've been buying them from a distributor (marshall) by the
hundreds for pmp kits. but orders have dropped to the point where we can
no longer afford to offer this service. and all of the distributors i 've
checked have some crazy minimum order ( 100 , or so).

i 'd like to find a source for those still interested in building pmp kits.
any suggestions \?


andrew c. payne
dec cambridge research lab

. r110b wnet hal 9000


hal 9000 bbs qwk to usenet gateway four 14400 v.32bis dial ins
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! pcboard 14.5am uupcb kmail
call 1 313 663 4173 or 663 3959
member of eff , asp , asad 1500mb disk serving ann arbor since 1988

from moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson)
subject re telephone on hook off hok ok circuit
nntp posting host bcarhdd
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 37

tony kidson (tony@morgan.demon.co.uk) wrote
in article ohzs2b2w164w@k5qwb.lonestar.org lrk@k5qwb.lonestar.org writes

mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes

in article 1ptolq p7e@werple.apana.org.au petert@zikzak.apana.org.au (peter

just a thought of mine here
since an on hook line is aprox 48 50v , and off hook it usually drops below 1
how about an led in series with a zener say around 30v.
on hook led on
off hook led off.
would this work \? if anyone tries tried it , please let me know.

aye , there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , the
equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off hook.
in the on hook state you 're not supposed to draw current.

which means you should just use your digital voltmeter. you can use an
old vom but the phone company equipment can detect that and might think
there 's something wrong with the cable.


look guys , what 's the problem here \? if you want a light that goes on when
the 'phone is off hook , all you need it to run it in series with the
line , as i mentioned in my previous post. if you want a light that goes on
when the 'phone is on hook , all you need is a voltage threshold detector.

if you 're going to do the series diode thing (which is the easiest) , just
make sure that the led can take the current (i ca n't recall it off hand , but
it 's something like 100ma or more \? )

greggo.

greg moffatt moffatt@bnr.ca
bell northern resarch inc. , ottawa canada
my opinions not bnr 's

from behnke@fnalf.fnal.gov (m.l. 'broomen' behnke)
subject re electric power line balls
article i.d. fnnews.1psrgl 6cb
reply to behnke@fnalf.fnal.gov
distribution usa
organization fermi national accelerator lab
lines 27
nntp posting host fnalf.fnal.gov

in article 1993apr6.203237.20841@eagle.lerc.nasa.gov , fsset@bach.lerc.nasa.gov (scott townsend) writes
i got a question from my dad which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate
some net.wisdom.

his question is about some 18 24 diameter balls which are attached to
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between
two poles. neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution.
my only guess was that they may be a capacitive device to equalize the
inductance of the grid , but why so many between two poles \? .

anyone know what they really are \? is there a related faq for this \?
is there a better group to submit to \?

we 'd both appreciate some enlightenment.


the balls are used to reduce the amplitude of oscillations of the wire during
periods of high winds. i 've seen what looks like paint cans filled with
concrete used for the same purpose.
mike behnke senior tech advisor quid est illuidin aqua \? \?
fermi nat accel lab equipment suuport
batavia , il. computing div pistrix ! ! pistrix ! !
behnke@fnalf.fnal.gov

my opinions are my own , not of the lab. so , if you do n't like them , call

1 800 uwh iner

from whit@carson.u.washington.edu (john whitmore)
subject re suggestions on audio relays \? \? \?
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 20
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article c5qsbf.iek@ms.uky.edu billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn) writes
i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched.

is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.

with relays alone , you will always get a transient when
you abruptly turn on or off any channel. if you do n't want to hear
the transient , use some other device (a photoresistor output optoisolator
is the usual sort of thing) to gently mute the signal , then switch ,
then remove the power from the lamp in the optoisolator.

it used to be standard practice to employ photoresistors
in switching audio , because the photoresistor time delay (a few
thousandths of a second) kept any noise in the digital side (which
drives the lamp) from contaminating the audio. and , the devices
are cheaper than relays.

john whitmore

from acooney@netcom.com (alan cooney)
subject re los angeles freeway traffic reports
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 48

i live in the san francisco bay area , and word has it that
something similar is on its way here. since we apparently
do n't have the sensor base you folks have , they 're installing
cameras at strategic points along the freeways (initial tests
are going to be in the santa clara area i'm told) , with the
video being piped into a command center they 're building
somewhere in the east bay. i'm not sure if frame grabbers or
cheap labor will be used to interpret the data , but large
multi colored status displays will show the various routes
using different colors to represent the various average speeds
for each stretch of highway. an announcer will sit in front
of the status 'wall' , and will relay continuous verbal traffic
status to those who want to receive it. they 're apparently also
looking into licensing a low am frequency to be dedicated to
providing continuous audio from this system.

in the mean time , they 'll set up large incandescent display
boards along the test stretch to provide commuters with data
on traffic conditions up ahead. my understanding is that the
system is subsidized as a pilot program , and information from it
will be available free of charge. perhaps the la system is
similarly free or provided at an obviously subsidized rate (read
cheap ).

we also have the traffic reports that are broadcast on the sap
audio channel of television channels 2 and 36. these are verbal
reports , qualified with a identification tone to tell in vehicle
receivers like the 'auto talk' that the information coming next is
applicable to a given area. in la , they 're probably using some
other tv channels , but the concept is the same. try setting your
stereo tv or vcr to receive the sap audio channel , and go station
jumping to find out which one is broadcasting this information.
i believe this program is also subsidized , making the in vehicle
receivers cheap to purchase (and without having to incur monthly
fees to use it). since the makers of these in vehicle receivers
do n't have to pay for the broadcast (this may not be completely
true) , they likely have no investment in keeping the system
up and running when the cal trans stuff hits the airwaves. you
may have a nifty little tv audio receiver in your car , nothing
more , when this happens. perhaps a word to the wise... \? )

i think we 'd all be interested in a summary post if you get more
info on how the la system is networked and paid for.

cheers ,
alan
acooney@netcom.com


from gcarter@infoserv.com (george carter)
subject re does someone know what is the news group for ieee.
reply to gcarter@infoserv.com
distribution usa
organization sfbac
lines 11
x newsreader helldiver 1.07 (waffle 1.64)

in 1993apr19.192953.22874@usl.edu yxy4145@ucs.usl.edu (yu yingbin) writes
yxy4145@usl.edu thanks a lot.

ieee.general

and

ieee.announce


are the most frequently used groups.

from lperez@decserv2.eecs.wsu.edu (luis g. perez)
subject re beam robot olympic games next week in toronto.
organization s
lines 10


does anybody know if there is a mailing list or newsgroup for
power systems and related areas \?

thanks ,


luis g. perez
lperez@eecs.wsu.edu


from cmh@eng.cam.ac.uk (c.m. hicks)
subject re how do di boxes work \?
organization cam.eng
lines 36
nntp posting host tw100.eng.cam.ac.uk

lancer@oconnor.wpi.edu (stephe lewis foskett) writes


i'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need direct
input boxes for the keyboards. these are the little boxes that take a
line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low z for the run
to the mixer. sadly they cost like 50 (or more) each and i'm going

this is indeed one function , but more sophisticated ones do level control
and ground lift (separating the keyboard and mixer earths) aswell.

to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one (belonging to
another band) and it looks like just a transformer. does anyone have

simple ones are just that a transformer. a decent quality audio trans
former will cost most of that 50. they are wired thus...


hot hot
) (
input from ) ( balanced out to mixer
keyboard ) (
cold

gnd gnd

the ground lift switch disconnects the gnd line from the mixer. the
transformer ratio depends on the precise application , but around 10 1
turns ratio may be a good place to start.

christopher


christopher hicks paradise is a linear gaussian world
cmh@uk.ac.cam.eng (also reported to taste hot and sweaty)


from stevens@madvlsi.columbia.edu (andy stevens)
subject re decoupling caps onboard
organization columbia university
x posted from greece.madvlsi.columbia.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 14

in article 1993apr20.173652.762@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu , ravin@eecg.toronto.edu (govindan ravindran) writes
i would like to know if any one had any experience with having
on board decoupling capacitors (inside a cmos chip) for the power
lines. say i have a lot of space left im my pad limited design.
any data on the effect of oxide breakdown \? any info or pointers
are appreciated.

dec did this on their new alpha chip. i'm sure you could call them up
and ask them how they did it (haha).

actually , there are some details in their article in ieee journal of
solid state circuits. i think it was sometime around nov. 1992.

andy s.

from wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (bill mayhew)
subject re mysterious tv problem source \?
organization northeastern ohio universities college of medicine
lines 19

if the set is direct line powered , try checking the likely to be
there hybrid regulator module down stream from the 170 volt
supply. several sets i 've looked at use a 135 volt regulator. the
regulators have a tendency to short out , making the safety circuits
shut down the eht supply section.

try putting the set on a variac or adjustable transformer and lower
the ac input voltage to the set to about 90 volts. if the set
operates nromally , then you know you 've got a shorted regulator.

there are myriad other areas for problems , but i 've seen the one
above several times. also , if the set uses one , the trippler
module may be shot that 's fairly common.



bill mayhew neoucom computer services department
rootstown , oh 44272 9995 usa phone 216 325 2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1) 146.580 n8wed

from thompson@cactus.org (charles thompson)
subject how does differential mode gps work \? \? \?
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx
lines 15



i understand that the new gps boxes now have an option
known as differential ready . apparently land based
beacons tranmit gps correction information to your gps
receiver (with differential option installed).

how does this system work \? what frequency is used for
the land based beacons \?

thanks in advance ,

charlie thompson
.


from pat@fegmania.wustl.edu (pat niemeyer)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization washington university in saint louis , mo usa
lines 11
reply to pat@fegmania.wustl.edu
nntp posting host fegmania.wustl.edu
originator pat@fegmania

are any brands quieter than others \?

yes some radar detectors are less detectable by radar detector
detectors. )

i have a bel 966.
i just looked at the manual yesterday... and it does indeed claim to be
undetectable by rdd 's.


pat

from dave@imax.imax.com (dave martindale)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring.
organization imax corporation , mississauga canada
lines 24

jeh@cmkrnl.com writes

hmmm. how are those orange isolated ground outlets (often used in
computer rooms) wired \?

they require two separate grounds. one ground goes to the ground pin
of the outlet , and the other ground wire is connected to the outlet 's
mounting tabs (and thus grounds the box and faceplate screw and metal
faceplate , if any).

the box faceplate ground goes to the normal distribution panel ground.
the outlet ground pin wire is generally connected to an insulated
busbar in the distribution panel which is , in turn , connected to
the building entrance main ground by its own wire.

so the two separate ground systems are connected together at the
building 's service entrance. but one is also connected to every
grounded piece of electrical equipment in the whole building ,
while the isolated ground is shared only by the equipment plugged
into isolated ground outlets of that panel. if someone happens
to accidentally short one phase of a 600v feeder to ground ,
the main building ground is likely to have a lot of noise on it
until the breaker trips or the fuse blows , while the isolated
ground will remain relatively noise free.

from cam@castle.ed.ac.uk (chris malcolm)
subject casio sf7500 serial link
organization edinburgh university
lines 8

the casio 7500 lectric diary has a 3 wire serial interface with param
setting like rs232 , for which one get a magic but expensive cable to
connect to a pc. does anyone know the spec of this interface , e.g. , it
needs inverting and boosting from cmos signals to match rs232 lines \?

chris malcolm cam@uk.ac.ed.aifh 44 (0)31 650 3085
department of artificial intelligence , edinburgh university
5 forrest hill , edinburgh , eh1 2ql , uk dod 205

from mark tarbell@suite.com
subject switch mode power supply
organization suite software
lines 17
reply to suite ! tarbell@uunet.uu.net
nntp posting host gilgamesh.suite.com

is there a typical component or set of components
that are at fault when a switch mode power supply
goes south \?

the supply is for a disk drive. any general hints
would be appreciated !

thanks !
mark tarbell@suite.com
at fault when a switch mode power supply
goes south \?

the supply is for a disk drive. any general hints
would be appreciated !

thanks !
mark tarbell@s bvh (j

from tomb@hplsla.hp.com (tom bruhns)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
organization hp lake stevens , wa
lines 21

crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) writes

so.. here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the
same electrical circuit if i hooked a jumper from the neutral
over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding outlets.
what 's wrong with my reasoning here \?

may i respectfully suggest you not do this \? \? the ground is
supposed to be a protective ground , and though what you suggest
looks good on paper , it 's dangerous to rely on the same wire for
power and protection. it 'd never meet code , and if you now own
the property and later sell it , you may end up with liabilities
you do n't want , and if you do n't now own it , well...

there 's a wiring faq that i think addresses this. i believe
an alternative is use of a gfci , but i'm really not sure what
current code allows in this area. the gfci senses alternate
(unwanted) current paths , and does n't rely on a specific
protective ground wire , at least not beyond the gfci in the
protected circuit. gfci breakers are available (but expensive).


from dpalmer@mcnc.org (w. dev palmer)
subject re wanted a to d hardware for a pc
article i.d. mcnc.1993apr6.220327.4042
organization mcnc center for microelectronics , rtp , nc
lines 34

in article 1993apr6.053736.23113@doug.cae.wisc.edu kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad) writes
in 3889@ncr mpd.ftcollinsco.ncr.com brad wright writes

if you know much about pc 's (ibm comp) you might try the joystick
port. though i have n't tried this myself , i 've been told that the port

i believe that the a d converters found on a joystick port are really
timers that tick off how long it takes an r c circuit (the r being your
paddle) to charge up to something like 1 2 vcc. for games this works
pretty well , but you certainly would n't want to try to take lab
measurements off something as non linear as that.

the best info i have seen so far is the article joystick metrics
measuring physical properties through the pc 's joystick port by
michael covington in the may 1985 issue of pc tech journal. it talks
about how to read all kinds of things (voltage , current , resistance) in
basic , and even includes code for a simple oscilloscope display.

it 's possible to read the joystick port directly if you do n't want to
use basic. the detailed information for this is in the pc technical
reference under options and adapters. you have to provide some
millisecond resolution timing functions , but that 's a subject which has
appeared many times in articles from dr. dobb 's , circuit cellar ink ,
etc. look for the public domain ztimer package on wuarchive.

good luck ,

dev palmer
dpalmer@mcnc.org
mcnc room 212
p.o. box 12889
rtp , nc 27709 2889
(919) 248 1837
(919) 248 1455 fax

from heinboke@tnt.uni hannover.de (andreas heinbokel)
subject looking for ad pc board
reply to heinboke@tnt.uni hannover.de
organization universitaet hannover , theoretische nachrichtentechnik
lines 41

this is for a friend of mine. please send answers directly to him (e mail
adress see below ) !


highspeed analog digital pc board

hello ladies and gentleman !

i am looking for a highspeed a d pc board with a sampling rate above 250 mhz an a
resolution of 8 bit. the sampling rate can be arranged by an interleave mode where
the time equivalent sampling yields 2 , 4 or 8 times higher sampling rate than
the a d converter uses in non interleave mode.

the board must content an a d converter similar to analog devices ad 9028 or
ad 9038 or if available a faster on.

if you a pc board (16 bit slot , isa) with this specification or better , please
send me an email

hansch@cdc2.ikph.uni hannover.dbp.de

or a telefax to 49 511 7629353


thanks in advance for your help !

sincerely

matthias hansch
ikph , university of hannover , germany





andreas heinbokel

heinboke@tnt.uni hannover.de

... all wisdom is print on t shirts


from marrevola@rediris.es
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
organization rediris , red nacional de i d
lines 24

in article 1993apr6.132429.16154@bnr.ca , moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson) writes
joseph chiu (josephc@cco.caltech.edu) wrote

and the measure of current , amp , is actually named after both the amp company
and the amphenol company. both companies revolutionized electronics by
simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets
were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.

sorry. the unit for current is the ampere which is the name of a french man
named ampere who studied electrical current. the term amp is just an abbreviation
of it. the company amp came after the ampere unit was already in use.

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right.
are you (two) joking \?
is the entire internet flaming you (two) \?
ahh ! , now i remember that ohmite company was the first introducing the pink
colored resistor , only for electronics working females )

manuel arrevola velasco true e mail manolo@taf.fundesco.es
dod 1033


from xandor@unixg.ubc.ca (john gilbert )
subject re exploding tv !
organization the university of british columbia
lines 4
distribution usa
nntp posting host unixg.ubc.ca

just as a not of possible interest on this subject ..
it is my understanding that exploding televisions were a major cause of
domestic accidents in the soviet union in past years !


from conrad@spva.ph.ic.ac.uk (conrad winchester)
subject re motorola xc68882rc33 and rc50
keywords motorola , fpu , 68882 , 68030 , 33 50 mhz , problems (fpu exception)
nntp posting host prawn.sp.ph
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england
lines 25

in article 16apr199323531467@rosie.uh.edu , st1my@rosie.uh.edu (stich , christian e.) writes
i just installed a motorola xc68882rc50 fpu in an amiga a2630 board (25 mhz
68030 68882 with capability to clock the fpu separately). previously
a mc68882rc25 was installed and everything was working perfectly. now the
systems displays a yellow screen (indicating a exception) when it check for
the presence type of fpu. when i reinstall an mc68882rc25 the system works
fine , but with the xc68882 even at 25 mhz it does not work. the designer
of the board mentioned that putting a pullup resistor on data strobe (470 ohm)
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some
suggestions what i could do \? does this look like a cpu fpu communications
problem or is the particular chip dead (it is a pull , not new) \?
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an xc68882rc33. i thought
that the 68882rc33 were labeled mc not xc (for not finalized mask design).
are there any mc68882rc33 \?

thanks
christian



have you changed the crystal that clocks for the fpu. if you
have n't then it wo n't work.


conrad

from cab@col.hp.com (chris best)
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
organization your service
lines 7
nntp posting host hpctdkz.col.hp.com

i 've seen several references to split or separate beam radars , which i
claimed did n't exist. gotta eat some crow here i was n't aware of them.
all i really knew was that it can be done with one beam.

i believe the rest of what i said is accurate , though.

mmmmmmm....crow.... (oops wrong group)

from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re need tone decoder circuit
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 14

in article 5170286@hplsla.hp.com tomb@hplsla.hp.com (tom bruhns) writes
does anybody out there have a circuit that will decode a 1000hz tone \?

use a ne567 tone decoder pll chip...

my impression it 's not an area i 've played with much is that the
much beloved ne567 is basically obsolete. if you want to detect a 1khz
tone , set a switched capacitor filter chip to that frequency , feed your
input to it , and see if anything comes out the other end. the ne567 was
what you used when good clean bandpass filters were hard to do nowadays
they 're easy , and the results are better.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from camter28@astro.ocis.temple.edu (carter ames)
subject lead acid batteries concrete \?
organization temple university
lines 15
nntp posting host astro.ocis.temple.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8


i was just wondering one thing , actually two. ( i hope that this is the
proper place to post this subject)

why does a lead acid battery discharge and become dead (totally unuseable)
when stored on a concrete floor \?
i decided to bring the battery in from the lawn mower and the motorcycle
from the unheated garage this year , to preserve them and i just
went to use them and noticed that not only do they not work , but
they act like the two terminals are shorted. i asked a friend
and he said that you should never do that , 'cause it ruins them ,
but he could n't tell me why.

thanks
camter28@astro.ocis.temple.edu

from bakerjp1@netnews.jhuapl.edu (baker john p. pdd x4895 )
subject how does differential mode gps work \? \? \?
summary explaination of dgps system
keywords gps , differential , navigation , radio
organization jhu applied physics laboratory
lines 46


i understand that the new gps boxes now have an option
known as differential ready . apparently land based
beacons tranmit gps correction information to your gps
receiver (with differential option installed).

how does this system work \? what frequency is used for
the land based beacons \?

thanks in advance ,

charlie thompson
.

here 's a rough sketch of how the system works. a reference station
with a very exactly known position computes the errors in the
incoming gps signals. these errors are due to several factors
including atmospheric distortion , sa (selective availability) time
dithering , etc. the reference unit contains complex computational
equipment to back out the errors in its position (since it knows
where it is already). it then transmits these corrections on a
broadcast which is available to any number of relatively local
receivers. if the receivers are nearby ( 300km) and are using
the same satellites as the reference unit , the errors should be very
similar for the reference unit and the receiver unit. thus , the
receiver unit may apply the corrections calculated by the reference
unit.

the us coast guard is currently (as far as i know) installing a series
of coastline transmitters for differential gps. these stations will
use existing radio towers. i believe the frequency is to be approximately
305 khz. there are many other private corporations offering dgps signals
on different frequencies. for example , pinpoint ((310) 618 7076) offers
correction signals and receiver units using an fm broadcast system
which has stations all across the us.

the correction codes are usually transmitted using the rtcm 104 format.
advertised accuracies espouse 1 to 5 meter errors.



john p. baker my opinions are my own. i do n't know
johns hopkins university anyone else who wants them , anyway.
applied physics laboratory
laurel , md 20723 bakerjp1@aplcomm.jhuapl.edu


from josephc@cco.caltech.edu (joseph chiu)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
article i.d. gap.1pkveuinnduk
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 33
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes

similarly , people usually use db for dbm. another common mistake is spelling
``db'' instead of ``db'' as you did in your article. see the ``b'' is for
``bell'' company , the mother of at t and should be capitalized.

thus , a decibell (deci , l. , tenth of bell) is a fractional part of the
original bell. for example , southwestern bell is a decibell.

and the measure of current , amp , is actually named after both the amp company
and the amphenol company. both companies revolutionized electronics by
simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets
were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...


alexander graham bell , actually , is where bell came from...



actually , bel refers

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.



joseph chiu josephc@cco.caltech.edu os 2 you gotta get this thing !
msc 380 caltech
pasadena , ca 91126 os 2 the operating system of tomorrow , today.
1 818 449 5457

subject access bus (was i2c bus)
from srgxnbs@grace.cri.nz
organization industrial research ltd. , new zealand.
nntp posting host grv.grace.cri.nz
lines 37

from mx andy.macrae@corp.sun.com 6 apr 1993 06 48 34.96
to srgxnbs
cc
subj re i 2c bus and long haul serial (also axlo

return path andy.macrae@corp.sun.com
received from sun.com by grv.grace.cri.nz (mx v3.1c) with smtp tue , 06 apr
1993 06 48 29 1300
received from corp.sun.com (lemay.corp.sun.com) by sun.com (4.1 smi 4.1) id
aa24280 mon , 5 apr 93 11 48 08 pdt
received from grendal.corp.sun.com by corp.sun.com (4.1 elliemay (corpmail1
inbound)) id aa25933 mon , 5 apr 93 11 48 07 pdt
received by grendal.corp.sun.com (4.1 smi 4.1) id aa05710 mon , 5 apr 93
11 47 28 pdt
date mon , 5 apr 93 11 47 28 pdt
from andy.macrae@corp.sun.com (andrew macrae)
message id 9304051847.aa05710@grendal.corp.sun.com
to srgxnbs@grace.cri.nz
subject re i 2c bus and long haul serial (also axlo
cc andy.macrae@corp.sun.com
content length 693

in article 1pii04innk6t@zephyr.grace.cri.nz you write
whats required to get onto the access bus \? the nice thing about the
i2c is that most i o requires one 8 ... 16 pin dil chip , ie its cheap
and easy. anyone can design a bus , trouble is most buses require a
host of interface chips and often on board intelligence.

bruce ,
for the latest information on access.bus call the access.bus
industry group at (408) 991 3517. also , sun will be hosting the next
meeting of the group on april 19th , here in mountain view. for some reason
i am not able to post to any newsgroups today , so please feel free to pass
this information on yourself as you see fit.

andrew macrae


from markz@ssc.com (mark zenier)
subject re can i use a cd4052 analog multiplexer for digital signals \?
organization ssc , inc. , seattle , wa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 13

tall cool one (rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu) wrote
as the subject says can i use a 4052 for digital signals \? i do n't see
why it could n't handle digital signals , but i could be wrong. anyone have
any advice \? thanks.

the switches have a non negligable on resistance (up to 1k ohm when
powered by 5 volts) and a maximum current and a maximum static
voltage across switch. not a good bet for ttl. should work for
cmos , but slow things down a bit. there are 74hc versions that
have better specs. but lower max voltage.

mark zenier markz@ssc.wa.com markz@ssc.com


from dzenc@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (dan zenchelsky)
subject videotext teletext descrambler
article i.d. hal.1psvcg 1auv
distribution world
organization dis
lines 9
nntp posting host hal.ai.mit.edu

hi ,

i am looking for a pc card which does european videotext teletext
descrambling (pal). does anyone in the us sell such a card \? i once
saw an article about a card with the same functionallity in a
european elektor magazine , but i was n't able to track it down.

thanx in advance ,
dan

from blakey@ug.cs.dal.ca (jason blakey)
subject site for projects
nntp posting host ug.cs.dal.ca
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 6

does anyone out there know of any ftp sites which deal with
electronics projects , plans , etc \? any response appreciated. )
jb

............................................................................
jason blakey blakey@ug.cs.dal.ca

from wayne@uva386.schools.virginia.edu (tony wayne)
subject pink noise
organization virginia 's public education network (charlottesville)
lines 4

what is pink noise and how is it used in sound experiments \?
tony
wayne@uva386.schools.virginia.edu


from uli@izfm.uni stuttgart.de (uli allgeier)
subject re pads question how do i go from a schematic pcb \?
organization comp.center (rus) , u of stuttgart , frg
lines 38
nntp posting host pc8.izfm.uni stuttgart.de

hi !
in article c5svup.i4i@news.cso.uiuc.edu rky57514@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tall cool one ) writes

after i have produced a schematic with pads logic , how do i import it into
pads pcb to create a pcb pattern \? the only way i 've gotten it to work is
to output a futurenet netlist , and then import this into pads pcb. is there
another way of doing this \? i did n't see any information in the instructions
provided , but i might have missed something. any suggestions would be
greatly appreciated. thanks !

sorry , it 's german , but i hope you understand it.


uebertragung der schaltplan daten ( .sch) in die board daten
( .job)

pads logic
in out
reports
net list
select pads pcb
net list output file name
filename angeben

pads pcb
in out
ascii in
ascii input file name
filename angeben
errors aoutput file name
filename angeben , nicht cr

jetzt sind alle bauteile auf einem haufen und muessen mit move
verteilt werden.

viele gruesse

uli

from gould@waterloo.hp.com (dan gould)
subject telephone controlled power bar needed
nntp posting host hppadan.waterloo.hp.com
organization hp panacom div waterloo on canada
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.9
lines 16

i would appreciate some help in locating a telephone controlled power bar
for my pc. the unit would power up the pc when the telephone rings and
keep it up as long as the telephone connection is present.

i also need to be able to power up this same pc through the use of an external
timer. i can supply power or a contact closure to do this.

i will summarize and post the results of this query here.

thank you.




dan gould
gould@waterloo.hp.com

from davidb@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (david bull)
subject intel rmx o s documentation wanted
organization school of mpce , macquarie university , australia.
lines 19
distribution world
nntp posting host macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au
originator davidb@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au


we 've just been donated a large machine for use in our
robotics lab. this device is complete with a 286 based
controller , running the intel rmx operating system.

unfortunately , we do n't have any documentation on rmx.

can anybody out there in netland help \?

please reply via email i do n't regularly catch up with
the news.

thanks ,

david bull

davidb@mpce.mq.edu.au



from jmains@engr.latech.edu (john p. mains)
subject electrical properties of elastomers
organization louisiana tech university
lines 13
distribution usa
reply to jmains@engr.latech.edu
nntp posting host altair.engr.latech.edu


hello ,

i am looking for carbon doped rubber. or an highly elastic material that changes its resistivity , or some
other electrical property when streched.

if you could email me any info you may have on material names or companies that make the stuff
it would be highly appreaciated.

thanx
jp
biomedical engineering
louisiana tech university

from hughes@jupiter.ral.rpi.edu (declan hughes)
subject manual for eprom blower (logical devices prompro 8) wanted
nntp posting host jupiter.ral.rpi.edu
organization rensselaer polytechnic institute , troy ny
distribution usa
lines 7


i have an eprom blower made by logical devices and the
model name is prompro 8 , but i have lost the manual. does anyone
have a spare manual that they would like to sell \?

declan hughes
hughes@ral.rpi.edu

from wagner@mala.bc.ca (tom wagner , wizzard of old audio visual equipment........nanaimo campus)
subject correction of last followup re relays
organization malaspina college
lines 73

in article 1993apr20.102756.1709@mala.bc.ca , wagner@mala.bc.ca (tom wagner , wizzard of old audio visual equipment........nanaimo campus) writes
in article c5r60r.4id@megatest.com , alung@megatest.com (aaron lung) writes
in article c5qsbf.iek@ms.uky.edu billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn) writes
i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. i was doing
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using relays and
nothing seemed to get rid of the clicks.


my question is

is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part
numbers company names etc. for the relays will help !

are you switching high level signals or low level signals like pre amp
out level signals \? also , are the clicks you mentioning the big
clack that happens when it switches or are you refering to contact
bounce \? how are you driving the relays \? ttl gate output \? switching
transistor \? how are the relays connected to what you are driving \?

need more specifics to answer your question ! ! )

as a general rule , no relay will cleanly switch audio if you try to tranfer
the circuit with the contacts. the noise you hear is due to the momentary
opening and closing of the path.

the noiseless way of transfering audio is to ground the circuit. in high
impedance audio circuits a resistive t is constructed close to characteristic
impedance of the circuit. grounding the imputs (connected to the t) transfers
the audio.

in low impedance circuits transformers are usually used , and the inputs are
shorted out or grounded. secondaries are paralleled at the characteristic
impedance.

sometimes if it is necessary to actually switch audio , a second contact is used
to momentarily short the circuit output for the duration of the switching time.

telephone relays are handy , because contacts can be adjusted to make before
break and vica versa but i have n't seen any of these for years.

nowadys switching is done electronically with op amps , etc.

a novel circuit i used to build was a primitive optical isolator .. it consists
of a resistive photocell and a lamp , all packaged in a tube. when the lamp is
off the cell is high resistance. turn the lamp on and the resistance lowers
passing the audio. once again this device in a t switches the audio. varying
the lamp resistance give a remote volume control. use 2 variable resisters and
you have a mixer !

lots of luck !

73 , tom

tom wagner , audio visual technician. malaspina college nanaimo british columbia
(604)753 3245 , loc 2230 fax 755 8742 callsign ve7gda weapon .45 kentucky rifle
snail mail to site q4 , c2. rr 4 , nanaimo , british columbia , canada , v9r 5x9

i do not recyle..... i keep everything ! (all standard disclaimers apply)


73 , tom

tom wagner , audio visual technician. malaspina college nanaimo british columbia
(604)753 3245 , loc 2230 fax 755 8742 callsign ve7gda weapon .45 kentucky rifle
snail mail to site q4 , c2. rr 4 , nanaimo , british columbia , canada , v9r 5x9

i do not recyle..... i keep everything ! (all standard disclaimers apply)


from swalker@uts.edu.au ( s87271077 s.walker man 50 )
subject what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization university of technology , sydney
lines 12
distribution world
nntp posting host acacia.ccsd.uts.edu.au
summary cooling towers \? . anyone know how they work \?
keywords nuclear
organisation university of technology , sydney , australia



i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?
i hope someone can help



from ritterbus001@wcsub.ctstateu.edu
subject re picking up cable tv with an aerial.
lines 37
nntp posting host wcsub.ctstateu.edu
organization yale university , department of computer science , new haven , ct

in article gyjx2b2w165w@inqmind.bison.mb.ca , dino@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (tony stewart) writes
jfsenior@unix1.tcd.ie (john senior) writes

recently , i discovered that it was possible to receive cable
tv through the telescopic aerial on the top of my tv.
the nearer this aerial is moved to the cable (which i am not
connected to) which runs under the eaves of the house the better
the signal. now , i was wondering how can i improve the signal \?
is it possible to improve the signal significantly \? (some channels

cable egress or emanations if you will are being radiated at free space
impedance from cables that may be harmonically realated to certain
channels and therfore the standing waves at 1 4 wave will transfer
efficiently. also your antenna (a loose monopole) is also harmonically
tuned and will be more efficient at 1 2 wavelength multiples.

your best bet for this research is to use a tuned yagi antenna to get the
gain you need. (std tv roof antenna type) the dipoles should be parallel
to the radiating cable. a pre amp does n't help significantly in my
experience in most cases.

dino@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

wow , what a concept ! does anybody want to speculate on how this
non connection would fit into the theft of cable services laws \?
it seems to me that unless this case is specifically written into
the legislation that the cable company would not have a leg to
stand upon in court.

does anybody out there have any specific legal knowledge on this \?

jim ritterbusch
ritterbus001@wcsu.ctstateu.edu or ne22@radiomail.net (temp , rf)
there is an art , the guide says , or rather a knack to flying. the
knack lies in learning how to throw yourself at the ground and miss.


from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject tdr plug in
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 18

i have an hp 1815 tdr plug in for an hp180 series scope or mainframe
that i'm never going to use (no scope any more). if you 're interested
in it , please let me know. price \? probably real cheap.

this notice may have appeared once before. i posted , and it never showed
up on our local server...



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (victor laking)
subject re making copy of a video tape
keywords video
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 204 488 1607
lines 35

hooperw@spot.colorado.edu (wayne hooper) writes

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (victor laking) writes

you are experiencing what is called macrovision. it is the protection
that they use on the video tapes. there are two ways around this that i
know of. first of all , you can try using a different vcr to copy onto.
it is the input of the vcr that reacts to the protection so sometimes
just switching the two vcrs around will take care of it. some models
just do n't react to it.

does this also affect the viewing of tapes \? i have had problems with
a couple of rented tapes they were virtually unviewable. i fiddled
with the tuning , tracking and vertical hold but it was no good.



it sounds like your tv is one of the ones that also reacts to the video
protection. (poor you ! )

the macroscrubber from radio electronics removes the protection so you
sould n't have any more problems. however , if you use the method of
copying it from one vcr to another where the second vcr does n't react to
the protection , you will end up with a duplicate tape , including the
protection.

one thought comes to mind about your problem... when playing the tape
for viewing , are you feeding the signal from the source vcr through an
extra device before going to the tv \? if you feed it through a second vcr
first , that is your problem. as to other devices such as converters , i
do n't know if they would react or not. just to be safe , you might want
to make sure that you have nothing between the vcr and tv.

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
the inquiring mind bbs , winnipeg , manitoba 204 488 1607

from mvanmeet@ua.d.umn.edu (mike vanmeeteren)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw question ..... \? \? \? )
organization university of minnesota , duluth
lines 28
nntp posting host ua.d.umn.edu

in article c5hhko.1ry@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu mobasser@vu vlsi.ee.vill.edu (bijan mobasseri) writes
there are two simple procedures for alterating any odometer.

1. mechanical driven odometer
remove the speedo cable from the transmission.
attach a drill and run at max speed until the speedo turns over.
continue until the desired mileage is reached.

admittedly an irrelavent question for how long should the drill be running \?

bijan

a verrrrrry long time , like on the order of days. i had the pleasure of
doing that once (playing with the speedo cable) and with my b d heavy duty at
full speed (600 rpm) all the speedo ever got up to was 30 mph. now if you go
a high speed drill and ran it at say 4000 rpm , you could get 200 mph out of
it. (if you speedo does n't burn out.) anyways , to roll a 100000 mile
odometer would take 22 days or so. much easier just to take the speedo
apart.

thought i 'd share. btw , all this info was obtained legally )



( ) ) ) o ) computer lesson one there is no any key , alternate keys
) ) are shift , ctrl , caps lock , alt
( ( ( and sometimes tab .
mvanmeet@ub.d.umn.edu consultant at lab

from babb@sciences.sdsu.edu (j. babb)
subject re getting rid of screen wiggles \?
organization sdsu larc
lines 42
distribution world
nntp posting host larc.sdsu.edu

in article 1qpj5t itg@vela.acs.oakland.edu , eabyrnes@vela.acs.oakland.edu
(ed byrnes) wrote

my monitor display has a bad case of the wigglies. i have a good ground. i
live in an old house and i have replaced much of the wiring. i have two
emi filters on the computer , the monitor plugs into the computer. when
fluorescent lights are on upstairs , the display jiggles , when motors run
in the house , the display jiggles , when incandescent lights are on in the
kitchen the display jiggles. i could bring a separate line from the
breaker box , and use it only for the computer , would this do it \? emi
does n't only travel the 110 volt line though. should i shield the back of
the monitor \? ground a grid or plate \?
your expertise is appreciated. thanks very much ! ed byrnes


aaahh... a problem very near and dear to my heart. in our case , other
monitors cause this problem the deflection coil of other monitors to be
specific. have also seen a monitor backed up to a fuse panel exhibit this
problem. this sounds like your problem since flourescent lites , motors , etc
several 10s of feet away seem to me to be too far to cause it , but the
juice running to them must pass nearby your monitor. fusebox on other side
of wall maybe \?
we started spec'ing panasonic ct 1331y video monitors (3 switchable input
lines(vid aud) s vhs on one) 400. this stopped the wavy interference
effect on the computer monitor next to it.
now on to your problem. you need what is known as mu shielding (very
common , in fact almost mandatory on electrostatic deflection type
o 'scopes).
i talked to a ee prof. he said get a coffee can , cut both ends off , mount
around deflection coil of interfering monitor.
be careful to avoid all high voltage circuitry. especially the thicker high
voltage anode lead usually colored red. if you kill yourself , don't
blame sue me ! ! ! use plastic or other non conducting stand offs and such to
mount can.
now , i would assume that what is good for keeping mag fields in is also
good at keeping them out , so hopefully this 'll work by mounting shield on
monitor being interfered with as well. if not , start shielding those other
sources.

jeff babb
babb@sciences.sdsu.edu babb@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
programmer , sdsu larc

from tod@cco.caltech.edu (tod edward kurt)
subject data pods (10248b) for hp logic analyzer (1615a) \? ! \?
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 11
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu
keywords logic analyzer hp

anyone out there in netland have a spare data pod or two from an old
1615a hewlett packard logic analyzer \? if you do , i 'd like to buy it off
of you. the pod 's part number is 10248b.

as a side note , anyone know of any good surplus dealer or other organization
that would carry wayward logic analzer pods \?

thanks a byte ,
tod
tod@cco.caltech.edu


from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re laser vs bubblejet \?
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 29

in article 1993apr20.173742.99726@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu hl00@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (hou sheng lin) writes
well , i'm not too sure if this would be the right place to post this , but
anyway , here goes i was just noticing that some of the current bubblejet
printers offers up to 360x360 resolution while a lot of lower end laser
printers only offer 300x300. however , the laser printers still seems to be
significantly pricier than the bubblejets... how is this \? or am i missing
something about the resolution thing \?

bubblejets often splatter a little bit , whereas laserjets (given half way decent
toner , like hp 's microfine stuff) do n't. both produce very good output ,
but you do n't have to look too closely at the two to tell that laserjet
output is definitely superior.

on the other hand , laserjets which have n't been maintained properly and use
the cheapest toner the owner could find often produce awful output , much
worse than a bubblejet. )

one other thing... there are bubblejets , and then there are bubblejets.
there are a few bubblejets out there that produce rather mediocre output
(such as hp 's dinky little bubblejet) , whereas most produce really good
looking output (such as hp 's deskjets). ibm and canon both produce some of
the really good style bubblejets.

joel kolstad

p.s. if you 're in the market for a portable bublejet printer , i can
highly recommend the hp portable deskjet , although i 've heard the portable
canons are good too (i needed pcl support , myself). with the deskjet
portable , you even get an undocumented pcmcia card slot !

from rooi@duteca3.et.tudelft.nl (mark de rooi)
subject calculating a transformer help needed
originator rooi@duteca3.et.tudelft.nl
nntp posting host duteca3.et.tudelft.nl
reply to rooi@duteca3.et.tudelft.nl (mark de rooi)
organization delft university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering
lines 18

i want to convert a 500 volt sinewave with frequency between 1 khz
and 10 khz , to a 10 volt sinewave with the same frequency , by
means of a transformer. the secondary current will be .6 a (600 ma).

what kind of transformer should i use (ferrite \? )
can i buy one \? if so , i need a partnumber and supplier
if i cannot buy one , how do i go about winding one myself \?
what core do i use , how big must it be in order not to saturate ,
what thickness copper wire , how many turns , etc. \?

i know little about analog electronics , so i hope some kind
soul here will help me out.
pointers to relevant databooks will also be highly appreciated.

thanks ,

mark de rooi
rooi@tpd.tno.nl

subject 68hc16 public domain software \?
from murashiea@mail.beckman.com (ed murashie)
organization dsg development eng beckman instruments inc.
nntp posting host 134.217.245.87
lines 11

does anyone know of an ftp site where i might find public
domain software for the motorola 68hc16 microprocessor \?
i am looking for a basic interpreter compilier or a 'c'
compiler. thanks in advance.
ed murashie


ed murashie us mail beckman instruments inc.
phone (714) 993 8895 diagnostic system group
fax (714) 961 3759 200 s. kraemer blvd w 361
internet murashiea@mail.beckman.com brea , ca 92621

from hjkim@hyowon.pusan.ac.kr (hojoong kim)
subject looking for electronics dept info in austrailia
organization korea advanced institute of science and technology
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 13

hi netters !

i am looking for the list of universities in austrailia , which has electronics department.
i am considering to spend a year for research in austrailia about communication area. i am interested in mobile communication areas and spread spectrum communications etc.
but i do n't have any information about austrailian universities.
can anybody recommend a good university in co mmunic ation area \?
any comments will be welcomed !

bye.

jaehyung kim


from peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch)
subject what's exactly in a flour
lines 32

allmartin mccormickwhat 's exactly in a flour

mm from martin@datacomm.ucc.okstate.edu (martin mccormick)
mm organization oklahoma state university , stillwater , ok
mm what sort of lamp is the little glass bulb found inside the
starter \?
mm it sort of reminds me of a ne2 neon lamp. starters appear open when m
mm with an ohm meter so the little lamp is either a neon or has a capacit
mm in series with it.
mm
mm i have seen these things all my life , but never read a really good
mm description of what is happening inside that little can.

do you know what a bi metallic strip is \?
just in case it is two strips of different metals bonded together , which
when heated bend to one side (check out the blinker globe in your
christmas tree lights).

so when you turn on the power , this causes the bulb to work like a neon ,
heating up and shorting out , thus providing a loop to power the heaters in
the main tube. when the tube fires , insufficient current runs through the
starter to keep the heat up and the bi metalic strip straightens out
(o c).

btw , i too thought that they were nothing more than a small neon , so one
day when the neon in my sisters digital (flip the metal squares type)
clock broke (flimsy leads) , i replaced it with one from a starter. well
powering up made a bit of a mess of the clock !

cheers
peter t.


from jbore@cosmos.shearson.com (joe bore)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
in reply to alee@ecs.umass.edu 's message of 18 apr 93 15 04 10 gmt
organization lehman brothers
lines 33



try finding a friend that has caller id , then give him a call...

jb


in article 20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu alee@ecs.umass.edu writes

path shearson.com ! uupsi ! psinntp ! uunet ! haven.umd.edu ! darwin.sura.net ! newsserver.jvnc.net ! howland.reston.ans.net ! noc.near.net ! nic.umass.edu ! risky.ecs.umass.edu ! umaecs ! alee
from alee@ecs.umass.edu
newsgroups sci.electronics
date 18 apr 93 15 04 10 gmt
lines 13


greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?
thanks for any response.
al




joe bore life is short...code hard
jbore@shearson.com ... ! uunet ! shearson.com ! jbore
(212)464 3431 , beeper (212)396 4248

from ketil@edb.tih.no (ketil albertsen , tih)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
organization t i h t i s i p
posting front end winix conference v 92.05.15 1.20 (running under ms windows)
lines 20

in article 1993apr20.230749.12821@reed.edu , mblock@reed.edu (matt block) writes

i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know \? do you need a good
one for a project you are working on \? how secure must it be \? are you trying
to crack one that someone else has used \? i can probably make suggestions ,
assuming the activity is strictly legal. (in general , it is a bad idea ,
legally , to tamper with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of
files which you necessarily do not have back ups of (being as they are copy
protected , ) which can be devestating.) do you have absolutely no ideas for
practical applications , and are merely curious \?
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i
can.

may we interpret this as an offer to volunteer as editor for a
copy protection faq \? i am quite sure that i am not alone welcoming such
an initiative ! i will volunteer to ask some of the questions , if you will
provide the answers )

ketil albertsen

from miller@hmsp04.wg3.waii.com (griff miller x7114)
subject re 68000
organization western geo. div of western atlas intn'l inc. , houston , tx
lines 24
nntp posting host hmsp04.wg3.waii.com

in article 1993apr15.060043.15664@serval.net.wsu.edu rwilley@eecs.wsu.edu (ronald willey cs) writes

the supra accelerator that is mentioned in one of the pervious
articles , is not 68000 or 68020 based. it runs on a 68030 at 28mhz and
the design they are using is very simple( if you were referring to the
a500 exteranal model).

hmm i do n't think you and i are thinking of the same thing. i was the
original poster , btw. the accelerator that i'm talking about almost
certainly uses a 68hc000 , according to the footnotes in the supra ad. it
only costs 199 list , so i really doubt if it has a 28 mhz 68030 inside.

it 's called the supra 28 , or supra turbo 28.
there 's an external a500 model , and an internal a2000 model.

btw , does anyone know if a 28mhz 68hc010 exists \?

griff miller griff.miller@waii.com use this for email.

my opinions are mine , not western 's.

dear friend , do not imitate what is evil but what is good.
anyone who does what is good is from god. anyone who does
evil has not seen god. 3 john 9

from gerg@netcom.com (greg andrews)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 25

nhowland@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (neal patrick howland) writes

from what i understand about radar dectectors all they are is a passive
device much like the radio in your car. they work as an antenna picking
up that radar signals that the radar gun sends out. therefore there would
be no way of detecting a radar detector any more than there would be of
detecting whether some one had a radio in their car.


unfortunately , you 're wrong on both counts. the most common method of
implementing a tunable receiver is to have a local oscillator. the
local oscillator 's frequency can be radiated out of the receiver via
the antenna unless the circuit is designed and constructed with great
care.

for a reference on detecting radios , get the paperback book spy catcher .
the author discovered how to detect radio receivers from their local
oscillator emissions back in the 1950s while he worked for british
intelligence.

greg

greg andrews gerg@netcom.com
fortune cookie radioactive cats have 18 half lives.


from kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (scott dorsey)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization nasa langley research center and reptile farm
lines 16
nntp posting host grissom.larc.nasa.gov

in article 20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu alee@ecs.umass.edu writes

greetings !

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't
know the number of the line. and i do n't want
to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

question is there a certain device out there that i can
use to find out the number to the line \?


call a friend long distance , collect. ask to speak with yourself. when
the operator asks for you , you wo n't be there , so ask the operator to leave
your number. she 'll read it out in the clear.
scott

from mcovingt@aisun1.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
nntp posting host aisun1.ai.uga.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 9

there is or was a microwave tower next to florida 's turnpike , and you
could watch the cars hit the breaks as they came in sight of it every
morning...


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from rivero@sol.cie.unizar.es
subject video io ideas \?
organization free university of berlin , germany
lines 7

have anyone some idea about how to build a cheap , low
resolution (or high ) video projector...

(example a lcd and an slide projector)
.



from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re dmm advice needed
article i.d. doug.1993apr17.020555.6004
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 14

in article 734953838.aa00510@insane.apana.org.au peter.m@insane.apana.org.au (peter tryndoch) writes

if you are going to use one where it counts (eg aviation , space scuttle ,
etc) then i suggest you go and buy a fluke (never seen a beckman) , however
for every other use you can buy a cheapie.

my beckman died a few days ago , thanks do about a 4 or 5 foot drop onto a
lab table. ! @ ! @ ! @ @ probably not indicative of anything , but i 've
already filled out the requisition for a fluke 87. )

oh yeah , and sometimes our measurements here do count. not often , but often
enough that i want at least one good meter !

joel kolstad

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re suggestions on audio relays \? \? \?
organization megatest corporation
lines 23

in article c5qsbf.iek@ms.uky.edu billq@ms.uky.edu (billy quinn) writes
i built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio. i got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. i was doing
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using relays and
nothing seemed to get rid of the clicks.


my question is

is there a good relay relay circuit that i can use for switching
audio , so that there will be no noise of any kind on the audio lines.


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part
numbers company names etc. for the relays will help !

are you switching high level signals or low level signals like pre amp
out level signals \? also , are the clicks you mentioning the big
clack that happens when it switches or are you refering to contact
bounce \? how are you driving the relays \? ttl gate output \? switching
transistor \? how are the relays connected to what you are driving \?

need more specifics to answer your question ! ! )

from vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
keywords outlet
nntp posting host chip
reply to vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl)
organization mpr teltech ltd.
lines 16

olsen@vetmed.cvm.uiuc.edu (aart olsen) writes

i noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground
wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.

this is contrary to the electrical code and should be fixed.

sorry , but this is exactly according to the nec.

no need to be sorry , i blew it on this one. at the main breaker box
where there is a thick wire ground leading to the earth , both neutral
and ground are hooked to this bus. in any other breaker box (or an
outlet box , etc.) the ground and neutral must not be connected together.



from mhald@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (mark hald)
subject re dayton hamfest
organization northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 , usa
distribution usa
lines 13

i booked a hotel (red roof inn) last week in cincinnati (blue ash , which
is at the northern tip of the metro. cincy area). i chose it for a few
reasons.
1. all hotels in and near dayton were booked solid.
2. this hotel is only costing 28 night.
3. it was one of about 4 rooms left on the night i reserved.
4. cincinnati probably has more to to at night than dayton. i intend
to hit the riverboat entertainment at dusk !

if anyone has other suggestions for nightlife , please let me know of
other hot spots. thanks !

mark

from rogerw@world.std.com (roger a williams)
subject re adcom cheap products \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 27

mdonahue@amiganet.chi.il.us (mike donahue) writes


i do not know much about adcom mobil audio products , but i do know for a fact
that adcom does not make its own high end home audio equptment and that 80
of it comes directly out of tiawan...

like most high volume manufacturers , adcom has most of its pc boards
assembled off shore (in their case , mostly in the far east). final
assembly and testing are done in east brunswick.

the products are , and have always been , designed entirely in the us
by their own staff and by audiophile gurus like walter jung. adcom
also tends to prefer american and european components over their
japanese far east equivalents.

off shore assembly is one reason that adcom is able to make products
that perform as well as those from people like audio research and van
alstine (and better than hafler and forte') , but at a much lower cost.

of course , if your musical diet consists mostly of rock , you might
prefer components from kenwood or pioneer...

roger williams most great discoveries are made
rogerw@world.std.com by accident the larger the
consulting engineer funding , the longer it takes to
middleborough , mass. have that accident.

from bill@xpresso.uucp (bill vance)
subject re help how to construct home built battery for 3rd grade sci report
distribution usa
organization (n.) to be organized. but that 's not important right now.....
lines 32
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

dean anneser (anneser@pwa b.uucp) wrote
my 9 yr old son has signed up to do a science report on batteries. i was
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to
construct a home built battery. in my grade school days , i remember seeing
the 'ice cube tray' version , but i do n't remember what to use as a good
electrolyte or what the easily obtainable metals were.

thank you in advance.

dean w. anneser pratt whitney aircraft
computer system specialist m.s. 161 05
(203)565 9372 (desk) 5016 (fax) 400 main st. ooo.. ( ) v ( )
uucp uunet ! pwa b ! anneser east hartford , ct 06108 live to ride
internet anneser@pwfire.pweh.utc.com
one test result is worth one thousand expert opinions wernher von braun

dean w. anneser pratt whitney aircraft
computer system specialist m.s. 161 05
(203)565 9372 (desk) 5016 (fax) 400 main st. ooo.. ( ) v ( )
uucp uunet ! pwa b ! anneser east hartford , ct 06108 live to ride



the simplest one is easy. take a lemon or other citrus type fruit , and
stick a pair of metal strips into it for the contacts. the two strips must
be of disimelar metals like copper and zinc. then connect a voltmeter to
the contacts and read the voltage.

bill@xpresso.uucp (bill vance) , bothell , wa
rwing ! xpresso ! bill

you listen when i xpresso , i listen when uuxpresso....... )

from kubovich@iastate.edu (mark w kubovich)
subject common mode noise and small signals
keywords noise common mode
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 20

i have never worked with really small signals before and have a few
questions about low level noise. i have noticed that the waveform
synthesizer that i am using (analogic 2020) has some relatively large
common mode noise on it. i am using this synthesizer to 'null' out another
transient waveform and am amplifying the difference ( 200uv) several hundred
times. the 2020 has about 1 3 mvp p of common mode noise and this tends to
make my measurements hard to repeat. (the noise is not quite in sync with
line frequency , and on a spectrum analyzer , the main component is about 64hz).

how can i get rid of the noise \? when i look at the spectrum using an
hp 3582a (audio range analyzer) , the noise goes away the minute i switch to
'isolation' on the input. i am guessing the anlayzer has a diff amp on the
input since it will read accurately down to dc.

also , if i use a differential amplifier (ia) to solve the problem ,
how important is it to use one of these 'shield drivers' (an amp connected
to the shield in sort of a feedback loop to remove trouble caused
by different cable capacitances) \? if anyone can suggest a good ic ia for
use with transient signals with content from 1khz to about 300khz , i would
appreciate it.

from engp2254@nusunix1.nus.sg (soh kam yung)
subject re protection of serial (rs232) lines
organization national university of singapore
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 39

martin john gregory (mgregory@flash.pax.tpa.com.au) wrote
i 've started to look at some devices doing serial data transmission
over fairly decent distances in fairly noisy environments , and have
seen a variety of schemes for protecting the rs232 transceivers (and
the rest of the circuit) from transients on the serial lines. i'm
left wondering what is the best way of doing this \? how necessary is
it \?
stuff deleted
what is the wisdom on this out there \?

ta ,

martin.


from what i know , protection is necessary , esp. if you plan to route
the cables into an unknown environment (out of your control). things
like accidental shorts between the signal lines and power cables , or
even lightning strikes are very likely and i do n't think you like to see
the sight of your computer going up in smoke ! even ethernet cards are
protected. i 've looked at the one in my pc and the connector is
protected by a gas discharge tube !

but if you plan to use the serial cables for internal routings (i.e. in
controlled environments) , it should be reasonably safe not to have
them.

suggestion look in the rs data book. they have several rs232
transceivers that have overvoltage protection. among them include the
lt1080 , lt1081 and max250 and max251. the maxims are suppose to be
electrically isolated ones but still need opto isolators to work (do n't
ask me why. i 've never used them before.

another alternative is an rs232 surge protector. two are listed in the
rs catalogue. if you need additional info (i.e. stock nos.) , just e mail
me.

soh kam yung ,
engp2254@nusunix1.nus.sg

from jkaidor@synoptics.com (jerome kaidor)
subject re electronic odometers (was used bmw qu
reply to jkaidor@synoptics.com
organization synoptics communications , santa clara ca
lines 31
nntp posting host picasso.synoptics.com


just a few comments about the feasability of zipping up a bunch of miles
on your electronic odometer with an oscillator....

i would n't expect to be able to do this. not because the engineers at bmw are
putting in anti fraud logic , but just because an automobile is a noisy , hostile
environment for electronics , and i would expect the software to be conservative.

if i were to design a microprocessor based odometer speedometer program ,
it would have the following features ( just off the top of my head )

debouncing deglitching ( is this a real pulse , or just a glitch \? )
smoothing the rate of change of speed cannot be too high
this is a car , not an electron.
top speed limit anything above 200mph is ridiculous must be
electrical noise or contact bounce

as for getting in and presetting the pins if this is the circuit board out of
a bmw dashboard , i seem to remember a single big chip with lotsa pins in the
middle of the card. good luck getting at the counter ).

i would n't expect a high input frequency to damage the meter remember , it 's
probably damped so it ca n't move too fast , and is probably protected. after all ,
a car is an extremely hostile place for delicate electronics there used to be an
app note in the national semiconductor linear databook that went into this
in good detail.

jerry kaidor ( tr2 ! jerry@dragoman.com , jkaidor@synoptics.com )


jerry kaidor

from ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu (randy agee)
subject radar detector detectors \?
organization virginia 's public education network (richmond)
lines 27

several years back one of the radar detectors manufacturers , in
defiance to virginia 's law against radar detectors , passed out
thousands of fake cardboard radar detectors at truck stops near
the virginia state lines. at that time there were no radar
detector detectors ! i am not sure of the impact but i would
imagine that enforcement of the law by visually sighting a
radar detector became difficult if not impossible !

as i said earlier , efforts to throw out or eliminate the va law
against radar detectors has been in vain. in fact , effective
jan. 1 , 1993 , the fine for possession of a radar detector
accessable to the driver of a vehicle in va is now 250.00.

i have noted an interesting anomality with my alinco dr 100 2
meter ham transceiver.... it will make a cheap radar detector
scream ! i am not sure of the range , but it is obvious by the
brake lights that it can be at least 50 feet at 50 watts ! )


randy t. agee wb4bzx at some point , you probably pondered the
p.o. box 2120 20th floor meaning of life , and you came up with a
virginia department of education satisfactory answer , which has or has not
richmond , va 23216 2120 stood the test of time , or you shrugged
phone (804) 225 2669 mightily , muttered beats the heck out of
ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu me , and ordered a cheeseburger.



from ski@wpi.wpi.edu (joseph mich krzeszewski)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 4
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

in texas (well , corpus christi anyway) if you pick up the phone and dial
890 the phone company will read back the number to you.
try it. it might work.


from andrei@labomath.univ orleans.fr (andrei yakovlev)
subject references to switched capacitor filter ics wanted.
organization university of orleans , france.
lines 9


hi all !

i would like to know what are the popular ics of the type , their capabilities
( of channels et.c.) and prices )

great thanks ,

andrew.

from bailey@vader.egr.uri.edu (scott bailey)
subject re jacob 's ladder
summary jacob 's ladder and other projects
keywords jacob 's ladder , projects , book
organization university of rhode island college of engineering
lines 30

hi all ,
i 've been following this thread about jacob 's ladder for a few weeks and i
happened to come across one of the best project books that i 've seen in a
while. the book gadgeteer 's goldmine by gordon mccomb offers over 55
excellent low cost projects including jacob 's ladder , tesla coils , plasma
spheres , a van de graaff generator , robots , an ir scope , and several laser
projects. the instructions come with complete part lists , warnings and
diagrams. for those of you who are interested in building any of the above
listed projects , you should seriously consider getting this book. the
paperback version is only 19.95 too.

for those who want more information
title gadgeteer 's goldmine ! 55 space age projects
auth gordon mccomb
pub tab books
cw 1990
isbn 0 8306 8360 7
0 8306 3360 x (paperback)
price 19.95 (paperback)

scott


scott a. bailey include std disclaimer.h
ecl operator
computer engineering i'm just a knight who chases the moon...
university of rhode island have n't caught it yet , but i have n't let that
bailey@vader.egr.uri.edu keep me from still trying each day and night
bailey@ecl1.uri.edu ( )


from suwanto@iastate.edu (zapper)
subject re 2sc1096 , 2sa634 specs \?
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 35

could some kind soul post me the max power voltage current ratings of
2sc1096 and 2sa634 transistors , their conductance types and pinouts.
they are used in the sweep portion of a tv set.

2sc1096
maximum ratings
vcbo 40v
vceo 30v
ic 3a
pc 10w (t 25c)

icbo max 1ua
vcb 30v
cob 55pf

at q point vce 5 , ic 1a hfe 100

2sa634
maximum ratings
vcbo 40v
vceo 30v
ic 3a
pc 10w (t 25c)

icbo max 1ua
vcb 30v
cob 75pf

at q point vce 5v , ic 1a hfe 100

that 's all i can get from my data book , hope that helps.

suwanto@iastate.edu



from moffatt@bnr.ca (john thomson)
subject re what is zero db \? \? \? \?
nntp posting host bcarhdd
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 47

joseph chiu (josephc@cco.caltech.edu) wrote
sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes

similarly , people usually use db for dbm. another common mistake is spelling
``db'' instead of ``db'' as you did in your article. see the ``b'' is for
``bell'' company , the mother of at t and should be capitalized.

thus , a decibell (deci , l. , tenth of bell) is a fractional part of the
original bell. for example , southwestern bell is a decibell.

out of what hat did you pull this one \? db is a ratio not an rboc !

and the measure of current , amp , is actually named after both the amp company
and the amphenol company. both companies revolutionized electronics by
simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets
were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.

sorry. the unit for current is the ampere which is the name of a french man
named ampere who studied electrical current. the term amp is just an abbreviation
of it. the company amp came after the ampere unit was already in use.

the ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers , thus
our use of the ohms...

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right.


alexander graham bell , actually , is where bell came from...
well you got one thing right !



actually , bel refers

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.



joseph chiu josephc@cco.caltech.edu os 2 you gotta get this thing !
msc 380 caltech
pasadena , ca 91126 os 2 the operating system of tomorrow , today.
1 818 449 5457

greg moffatt
bell northern research inc. , ottawa canada
my opinions not bnr 's

from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re public domain circuits in commercial applications
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 16

in article c5ge03.lif@athena.cs.uga.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
... patent law says you can build anything
you want to , for your own personal noncommercial use...

i'm not up on the details of us patent law , but i think this is incorrect.
there is a reasonable use exemption for copyright . there is none for
patents . the exemptions from patent licensing are quite narrow r d work
is exempt but personal use is not. that is , it 's okay to experiment with
a patented idea , but not to put it to practical use (e.g. to improve your
stereo) , even if it 's only your own private practical use.

of course , it is unlikely that discreet personal use will ever be detected
or that you will ever be sued over it.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul)
subject how to kill ac inductive load spiking \?
organization university of nebraska lincoln
lines 20
distribution world
nntp posting host unlinfo.unl.edu

is there a fast 'n dirty way to kill the line spiking that occurs when
an inductive load is turned on sometime other than at zero crossing of
the ac cycle \? a capacitor kludged in somehow , etc \?

i 've got a microcontroller that is running a bunch of valves and pumps
in a big instrument washer , and almost everything is being switched with
zero crossing solid state relays , so that stuff stays quiet , ac wise.
but there 's one steam valve that gets turned on by a mechanical relay
in the water tank fill thermostat system , and it 's not under control
of my ssrs , and it does sometimes generate radiate a spike that resets
one of my peripheral chips. my software times out and tries again , but
i 'd love to just tack in a magic spike killing fix that would avoid having
to do some major rewiring redesign. a varistor would help but might not
be sufficient. ideas \?


paul marxhausen .... ....... ............. ............ ............ ..........
.. . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . grace . . . .
. . . . . . . . happens .

from system@garlic.sbs.com (anthony s. pelliccio)
subject re beginner 's rf \? \? \?
organization antone 's italian kitchen and excellence in operating network
x newsreader rusnews v1.02
lines 27

klink@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (steven.r.klinkner) writes

can anybody recommend a good , application oriented beginner 's reference
to rf circuits \?

i am pretty good on theory know what different types of modulation mean ,
but do n't have a lot of practical experience. a book detailing working
circuits of different types (modulation , power , frequency , what is legal ,
what is not , et cetera) , would be very helpful.

thanks.

well , you might try the a.r.r.l. 's license study guides. for example , my
advanced class study guide has lots and lots of good rf and electronics
theory in it. i would imagine the other books are good too.

tony


anthony s. pelliccio , kd1nr ae yes , you read it right , the
system @ garlic.sbs.com man who went from no code
(thhhppptt ! ) to extra in
flame retardent sysadmin exactly one year !

this is a calm .sig !



from joseph n hosteny jh8e @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re electric power line balls
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 5
distribution usa
nntp posting host andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 1993apr6.203237.20841@eagle.lerc.nasa.gov


do you know if there is an airport nearby \? they may just be markers
to tell pilots of small planes that there are power lines nearby.

joe

from ulan@ee.ualberta.ca (dale ulan)
subject part mc68sec811e2
nntp posting host eigen.ee.ualberta.ca
reply to ulan@ee.ualberta.ca (dale ulan)
organization university of alberta electrical engineering
distribution na
lines 8


i know what the 68hc811e2 is all about , but i'm trying to figure
out what the 68sec811e2 is... specifically , what does the sec
stand for \?


dale ulan ve6dau ulan@ee.ualberta.ca


from gerrit@laosinh.stgt.sub.org (gerrit heitsch)
subject re 6551a and 6551 compatibility
distribution world
organization lao sinh project (private uucp site)
lines 31

in article c5owvs.pr@world.std.com , internet surfer writes

does any one know if the 6551 is timing pin compatible with the 6551..

no , the 6551a is able to operate in a 2 mhz system , the 6551 can only
take 1 mhz without problems.

if you see a 8551 made by mos or csg , take it , its a 6551a.

it seems the 6551 has in iheirent bug with cts rts handshaking and i need
a suitable pin replacement to put in my serial card... possibly a buffered
version perhaps \?

i know no fixed version of the 6551. there are different possibilities
to work around this bug. the easiest is to tie cts to gnd and
use dsr or dcd as cts. it should be easy to fix the software ,
dsr is bit 6 and dcd ist bit 5 of the status register (read 6551
with rs1 low and rs0 high).

using the cts line can lead into big trouble. the 6551 instantly
stops transmission if cts goes high. this means , that you may
get only a half byte...

gerrit


gerrit heitsch moenchweg 16 7038 holzgerlingen germany
logical adresses uucp gerrit@laosinh.stgt.sub.org fido (2 2407 106.9)
if we will ever be visited by aliens , it will be very hard to explain , why a
lifeform , that is intelligent enough to build atomic weapons can be stupid
enough to do it. (taken from geo special about space , page 88 91)

from buhrow@moria.nfbcal.org (brian buhrow)
subject need help finding dip switch settings and jumper settings for 386sx motherboard
keywords jumper settings dip switch settings , help , computer 386sx
organization national federation of the blind of california
lines 14


hello net. i have a 386sx motherboard with the phoenix bios , an on board
ide controller port , and two on board serial ports. unfortunately , i do n't
have a manual for this beast and i would like to be able to disable the ide
controller in order to use the mfm controller i have.
the board says it is made in korea and it uses the chips chipset. if
anyone can give me a clue as to how to go about configuring the board so as
not to use the ide controller , or how to go about finding out how to do it ,
their help would be greatly appreciated.
thank you in advance for your assistance.
please mail buhrow@nfbcal.org with your responses as my news feed is rather
tenuous.
thank you very much !
brian buhrow@nfbcal.org

from cab@col.hp.com (chris best)
subject re uninterruptible power supply
organization your service
lines 17
nntp posting host hpctdkz.col.hp.com

i'm no expert at ups 's , but you said something that made it sound like
you did n't realize something. on a typical ups (well , on ours , anyway) ,
there is no switchover from ac to dc. all the protected equipment is
always running from the batteries (via an inverter) , with the usual
condition of also having them on charge. if the power fails , big deal
the computers never see it (until the batteries start to droop , but
there 's something like 60 car sized batteries in that cabinet , so it
takes a while).

if you were gonna run the guts on straight dc instead of an inverter ,
why not do it all the time \? then there 'd be no switchover to screw
things up , and no having to sense the failure fast. just keep the dc
on charge when the power is on , and it 'll be there in zero time when
you need it.

just some ideas. ca n't guarantee what 'll work or not , but hope at least
some of this helped.

from f92anha@fy.chalmers.se (anders hammarquist)
subject re need to find out number to a phone line
organization chalmers university of technology
lines 11

in article 23321@mindlink.bc.ca sean oliver@mindlink.bc.ca (sean oliver) writes
joseph mich krzeszewsk writes
890 the phone company will read the number of the phone you are on

where i live , i use bctel. the number to dial is 211 for the same result.


in ny city , the number to dial is 958... it seems to be different in different
areas.

anders

from gray@feline.uucp (kelly gray)
subject re pinout needed for til311
organization humber college technology dept.
lines 29

according to my ti databook , the pinouts for the til311 display are as
follows

pin 1 led supply voltage
pin 2 latch data input b
pin 3 latch data input a
pin 4 left decimal point cathode
pin 5 latch strobe input
pin 6 omitted
pin 7 common ground
pin 8 blanking input
pin 9 omitted
pin 10 right decimal point cathode
pin 11 omitted
pin 12 latch data input d
pin 13 latch data input c
pin 14 logic supply voltage , vcc

the logic supply voltage is 5v @ 60 90ma. the led supply is also 5v , but
it need not be particularly well regulated. the led drivers on the chip
use a constant current source , so led intensity is not affected by the
supply voltage.




o o kelly gray
gray@feline.uucp (preferred)
gray@admin.humberc.on.ca

from jdz1@ra.msstate.edu (john d. zitterkopf)
subject info nec70001ab amp. ic 20w amp secs possible pspice models
keywords audio , amps
nntp posting host ra.msstate.edu
organization mississippi state university
lines 40

hi ,

being a electronic engineering student with only electronic ii under
my belt , i find myself needing to build a moderate wattage audio amp. so ,
i 'll throw out a couple of question for the vast knowledge of the 'net' !

please explain how watts are calculated in audio amp circuits. no ,
not p i e , just how it relates to one of the following

ai current gain
av voltage gain
ap power gain
or whatever.

i already have a \? wonderful \? cheap i.e 20 schematic for a 20w amp , but
i would like to cross improve the circuit. the problem is that the parts
list has ic1 and ic2 as nec70001ab amplifiers. they look like \? 11 pin \?
sip packages with a heatsink. this schematic was published in a 1991 mag
so it may be non existant now. anyway , i tried looking up a replacement in
the latest digi key cat and found it not listed 8(. the closes i could
figure was a 9 pin sip as tda1520bu. anyone got any ideas \?

i thought , hey i can rin a pspice simulation using 741 opamp
models. yea , great ! it worked. but , i guess the 741 was n't made for high
power amps. as a result , i got a voltage gain of 15mv v. worse than
i started with 8(... does anyone have a pspice ckt file with cheap yet
good gain \? how about some models for some of the chips listed in this
e mail \? any ascii chip info you guys can send me \?

i'm open to suggestions ideas comments help !
please e mail since i have little time to search the news...
and i 'll post if there 's and interest !
john



ibm ee majors do it best 8 )
atari john d. zitterkopf
( ( rules ! jdz1@ra.msstate.edu jdz1@msstate.bitnet
( aol zitt@aol.com jdz1@isis.msstate.edu

from myers@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (bob myers)
subject re scope questions
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa
lines 31

if my life depended on it , i 'd say that it 's a scope that
uses long persistance phosphor to keep the successive
taces on the screen for some unit of time store them.
do i get to live \?

we 'll let you live , but just this once....

there 's more to a real storage scope than just a long persistence
phosphor. actually , the phosphor isn't usually anything special at all
what makes a storage tube work is a screen placed just behind the phosphor ,
which becomes charged as the electron beam intially writes the trace.
with the trace now written to the screen , a separate low level flood
electron gun keeps the image lit by exciting those areas of phosphor
which are next to the written areas on the storage screen. there are
some problems with this the resolution is limited compared to a non storage
tube , and the stored trace tends to bloom with time.

of course , this is pretty much obsolete technology , done in by the current
digital scopes which use raster scan displays and keep everything in a
frame buffer memory anyways.

filip i 'll buy a vowel gieszczykiewicz. best e mail fmgst @pitt.edu


ah , yes from the same people who brought you that amazing new reading
program that 's sweeping eastern europe hooked on consonants ! )


bob myers kc0ew hewlett packard co. opinions expressed here are not
systems technology div. those of my employer or any other
myers@fc.hp.com fort collins , colorado sentient life form on this planet.

from nwz96h@cheltenham he.ac.uk (nwz96h)
subject hatley pirbhai help...
lines 12

hello ,

has anyone used the requirements analsys methodology hatley pirbhai \? i am
a british final year real time degree student , and as a project i am covering
this methodology. i would be very grateful to anyone who could give me their
views on this method. please mail me if you feel you can help , and i will send
you my questions.

thanks in advance ,

david phelps (nwz96h@chelt.ac.uk)


from st1my@rosie.uh.edu (stich , christian e.)
subject motorola xc68882rc33 and rc50
organization university of houston
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host rosie.uh.edu
keywords motorola , fpu , 68882 , 68030 , 33 50 mhz , problems (fpu exception)
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

i just installed a motorola xc68882rc50 fpu in an amiga a2630 board (25 mhz
68030 68882 with capability to clock the fpu separately). previously
a mc68882rc25 was installed and everything was working perfectly. now the
systems displays a yellow screen (indicating a exception) when it check for
the presence type of fpu. when i reinstall an mc68882rc25 the system works
fine , but with the xc68882 even at 25 mhz it does not work. the designer
of the board mentioned that putting a pullup resistor on data strobe (470 ohm)
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some
suggestions what i could do \? does this look like a cpu fpu communications
problem or is the particular chip dead (it is a pull , not new) \?
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an xc68882rc33. i thought
that the 68882rc33 were labeled mc not xc (for not finalized mask design).
are there any mc68882rc33 \?

thanks
christian


from wlsmith@valve.heart.rri.uwo.ca (wayne smith)
subject re radar detector detectors \?
organization the john p. robarts research institute , london , ontario
distribution na
nntp posting host valve.heart.rri.uwo.ca
lines 21

in article 1993apr19.231050.2196@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com babb@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com (scott babb) writes

the federal communications act of 1934 made it legal for you to
operate a radio receiver of any kind , on any frequency (including
x , k , and ka bands) in the united states. the electronic
communications privacy act of 1989( \? ) restricted the fca of 1934
by making it illegal to receive the land mobile telephone service ,
including (i believe) cellular phones.

illegal to receive land mobile telephone service \? do n't you have to have a
mobile reciever to even have land mobile telephone service \? what about
ship to shore telephone service \?

no restriction was placed
on receiving radar (or , curiously , cordless phones.) enforcement
of the virginia law is in violation of the fca of 1934.

isi n't there some kind of rule (regulation , law , whatever) in some
juristictions that prohibit the use of police band recievers
in vehicles \? and that radar transmissions are included in the police band
so they get covered by the same regulation \?

from dannyb@panix.com (daniel burstein)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 27

lots of pretty good stuff about how the huge towers near most nuclear
power plants are there to cool the used steam back into near ambient
temperature water deleted

water. as i recall the water is n't as hot (thermodynamically) in many
fossil fuel plants , and of course there is less danger of radioactive
contamination.

actually , fossil fuel plants run hotter than the usual
boiling water reactor nuclear plants. (there 's a gripe in the industry
that nuclear power uses 1900 vintage steam technology). so it 's
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system
as cold as possible. hence big cooling towers.

as a point of info , some of the early nuclear power plants in this
country used the fission pile as a first stage to get the water hot , and
then had a second stage fossil fuel step to get the water (actually
steam) very hot.

i remember seeing this at con edison 's indian point 1 power plant ,
which is about 30 miles north of nyc , and built more or less 1958.


dannyb@panix.com

(all the usual disclaimers apply , whatever they may be)


from timd@fenian.dell.com (tim deagan)
subject homebuilt pal (epld) programer \?
nntp posting host fenian.dell.com
reply to timd@fenian.dell.com
organization slamdanz cybrnetx
lines 13

anyone know a reasonable circuit for programming pals \? i am interested
in programming a wide range of eplds but would be happy with something
that could handle a 22v10 or thereabouts.

thanks in advance ,
tim


timd@fenian.dell.com
rev. tim deagan official obnoxious poster
no one but me is responsible for anything i write , believe in or preach
it is difficult to free fools from chains they revere. voltaire


from pmalenfa@kitkat.webo.dg.com (paul malenfant)
subject optoisolator interfacing questions
reply to pmalenfa@kitkat.webo.dg.com (paul malenfant)
organization data general corporation , westboro , ma
lines 26


i am interfacing some simple circuits that run on 9v to my
cpu board which runs at 5 6v. the optoisolator is a 4n35.
on the led side , i put the signal i want through a 10k resistor
to the base of a 2n2222. on the transistor side , i tie my
cpu input line to the collector which has a pull up resistor
of 47k.

it functions ok , but seems very slow. i can detect pulses
that occur at about 2khz , but not much faster. is n't the
rise fall time of this device , something like 5us \? i should
be able to detect my target of 40khz , but i ca n't get 16khz.
this is done using wire wrap and the wires going to the cpu
and to the test pin are about 8 inches long , but i'm not
doing anything high speed.

in the art of electronics , it mentions tying the base of the
phototransistor to ground through a resistor to improve the
speed. is that what i need to do \? how do i calculate the
resistor value \?




paul malenfant
pmalenfa @ kitkat.webo.dg.com (508 870 6460)

from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject re 8x oversampling cd player
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
keywords oversampling , cd , digitized audio
lines 40

in article hcbc5un9l.dd0@netcom.com hcb@netcom.com (h. c. bowman) writes

hello

i just bought a new portable cd player for the office , and i notice that
it proudly proclaims 8 times oversampling on the box. now while i think
i understand what oversampling is (the rate of discrete samples
exceeds the highest frequency component of interest by some factor) ,
i do n't understand this 8 times business... it seems to me that when
i bought my first cd player (was it really 10 years ago \? ! ) , the specs
said 4 times ... could someone please tell me whether i'm getting
senile \? if i'm not , then what good does it do for the player to take
samples at a higher rate \? if i really wanted better fidelity , would n't
i have to have the same higher rate of sampling during the recording
process \? furthermore , am i wrong in interpreting the sampling rate
(from the player 's point of view) as being the same thing as the data
rate for the bit stream coming off the optical medium \? does this mean
that the data rate (related to the rotational speed of the disk) has
changed since 1983 \?

note i just tried to figure this stuff out about a month ago myself , from
various people on the net , so i could be wrong.

the data is only ever read once (barring mistracks and such , of course) ,
and eventually gets turned into 44.1 khz , 16 bit , two channel data.
oversampling takes two discrete data points , and interpolates n 1 points
between them for n times oversampling. when i asked , people said that the
interpolation was not simply linear interpolation , but significantly more
complicated.

anyway , then , the purpose of oversampling is to move the effective
sampling rate up to n times 44.1 khz , in order to use higher frequency
antialiasing filters. for the same quality filter , higher oversampling
lets you build cheaper filters , whereas for the same price filter , higher
oversamplings lets you build better filters. so , assuming the quality of
all other components in a cd player remained the same , oversampling should
allow a manufacturer to produce slightly better sound due to anti alias
filtering.

joel kolstad

from kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (joel kolstad)
subject radio shack voice recognition chips
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
distribution usa
lines 10

hi there ,

i have a friend who 'd like to get a hold of a bunch of those simple voice
recognition chips that radio shack used to sell (and no longer does). if
anybody knows of a source for these , please e mail me. i 'll forward the
responses to him.

thanks !

joel kolstad

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re hv diodes
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 25

in article 1993apr2.204617.14179@mprgate.mpr.ca , vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (david vanderbyl) writes
dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin) writes
the crt , in fact , does have an intentional built in capacitor for
its function just as ic 's have built in transistors , etc.

gee , mr. myers , are we going to let this go without a correction \?

two things

1. read your own posts. i was agreeing with bob. no correction
needed.

2. do n't quote stuff out of context.



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from schuch@phx.mcd.mot.com (john schuch)
subject re radio electronics free information card
nntp posting host bopper2.phx.mcd.mot.com
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az.
lines 73

in article c5ulqg.i5@acsu.buffalo.edu v064mb9k@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (neil b. gandler) writes

how does the radio electronics free information cards work.
do they just send you some general information about the companies that
advertise in their magazine or does it also give you sign you up for a
catalog.

that depends entirely upon the advertiser whose number you circled.
radio electronics compiles all of the cards , then each advertiser
gets a computer printout of the names and addresses of all of the readers
who circled their number. some magazines also provide the data on
self adhesive labels , and the really big magazines provide the
data on computer disk.

the advertiser decides what to do with the data they get. you will
notice that the radio electronics information card (commonly called
a bingo card in the industry) includes lines for a company name
and a business phone number. my guess would be that the big , national
advertisers make a distinction between hobbiests and professionals as
best they can. for example , if you include motorola as your company
and include a business phone (and a mail stop) , tektronics will probably
send you a copy of their hard bound catalog and have a sales engineer
call you about a week later. if you leave it blank , odds are they
will send you a slick brochure and direct you to a local retail
outlet. medium and small companies are more likely to send you th
e whole catalog. and then some companies , like digikey or jameco , have
nothing to mail out accept the catalog.

a couple of other interesting points about bingo cards free , industry
magazines like edn and such also log your card to their computer. they
use the information at least three ways. they note that you really do read
the magazine and are more likely to continue your subscription or push
you , through repeated mailings , to re subscribe. they also compile
how many people requested which data for their marketing demographics.
this way thay can tell a prospective advertiser that 23 of readers
requesting data were interested in capacitors. and finally , some
magazines rent lists of readers who request certain information. for
example , tektronics can rent a list of everyone who requested information
about test equipment other than tektronic 's , in the past 6 months.

the other point , in the data the advertiser receives , many magazines
include how many items you circled on the card. if they want , the
advertiser can attempt to cull out the literature collectors from
the serious potential customers.

can you say qualified sales leads \? i thought you could.

what 's the best way for a hobbiest to deal with bingo cards \?

never circle more than 8 number on the card. if you want more
than 8 items , use the second card and mail it a couple of
weeks later.

if you are really , really serious and you really , really want
the information , call the advertiser and ask ! this will also
cut about 15 days off the the response time. virtually
everyone takes a voice on the phone more seriously than data
on a computer printout.

to help insure you keep getting a trade magazine that you 're
not really qualified for , send in a bingo card at least every
other month and circle two or three numbers.

include a business name and phone number , even if it 's your house.
advertisers almost never call.

john schuch
publisher of the arizona high tech times
the arizona electrical journal
the arizona hvac news
(all of which have bingo cards)



from wayne@uva386.schools.virginia.edu (tony wayne)
subject speaker impedance help needed
organization virginia 's public education network (charlottesville)
lines 7

i want to connect a very small home made speaker
up to the headphone jack on my macintosh lc for an experiment.
the dc resistance of the speaker is 1 ohm. any ideas how i can
do this safely \? i think i need some kind of an impedance
transformer or something. \?
tony
wayne@uva386.school.virginia.edu

from alung@megatest.com (aaron lung)
subject re exploding tv !
organization megatest corporation
distribution usa
lines 39

in article 1qk4hj qos@vtserf.cc.vt.edu prasad@vtaix.cc.vt.edu (prasad ramakrishna) writes
i had a ge emerson 13 color tv for about 3 years and one fine day ,
while we were watching something (i doubt if the program was the cause) ,
we heard a mild explosion. our screen went blank but there was sound ,
so we thought , 'oh we have special effects on the program'. but soon
the sound stopped and smoke started to appear at the back of the tv.
the brilliant ees we are , we unplugged the tv and called customer service
only to be thrown around by please hold , i will transfer u to blah blah..
finally we abandoned the idea of trying to fix the tv and got a new one
(we wanted a bigger one too ! ).
after all the story , what i wanted to know is is my problem an isolated
incident or a common one \? (i recall reading about russian tvs exploding , but
not here , in the us). why would the picture tube explode or even smoke \?
i still have the left over tv set , i might dig into it this summer. any
idea where i can get parts for these things \? (probably will cost more than tv).


heh , heh , heh , heh....i laugh because i have the same damn tv , and it
did the same thing ! actually it is a goldstar , but it 's essentially the
same tv and electronics just a different face plate and name.

1. fortunately , tv tubes do n't explode. i 'd think the tv mfrs want
to make this possibility remote as possible. if at all , they 'll
implode and the glass that blows out would be the result of the
glass boucing off the back of the tube due to the implosion. in any
case , do n't kick it around ! )

2 i fixed the tv after getting a hold of some schematics. it turned
out to be a blown 2w resistor feeding the flyback transformer. i guess
the original resistor was a bit too small to dissipate the heat it
created , burning itself out. i checked to make sure the flyback was n't
shorted or anything first ! oh , luckily , i had a resistor handy lying
around that had just the right value for what i needed. i ca n't see it
being more than 50 cents ! .

well , needless to say , the tv still works today. so go get a set of
schematics and have some fun...just do n't get shocked poking around
the flyback.


from mkilpela@mtu.edu (mark e. kilpela)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring..
nntp posting host techmac10.tech.mtu.edu
organization michigan technological university
lines 32

in article 1993apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu ,
crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) wrote

hello
i'm considering modernizing some old wiring in my home , and
i need a little advice on outlet wiring. several outlets
are the old 'two prong' type , without the ground. naturally ,
the wire feeding these outlets is 12 2 , without the ground
wire. i noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground
wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.

so.. here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the
same electrical circuit if i hooked the neutral d d d d d d d d d d da jumper from the neutral
over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding outlets.
what 's wrong with my reasoning here \?

first , it will not pass a national electrical code inspection.
secondly , the neutral wire is current carrying and the ground wire
should n't be , or only during a fault condition.

the reason the neutral and ground are tied together in the panel is the
tranformer on the power pole has a grounded center tap secondary , with the
grounded center tap the neutral. this gives 120v to neutral(ground) from
each side of the transformer and 240v across the transformer. so in effect
the neutral and ground should be at the same potential.


mark e. kilpela email mkilpela@mtu.edu
michigan technological university
school of technology


from cmwolf@mtu.edu (engineer by day asleep by night)
subject re a question about 120vac outlet wiring.
organization michigan technological university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 13

dave martindale (dave@imax.imax.com) wrote
they require two separate grounds. one ground goes to the ground pin
of the outlet , and the other ground wire is connected to the outlet 's
mounting tabs (and thus grounds the box and faceplate screw and metal
faceplate , if any).

i thought the ground was connected to the metal frame on the socket.



christopher wolf electrical engineer cmwolf@mtu.edu

remember , even if you win the rat race you 're still a rat.

from blakey@ug.cs.dal.ca (jason blakey)
subject ftp sites anyone \?
nntp posting host ug.cs.dal.ca
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 7

hello netters ) does anyone out there know any ftp sites for projects ,
plans , etc of an electrical nature \?

jason

............................................................................
jason blakey blakey@ug.cs.dal.ca

from smckinty@sunicnc.france.sun.com (steve mckinty sunconnect icnc)
subject re what do nuclear site 's cooling towers do \?
organization sunconnect
lines 26
distribution world
nntp posting host hardy.france.sun.com
keywords nuclear

in article 1qlg9o d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.edu.au , swalker@uts.edu.au ( s87271077 s.walker man 50 ) writes


i really do n't know where to post this question so i figured that
this board would be most appropriate.
i was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
are ever present at nuclear poer sites. they look like cylinders
that have been pinched in the middle. does anybody know what the
actual purpose of those things are \? . i hear that they 're called
'cooling towers' but what the heck do they cool \?

water. nuclear stations do n't generate electricity directly from the
reactor , they use the reactor to generate heat. the heat is then used to
heat water just as in a conventional oil or coal station , and the
resultant steam drives the turbines.

the cooling towers are used to cool the steam and recondense it into water
to continue the cycle

steve


steve mckinty
sun microsystems icnc
38240 meylan , france
email smckinty@france.sun.com bix smckinty

from harpe@netnews.louisville.edu (mike harpe)
subject wanted protel easytrax for the mac
organization university of louisville
lines 12

the title says it all. contact me via email if you would can help me out...

mike harpe
university of louisville

p.s. i know it is discontinued. i want someone who would like to sell
an old copy.

michael harpe , programmer analyst information technology , ormsby bldg.
harpe@hermes.louisville.edu university of louisville
(502)588 5542 louisville , ky. 40292
he 's not a man , he 's a remorseless eating machine ! the simpsons

from markz@ssc.com (mark zenier)
subject re illusion
organization ssc , inc. , seattle , wa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 22

chris best (cab@col.hp.com) wrote
this is not a new idea. at least 10 years ago i got this little gadget with
a keyboard on the back and 8 led 's in a vertical row on the front. it has a
long handle and when you wave it in the air it writes the message you typed
on the keyboard in the air.

this is not news. in fact it 's where i got the idea from , since it was
such a neat item. mattell made it , i believe , modeled after a space
saber or light sword or something likewise theme y. my addition was
using a motor for continuous display , and polar effects in addition to
character graphics. i should have protected it when i had the chance.
no one to kick but myself...

ten years ago is about right , since i built mine in '84 or '85.

it 's even older than that. i remember seeing a description of
a garage operation selling them at some of the early computer faires
in san francisco about 5 years before that.


mark zenier markz@ssc.wa.com markz@ssc.com


from henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)
subject re how can 0.022 uf be different from two 0.047 in series \? !
organization u of toronto zoology
lines 13

in article 1993apr19.185326.9830@princeton.edu mg@cs.princeton.edu (michael golan) writes
the board itself is also identical , with room for all three caps. the
us can versions is clearly indicated in both places.

how does that make sense \? 0.047 2 is 0.0235 , essentially 0.022 for caps
(there are just standard caps , no special w type precision).

this may be a safety issue the csa is more paranoid in certain areas than
ul and such. two caps in series means that you do n't have a short if one
of them shorts.

all work is one man 's work. henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
kipling henry@zoo.toronto.edu utzoo ! henry

from dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (dave medin)
subject re police radar....just how does it work \? \?
reply to dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville al
lines 35

in article 1993apr2.182216.28603@walter.bellcore.com , deaddio@ski.bellcore.com (michael deaddio) writes

question 2

if i am right about the doppler(if i spell it different every time ,
maybe one will be right) effect , how does the radar get an accurate reading
when the car containing it is moving \? \? it would seem to me ( for all thats
worth) that it would need to be calibrated with the speedometer of the car
containing it \? \? i am fairly sure this is n't the case , so whats the deal \? \?

essentially , this is actually how it is done. the radar gun is tied into
the speedometer of the car.

no , it is independent of the speedometer. the gun processes two doppler
returns the speed of the car relative to the pavement and the speed
of the target , taking the difference between the two. some guns with
a moving mode actually have a split beam with one beam aimed
preferentially at the pavement.

car and driver had a good article on traffic radar , but it was back in
1985. i used its contents and references to defend myself against a bogus
radar measured ticket. it detailed moving mode , which is easier to
defend against because of the increased amount of variables.



dave medin phone (205) 730 3169 (w)
ssd networking (205) 837 1174 (h)
intergraph corp.
m s gd3004 internet dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
huntsville , al 35894 uucp ...uunet ! ingr ! b30 ! catbyte ! dtmedin

everywhere you look (at least around my office)

the opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)

from philc@macs.ee.mcgill.ca (phil crawley)
subject read only if going to iscas93 in chicago
keywords soccer , iscas93
lines 20
nntp posting host kirk.ee.mcgill.ca
organization mcgill university macs laboratory , montreal , canada.


this is message is only of interest to those going to
international symposium on circuits and systems that is being
held in chicago this may.

i checking to see if there is any people out there who would be
interested in getting together for a pickup game of soccer during
the off hours of the conference. if so could you e mail me at

philc@macs.ee.mcgill.ca

i 'll bring a ball. if you know someone who is going to the
conference and you know that they are avid soccer players
please pass on this message to them. also if someone in
chicago is going to the conference please let me know if
there is any field near the hotel where we can play.

thanks. bye.

philip crawley

from sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari)
subject re how to the disks copy protected.
originator sehari@du139 213.cc.iastate.edu
organization iowa state university of science and technology , ames , iowa.
lines 55

in 1993apr20.230749.12821@reed.edu mblock@reed.edu (matt block) writes

in article sehari.735331566@marge.ecss.iastate.edu sehari@iastate.edu (babak sehari) writes


i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are avaliable , and how
effective are they \? has anyone have any experience in this area \?

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.

uh oh...
umm , there are a number of copy protection schemes. some involve
modifying the physical media , and some involve encryption schemes , c.
all of the ones that have existed over the course of computing have
been successful for a time. i recall , however , near monthly releases of new
ways to crack the copy protection scheme of the latest releases. the fact
is , none of them are completely secure , or anywhere near it. some are more or
less difficult to crack , and some have already been cracked.
i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know \? do you need a good
one for a project you are working on \? how secure must it be \? are you trying
to crack one that someone else has used \? i can probably make suggestions ,
assuming the activity is strictly legal. (in general , it is a bad idea ,
legally , to tamper with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of
files which you necessarily do not have back ups of (being as they are copy
protected , ) which can be devestating.) do you have absolutely no ideas for
practical applications , and are merely curious \?
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i
can.

incidentally , the uh oh... at the top is indicative of the dread
anyone who has watched their friends hacking equipment be carted off feels
when they are asked how to hack. the area you are broaching is wrought with
dangers , many of which include breaking the law , or at least addressing it
(from one side or the other.)

matt

i have written a program and i want to market it. i would like certain degree
of protection , since my main custmers are individuals and not the
cooperations. i know laser hole burning method , and hardware key method ,
however , my software is going to cost only 15.00 , so i can not afford that.
also , at this low price i can not afford people make too many copy of my
software. well , i guess say upto 20 illigal copying is ok by me.

however , i do not want someone to get a copy of pctools and copy my software.
off course , i never meant to forbid the true hackers from copying , since they
can develope a better program anyway.

with highest regards ,
babak sehari.




from eabyrnes@vela.acs.oakland.edu (ed byrnes)
subject getting rid of screen wiggles \?
organization oakland university , rochester mi.
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host vela.acs.oakland.edu

my monitor display has a bad case of the wigglies. i have a good ground. i
live in an old house and i have replaced much of the wiring. i have two
emi filters on the computer , the monitor plugs into the computer. when
fluorescent lights are on upstairs , the display jiggles , when motors run
in the house , the display jiggles , when incandescent lights are on in the
kitchen the display jiggles. i could bring a separate line from the
breaker box , and use it only for the computer , would this do it \? emi
does n't only travel the 110 volt line though. should i shield the back of
the monitor \? ground a grid or plate \?
your expertise is appreciated. thanks very much ! ed byrnes


ed byrnes fax 313 651 7392 eabyrnes@vela.acs.oakland.edu
kensington academy oakland university rochester , mi north america


from scst83@csc.liv.ac.uk (mr. c.d. smith)
subject re why is telephone audio 300 3000 hz \?
organization computer science , liverpool university
lines 47
nntp posting host goyt.csc.liv.ac.uk


telephone systems have the capability of a passband of 30hz to 4khz.
the reason they do not implement this is it is not backward compatable
to every telephone system. in addition , the most effecent mix of
electrical effecency , and intelegability closly mateches a 300hz 3khz
passband.

close , but no banana (to paraphrase garfield)...
the reason 300 3300 hz is used is that voice channels used to occupy
4khz bands when multiplexed on a trunk line. therefore , 300hz at the
bottom , and 700hz at the top of this band were filtered to minimise
interference with the next band.

nowadays , digital trunks have made this less relevant , but the phone
companies still see no reason to improve quality (especially for free ! ).
therefore , digital chunk of a trunk segments still have a guaranteed
bandwidth of only 4khz (so they can carry the equivalent of one analog
line) at the clock rate of a standard pcm t1 or e1 digital trunk.

it 's all historical...


here in the uk , the bandwidth restriction apparently only apply to
local lines.. ie those used by the average domestic client. private
lines which are run from the local exchange to the leasing client are
usually capable of a higher bandwidth if the exchange is digital.

do n't quote me on that..... but i think i remember a bt engineer
saying something to that effect when i was doing some work
shadowing a few years ago.

byeeeee !


chris )


name mr chris smith twang on that 'ole guitar !
addrs scst83@uk.ac.liv.csc
uni liverpool university quest to build more and more hardware
dgree computer science


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas !
d.h. lawrence.

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought.

from ph@gmd.de (peter hendricks)
subject re wanted a to d hardware for a pc
to ebuddington@eagle.wesleyan.edu
nntp posting host gmdzi
organization gmd , sankt augustin , germany
lines 23

in 3889@ncr mpd.ftcollinsco.ncr.com brad wright writes

if you know much about pc 's (ibm comp) you might try the joystick
port. though i have n't tried this myself , i 've been told that the port
has built in a d converters. this would allow the joystick to be a couple of
pots. if you could find the specs this might just work for you...

i guess 100k , connecting pins 1 3 (1x) , 1 6 (1y) , 9 11 (2x) , and 9 13 (2y).

or get an 8 bit da converter (merely a couple of transistors and
resistors) and an opamp to compare its output to the voltage you want to
measure , connect them to a spared printer port (if you have one) , and do
the rest by software (stepwise refinement). the port addresses for your
printer ports are probably h378 (lpt1) , h278 (lpt2). this should work
well enough for your purposes.

hope this helps


gmd , schloss birlinghoven , postfach 1316 , d 5205 st. augustin 1 , frg

e mail peter.hendricks@gmd.de ph@zi.gmd.dbp.de
ph@gmd.de

from paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson)
subject peltier effect heat pumps
reply to paj@uk.co.gec mrc (paul johnson)
organization gec marconi research centre , great baddow , essex
lines 45


i was having a look through a couple of components catalogues when i
came across a range of peltier effect heat pumps intended for cooling
components. for those who have not heard of this effect , you put a
current through one of these devices , and it pumps heat from one side
to the other. reverse the current and you reverse the effect. i
think a temperature difference can give you an emf as well.

anyway , it struck me that you could make a nice cool hot box for
picnics with one of these , a power regulator , a thermostat and a
couple of heat sinks. the biggest device can shift 60w with an
efficiency of 80 90 , which ai n't bad (although it would flatten my
car battery in about half an hour).

unfortunately the catalogue did n't list anything more than the basic
specs as a heat pump. i imagine that you would get a back emf as the
temperature gradient across the device increases. if so , presumably
its power decreases as the back emf increases , until eventually we
have a steady state with no current being consumed (assuming no
leakage). if so , then the final temperature difference between the
two sides could be set by the supply voltage and nothing more
(although that would be a lousy way to control it).

what i would like to know is

1 are the above guesses correct \?

2 what is the open circuit thermal resistance of a typical device \?
(i just want to be sure that my coolbox is not going to get warm
too fast when i unplug it)

3 how does a peltier effect heat pump actually work \? it looks like
magic !

4 why do n't they use these things in domestic fridges freezers \?


thanks in advance ,

paul.

paul johnson (paj@gec mrc.co.uk). tel 44 245 73331 ext 3245

these ideas and others like them can be had gec marconi research is not
for 0.02 each from any reputable idealist. responsible for my opinions

from mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul)
subject re whats wrong with my cordlessphone \?
organization university of nebraska lincoln
lines 8
distribution world
nntp posting host unlinfo.unl.edu

i 've also found that the electronic starters on these instant on
compact fluourescent lamp fixtures kick out interference that nukes
my cordless phone. (i can hear it in my guitar amplifier , too...)

paul marxhausen .... ....... ............. ............ ............ ..........
.. . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . grace . . . .
. . . . . . . . happens .

from dale@access.digex.com (dale farmer)
subject re building a uv flashlight
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 31
nntp posting host access.digex.net
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

john hawkinson (jhawk@panix.com) wrote
yes , i know it sounds crazy. call it an urge. call it what you want.
just do n't ask why )

anyway , i 'd like to build a uv flashlight , cheaply. flashlight means
it should be reasonably portable , but could have a power pack if
necessary.

my main question is the bulb where can i get uv bulbs \? do they
need a lot of power \? etc. , etc.

i'm not too concerned with whether it 's long wave or short wave
(but hey , if anyone has a cheap source of bulbs , i 'll take both).

check out a medical supply catalog , the thing you are looking for
is called a woods lamp (so you can check for woods sign , certain skin
conditions flourecse (sp) under uv light) they come in disposable
penlight like types and larger ac powered types. it is also used in eye
examinations , a flourescent dye is introduced to the surface of the eye ,
then uv is shined on it , shows up scratches and abrasions very clearly
that would otherwise be very difficult to detect. (for the completest the
dye is called flouescien , and in normal light appears orangish , and leaves
a mild burning sensation to the eye for 10 15 minutes , until the tears
flush it all out.

have fun.

dale farmer




from mike diack mike d@staff.tc.umn.edu
subject re rams roms with ale latches (for 8051 's)
x xxdate wed , 21 apr 93 03 04 18 gmt
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 88.gw.umn.edu
organization persian cat carpet co.
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d7
lines 15

in article 1qg98sinnokf@sheoak.ucnv.edu.au j. pethybridge ,
jeff@redgum.ucnv.edu.au writes
i asked this a year ago , but i am still looking.
i am getting sick of having to use a hc373 or a 8751 2.
check out xicor 's new goodie in the april 12th edition of eetimes
x88c64 an 8k 8 e2prom with built in latch and bootloader setup.
you hook it directly to your '51 , power it up , the prom initialises the
serial port on the '51 , you load in your code via rxd , this gets blatted
onto the e2prom , then you reset and run i'm sure dallas also does
something like this too , i suppose it would boil down to relative
prices , and the dallas part freeing up p0 p2 completely. i wonder
if anyone has ever managed to design a single sided pcb with an
8051 , 573 , eprom , sram and no links \?
cheers
mike.
