from pharvey@quack.kfu.com (paul harvey)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization the duck pond public unix 1 408 249 9630 , log in as 'guest'.
lines 155

i wrote in response to dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)

it 's not clear how much more needs to be said other than the faq. i
think paul 's comments on esteeming one day over another (rom 14) is
probably all that needs to be said.

was paul a god too \? is an interpretation of the words of paul of higher
priority than the direct word of jesus in matt5 14 19 \? paul begins
romans 14 with if someone is weak in the faith ... do you count
yourself as one who is weak in the faith \?

i accept that darius is doing
what he does in honor of the lord. i just wish he might equally
accept that those who esteem all days alike are similarly doing
their best to honor the lord.

yes , but what does the bible have to say \? what did jesus say \? paul
closes romans 14 with , on the other hand , the person with doubts about
something who eats it anyway is guilty , because he is n't acting on his
faith , and any failure to act on faith is a sin. gaus , isbn 0 933999 99 2
have you read the ten commandments which are a portion of the law \? have
you read jesus' word in matt5 14 19 \? is there any doubt in your mind
about what is right and what is sin (greek hamartia missing the mark) \?

however i 'd like to be clear that i do not think there 's unambiguous
proof that regular christian worship was on the first day. as i
indicated , there are responses on both of the passages cited.

whereas , the ten commandments and jesus' words in matt5 14 19 are fairly
clear , are they not \?

the difficulty with both of these passages is that they are actually
about something else. they both look like they are talking about
nnregular christian meetings , but neither explicitly says and they
gathered every sunday for worship . we get various pieces of
information , but nothing aimed at answering this question.

matt5 14 19 does n't answer your question \?

what day christians met in their houses. acts 20 7 , despite darius'
confusion , is described by acts as occuring on sunday. ... it does n't
say they gathered to
see paul off , but that when they were gathered for breaking bread ,

breaking bread roughly synonymous with eating.

so i think the most obvious reading of this is that on the first day
of every week simply means every time they gather for worship.

how do you unite this concept of yours with the ten commandments and
jesus 's word in matt5 14 19 \?

i think the reason we have only implications and not clear statements
is that the nt authors assumed that their readers knew when christian
worship was.
clh

or , they assumed that the ten commandments and jesus' word in
matt5 14 19 actually stood for something \? perhaps they were strong in
the faith \?



no , i do n't believe that paul can overrule god. however paul was
writing for a largely gentile audience. the law was regarded by jews
at the time (and now) as binding on jews , but not on gentiles. there
are rules that were binding on all human beings (the so called noachic
laws) , but they are quite minimal. the issue that the church had to
face after jesus' death was what to do about gentiles who wanted to
follow christ. the decision not to impose the law on them did n't say
that the law was abolished. it simply acknowledged that fact that it
did n't apply to gentiles. thus there is no contradiction with mat 5.
as far as i can tell , both paul and other jewish christians did
continue to participate in jewish worship on the sabbath. thus they
continued to obey the law. the issue was (and is) with gentile
christians , who are not covered by the law (or at least not by the
ceremonial aspects of it).

jesus dealt mostly with jews. i think we can reasonably assume that
mat 5 was directed to a jewish audience. he did interact with
gentiles a few times (e.g. the centurion whose slave was healed and a
couple of others). the terms used to describe the centurion (see luke
7) suggest that he was a god fearer , i.e. a gentile who followed
god , but had not adopted the whole jewish law. he was commended by
jewish elders as a worthy person , and jesus accepted him as such.
this seems to me to indicate that jesus accepted the prevailing view
that gentiles need not accept the law.

however there 's more involved if you want to compare jesus and paul on
the law. in order to get a full picture of the role of the law , we
have to come to grips with paul 's apparent rejection of the law , and
how that relates to jesus' commendation of the law. at least as i
read paul , he says that the law serves a purpose that has been in a
certain sense superceded. again , this issue is n't one of the
abolition of the law. in the middle of his discussion , paul notes
that he might be understood this way , and assures us that that 's not
what he intends to say. rather , he sees the law as primarily being
present to convict people of their sinfulness. but ultimately it 's an
impossible standard , and one that has been superceded by christ.
paul 's comments are not the world 's clearest here , and not everyone
agrees with my reading. but the interesting thing to notice is that
even this radical position does not entail an abolition of the law.
it still remains as an uncompromising standard , from which not an iota
or dot may be removed. for its purpose of convicting of sin , it 's
important that it not be relaxed. however for christians , it 's not
the end ultimately we live in faith , not law.

while the theoretical categories they use are rather different , in the
end i think jesus and paul come to a rather similar conclusion. the
quoted passage from mat 5 should be taken in the context of the rest
of the sermon on the mount , where jesus shows us how he interprets the
law. the not an iota or dot would suggest a rather literal reading ,
but in fact that 's not jesus' approach. jesus' interpretations
emphasize the intent of the law , and stay away from the ceremonial
details. indeed he is well known for taking a rather free attitude
towards the sabbath and kosher laws. some scholars claim that mat
5 17 20 needs to be taken in the context of 1st cent. jewish
discussions. jesus accuses his opponents of caring about giving a
tenth of even the most minor herbs , but neglecting the things that
really matter justice , mercy and faith , and caring about how cups and
plates are cleaned , but not about the fact that inside the people who
use them are full of extortion and rapacity. (mat 23 23 25) this , and
the discussion later in mat 5 , suggest that jesus has a very specific
view of the law in mind , and that when he talks about maintaining the
law in its full strength , he is thinking of these aspects of it.
paul 's conclusion is similar. while he talks about the law being
superceded , all of the specific examples he gives involve the
ceremonial law , such as circumcision and the sabbath. he is quite
concerned about maintaining moral standards.

the net result of this is that when paul talks about the law being
superceded , and jesus talks about the law being maintained , i believe
they are talking about different aspects of the law. paul is
embroiled in arguments about circumcision. as is natural in letters
responding to specific situations , he 's looking at the aspect of the
law that is currently causing trouble the law as specifically jewish
ceremonies. he certainly does not intend to abolish divine standards
of conduct. on the other hand , when jesus commends the law , he seems
to be talking the law in its broadest implications for morals and
human relationships , and deemphasizing those aspects that were later
to give paul so much trouble.

it 's unfortunate that people use the same terms in different ways , but
we should be familiar with that from current conflicts. look at the
way terms like family values take on special meaning from the
current context. imagine some poor historian of the future trying to
figure out why family values should be used as a code word for
opposition to homosexuality in one specific period in the u.s. i
think law had taken on a similar role in the arguments paul was
involved in. paul was clearly not rejecting all of the jewish values
that go along with the term law , any more than people who concerned
about the family values movement are really opposed to family
values.

clh

from halsall@murray.fordham.edu (paul halsall)
subject bible unsuitable for new christians
reply to halsall@murray.fordham.edu
organization j. random misconfigured site
lines 42


a new christian wrote that he was new to the faith and
learning about it by reading the bible , of course . i am not
at all sure this is the best path to follow.
while the bible is , for christians , the word of god , the
revelation of god is jesus christ and the chief legacy of this
revalation is the church. i am not recommending any one
denommination , but i do recommend finding a comfortable christian
congregation in which to develop your faith , rather than just
reading the bible.
this does not mean that the bible should not be read , although
i would stick to the gospels , epistles , and psalms and avoid the
book of revelation altogether until you are with friends you are
comfortable with . i am sure that mistakenly fervent projects to
read the entire bible have frequently bogged down with a remarkable
lack of fervour somewhere in the middle of leviticus , or for the really
sturdy , somewhere in chronicles.
the point is that the bible is their to illustrate the faith
of christians , but does not provide the totality of that faith. vital
beliefs of virtually all christians are simply not mentioned
the trinity , the duality of natures in christ , types of church
organization. all these beliefs and practices have developed from the
lived experience of the christian people , an experience lived one
hopes in the spirit. as such the bible , i think , is better studies
in the context of a congregation , and the context of other reading.
following up on a suggestion of an old confessor of mine , i
would even suggest that a good novel is a good way to reflect on the
christian life. most novels of any profundity are actually discussing
the nature of good and evil in the human heart . my own induction into
the christian faith was brought about after grace through reading
graham greene the power and the glory and the poetry of gerard
manley hopkins. i would also recommend graham greene 's monsignor
quixote and any novel by iris murdoch. the last is not even a christian ,
but such is her insistence on the need for the good life , that , frankly ,
i often am more uplifted and god directed after reading her than after
reading many parts of the bible. and that after all is what being
a christian is all about letting your soul and your life be , in
some way , directed towards the infinite , represented to us by
the person of jesus christ.

paul halsall
halsall@murray.fordham.edu

from lmvec@westminster.ac.uk (william hargreaves)
subject re help
organization university of westminster
lines 26

i'm a commited christian that is battling with a problem. i know
that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our deeds , yet
hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless , saying' you fools ,
do you still think that just believing is enough \? '

stuff deleted

now i am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what you do)
as taught in romans , but how can i square up in my mind the teachings of james
in conjunction with the lukewarm christian being 'spat out'

can anyone help me , this really bothers me.


i have received tons of mail from people replying to this article i wrote , and
i would just like to thank everyone who took the time to give me a hand. it
has indeed helped me and re affirmed alot of theories that i held but was a
little unsure about.

god bless you all

will


dallas cowboys world champions 1992 93


from jjmarvin@pucc.princeton.edu
subject prayers and advice requested on family problem
organization princeton university
lines 70

my brother has been alienated from my parents and me since shortly after
his marriage to a domineering and insecure woman , about twelve years ago.
we 've kept things on a painfully polite , christmas card sort of level
for most of this time. attempts to see each other end disastrously , with
his wife throwing a screaming fit and storming out over either our imagined
slights to her , or his inattention or insensitivity to her (i mean , this 'll
happen by the end of a single restaurant meal). he seems , from what i 've
seen , to live in a state of quivering anxiety , hoping futilely to keep
the next storm from breaking. he has sacrificed not only meaningful contact
with us but also other friends and outside interests. now , this is his
choice , and i need to accept it even if i deplore it. but it 's hard.
from time to time i 've wanted to drop the pretense that we have a
relationship by cutting off contact or trying to have a real if painful
relationship , by talking honestly with him , but i 've always thought , why
be dramatic \? and you know he 'll only get evasive and then find some excuse
to get off the phone. just leave the door open , in case he ever decides to
come back. it 's been an unsatisfying choice , to allow us to go on
with the superficial trappings of a relationship , but it was the best i
could think of.
now , this weekend , my mother finally decided that she was n't going
to pretend any more and has cut off relations with them. this was the
outcome of a phone conversation in which my sister in law screamed and
raved at my mother , blaming her for everything wrong in their lives , and
in which my brother evaded , temporized , claimed the situation was
beyond his control , and as always expected my mother to make all the
allowances and concessions. mom said she would not , that she would not
quietly take abuse any more , and that if these were the terms of their
relationship , she did n't want to talk to or see them any more. and she hung
up. (i have never seem my mother lose her temper , and i think that this is
the first time she 's ever hung up on someone.) mom says she feels as if
she 's divorced my brother , and that it 's a relief in some ways to have the
break out in the open and done with.

i have mixed feelings. i'm proud of mom for sticking up for herself
angry at my brother and sister in law for hurting her , for being jerks , for
persisting in such a wretched life , which hurts us all and is warping their
children angry at my sister in law for being so hateful , and angry at my
brother for being a coward and having so little respect for himself or us
that he 's willing to throw us aside and use up all his energy trying to
appease an unappeasable ,
emotionally disturbed woman pained for their children , who are a mess
scared for the future , since this marks the time when either things will
change and improve or the break will become irrevocable nastily self
righteous over this bit of proof that they ca n't get away with treating
us or each other this way , and then disgusted with myself for even
beginning to gloat over others' misery and finally , mostly , sad , sad ,
sad , to see my parents hurt and my brother and sister in law trapped in
a horrible , destructive situation that they ca n't see a way out of or
they ca n't bear to take whatever paths they do see. and i'm frustrated
because i do n't know what if anything to do , and doing nothing drives me
up the wall. i try to pray , about my own feelings of rage , impotence ,
and vindictiveness , and about their situation , but i am not
free of the desire to do something concrete. (the desire to do
something , to define a problem and fix it , is one of my besetting
vices i'm having a terrible time quieting down my internal
mental chatter enough to listen for god.)
do you thoughtful and kind people on the net have advice for me \? is
this a time to reach out to my brother \? to let things be \? how can i
conquer my rage at him enough to be there for him \?

here 's the big question i 've been evading throughout this long , long
post is it ok , as a christian and a proponent of faith , hope , and
charity , to accept the destruction of a relationship \? to give up on
my own brother , or at least to accept that i am powerless to help him
and can only wait and see what happens \? do please answer by e mail or
post.

thank you.

julie (jjmarvin@pucc.princeton.edu)

from nichael@bbn.com (nichael cramer)
subject re dead sea scrolls
reply to ncramer@bbn.com
organization bbn , interzone office
lines 24

dhancock@teosinte.agron.missouri.edu (denis hancock) writes
a very nice article on the dss , which i thought answered
david cruz uribe 's original queries quite well

here are some books i have read recently that helped me not only
prepare for a 5 week series i taught in sunday school , but greatly
increased my knowledge of the qumran scrolls. ...

one other recent book i would heartily recommend is joseph fitzmyer 's
response to 101 questions about the dead sea scrolls (paulist ,
1992).

fitzmyer is one of the preeminent modern nt scholars. he was also one
of the early workers on the dss. his book is written in a
straightforward q a that allows it to serve as a source for a great
wealth of clearly presented basic , up to the moment information about
the dss.

(this book is something of a companion volume to raymond brown 's
response to 101 questions about the dead sea scrolls .)

nichael

pop quiz what 's wrong with the cover of this book \? )

from anasaz ! karl@anasazi.com (karl dussik)
subject re is christian a dirty word \?
organization anasazi inc phx az usa
lines 73

in article mar.25.03.53.08.1993.24855@athos.rutgers.edu @usceast.cs.scarolina.edu moss@cs.scarolina.edu (james moss) writes
i was brought up christian , but i am not christian any longer.
i also have a bad taste in my mouth over christianity. i (in
my own faith) accept and live my life by many if not most of the
teachings of christ , but i cannot let myself be called a christian ,
beacuse to me too many things are done on the name of christianity ,
that i can not be associated with.

a question for you can you give me the name of an organization or a
philosophy or a political movement , etc. , which has never had anything
evil done in its name \? you 're missing a central teaching of christianity
man is inherently sinful. we are saved through faith by grace. knowing
that , believing that , does not make us without sin. furthermore , not all
who consider themselves christians are (even those who manage to head
their own churches ). not everyone who says to me , 'lord , lord , ' will
enter the kingdom of heaven , but only he who does the will of my father who
is in heaven. matt. 7 21.

i also have a problem with the inconsistancies in the bible , and
how it seems to me that too many people have edited the original
documents to fit their own world views , thereby leaving the bible
an unbelievable source.

again , what historical documents do you trust \? do you think hannibal
crossed the alps \? how do you know \? how do you know for sure \? what
historical documents have stood the scrutiny and the attempts to dis
credit it as well as the bible has \?

i do n't have dislike of christians (except for a few who wo n't
quit witnessing to me , no matter how many times i tell them to stop) ,
but the christian faith organized religion will never (as far as i can
see at the moment) get my support.

well , it 's really a shame you feel this way. no one can browbeat you
into believing , and those who try will probably only succeed in driving
you further away. you need to ask yourself some difficult questions
1) is there an afterlife , and if so , does man require salvation to attain
it. if the answer is yes , the next question is 2) how does man attain this
salvation can he do it on his own as the eastern religions and certain
modern offshoots like the new age movement teach or does he require god 's
help \? 3) if the latter , in what form does indeed , in what form can such
help come \? needless to say , this discussion could take a lifetime , and for
some people it did comprise their life 's writings , so i am hardly in a
position to offer the answers here merely pointers to what to ask. few ,
of us manage to have an unshaken faith our entire lives (certainly not me).
the spritual life is a difficult journey (if you 've never read a pilgrim 's
progress , i highly recommend this greatest allegory of the english language).

peace and love
in god(ess) 's name
james moss

now i see by your close that one possible source of trouble for you may be a
conflict between your politcal beliefs and your religious upbringing. you
wrote that i (in my own faith) accept and live my life by many if not most
of the teachings of christ . well , christ referred to god as my father ,
not my mother , and while the maleness of god is not the same as the
maleness of those of us humans who possess a y chromosome , it does not
honor god to refer to him as female purely to be trendy , non discriminatory ,
or politically correct. this in no way disparages women (nor is it my intent
to do so by my use of the male pronoun to refer to both men and women
english just does not have a decent neuter set of pronouns). after all , god
chose a woman as his only human partner in bringing christ into the human
population.

well , i'm not about to launch into a detailed discussion of
the role of women in christianity at 1am with only 6 hours of sleep in the
last 63 , and for that reason i also apologize for any shortcomings in this
article. i just happened across yours and felt moved to reply. i hope i
may have given you , and anyone else who finds himself in a similar frame of
mind , something to contemplate.

karl dussik

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re eternity of hell (was re hell)
organization florida state university
lines 26

vic@mmalt.guild.org (vic kulikauskas) writes
our moderator writes

i'm inclined to read descriptions such as the lake of fire as
indicating annihilation. however that 's a minority view.
...
it 's my personal view , but the only denominations i know of that hold
it officially are the jw 's and sda 's.

i ca n't find the reference right now , but did n't c.s.lewis speculate
somewhere that hell might be the state of once having been a human
soul \?
why is it that we have this notion that god takes some sort of pleasure
from punishing people \? the purpose of hell is to destroy the devil and
his angels.

to the earlier poster who tried to support the eternal hell theory with
the fact that the fallen angels were not destroyed , remember the bible
teaches that god has reserved them until the day of judgement. their
judgement is soon to come.

let me suggest this. maybe those who believe in the eternal hell theory
should provide all the biblical evidence they can find for it. stay away
from human theories , and only take into account references in the bible.

darius

from trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 66

norris@athena.mit.edu writes

this is certainly a valid objection to religion as explanation of
nature.

fortunately for the convenience of us believers , there is a class of
questions that can never be reduced away by natural science. for
example why does the universe exist at all \?

must there be a why to this \? i ask because of what you also
assume about god namely , that he just exists , with no why
to his existence. so the question is reversed , why ca n't
we assume the universe just exists as you assume god to
just exist \? why must there be a why to the universe \?

after all , the time space
world did n't have to exist. why does anything exist \? and is it
possible for persons (e.g. man) to come into being out of a purely
impersonal cosmos \? these questions which look at the real mysteries of
life the creation of the world and of persons provide a permanent
indicator that the meaning of life in the material world can only be
found outside that world , in its source.

it may be that one day man not only can create life but can also
create man. now , i do n't see this happening in my lifetime ,
nor do i assert it is probable. but the possibility is there ,
given scientists are working hard at decoding out genetic
code to perhaps help cure disease of a genetic variation.
again , though , must there be why or a divine prupose to
man 's existence \?

when you say that man is only an animal , i have to think that you are
presenting an unprovable statement a dogma , if you will. and one
the requires a kind of faith too. by taking such a hard line in
your atheism , you may have stumbled into a religion of your own.

as far as we can tell , man falls into the mammal catagory. now ,
if there were something more to the man (say , a soul) , then
we have yet to find evidence of such. but as it is now , man
is a mammal (babies are born live , mother gives milk , we 're
warm blooded , etc.) as other mammals are and is similar in
genetic construction to some of them (in particular , primates).
for more on this check out talk.origins.

but before you write off all christianity as phony and shallow , i hope
you 'll do a little research into its history and varieties , perhaps by
reading paul johnson 's a history of christianity . from your remarks ,
it seems that you have been exposed to certain types of christian
religion and not others. even an atheist should have enough faith in
man to know that a movement of 2000 years has to have some depth , and
be animated by some enduring values.

well , then , buddhism , confucianism , taoism , hinduism , judaism ,
zoerasterism , shintoism , and islam should fit this bit of logic
quite nicely... ) all have depth , all have enduring values ,
thus all must be true...

stephen

atheist
libertarian
pro individuality
pro responsibility
jr. and all that jazz...



from khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan)
subject re am i going to hell \?
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi
lines 32

tbrent@ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent) writes

i have stated before that i do not consider myself an atheist , but

so you believe in the existance of one creator i assume.


definitely do not believe in the christian god. the recent discussion
about atheists and hell , combined with a post to another group (to the
effect of 'you will all go to hell') has me interested in the consensus
as to how a god might judge men. as a catholic , i was told that a jew ,
buddhist , etc. might go to heaven , but obviously some people do not
believe this. even more see atheists and pagans (i assume i would be
lumped into this category) to be hellbound. i know you believe only
god can judge , and i do not ask you to , just for your opinions.

ok , god has the disclaimer , reserves the right to judge individual
cases. if we believe him to be loving , then we also believe him to be
able to serve justice to all. do n't worry if a jew , or athiest is
going to heaven or hell , for that is god to judge (although truly
if you were concerned you could only worry abput those who refuse to
believe satisfy gods decrees) as much as keeping yourself straight.
if you see something going on that is wrong , discuss it and explore it
before making summary judgement. people have enough free will to choose
for themselves , so do n't force choices on them , just inform them
of what they 're choices are. god will take care of the rest in his justice.

thanks ,
tim

mohammad r. khan khan0095@nova.gmi.edu
after july '93 , please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu

from smayo@world.std.com (scott a mayo)
subject re proof of resurection
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 33

jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu (james sledd) writes

finally
there is no proof of the resurrection of christ , except in our spirits
communion with his , and the father 's. it is a matter of faith , belief
without logical proof. incedently one of the largest stumbling blocks for
rational western man , myself included.
i hope that this is taken in the spirit it was intended and not as a
rejection of the resurrection 's occurance. i beleive , but i wanted to point
out the weakness of logical proofs.

terms are being used in a loaded way here.

logical proof is an extremely messy thing to apply to real
life. if you think otherwise , try to construct a proof that
yesterday happened. obviously it did anyone old enough to be
reading this was there for it and remembers that it happened.
but proof \? a proof starts with axioms and goes somewhere.
you need axioms to talk about logical proof. you can say that
you remember yesterday , and that you take as axiom that anything
you clearly remember happened. i could counterclaim that you
hallucinated the whole thing.

to talk about proofs of historical events , you have to relax the
terms a bit. you can show evidences , not proofs. evidences of the
resurrected jesus exist. proofs do not.

i think christianity goes down in flames if the resurrection is
ever disproved. i also think that this will not happen , as
the evidence for the resurrection is quite good as these things
go. it is not entirely fair to claim that you can only take
the resurrection on faith. there are reasons to believe it
that appeal to the mind , too.

from news@cbnewsk.att.com
subject re bible unsuitable for new christians
organization at t bell labs
lines 8

true.

also read 2 peter 3 16

peter warns that the scriptures are often hard to understand by those who
are not learned on the subject.

joe moore

from johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson)
subject re atheists and hell
reply to johnsd2@rpi.edu
organization not sun microsystems
lines 38

in article 29279@athos.rutgers.edu , atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes

i have seen two common threads running through postings by atheists on the
newsgroup , and i think that they can be used to explain each other.
unfortunately i do n't have direct quotes handy...

1) atheists believe that when they die , they die forever.

2) a god who would condemn those who fail to believe in him to eternal death
is unfair.

i do n't see what the problem is ! to christians , hell is , by definition ,
eternal death exactly what atheists are expecting when they die.

this is the problem. this is not hell , this is permanent death. it is
indeed what atheists (generally) expect and it is neither fair nor
unfair , it just is. you might as well argue about whether being made
mostly of carbon and water is fair .

however , the atheists who claim that hell is unfair are talking about
the fire and brimstone place of endless suffering , which necessarily
includes eternal existance (life , i dunno , but some sort of continuation)
not at all the same thing.

granted , you clearly feel that hell death , but this is not a univeral
sentiment as near as i can tell.

if your idea of god condemns heathens to ordinary death , i have no
problem with that. i do have a problem with the gods that hide from humans
and torture the unbelievers eternally for not guessing right.

deletia hell , and literalness.


dan johnson
and god said jeeze , this is dull ... and it was dull. genesis 0 0

these opinions probably show what i know.

from af664@yfn.ysu.edu (frank decenso , jr.)
subject major views of the trinity
organization youngstown state youngstown free net
lines 224

with frank 's permission , i have added some information here (and in
one case changed the order of his contributions) in order to clarify
the historical relationship of the views. my comments are based
primarily on william rusch 's historical summary in the trinitarian
controversy , fortress. i'm going to save this as an faq. clh

major views of the trinity

second century

the writers of the 2nd cent. are important , because they set up much
of the context for the later discussions. justin martyr , aristides ,
athenagoras , tatian , and theophilus of antioch are known as the
apologists . their theology has often been described as logos
theology . based strongly on wording in john , they took more or less
a two phase approach. through eternity , the logos was with the
father , as his mind or thought. this immanent word became
expressed as god revealed himself in history , ultimately in jesus.
thus jesus' full distinction from the father only became visible in
history , though the logos had been present in god from eternity.
rusch regards this view is containing many of the emphases of the
final orthodox position , but in a form which is less sophisticated ,
because it did not have the technical language to properly deal with
the eternal plurality in the godhead.

irenaeus held views somewhat similar to the apologists. however he
was uncomfortable with the two stage approach. he still viewed god as
one personage , with distinctions that did not become fully visible
except through his process of self revelation (the economy ). the
distinctions are present in his essential nature. irenaeus emphasized
the holy spirit more than the apologists. irenaeus' views should
probably be called economic trinitarianism , though that term is
normally used (as below) to refer to later developments.


third century

clh

dynamic monarchianism

source theodotus
adherents paul of samosota , artemon , socinus , modern unitarians
perception of god 's essence the unity of god denotes both oneness of nature
and oneness of person. the son and the holy spirit therefore are
consubstantial with the father 's divine essence only as impersonal attributes.
the divine dunamis came upon the man jesus , but he was not god in the strict
sense of the word.
perception of god 's subsistence the notion of a subsistent god is a palpable
impossibility , since his perfect unity is perfectly indivisible. the
'diversity' of god is apparent and not real , since the christ event and the
work of the holy spirit attest only to a dynamic operation within god , not to
a hypostatic union.
asignation of deity eternality
father unique originator of the universe. he is eternal , self existent , and
without beginning or end.
son a virtuous (but finite) man in whose life god was dynamically present in
a unique way christ definitely was not deity though his humanity was deified.
holy spirit an impersonal attribute of the godhead. no deity or eternality
is ascribed to the holy spirit.
criticism(s) elevates reason above the witness of biblical revelation
concerning the trinity. categorically denies the deity of christ and of the
holy spirit , thereby undermining the theological undergirding for the biblical
doctrine of salvation.
in summary , this probably best thought of as not being trinitarianism
at all. god is an undifferentiated one. son and holy spirit are seen
as simply names for the man jesus and the grace of god active in the
church. clh


modalistic monarchianism

source praxeas
adherents noatus , sabellius , swedenborg , scleiermacher , united pentecostals
(jesus only)
perception of god 's essence the unity of god is ultra simplex. he is
qualitatively characterized in his essence by one nature and person. this
essence may be designated interchangeably as father , son , and holy spirit.
they are different names for but identical with the unified , simplex god. the
three names are the three modes by which god reveals himself.
perception of god 's subsistence the concept of a subsistent god is erroneous
and confounds the real issue of the phenomenon of god 's modalistic manifesting
of himself. the paradox of a subsisting three in oneness is refuted by
recognizing that god is not three persons but one person with three different
names and corresponding roles following one another like parts of a drama.
asignation of deity eternality
father fully god and fully eternal as the primal mode or manifestation of
the only unique and unitary god
son full deity eternality ascribed only in the sense of his being another
mode of the one god and identical with his essence. he is the same god
manifested in temporal sequence specific to a role (incarnation).
holy spirit eternal god only as the tile designates the phase in which the
one god , in temporal sequence , manifested himself pursuant to the role of
regeneration and sanctification.
criticism(s) depersonalizes the godhead. to compensate for its trinitarian
deficiencies , this view propounds ideas that are clearly heretical. its
concept of successive manifestations of the godhead cannot account for such
simultaneous appearances of the three persons as at christ 's baptism.
rusch comments that evidence on these beliefs is sketchy. there are
actually two slightly different groups included noetus and his
followers , and sabellius. noetus was apparently more extreme.
sabellius followed him , and attempted to use some features of economic
trinitarianism to create a more sophisticated view. unfortunately ,
information about sabellius comes from a century later , and there
seems to be some confusion between him and marcellus of ancyra. clh

i 've moved the following description to be with the other
third century views. it originally appeared near the end. clh

economic trinitarianism

source hippolytus , tertullian
adherents various neo economic trinitarians
perception of god 's essence the godhead is characterized by triunity father ,
son , and holy spirit are the three manifestations of one identical ,
indivisible substance. the perfect unity and consubstantiality are especially
comprehended in such manifest triadic deeds as creation and redemption.
perception of god 's subsistence subsistence within the godhead is articulated
by means of such terms as distinction and distribution dispelling
effectively the notion of separateness or division.
asignation of deity eternality
the equal deity of father , son , and holy spirit is clearly elucidated in
observation of the simultaneous relational operational features of the
godhead. co eternality , at times , does not intelligibly surface in this
ambiguous view , but it seems to be a logical implication.
criticism(s) is more tentative and ambiguous in its treatment of the
relational aspect of the trinity.
note that this is a development of the apologists and irenaeus , as
mentioned above. as with them , the threeness is visible primarily in
the various ways that god revealed himself in history. however they
did say that this is a manifestation of a plurality that is somehow
present in the godhead from the beginning. tertullian talks of
the father , son , and holy spirit as being three that are one in
substance. many people regard this view as being essentially
orthodox , but with less developed philosophical categories. clh

origen , developing further an approach started by clement , attempted
to apply neo platonism to christian thought. he set many of the terms
of the coming battle. in platonic fashion , he sees the son as a
mediator , mediating between the absolute one of god and the plurality
of creating beings. the son is generated , but he is eternally
generated . that is , the relationship between father and son is
eternal. it cannot be said that there was once when he was not (a
phrase that will haunt the discussion for centuries). having the son
is intrinsic to his concept of god. the father and son are described
as separate hypostases , though this may not have quite the meaning
of separate subsistence that it had in some contexts. the union is
one of love and action , but there is some reason to think that he may
have used the term homoousios ( of the same substance ). the holy
spirit is also an active , personal substance , originated by the father
through the son. origen 's intent is trinitarian , not tritheistic , but
he pushes things in the direction of separateness.


fourth century

clh

subordinationism often called arianism clh

source arius
major adherents modern jehovah 's witnesses , and several other lesser known
cults
perception of god 's essence the inherent oneness of god 's nature is properly
identifiable with the father only. the son and the holy spirit are discreet
entities who do not share the divine essence.
perception of god 's subsistence the unipersonal essence of god precludes the
concept of divine subsistence with a godhead. threeness in oneness is self
contradictory and violates biblical principles of a monotheistic god.
asignation of deity eternality
father the only one , unbegotten god who is eternal and without beginning.
son a created being and therefore not eternal. though he is to be venerated ,
he is not of the divine essence.
holy spirit a nonpersonal , noneternal emanation of the father. he is viewed
as an influence , an expression of god. deity is not ascribed to him.
criticism(s) it is at variance with abundant scriptural testimony respecting
the deity of both christ and the holy spirit. its hierarchial concept likewise
asserts three essentially separate persons with regard to the father , christ ,
and the holy spirit. this results in a totally confused soteriology.
note also that in most versions of this view , the son is not fully
human either. he is supernatural and sinless. that distinguishes this
view from adoptionism. clh

orthodox trinitarianism

source athanasius
adherents basil , gregory of nyssa , gregory of nazianzus , augustine , thomas
aquinas , luther , calvin , contemporary orthodox christianity
perception of god 's essence god 's being is perfectly unified and simplex of
one essence. this essence of deity is held in common by father , son , and holy
spirit. the three persons are consubstantial , coinherent , co equal , and co
eternal.
perception of god 's subsistence the divine subsistence is said to occur in
three modes of being or hypostases. as such , the godhead exists undivided in
divided persons. this view contemplates an identity in nature and cooperation
in function without the denial of distinctions of persons in the godhead.
asignation of deity eternality
in its final distillation , this view unhesitatingly sets forth father , son ,
and holy spirit as co equal and co eternal in the godhead with regard to both
the divine essence and function.
criticism(s) the only shortcoming has to do with the limitations inherent in
human language and thought itself the impossibility of totally describing the
ineffable mystery of three in oneness.
at least in the 4th cent , there were several different approaches , all
of which fit the description here , and all regarded as orthodox , but which
are somewhat different in detail. nicea was originally held to respond
to arius. arius can be thought of as carrying origen 's thought a bit
too far , to the point of making the son a separate entity. in general
the east tended to take an approach based on origen 's , and it was hard
to get acceptance of nicea in the east. its final acceptance was
based on the work of athanasius with the cappadocians gregory of nyssa and
gregory of nazianzus , among others. while starting with three ,
they show that their unity in nature and and action is such that one
must think of them as being a single god. this allowed the council
of constantinople , in 381 , to get wide agreement on the idea of
three hypostatese and one ousia. clh

adapted from charts of christian theology and doctrine , by h. wayne house.


frank

if one wished to contend with him , he could not answer him one time out
of a thousand. job 9 3

from vbv@nomad.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization case western reserve univ. cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 90

in article apr.21.03.25.34.1993.1316@geneva.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes

hold it. i said that all of scripture is true. however , discerning
exactly what jesus , paul and company were trying to say is not always so
easy. i do n't believe that paul was trying to say that all women should
behave that way. rather , he was trying to say that under the circumstances
at the time , the women he was speaking to would best avoid volubility and
cover their heads. this has to do with maintaining a proper witness toward
others. remember that any number of relativistic statements can be derived
from absolutes. for instance , it is absolutely right for christians to
strive for peace. however , this does not rule out trying to maintain world
peace by resorting to violence on occasion. (yes , my opinion.)

i agree that there is truth in scripture. there are principles to be
learned from it. claiming that that truth is absolute , though , seems
to imply a literal reading of the bible. if it were absolute truth
(constant across time , culture , etc.) then no interpretation would be
necessary.

i strongly disagree that absolute truth would not require interpretation.
that 's because truth may be absolute , but it may not be obvious. like
so many things , the truth is always subject to misinterpretation.

i strongly suspect that we are reaching an impasse here , which is why i
deign from commenting much further.

sure. the bible preaches absolute truths. however , exactly what those
truths are is sometimes a matter of confusion. as i said , the bible does
preach absolute truths. sometimes those fundamental principles are crystal
clear (at least to evangelicals).

this is where the arrogance comes in to play. since these principles
are crystal clear to evangelicals , maybe the rest of us should just take
their word for it \? maybe it is n't at all crystal clear to me that
their fundamental principles are either fundamental or principles.

now hold it. i never said that christians cannot be arrogant. indeed , as
many other christians on src have stressed before , this is a trap that
christians must always be wary about. however , this does not mean that if
you believe in the absolutes established by the bible , you are necessarily
being arrogant. a christian can believe that the word of god is absolute ,
but he or she should not expect this to be immediately evident to everyone.

so , i think that your position is
the bible is absolute truth , but as we are prone to error in our
interpretation , we cannot reliably determine if we have figured out
what that truth is.
did i get that right \?

not quite. you say that according to my stance , we cannot reliably
determine what is true. that is not what i said. i say that as fallible
human beings , we cannot discern the truth with 100 certainty. the
distinction is subtle yet important.

when a scientist performs an experiment , he can claim that his results
are reliable , without claiming that absolutely no mistake whatsoever could
have been made. in other words , he can admit that he could be mistaken ,
without sacrificing his convictions.

nobody can establish what absolute truth is with 100 certainty.
throughout the centuries , philosophers have argued about what we can know
with complete certainty and what we cannot. descartes made a step in the
right direction when he uttered , cogito , ergo sum , yet we have not advanced
much beyond that.

do you believe that other people aside from you exist \? do you believe that
the computer terminal you are using exists \? if so , can you be absolutely
certain about that \? are you sure it is not some grand illusion \? of course ,
you have no such assurance. this does not mean , however , that for all
practical purposes , you can be certain that they exist. so it is with
christianity. the most mature christians i know have deep convictions about
absolute morality , yet they acknowledge that there is a non zero probability
that they are wrong. this does not , however , mean that they should (or do)
abandon these absolutes.

what 's the point of spending all this time claiming and defending
absolute truth , when we can never know what those truths are , and we
can never (or at least should n't) act upon them \? what practical
difference can this make \?

as i said , we can never be absolutely certain that we are correct. this does
not mean that we cannot be certain enough , in light of the evidence , to
render all doubts unreasonable.


virgilio dean velasco jr , department of electrical eng'g and applied physics
cwru graduate student , roboticist in training and q wannabee
bullwinkle , that man 's intimidating a referee ! my boss is a
not very well. he does n't look like one at all ! jewish carpenter.

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 35

mhsu@lonestar.utsa.edu (melinda . hsu ) writes

i 'd like to share my thoughts on this topic of arrogance of
christians and look forward to any responses. in my
encounters with christians , i find myself dismayed by their
belief that their faith is total truth. according to them ,
their beliefs come from the bible and the bible is the word of
god and god is truth thus they know the truth. this stance
makes it difficult to discuss other faiths with them and my own
hesitations about christianity because they see no other way.
their way is the 'truth.'

but i see their faith arising from a willful choice to believe
a particular way. that choice is part faith and part reason ,
but it seems to me a choice.

i'm sort of mystified about how a christian might respond to this.

i 'll start with a parable.

a christian woman hires a carpenter to build her a birdhouse. when he comes
over , they begin talking about religion. so you believe that you understand
god \? he asks. yes , i do , she replies. then have him build you the
birdhouse.

i do n't think that melinda is complaining about the basis of christian
belief. however , there is a tendency among christians to say , i have all the
answers because god gave them to me. this is simply not the case.
i believe that the bible is inerrant. however , our human interpretations of
the bible are necessarily in error , because we are human and imperfect. we
have to remember that we all make mistakes in faith , and that because we are
human we have an imperfect understanding of the mind and will of god. to
claim , as so many people do , that the existence of the bible allows us to
determine the answers to all questions is to claim that we humans can fully
understand god 's will. this is hubris.

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject thinking about heaven
lines 20

james sledd asks

1. what is the nature of eternal life \?
2. how can we as mortals locked into space time conceive of it \?
2a. if the best we can do is metaphor analogy , then what is the
best metaphor \?

c s lewis 's essay the weight of glory deals with this question. i
recommend it enthusiastically. you might also read the chapter on
heaven in his book the problem of pain. he gives a fictional
treatment in his book the great divorce. i have found all of these
very helpful.

you might also be helped by the treatment in dante 's divine comedy.
heaven occupies the last third of the poem , but i cannot imagine
reading it other than from the beginning. i urge you to use the
translation by dorothy l sayers , available from penguin paperbacks.

yours ,
james kiefer

from ata@hfsi.hfsi.com ( john ata)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to news@opl.com
organization hfsi
lines 49

in article apr.12.03.44.39.1993.18842@athos.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes
in article apr.10.05.31.46.1993.14368@athos.rutgers.edu , luomat@alleg.edu (timothy j. luoma) writes
in article apr.9.01.11.16.1993.16937@athos.rutgers.edu

suppose you were part of the `christian consipracy' which was going to
tell people that christ had risen. never mind the stoning , the being
burned alive , the possible crucifixion ... let 's just talk about a
scourging. the whip that would be used would have broken pottery , metal ,

no one was ever flogged , beaten , burned , fed to the lions , or killed in any
other way because of a belief in the resurrection sorry to disappoint you.

i think you are vastly oversimplifying things. we know that early christians
suffered totures because of their witness to christ. for example

act 5 40 his speech persuaded them. they called the apostles in and had
them flogged. then they ordered them not to speak in the name of
jesus , and let them go.

act 5 41 the apostles left the sanhedrin , rejoicing because they had been
counted worthy of suffering disgrace for the name.

it appears that the jewish rulers of that time had a particular aversion
to even hearing jesus 's name.
act 5 28 we gave you strict orders not to teach in this name , he said.
yet you have filled jerusalem with your teaching and are
determined to make us guilty of this man 's blood.

finally , the first apostle 's death , james of zebedee was certainly
not by rome 's hand any more than the first martyr stephen.


the idea of resurrection is one which can be found in a host of different
forms in the religions of antiquity. the problem was not the resurrection
which was a mediorce issue for a tiny fragment of the jewish population

the problem was that if one believed in the resurrection , then one
must believe in jesus as truly being the son of god and what he
stood for and preached during his ministry on earth. that would
have been extremely difficult for some people , especially those
that had plotted to kill him.

randy


john g. ata technical consultant internet ata@hfsi.com
hfs , inc. va20 uucp uunet ! hfsi ! ata
7900 westpark drive ms 601 voice (703) 827 6810
mclean , va 22102 fax (703) 827 3729

from simon@giaeb.cc.monash.edu.au
subject st. maria goretti
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 125

heres the life of st. maria goretti , posted with kind permission of
the editor of the australian catholic magazine morning star .

hope you like it.

put up with anything to prevent sin st. maria goretti



maria was born on october 16th 1890 to luigi and assunta goretti ,
the eldest daughter in the family of seven. she was a cheerful
girl , always imitating her parents. she had but one disire , but
one wish to receive our lord in the blessed sacrament.

the date was finally set for little maria to receive our lord on
the feast of corpus christi. for maria , time seemed like an eter
nity as she slowly neared the great day. when it finally
arrived , fr. jerome( the priest who was to celebrate the mass and
give the children their first holy communion) delivered a sermon
on the immense love of jesus christ for them and the great love
we should have in return for him. he then warmly urged them to
die rather than commit a mortal sin.

maria humbly approached the altar of god and received the holy
eucharist. her only sadness was the thought of her father 's
absence , who died some time beforehand. as for the rest of the
day , maria remained under the spell of the divine visit that is
until

4







her thoughts changed to when she could go next to holy communion.
thus ended the happiest day of maria 's life.

over the next twelve months , maria had changed from a giggling
little girl into a quiet young lady with responsibilities. as her
mother went out into the fields in place of her husband , maria
took on the ironing , cooking , washing and other motherly duties.
she was doing this not only for her own family , but also for the
serenellis , a father and son who lived with the goretti 's , owning
a share in the farm. although maria was poorer than all the other
children , she by far surpassed them in virtue. in all thi ngs she
did the holy will of god.

during the month of june , alessandro serenelli(the son) twice
made advances upon maria when he chanced to be alone with her. on
both occasions maria managed to struggle free of alessandro 's
strong grip , but on the second , he threatened to kill her if she
even uttered a word to her mother. from this day on , maria lived
in terror , fearing lest alessandro attack again.


on july 5th 1902 , alessandro left work in the fields to get a
handkerchief , as he claimed. he went to the storeroom beneath
the house where maria , who was outside on the landing with the
baby , could hear him fumbling about in with tools. she wondered
what he was doing. it was later learned that he was sharpening a
91 2 blade. he went to the house and called for maria. she told
him she would n't go to him unless she knew why she was needed. he
stormed out to the landing and dragged her up to her room. mar ia
instantly realized what he was up to. no , no , no ! do not touch
me ! it is a sin , you will go to hell ! at this point alessandro
held the knife over maria 's chest , who was now on the floor.

will you or will you not \? maria gathered all her energy. no i
will not , alessandro , no ! she had chosen her martyrdom over
sin , god over satan. overcome with rage , alessandro plunged the
knife into maria 's breast fourteen times. finally he came to
his senses and thought maria was dead. frantically he threw the
knife behind a closet and locked himself in his room. the crying
of the baby teresa on the landing brought the attention to
assunta and the father of alessandro. as the baby was unattended
and was in danger of falling off , they ran to the house to find
maria , who , covered in blood , was dragging herself to the door.
when asked what happened she said alessandro stabbed her. he
wanted to make me do wrong and i would not.

the ambulance arrived , then the police who took alessandro away.
as the ambulance carried maria to the hospital , a large crowd
followed on foot. the doctors at the hospital held no hope for
poor little maria. the same fr. jerome who gave maria her first
communion

5







came to administer the last rites and to give her holy viaticum.
he asked maria if she would forgive her murderer. yes. for the
love of jesus i forgive him. i wish for him to one day join me
in paradise. may god forgive him , for i alread y have. maria
died at about three o'clock.

alessandro was tried and found guilty of maria 's death but
because of his age he was sentenced to only thirty years in
prison. after eight years of being a violent prisoner and show
ing no regret for his crime , he saw in a dream , in the midst of
a field of flowers , maria holding out a bunch of white lilies to
him. soon later he wrote to the local bishop , begging god 's par
don for the grave sin he had committed. he later gave testimony
in maria 's beatification in 1947. less than three years later ,
on ju ne 24th 1950 , maria was canonised. assunta goretti was the
first mother ever to be present at her daughter 's canonisation.

may st. maria goretti help us to be pure and grant us the
strength to die rather than commit a mortal sin.

saint maria goretti , pray for us.


by brendan arthur


internet simon@giaeb.cc.monash.edu.au
viva cristo rey ! ! long live christ the king.

from caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin)
subject re the arrogance of christians
lines 54

i 've just read carol 's response and i just had to get into this. i 've
got some verses which are not subject to interpretation because they say

what they say.

joe , just 'cause you say they are n't subject to interpretation does n't
necesarily make it so. that 's your interpretation of these texts.

they are 2 peter 1 20 21 , 2 timothy 3 16 17 , and
galatians 1 11 12.

2 peter 1 20 21
but know this first of all , that no prophecy of scripture is a matter
of one 's own interpretation , for no prophecy was ever made by an act of
human will , but men moved by the holy spirit spoke from god.

the study notes in my bible offer three possible meanings for verse 20.
apparantly it 's not as clear to charles ryrie as it is to you.

2 timothy 3 16 17
all scripture is inspired by god and profitable for teaching , for
reproof , for correction , for training in righteousness that the man of
god may be adequate , equipped for every good work.

galations 1 11 12
for i would have you know , brethren , that the gospel which was preached
by me is not according to man. for i neither received it from man ,
nor was i taught it , but i receieved it through a revelation of jesus
christ.

when i read these passages , it was not immediately clear to me what
every phrase meant. i had stop and think about the possible
connotations of words , what the intent of the author may have been ,
wonder if the translator used the correct english word to convey the
same meaning i had to interpret. if you want to believe that your
are not interpreting scripture as you read , there 's probably nothing
i can say to change your mind. but i think it 's naive to think that
our culture , experiences , education , do not affect everything we read.

also , based on the fact that jesus is the word incarnate and he judges
people if they follow him (see acts 17 29 31 and john 5 21 27) and that
those who reject jesus' teachings are judged by the very words he spoke
(see john 12 47 50) , then jesus' words are true and do not need
interpretation , nor would it be just of god to judge based on his word
if it had to be interpreted.

in college , i took an entire course in biblical interpretation. go to
any christian bookstore , there are scores of books on interpreting and
understanding scripture. if interpretation is unnecessary , there are
an awful lot of misguided christians out there wasting a lot of time
and energy on it.

carol alvin
caralv@auto trol.com

from littlejs@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (jeffrey s little)
subject re revelations babylon \?
reply to littlejs@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (jeffrey s little)
organization computer science department at rose hulman
lines 38

in article apr.21.03.25.41.1993.1322@geneva.rutgers.edu
jbuddenberg@vax.cns.muskingum.edu (jimmy buddenberg) writes

hello all. we are doing a bible study (at my college) on revelations. we
have been doing pretty good as far as getting some sort of reasonable
interpretation. we are now on chapters 17 and 18 which talk about the
woman on the beast and the fall of babylon. i believe the beast is the
antichrist (some may differ but it seems obvious) and the woman represents
babylon which stands for rome or the roman catholic church. what are some
views on this interpretation \? is the falling babylon in chapter 18 the same
babylon in as in chapter 17 \? the catholic church \?
hate to step on toes.
thanks

an interesting interpretation of revelation 17 and 18 has been given by
evangelist david wilkerson. i am not saying that i totally agree with his
interpretation , but it is certainly believable and good food for thought. he
interprets the babylon of revelation 17 18 as being none other than the good
old u. s. of a. that 's right , america. he supports his claim in several ways.
the babylon of revelation is the world leader in trade and commerce , and the
whole world wept when babylon fell. the american dollar , despite the japanese
success of the 20th century , is still the most sought after currency in the
world. if the u.s. were destroyed , would n't the whole world mourn \? the bible
also talks about babylon being a home of harlots , sin , and adultery (i am
paraphrasing , of course). babylon 's sin affected , or should i say , infected ,
the whole world. it does n't take much looking to see that the u.s. is in a
state of moral decay. has n't the american culture and hollywood spread the do
it if it feels good mentality all over the world. i think , though , that what
mr. wilkerson uses as his strongest argument is the fact that revelation calls
babylon babylon the great and portrays it as the most powerful nation on
earth. no matter how dissatisfied you are with the state of our country , i
do n't think you would have too much trouble agreeing that the u.s. is still the
most powerful nation on earth.

again , this interpretation is not necessarily my own , but i do find it worthy
of consideration.

jeffrey little

from mls@panix.com (michael siemon)
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 25

in may.7.01.08.16.1993.14381@athos.rutgers.edu whitsebd@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (bryan whitsell) writes

any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should check
out
romans 1 27
i corinthians 6 9
i timothy 1 10
jude 1 7
ii peter 2 6 9
gen. 19
lev 18 22
(to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality)

homosexual christians have indeed checked out these verses. some of
them are used against us only through incredibly perverse interpretations.
others simply do not address the issues.

you would seem to be more in need of a careful and spirit led course
in exegesis than most of the gay christians i know. i suggest that
you stop proof texting about things you know nothing about.

michael l. siemon i say you are gods , sons of the
mls@panix.com most high , all of you nevertheless
or you shall die like men , and fall
mls@ulysses.att..com like any prince. psalm 82 6 7

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject re pantheism and environmentalism
organization kulikauskas home
lines 31

kevxu@cunyvm.bitnet writes

deleted
first paragraph and the mention of pantheism. is pantheism perverted
and dangerous , or just not one 's cup of tea \? none of this is clear.

i ca n't speak for mr. cavano , but i understood his comment to refer to
the idea that unrecognized pantheism is dangerous to christians. if we
unthinkingly adopt pantheistic ideas that are opposed to christianity ,
we can pervert our faith. when we clearly recognize pantheism when we
encounter it we have the opportunity to embrace what is consistent with
christianity and reject what is n't.

we need to be alert , always thinking and questioning. we must examine
the underlying assumptions of every book we read , tv program we watch
and socio political movement we participate in. ideas are important.
philosophies and doctrines are what give form to the events of our
lives. they are the basis from which we live our lives of love and
service. the command to love god with all one 's mind means no fuzzy
headed drifting from idea to idea.

and that consumerism and our rapacious style of living
are so rarely called by their appropriate name greed.

one christian who acknowledges this is the pope. it is a frequent theme
in his writings. indeed , thoughtful christians from most traditions
recognize that consumerism has no place in the lives of christians. it
too is a perversion and dangerous to our faith. thank you , jack , for
pointing out the parallel.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 22

in a previous article , mhsu@lonestar.utsa.edu (melinda . hsu) says


well the argument usually stops right there. in the end ,
are n't we all just kids , groping for the truth \? if so , do we have
the authority to declare all other beliefs besides our own as
false \?


if i do n't think my belief is right and everyone else 's belief is wrong ,
then i do n't have a belief. this is simply what belief means. where does
the authority for a belief come from \? nowhere , for a belief is itself
authoratative. if i produce authority for a belief , where will i find
authority for my belief in the legitimacy of the authority. in short ,
the mind has to start somewhere. (by the way , the majority of christians ,
i.e. catholics , believe in the authority of the church , and derive the
authority of the bible from its acceptance by the church.)


mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis


from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re serbian genocide work of god \?
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 61

vera shanti noyes writes

this is what indicates to me that you may believe in predestination.
am i correct \? i do not believe in predestination i believe we all
choose whether or not we will accept god 's gift of salvation to us.
again , fundamental difference which ca n't really be resolved.

of course i believe in predestination. it 's a very biblical doctrine as
romans 8.28 30 shows (among other passages). furthermore , the church
has always taught predestination , from the very beginning. but to say
that i believe in predestination does not mean i do not believe in free
will. men freely choose the course of their life , which is also
affected by the grace of god. however , unlike the calvinists and
jansenists , i hold that grace is resistable , otherwise you end up with
the idiocy of denying the universal saving will of god (1 timothy 2.4).
for god must give enough grace to all to be saved. but only the elect ,
who he foreknew , are predestined and receive the grace of final
perserverance , which guarantees heaven. this does not mean that those
without that grace ca n't be saved , it just means that god foreknew their
obstinacy and chose not to give it to them , knowing they would not need
it , as they had freely chosen hell.

people who are saved are saved by the grace of god , and not by their own
effort , for it was god who disposed them to himself , and predestined
them to become saints. but those who perish in everlasting fire perish
because they hardened their heart and chose to perish. thus , they were
deserving of god s punishment , as they had rejected their creator , and
sinned against the working of the holy spirit.

yes , it is up to god to judge. but he will only mete out that
punishment at the last judgement.

well , i would hold that as god most certainly gives everybody some
blessing for what good they have done (even if it was only a little) ,
for those he ca n't bless in the next life , he blesses in this one. and
those he will not punish in the next life , will be chastised in this one
or in purgatory for their sins. every sin incurs some temporal
punishment , thus , god will punish it unless satisfaction is made for it
(cf. 2 samuel 12.13 14 , david 's sin of adultery and murder were
forgiven , but he was still punished with the death of his child.) and i
need not point out the idea of punishment because of god 's judgement is
quite prevelant in the bible. sodom and gommorrah , moses barred from
the holy land , the slaughter of the cannanites , annias and saphira ,
jerusalem in 70 ad , etc.

if jesus stopped the stoning of an adulterous woman (perhaps this is
not a good parallel , but i'm going to go with it anyway) , why should we
not stop the murder and violation of people who may (or may not) be more
innocent \?

we should stop the slaughter of the innocent (cf proverbs 24.11 12) , but
does that mean that christians should support a war in bosnia with the
u.s. or even the u.n. involved \? i do not think so , but i am an
isolationist , and disagree with foreign adventures in general. but in
the case of bosnia , i frankly see no excuse for us getting militarily
involved , it would not be a just war. blessed after all , are the
peacemakers was what our lord said , not the interventionists. our
actions in bosnia must be for peace , and not for a war which is
unrelated to anything to justify it for us.

andy byler

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re prayers and advice requested on family problem
organization indiana university
lines 34

julie , it is a really trying situation that you have described. my
brother was living with someone like that and things were almost as bad
(although he left after a considerably shorter amount of time due to
other problems with the relationship). anyway , the best thing to do
would be to get everyone in the same room together (optimally in a room
with nothing breakable) , lock the door behind you , throw the key out
underneath the door (just as far as the longest hand can reach. you
would like to get out after the conclusion , i would imagine) , and hash
things out. more than likely , there will be screaming , crying , and
possibly hitting (unless of course someone decided to bring some rope to
tie people down). some of the best strategies in keeping things calmer
would include
have each individual own their own statements (ie , i feel that this
relationship is hurting everyone involved because.... or i really do n't
understand where you 're coming from.)
reinforce statements by paraphrasing , etc. (ie , so you think that we
did this because of... \? well , let me just say that the reason for this
was ....)
do n't accuse each other (it was your fault that ... happened ! )
find a common ground about something (lampshades really are
decorational and functional at the same time.)
guaranteed , in a situation like this , there is going to be some
gunnysacking (re hashing topics which were assumed resolved , but were
truly not and someone feels someone else is to blame). however , this
should be kept to a minimum and simply ask for forgiveness or apologize
about each situation without holding a smoldering grudge.

the relationship really can work. it 's just a matter of keeping things
smooth and even. it 's sort of like making a peace treaty between
warring factions you ca n't give one side everything there must be a
compromise. breaks can be taken , but communication between everyone
involved must continue if the relationships here are to survive.

joe fisher

from hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 8

in article apr.22.00.57.03.1993.2118@geneva.rutgers.edu jprzybyl@skidmore.edu (jennifer przybylinski) writes
i may be wrong , but was n't jeff fenholt part of black sabbath \?

yes , he was. he also played jesus in jesus christ superstar before
he became a christian. he played in black sabbath right after he first
got saved , but then left it.

link hudson.

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject the nicene creed (was re major views of the trinity)
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 152

michael bushnell writes

the so called creed of athanasius , however , has always been a western
creed , and has always had the filioque. the orthodox have said that
they accept all that it says , with the exception of the filioque , but
it is not in use.

which is exactly what i pointed out. (though i was wrong about your use
of the creed , the 1913 catholic encylcopedia in which i read about it
said the orthodox do use the creed minus the filioque. apparently that
has changed.) the athanasian creed has always had the filioque , the
nicene constantinopolitan did not.
of course the orthodox did not delete the filioque from the nicene
creed (it was n't there to begin with) , but they certainly did from the
athanasian creed , which did have it from the beginning.
i might point out that the whole problem started over the difference in
ways of explaining the generation of the blessed trinity , the east
emphasizing the idea of the holy spirit proceeding from the father
through the son , and the west using proceeding from the father and the
son. in fact , some , such as tertullian , used both formulations (see
below)

following , therefore , the form of these examples , i profess that i do
call god and his word , the father and and his son , two. for the
root and the stem are two things , but conjoined the fountain and the
river are two kinds , but indivisible the sun and the ray are two forms ,
but coherent ones. anything which proceeds from another must
necessarily be a second to that from which it proceeds but it is not on
that account separated from it. where there is second , however , there
are two and where ther is third , there are three. the spirit , then , is
third from god and the son , just as the third from the root is the fruit
of the stem , and third from the fountain is the stream from the river ,
and thrid from the sun is the apex of the ray.
tertullian , against praxeas , 8 , 5 (about 213 ad)

and

i believe that the spirit proceeds not otherwise than from the father
through the son
tertullian , against praxeas , 4 , 1 (about 213 ad)

and as st. thomas showed in his summa theologica part 1 , question 36 ,
articles 2 and 3 , there is no contradiction between the two methods of
generation , and in fact , the two methods of reckoning the procession
emphasize what st. augustine , among others taught , that the holy spirit
proceeds from the father and the son , but he proceeds from the father in
a more preeminent way.

for whatever the son has , he has from the father , certainly he has it
from the father that the holy spirit proceeds from him ... for the
father alone is not from another , for which reason he alone is called
unbegotten , not , indeed , in the scriptures , but in the practice of
theologians , and of those who employ such terms as they are able in a
matter so great. the son , however , is born of the father and the holy
spirit proceeds principally from the father , and since the father gives
to the son all that he has without any interval of time , the holy spirit
proceeds jointly from both father and son. he would be called son of
the father and of the son if , which is abhorent to everyone of sound
mind , they had both begotten him. the spirit was not begotten by each ,
however , but proceeds from each and both.
st. augustine of hippo , the trinity , 15 , 26 , 47 (400 to 416 ad)

so , in a sense , all of the formulations are correct (to the west at
least) , because the holy spirit proceeds from both father and son , but
in proceeding from the son , the orgin of that procession is the
procession from the father , so the holy spirit is proceeding from the
father through the son , but as all that the son has is from the father ,
the holy spirit can be said to proceed from the father , without any
mention of the son being necessary.
in any case , i am happy to know that i follow in the beliefs of pope
st. leo i , st. fulgence of ruspe , st. cyril of alexandria , pope st.
damsus i , st. augustine of hippo , st. epiphanius of salamis , st. ambrose
of milan , st. hilary of poitiers , tertullian , and others among the
fathers , who all have very quotable quotes supporting the catholic
position , which i enunciated above.
as for the issue of the adoption of another creed being forbidden , i
will point out that the holy fathers of ephesus and chalcedon both spoke
of the creed of nicea in their statement forbidding anyone to produce ,
write , or compose a confession of faith other than the one defined by
the fathers of nicea. that creed is a different creed than that of
constantinople , which is commonly called the nicene creed. not of
course in that they were condemning the adoption of the
constantinopolitan creed , which is but an enlargement upon the creed of
nicea , but that they were condemning the impious opinions of nestorious ,
who had adopted a radically different creed from the one used by the
church , which among other things denied the procession of the holy
spirit form the son. thus , the additions of the constantinopolitan
creed were not thought to be in violation of this , and as the council
chalcedon also affirmed the doctrine of the procession of the holy
spirit from the son , which nestorius denied , they could hardly have been
against explaining in a fuller way the creed , for they themselves
approved of previous additions to it. and if the further explanations
of the creed made in constantinople were not denigrating of the work
done by the holy fathers of nicea or in any way heretical , it follows
that the council of toledo was fully able to add what was not disputed
by the faithful to the creed so as to combat the impieties of the arians
in spain , because the filioque was not in dispute in the church until
many years later under photius and others. and that the filioque was
not disputed , i provide more quotes below.

since the holy spirit when he is in us effects our being conformed to
god , and he actually proceeds from the father and son , it is abundantly
clear that he is of the divine essence , in it in essence and proceeding
from it.
st. cyril of alexandria , the treasury of the holy and consubstantial
trinity , thesis 34 , (423 425 ad)

the holy spirit is not of the father only , or of the son only , but he
is the spirit of the father and the son. for it is written `if anyone
loves the world , the spirit of the father is not in him' and again it
is written `if anyone , however , does not have the spirit of christ , he
is none of his.' when the father and the son are named in this way , the
holy spirit is understood , of whom the son himself says in the gospel ,
that the holy spirit `proceeds from the father , ' and that `he shall
receive of mine and shall announce it to you.'
pope st. damasus i , the decree of damasus , 1 (382 ad)

the only begotten holy spirit has neither the name of the son nor the
appelation of father , but is called holy spirit , and is not foreign to
the father. for the only begotten himself calls him `the spirit of the
father , ' and says of him the `he proceeds from the father , ' and `will
receive of mine , ' so that he is reckoned as not being foreign to the
son , but is of their same substance , of the same godhead he is spirit
divine , ... of god , and he is god. for he is spirit of god , spirit of
the father , and spirit of the son , not by some kind of synthesis , like
soul and body in us , but in the midst of father and son of the father
and of the son , a third by appelation....
the father always existed and the son always existed , and the spirit
breathes from the father and the son and neither is the son created nor
is the spirit created.
st. epiphanius of salamis (which is on cyprus) , the man well anchored ,
8 and 75 (374 ad)

concerning the holy spirit , i ought not to remain silent , nor yet is
it necessary to speak. still , on account of those who do not know him ,
it is not possible for me to be silent. however it is necessary to
speak of him who must be acknowledged , who is from the father and the
son , his sources.
st. hilary of poitiers , the trintiy , 2 , 29 (356 to 359 ad)

thus , as i have pointed out before , gaul , spain , italy , africa , egypt ,
palastine , and the lands of the greeks , all of christnedom at that time ,
all have fathers who can be cited to show that they confess the doctrine
expressed by the filioque. i suggest to those of the orthodox church
that they come up with some of the fathers , besides st. john of damascus
who all will admit denied the filioque , to support their views. it is
not enough to bring up the proceeds from the father line of the creed
or the gospel of john , for that says what we believe also. but it does
not say the holy spirit does not proceed from the son , only that he does
proceed from the father.

andy byler

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re divine providence vs. murphy 's law
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 19

in article apr.19.05.13.28.1993.29224@athos.rutgers.edu rolfe@junior.dsu.edu (tim rolfe) writes
romans 8 28 (rsv) we know that in everything god works for good with those
who love him , who are called according to his purpose.

murphy 's law if anything can go wrong , it will.

we are all quite familiar with the amplifications and commentary on
murphy 's law. but how do we harmonize that with romans 8 28 \? for that
matter , how appropriate is humor contradicted by scripture \?


i 've always taken murphy 's law to be an exhortation to prudence , and
an observation about the behavior of complex systems , rather than a
denial of divine benevolence.

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization none
lines 240

larry l. overacker writes , responding to simon

i may be interesting to see some brief selections posted to the
net. my understanding is that sspx does not consider itself in
schism or legitimately excommunicated. but that 's really beside
the point. what does the roman catholic church say \?
excommunication can be real apart from formal excommunication , as
provided for in canon law.

here 's some of the theology involved for the interested.

there is confusion over this issue of the sspx 's schism often the
basic problem is lack of an ability to distinguish between

true obedience
false obedience
disobedience
schism

take the various classifications of obedience first. there are 2
important elements involved here for my purposes

1) a command
2) the response made to the command

as far as the command goes , commands can be legitimate , such as the
pope ordering catholics to not eat meat on fridays. or they can be
illegitimate , such as the pope ordering catholics to worship the god
dagon when every other full moon comes around.

as far as the response to a command goes , it can be to refuse to do
what is commanded , or to comply.

making a table , there are thus 4 possibilites

command response name

legitimate comply true obedience
illegitimate refuse true obedience
legitimate refuse disobedience
illegitimate comply false obedience

so now you see where my 3 classifications of obedience come from.

obedience is not solely a matter of compliance refusal. the nature of
the commands must also be taken into account it is not enough to
consider someone 's compliance or refusal and then say whether they are
obedient or disobedient . you also have to take into consideration
whether the commands are good or bad.

in my example , if the pope commands all catholics to worship the god
dagon , and they all refuse , they are n't being disobedient at all !

as far as the society of saint pius x goes , they are certainly
refusing to comply with certain things the pope desires. but that
alone is insufficient to allow one to label them disobedient . you
also have to consider the nature of the papal desires.

and there 's the rub sspx says the popes since vatican ii have been
commanding certain very bad things for the church. the popes have of
course disagreed.

so where are we \? are we in another arian heresy , complete with weak
popes \? or are the sspx priests modern martin luthers \? well , the only
way to answer that is to examine who is saying what , and what the
traditional teaching of the church is.

the problem here is that very few catholics have much of an idea of
what is really going on , and what the issues are. the religion of
american catholics is especially defective in intellectual depth. you
will never read about the issues being discussed in the catholic press
in this country. (on the other hand , one italian catholic magazine i
get 30 days has had interviews with the superior general of the
society of saint pius x.)

many catholics will decide to side with the pope. there is some
soundness in this , because the papacy is infallible , so eventually
some pope will straighten all this out. but , on the other hand ,
there is also unsoundness in this , in that , in the short term , the
popes may indeed be wrong , and such catholics are doing nothing to
help the situation by obeying them where they 're wrong. in fact , if
the situation is grave enough , they sin in obeying him. at the very
least , they 're wasting a great opportunity , because they are failing
to love christ in a heroic way at the very time that he needs this
badly.

schism... let 's move on to schism. what is it \?

schism is a superset of disobedience (refusal to obey a legitimate
command). all schismatics are disobedient. but it 's a superset , so
it does n't work the other way around not all disobeyers are
schismatics. the mere fact that the sspx priests do n't comply with
the holy father 's desires does n't make them schismatics.

so what is it that must be added to disobedience to constitute a
schism \? maybe this something else makes the sspx priests schismatics.

you must add this the rejection of the right to command. look in any
decent reference on catholic theology , and that 's what you 'll find
the distinguishing criterion of schism is rejection of the right to
command.

here 's what the catholic encyclopedia says , for example

... not every disobedience is a schism in order to possess this
character it must include besides the trangression of the commands
of superiors , denial of their divine right to command.
(from the ce article schism )

is the society of saint pius x then schismatic \? the answer is a clear
no they say that the pope is their boss. they pray for him every
day. and that 's all that matters as far as schism goes.

what all this boils down to is this if we leave aside the
consideration of the exact nature of their objections , their position
is a legitimate one , as far as the catholic theology of obedience and
schism goes. they are resisting certain papal policies because they
think that they are clearly contrary to the traditional teaching of
the papacy , and the best interests of the church. (in fact , someone
who finds himself in this situation has a duty to resist.)

now , what is the stance of rome on all this \? well , if you read the
holy father 's motu proprio ecclesia dei , you can find out. it 's the
definitive document on the subject. a motu proprio is a specifically
papal act. it 's not the product of a roman congregation , a letter
that the pope has possibly never even read. it 's from the pope
himself. his boss is god... there 's no one else to complain to.

in this document , the holy father says , among other things

1) the episcopal consecrations performed by archbishop lefebvre
constituted a schismatic act.

2) archbishop lefebvre 's problem was a misunderstanding of the nature
of tradtion.

both are confusing i fail to see the logic of the pope 's points.

as far as the episcopal consecrations go , i read an interesting
article in a translation of the italian magazine si si no no . it
all gets back to the question of jurisdiction. if episcopal
consecrations imply rejection of the pope 's jurisdiction , then they
would truly constitute a schismatic act , justifying excommunication
under the current code of canon law. but my problem with this is
this according to the traditional theology of holy orders , episcopal
consecration does not confer jurisdiction. it only confers the power
of order the ability to confect the sacraments. jurisdiction must be
conferred by someone else with the power to confer it (such as the
pope). the society bishops , knowing the traditional theology quite
well , take great pains to avoid any pretence of jurisdiction over
anyone. they simply confer those sacraments that require a bishop.

the si si no no article was interesting in that it posited that the
reason that the pope said what he did is that he has a novel ,
post vatican ii idea of holy orders. according to this idea ,
episcopal consecration does confer jurisdiction. i lent the article
to a friend , unfortunately , so ca n't tell you more. i believe they
quoted the new code of canon law in support of this idea.

the pope 's thinking on this point remains a great puzzle to me.
there 's no way there is a schism , according to traditional catholic
theology. so why does the pope think this \?

as far as the points regarding the nature of tradition goes , here 's
the passage in question

the root of this schismatic act can be discerned in an incomplete
and contradictory notion of tradtion. incomplete , because it does
not take sufficiently into the account the living character of
tradition , which , as the second vatican council clearly taught ,

comes from the apostles and progresses in the church with the
help of the holy spirit. there is a growth in insight into
the realities and words that are being passed on. this comes
about in various ways. it comes through the contemplation and
study of believers who ponder these things in their hearts.
it comes from the intimate sense of spiritual realities which
they experience. and it comes from the preaching of those who
have received , along with their right of succession in the
espiscopate , the sure charism of truth.

but especially contradictory is a notion of tradition which
opposes the universal magisterium of the church possessed by the
bishop of rome and the body of bishops. it is impossible to
remain faithful to the tradition while breaking the ecclesial bond
with him to whom , in the person of the apostle peter , christ
himself entrusted the ministry of unity in his church.

(papal motu proprio ecclesia dei , 2 july 1988)

it seems to me that the holy father is making two points here that can
be simplified to the following

vatican council ii has happened.
i am the pope.

the argument being that either case is sufficient to prove that
archbishop lefebvre must be wrong , because he disagrees with them.
this is weak , to say the least !

it would have helped clarify things more if the pope had addressed
archbishop lefebvre 's concerns in detail. what is john paul ii 's
stand on the social kingship of christ , as taught by gregory xvi , pius
ix , leo xiii , pius xi and pius xii , for example \? are we supposed to
ignore what all these popes said on the subject \?

i do n't know what the future will hold , but the powers that be in the
sspx are still talking with rome and trying to straighten things out.



many people would prefer to call a justified refusal to obey
justified disobedience or even obeying god rather than man .
calling a refusal to obey obedience puts us into a sort of alice in
wonderland world where words mean whatever we want them to mean.

similarly , schism indicates a formal break in the church. if the pope
says that a schism exists , it seems to me that by definition it
exists. it may be that the pope is on the wrong side of the break ,
that there is no good reason for the break to exist , and that it will
shortly be healed. but how can one deny that it does in fact exist \?

it seems to me that you are in grave danger of destroying the thing
you are trying to reform the power of the papacy. what good will it
do you if you become reconciled to the the pope in the future , but in
the process , you have destroyed his ability to use the tools of church
discipline \? it 's one thing to hold that the pope has misused his
powers , and excommunicated someone wrongly. it 's something else to
say that his excommunication did not take effect , and the schism is
all in his imagination. that means that acts of church discipline are
not legal tools , but acts whose validity is open to debate. generally
it has been liberal catholics who have had problems with the pope.
while they have often objected to church sanctions , generally they
have admitted that the sanctions exist. you are now opening the door
to people simply ignoring papal decisions , claiming to be truly
obeying by disobeying , and to be in communion while excommunicated.
this would seem to be precisely the denial of divine right to command
that you say defines schism.

clh

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 39

phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au writes

in article apr.13.00.08.07.1993.28379@athos.rutgers.edu , aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker) writes

this is not true. the athiest 's position is that there is no proof of the
existence of god. as much as some people accept their church , their priests
or straight from their own scriptures as the proof , this does not
satisfy atheists.

you have n't fully explained the atheist position. many theists believe that
there is no proof of the existence of god but choose to believe in him
anyway. i have n't yet found an argument for atheism that ca n't quickly be
broken down to unprovable assumptions. this is n't a problem with me (everybody
needs to have a faith) but if you believe that you can provide a purely
logical argument for the nonexistence of god , i 'd really like to see it.

are you asking us to believe blindly \? you are trying to deny that part of
us that makes us ask the question does god exist \? i.e. self awareness and
reason. if we do not use our ability to reason we become as ignorant
as the other animals on this earth. does god want us to be like that \?

you are right that science and reason cannot prove anything. however , if
we do not use them we can only then believe on faith alone. and since
we can only use faith , why is one picture of god (e.g. hinduism) any less
valid than another (e.g. christianity) \?

ahh...but when you use science and reason , you have faith in certain beliefs
of the scientific method for example

the physical laws of the universe are stable.
our observations of reality are a valid basis for a determination of truth.
objective reality exists.
logical argument is a valid way to answer all questions.

can you prove any of these \?

alan terlep ...and the scorpion says , 'it 's
oakland university , rochester , mi in my nature.'
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu

from weaver@chdasic.sps.mot.com (dave weaver)
subject re assurance of hell
lines 29

in a previous article , lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard) writes

did you know that jesus talked more
about hell than he did about heaven !

thank you for this info. what respect i had for the man now
has been diminished tenfold. i promise never again to
say how wise or loving this man was...

i have a hard time understanding this attitude.

if the gospels are the least bit accurate , then there can be little
doubt that jesus belived hell was a reality.

as a teacher , what would be the wise and loving thing to do if people
in your audience were headed there \? to warn them ! it would , however ,
be rather cruel and or sadistic to believe that such a place exists
and then remain quiet about it.

the only scenario i can envision in which dimished respect would be
justified is if jesus knew there was no such place as hell , and spoke
about it anyway , just to scare people. unless you would accuse jesus
of this , i would encourage you to reconsider what a loving response
is when you perceive someone to be in danger.


dave weaver he is no fool who gives what
weaver@chdasic.sps.mot.com he cannot keep to gain what he
cannot lose. jim elliot (1949)

from sun075 ! gerry.palo@uunet.uu.net (gerry palo)
subject re christianity and repeated lives
lines 84

in article may.5.02.52.15.1993.28800@athos.rutgers.edu jek@cu.nih.gov writes
gerry palo writes

...there is nothing in christianity that precludes the idea of
repeated lives on earth.

the apostle paul (romans 9 11) points out that god chose jacob
rather than esau to be the ancestor of the covenant people and
ultimately of the messiah , and that he made this choice while the
two boys were still in their mother 's womb , and therefore could not
possibly have done anything good or evil to deserve their appointed
destinies. if we admit the possibility that they had lived previous
lives , and that (in accordance with the asiatic idea of karma )
their present lives are a reward or punishment for past behaviour ,
this makes nonsense of paul 's whole point.


the existence of repeated earth lives and destiny (karma) does not
mean that everything that happens is predetermined by past deeds.
there is an oriental view of it that tends in that direction , but i
did not subscribe to that view. god may choose one individual over
another as the fit instrument for his plans , but that does not
preclude that the development of that individual into what he is in
this earthly life is not the result of a longer course of development.

i do not , and rudolf steiner did not , subscribe to the oriental view
of an inexorable , mechanistic karma determining everything that
befalls one. this is a kind of shriveled caricature of a much greater
law in the context of which the deed of christ on golgotha and the
ultimate salvation and freedom of the human being as a working of
christ can be seen as the master theme and , indeed , a new impulse that
was completely free of karma. christ incarnated only once in the
flesh , and in that he had no debt of karma or sin. the oriental
concepts of reincarnation and karma , which are even more trivialized
and mechanized in some new age teachings , incorrectly assume jesus
christ to have been the reincarnation of a master. avatar , etc.
their teaching of reincarnation and karma also has no concept the
continuing individuality from one life to the next (e.g. buddhism).
more important , they have no concept of the resurrection of the body ,
the ultimate continuity of the whole human being to ultimate
resurrection and judgement on the last day.

there is another biblical passage that also has a bearing. it is the
tenth chapter of john , devoted almost entirely to the man born blind.
clearly here , jesus tells the disciples that it was not his past karma
or that of his parents that led to his blindness , but rather that a
new impulse is to be revealed through him. but note that he does not
refute the disciples' question. in fact , they ask it as a matter of
course , the question being stated as if it were self evident that only
one of two possibilities existed it was either the sins of the man
himself , obviously not in this incarnation , or the sins of his
parents. the fact that they even asked about the first possibility at
all indicates an awareness of the idea on their part and the form of
christ 's answer indicates that he did not disagree with it.

there is also matthew 11 14 , where jesus says straight out about john
the baptist ,

if you care to accept it , he himself is elias , who was to come.

this also emphasizes that the gospels do not have a positive teaching
either way about reincarnation or , in fact , about what happens to
the human being at all between death and the last day. even jesus did
not push this teaching on people who were not ready to embrace it ( if
you care to accept it ). so i took care to point out , not that the
bible teaches reincarnation but that it does not deny it either , and
that much in both scripture and fundamental christian doctrine becomes
understandable if reincarnation is understood in the right way. i
pointedly used repeated earth lives to distinguish a little from the
oriental doctrines usually associated with the word reincarnation .
the phrase is rudolf steiner 's (wiederholte erdenleben). he noted too
that the idea needed to arise as a new insight in the west , completely
free from eastern tradition. it did in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries , the most important expression of it being lessing 's the
education of the human race .

to return to your original point , paul 's statement about jacob and
esau does not contradict the idea of repeated earth lives and karma.
and both of these principles receive their fulfillment in the
incarnation , death , and resurrection , ascension and return of jesus
christ , in my view.

regards ,
gerry palo (73237.2006@compuserve.com)

from uad1126@tdc.dircon.co.uk (robert palmer)
subject christian parenting
lines 40

hi i am a sociology student and i am currently researching into
young offenders. i am looking at the way various groups of
children are raised at home. at the moment i am formlulating
information on discipline within the christian home.

please , if you are a parent in this catagory can you email me
your response to the following questionaire. all responses
will be treated confidentially and will only be used to prepare
stats.

1. ages sexes of children

2. do you spank your kids \?

3. if so how often \?

4. do you use an implement to spank with \?


5. if you do not spank , what method of discipline do you use \?

6. your age \?

7. your location

8. while under the age of 16 did you ever commit a criminal
offence \?

9. how ere you disciplined as a kid


thank you in advance for any reply you can make. please e mail
your replies rather than post them on the newsgroup

i hope it is obvious that responses to this question are likely to
have serious problems when used for research purposes. our readers
are not likely to be a random sample of christians , and this form does
not contain enough information to act as a stratified sample. perhaps
someone who is familiar with research methods might want to correspond
with him. clh

from mdbs@ms.uky.edu (no name)
subject tuff to be a christian \?
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 63

bissda@saturn.wwc.edu (dan lawrence bissell) writes

i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. it
is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. rather i think it
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's
sake. he loved us enough to die and save us so we should do the

typical statement from an irrational and brainwashed person.
the bible was written by some male chavnist thousands of years ago
(as were all of the holy books). follow the parts that you think are
suitable for modern life. ignore the others. for heaven 's ( ! ) sake do n't
take it literally.

same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a

real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but

so you think it is easy to be a muslim \? or be a buddhist \?
the buddha 's commandments are 500 yrs older than christ 's and in
my opinion tougher to follow. moreover the buddha says that we are
intrinsically good (as against christ 's we are all sinners ).
only we allow ourselves to be distracted. by meditating we can awaken
ourselves (etc etc). also there is no concept of god in buddhism.
(in my opinion you can be an atheist and a buddhist).
but to awaken yourself is no easy task. can you stay away from eating meat \?
can you sit still and think of nothing (meditate) for sometime everyday \?
buddhists do (or are supposed to). can you pray five times a day \?
can you fast for a month every year (ramzan). are you willing
to give 1 6 th of your income as tithe \? muslims do. in fact i think
jesus was an ordinary man (just as buddha and mohamed) probably with a
philosopy ahead of the times (where he lived).
considering the fact that christianity is a young religion
(compared to hindiusm , judaism , zorasterism , buddihsm) it is also very
probable that the bible is merely a collection of borrowed ideas.
(there was a good deal of trade between the eastern lands and the
middle east at the time of christ).
and perhaps some more. but leave the crap in it out ( woman was created
after man , to be his helper etc).
aras



just like weight lifting or guitar playing , drums , whatever it takes
time. we do n't rush it in one day , christianity is your whole life.
it is not going to church once a week , or helping poor people once in
a while. we box everything into time units. such as work at this
time , sports , tv , social life. god is above these boxes and should be

when ever i turn on my tv there is this pat robertson and
other brain washers (oh boy , what an act they put on ! ) with an
1 800 number to turn in your pledges.
god it seems is alive and well inside these boxes.

carried with us into all these boxes that we have created for
ourselves.


parting question
would you have become a christian if you had not
been indoctrinated by your parents \? you probably never learned about
any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
you are brain washed.

from sbuckley@sfu.ca (stephen buckley)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 22

dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) writes


unfaithfully yours ,

pixie


p.s. if you do sincerely believe that a god exists , why do you follow
it blindly \?

do the words question authority mean anything to you \?

i defy any theist to reply.

o.k. i do n't follow god blindly . once , long ago , i questioned authority
to such a rabid point that i found question authority reject authority
unquestioningly. i question authority all the time. but to forever
question is fruitless...eventually we have to consider whether there are
answers to the questions , whether the authority say , the bible in this
case has validity. basically to question authority does not necessarily
mean reject authority.

from sciysg@nusunix1.nus.sg (yung shing gene)
subject mission aviation fellowship
organization national university of singapore
lines 3

hi ,
does anyone know anything about this group and what they
do \? any info would be appreciated. thanks !

from jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john e murray)
subject quality of catholic liturgy
organization the ohio state university
lines 37

i would like the opinion of netters on a subject that has been bothering my
wife and me lately liturgy , in particular , catholic liturgy. in the last few
years it seems that there are more and more ad hoc events during mass. it 's
driving me crazy ! the most grace filled aspect of a liturgical tradition is
that what happens is something we all do together , because we all know how to
do it. led by the priest , of course , which makes it a kind of dialogue we
present to god. but the best masses i 've been to were participatory prayers.

lately , i think the proportion of participation has fallen , and the proportion
of sitting there and watching , or listening , or generally being told what to do
(which is necessary because no one knows what 's happening next) is growing.
example. last sunday (palm sunday) we went to the local church. usually
on palm sunday , the congregation participates in reading the passion , taking
the role of the mob. the theology behind this seems profound when we say
crucify him we mean it. we did it , and if he came back today we 'd do it
again. it always gives me chills. but last week we were invited to sit
during the gospel ( passion) and listen . besides the orwellian invitation ,
i was really saddened to have my (and our) little role taken away. this seems
typical of a shift of participation away from the people , and toward the
musicians , readers , and so on. new things are introduced in the course of the
liturgy and since no one knows what 's happening , the new things have to be
explained , and pretty soon instead of doing a lot of the mass we 're just
sitting there listening (or spacing out , in my case) to how the mass is about
to be done. in my mind , i lay the blame on liturgy committees made up of lay
experts , but that may not be just. i do think that a liturgy committee has a
bias toward doing something rather than nothing that 's just a fact of
bureaucratic life even though a simpler liturgy may in fact make it easier for
people to be aware of the lord 's presence.

so we 've been wondering are we the oddballs , or is the quality of the mass
going down \? i do n't mean that facetiously. we go to mass every thursday or
friday and are reminded of the power of a very simple liturgy to make us aware
of god 's presence. but as far as the obligatory sunday masses...maybe i should
just offer it up ) has anyone else noticed declining congregational
participation in catholic masses lately \?

john murray

from darndt@nic.gac.edu (david arndt)
subject johnny hart 's (b.c. comic strip) mailing address \?
organization gustavus adolphus college
lines 17

subject pretty much says it all i'm looking for johnny hart 's (creator
of the b.c. comic stip) mailing address.

for those of you who have n't seen them , take a look at his strips for good
friday and easter sunday. remarkable witness !

if anyone can help me get in touch with him , i 'd really appreciate it !
i 've contacted the paper that carries his strip and they 'll get back to
me with it !

thanks for your help ,

dave arndt
st. peter 's evangelical lutheran church
st. peter , mn 56082

darndt@nic.gac.edu

from miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
subject re ancient books
organization university of kansas academic computing services
lines 20

in article apr.11.01.02.37.1993.17787@athos.rutgers.edu , atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes

i do n't think it 's possible to convince atheists of the validity of
christianity through argument. we have to help foster faith and an
understanding of god. i could be wrong are there any former atheists here
who were led to christianity by argument \?

this is an excellent question and i 'll be anxious to see if there are
any such cases. i doubt it. in the medieval period (esp. 10th cent.
when aquinas flourished) argument was a useful tool because everyone
knew the rules. today , when you ca n't count on people knowing even
the basics of logic or seeing through rhetoric , a good argument is
often indistinguishable from a poor one.

sorry just one of my perennial gripes...

ken

miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu nobody can explain everything to everybody.
opinions are my own g. k. chesterton

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double standard \?
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 26

in article apr.10.05.33.25.1993.14413@athos.rutgers.edu jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes
seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson) writes

in quebec french , the word for the celebration of the resurrection is
pa ques this is etymologically related to pesach (passover) and the
pascal lamb. so is the french canadian (mostly roman catholic) celebration
better because it uses the right name \?

i was at my parents' seder and noticed the labelling on one of the
packages was english , hebrew and french. in the phrase kosher for
passover the french word used was pa ques. we 've deliberately
mistranslated this at the kulikauskas home and keep referring to foods
being kosher for easter. )

however , the word pa ques in french is the word for easter. ask
any francophone , whether from quebec or from paris. besides , have n't
you heard of the phrase the paschal lamb (meaning jesus) \?

sorry to nitpick on the more trivial part of this thread....

) vera

i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes
i am your religion ! the strong name of the noye@midway.uchicago.edu
i own you ! trinity.... no disclaimer what
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim \?

from reid@cs.uiuc.edu (jon reid)
subject re prophetic warning to new york city
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 66

evensont@spot.colorado.edu (evenson thomas randall) writes

yes , i suppose it is true that people make mistakes. it is interesting to
note that in those long ago ot days , if you were n't 100 correct in
your prophecies , people got very mad and you were no longer believed ,
even put to death.

this is one of the differences between ot prophecy and nt prophecy. in the
nt , it is expected that when believers gather ,
people will prophesy
the prophecy must be judged (1 cor 14 29)
there is nothing about killing someone who makes a mistake.

to say that we make mistakes is true. to say that we make mistakes
while filled with the spirit is not true. were that true , the entire
bible , having been written by men inspired by god would be subject also
to those errors , for what is prophecy but like those revelations given
in scripture \?

scripture is scripture there is no gift of scripture . and i do n't know
about you , but i know that i have made mistakes while filled with the
spirit. if you do n't give grace to allow people to make mistakes , they
will never grow in the use of the spiritual gifts !

when we minister in my small group , i encourage people to speak out any
impressions or images they think might be from the lord. only by trying
will they know whether they were right or wrong and in either case ,
they 'll have a better handle on it the next time.

did n't you fall when you were learning to ride a bicycle \? but you kept on
trying , and you learned both from your failures and your successes.
spiritual gifts are no different you get better with experience.

which brings me around to asking an open question. is the bible a closed
book of scripture \? is it okay for us to go around saying god told
me this and jesus told me that \? would n't that imply that god is still
pouring out new revelation to us \? i know that some people will feel
that is okay , and some will not. the concept of a closed canon would
certainly cast a shadow on contemporary prophets. on the other hand ,
an open canon seems to be indicated sometimes.

the canon of scripture is complete. does this mean that god no longer
speaks \? i have heard his voice not audibly (though some have) , but
clearly nonetheless. is what i heard equivalent to scripture \? no. i have
never heard contemporary prophets claim that what they receive from the
lord is on the same level as scripture on the contrary , those who are
mature obey the scriptures by submitting their prophecies to fellow
believers for judgement. and the most reliable yardstick for judging
prophecies is , certainly , the scriptures themselves. the canon is closed
but god is not silent !

also interesting to note is that some so called prophecies are nothing new
but rather an inspired translation of scripture. is it right to call
that prophecy \? misleading \? would n't that be more having to do with
knowledge \? i know , the gift of knowledge may not be as exciting to
talk about , but should n't we call a horse a horse \?

does it matter what it is called \? the question is not how to label it , but
how to receive it. words of knowledge , incidentally , are similar to
prophecy (and sometimes the two overlap) , but generally it is supernatural
knowledge of some fact that could not be known otherwise.


jon reid he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep
reid@cs.uiuc.edu to gain what he cannot lose. jim elliot


from aaronc@athena.mit.edu (aaron bryce cardenas)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 45

news@cbnewsk.att.com writes
arrogance is arrogance. it is not the result of religion , it is the result
of people knowing or firmly believing in an idea and one 's desire to show
others of one 's rightness. i assume that god decided to be judge for our
sake as much as his own , if we allow him who is kind and merciful be the
judge , we 'll probably be better off than if others judged us or we judged
ourselves.

1 cor 11 31 32 but if we judged ourselves , we would not come under judgment.
when we are judged by the lord , we are being discipled so
that we will not be condemned with the world.

1 cor 5 3 even though i am not physically present , i am with you in spirit.
and i have already passed judgment on the one who did this , just as if i were
present.

1 cor 2 15 16 the spiritual man makes judgments about all things , but he
himself is not subject to any man 's judgement 'for
who has known the mind of the lord that he may instruct him \? ' but we have the
mind of christ.

jude 14 15 enoch , the seventh from adam , prophesied about these men 'see ,
the lord is coming with thousands upon thousands of his holy ones to judge
everyone , and to convict all the ungodly of all
the ungodly acts they have done in the ungodly way , and of all the harsh words
ungodly sinners have spoken against him.'

arrogance is a sin. although a desire to show others of one 's rightness may
be a sign of arrogance in some cases , it may be only a sign that they are
following the bible in others

jude 22 23 be merciful to those who doubt snatch others from the fire and
save them to others show mercy , mixed with fear hating even
the clothing stained by corrupted flesh.


if i find someone arrogant , i typically do n't have anything to do with them.

i hope you do n't find me arrogant , then. this sounds like a bad practice
ignoring what certain people say because you perceive them as arrogant.

james 1 19 my dear brothers , take note of this everyone should be quick to
listen , slow to speak and slow to become angry ,

aaron

from tedr@athena.cs.uga.edu (ted kalivoda)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization university of georgia ucns
lines 32

in article apr.19.05.13.48.1993.29266@athos.rutgers.edu ,
kempmp@phoenix.oulu.fi (petri pihko) wrote

jason smith (jasons@atlastele.com) wrote

another answer is that god is the source of all existence.
this sounds much better , but i am tempted to ask does god
himself exist , then \? if god is the source of his own existence ,
it can only mean that he has , in terms of human time , always
existed. but this is not the same as the source of all existence.
this argument sounds like god does not exist , but meta exists ,
and from his meta existent perspective , he created existence.
i think this is actually a nonsolution , a mere twist of words.

always existing and being the source of the existence of all other beings
is not problematic.

but , as you put , being the source of all existence , including one 's own ,
would mean that god came from nothing , a concept alien to christianity and
theism. it is better to understand the classical concepts of necessary and
contingent existence. god exists necessarily , always. god created
contingent beings. this is a coherent solution to existence , so long as
the concept of god is coherent.

the best answer i have heard is that human reasoning is incapable
of understanding such questions. being an atheist myself , i do not
accept such answers , since i do not have any other methods.

not a very good answer. if reason cannot by any means understand something
then it is likely that it is a null concept , something not in reality.

ted kalivoda

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary , the catechist)
subject re assurance of hell
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 13

in article apr.21.03.26.39.1993.1370@geneva.rutgers.edu lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard) writes

a god who must motivate through fear is not a god worthy of worship.
if the god jesus spoke of did indeed exist he would not need hell to

the reason for the existence of hell is justice. fear is only an effect
of the reality of hell.


boundary , the catechist

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , vulgata latina)

from tbrent@ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent)
subject am i going to hell \?
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 12

i have stated before that i do not consider myself an atheist , but
definitely do not believe in the christian god. the recent discussion
about atheists and hell , combined with a post to another group (to the
effect of 'you will all go to hell') has me interested in the consensus
as to how a god might judge men. as a catholic , i was told that a jew ,
buddhist , etc. might go to heaven , but obviously some people do not
believe this. even more see atheists and pagans (i assume i would be
lumped into this category) to be hellbound. i know you believe only
god can judge , and i do not ask you to , just for your opinions.

thanks ,
tim

from vek@allegra.att.com (van kelly)
subject re prayer in jesus' name
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill , nj , usa
lines 39

according to what i have read on biblical idioms , speaking in x 's
name is a standard aramaic hebrew legal idiom for what we today
would call power of attorney. a person from jesus' culture authorized
to conduct business in john 's name had full authority over john 's
financial affairs , but was held under a solemn fiduciary obligation to
work only for john 's benefit and consonant with john 's wishes. it was
not required for the steward to preface each business transaction with
in john 's name it was sufficient to have valid power of attorney
and be operating in good faith. (note the overlap here between legal
and religious definitions of faith .)

with this cultural background , praying in jesus' name does not
mandate a particular verbal formula rather it requires that the
petitioner be operating faithfully and consciously within an analogous
fiduciary relationship with jesus and for the purposes of his
kingdom. the message of praying in jesus' name is thus closely
aligned with the parable of the talents and other passages about god 's
delegation of kingdom business to his stewards , both resources and
responsibilities. this idea of praying in jesus' name is not only
present but prominent in the lord 's prayer , although the verbal
forumula is absent.

the act of praying the words in jesus' name may be beneficial if
they cause us to clarify the relationship of our requests to the
advancement of god 's kingdom. for that reason , i'm not quite ready
to say that the praying the formula is without meaning.

prayers to god for other purposes (desperation , anger , thanksgiving ,
etc.) do n't seem to be in this category at all , whether uttered by
christian or non christian , whether b.c. or a.d. (that 's b.c.e. or
c.e. for you p.c. ). i do n't see anything in christ 's words to
contradict the idea that god deals with all prayers according to his
omniscience and grace.

van kelly
vek@research.att.com


the above opinions are my own , and not those of at t.

from sml@rpsyc.nott.ac.uk (steve lang)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization nottingham university
lines 60

in article may.2.09.51.49.1993.11841@geneva.rutgers.edu , you wrote

the genius of science is that it discovered that enormous progress
in knowledge could be made by isolating the study of physical
interactions for the more general areas of study and proceeding
not by logical argument but by experiment. the scientific method
is hypothesize , attempt to disprove the hypothesis , if you fail ,
publish , if others fail to disprove your hypothesis , accept it
as a working theory and move on. this method is suitable only
for the study of objects without will , objects which do not
take an interest in the experiment.

science does not progress via experimentation but by philosophising. one
aim of experiments is to investigate the validity of the hyptheses
resulting from the models produced by this thinking process.

the arrogance of science is the assumption many advocates of
science make that the scientific method is the only method of
serious study , the only one leading to knowledge rather than
belief.

science has one advantage of all other approaches to explaining the world.
it is objective.

its further arrogance , is the assumption which arises
that , since science is the only valid method of thought , everything
which exists must be the sort of thing which the scientific
method can study , and that if the scientific method cannot
study it it either does not exist or cannot in any way be known.

anything which affects the physical world can be studied. for example ,
since we are part of the physical world , anything (including spirits) which
affects our behaviour can be observed. science does not make any claims
about the existence or non existence of objects which do not affect the
physical world.

since these asumptions about the nature of the world cannot
themselves be made the subject of experiment , it is bad science
to believe them , as well as arrogance , illogic , and just plain
sloppy thinking.

the purpose of science is to produce a model of the physical world. the
model must be able to explain all past observations and predict the outcome
of future observations. one of the aims of experiments is to carry out
well defined observations which are objective.

ideally scientist will except the model which best describes the world , and
the model which realises on the minimal number of assumptions. at the
moment models which do not rely on the assumption of some spiritual world
existing are equally powerful to ones which assume the assumption of a
spiritual world. as the non spiritual models has fewer assumptions it
should be the currently accepted models.

the scientific process never assumes that its present models are the
correct ones , whereas many religions claim to represent the truth. the
arrogance of many theists is that they claim to represent the truth , this
cannot be said of scientists.

steve lang
slang sling slink slick slack shack shank thank think thick

from labson@borneo.corp.sgi.com (joel labson)
subject maybe \? \? \? \? \?
organization silicon graphics , inc.
lines 17

hi christian friends ,

my name is joel , i have a sister who 's 25th birthday is tomorrow.....she
used to be on fire for the lord , but somehow , for some reason , she
became cold....she do n't want to associate anymore with her old
christian friends.........so i thought maybe some of you could help her
out again by sending her a postcard or card with a little message of
encouragement.....hand written is okay....her address is 3150 hobart
ave. san jose ca. 95127...........

thank you and god bless.

ps jesus christ is lord ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

i have some qualms about postings like this. you might want to
engage in a bit more conversation with joel before deluging
someone who does n't expect it with cards. clh

from david.bernard@central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re question about virgin mary
reply to david.bernard@central.sun.com
organization sun microsystems
lines 9

in article 28782@athos.rutgers.edu , revdak@netcom.com (d. andrew kille) writes
just an observation although the bodily assumption has no basis in
the bible , carl jung declared it to be one of the most important pronouncements
of the church in recent years , in that it implied the inclusion of the
feminine into the godhead.



what did jung mean by a godhead \?

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject hearing sinners
lines 18

on the question , does god hear the prayers of sinners \? we need to
distinguish.

if we say that he never hears the prayers of any who have sinned , we
make pointless all prayers by anyone born less than 19 centuries
ago.

but if we consider the prayers of the impenitent sinner , of someone
who says , lord , i want you to do this for me , but do n't expect me
to change my way of life , that is a different matter. even here , i
would not venture to say that god never grants such petitions (just
as he sends sun and rain on the evil and on the good). however , if
someone we know well is praying to god in that spirit , we might have
the responsibility to say , remember , if god 's help is real , then so
are his commands.

yours ,
james kiefer

from david s@hsr.no (david a. sjoen)
subject 'moody monthly' and 'moody' the same \?
organization rogaland university centre
lines 15

are 'moody monthly' and 'moody' the same magazine (name change in recent
years) \?

if not could someone post the address to 'moody monthly' \?

)avid



david a. sjoen my sheep hear my voice , and i know them , and they
gulaksveien 4 follow me and i give them life eternal and they
n 4017 stavanger shall never perish , and no one shall seize them
norway out of my hand. john 10 27 29
` ' '
e mail david s@hsr.no (rogaland university centre , norway)

from mchamberland@violet.uwaterloo.ca (marc chamberland)
subject re god shaped hole (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization university of waterloo
lines 17

in article apr.20.03.03.15.1993.3845@geneva.rutgers.edu , fraseraj@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (andrew j fraser) writes
several people were involved in trying to figure out who first used
the phrase god shaped hole . clh

there is a god shaped vacuum in all of us (or something to that effect) is
generally attributed to blaise pascal.

i believe this is a just another of way of expressing the basic truth
all things were created by him and for him. (emphasis mine)
col. 1 16 , rev. 4 11. if you and i have been created for god , naturally
there will be a vacuum if god is not our all and all. in fact ,
the first chapter of collosians brings out this status of christ , that
he should have the preeminence. when you life is alligned with him ,
and you do his will , then the vacuum is filled.

marc chamberland
mchamberland@violet.uwaterloo.ca

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject muslim tithe sexism in genesis 2
lines 33

according to mdbs@ms.uky.edu , muslims tithe 1 6 of their income.

perhaps there are some offshoots of islam that impose this on their
followers. but the standard tithe is 1 40 of one 's net worth , once
a year.

the same writer also objects to the bible for teaching that

woman was created after man , to be his helper etc.

this is presumably a reference to genesis 2. suppose that that
chapter had been written with the sexes reversed. we have god
creating woman , and then saying , it is not good that woman should
be alone. i will make a help meet for her. feminists would be
outraged. the clear implication would be that god had started at the
bottom and worked up , making first the plants , then the fish and
birds , then the beasts , then woman , and finally his masterpiece , the
male chauvinist pig. the statement that woman is not capable of
functioning by herself , that she needs a man to open doors for her ,
would have been seen as a particularly gratuitous insult. the fact
that the creation of woman from the dust of the ground was given
only briefly and in general , while the creation of the man was given
in six times the number of words , would have been cited as evidence
of the author 's estimate of the relative importance of the sexes.
the verdict would have been unequivocal. no self respecting woman
can accept this book as a moral guide , or as anything but sexist
trash ! i suggest that moses , fearing this reaction , altered his
original draft and described the creation with adam first and then
eve , so as to appease miriam and other radical feminists of the day.
for some reason , however , it did not work.

yours ,
james kiefer

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re some questions from a new christian
organization florida state university
lines 27

18669@bach.udel.edu (steven r hoskins) writes

... i realize i am very ignorant about much of the bible and
quite possibly about what christians should hold as true. this i am trying
to rectify (by reading the bible of course) , but it would be helpful
to also read a good interpretation commentary on the bible or other
relevant aspects of the christian faith. one of my questions i would
like to ask is can anyone recommend a good reading list of theological
works intended for a lay person \?

i wo n't even recommend books from my congregation. what you ask sounds
attractive but it is dangerous. as a new christian you do n't want to be
contaminated with other people 's interpretation. steep your self in
scripture , and discuss with other christians. read if your must but
remember that what other people write is their interpretation. god has
promised to give you light , so ask for it.

i have another question i would like to ask. i am not yet affiliated
with any one congregation. aside from matters of taste , what criteria
should one use in choosing a church \? i do n't really know the difference
between the various protestant denominations.


do n't wait too long before attaching yourself to church. just remember to
always compare what they teach you with scripture like the bereans did.

darius

from xopr131@maccvm.corp.mot.com (gerald mcpherson)
subject re am i going to hell \?
lines 42

in apr.23.02.55.31.1993.3123@geneva.rutgers.edu
tim asks

i have stated before that i do not consider myself an atheist , but
definitely do not believe in the christian god. the recent discussion
about atheists and hell , combined with a post to another group (to the
effect of 'you will all go to hell') has me interested in the consensus
as to how a god might judge men. as a catholic , i was told that a jew ,
buddhist , etc. might go to heaven , but obviously some people do not
believe this. even more see atheists and pagans (i assume i would be
lumped into this category) to be hellbound. i know you believe only
god can judge , and i do not ask you to , just for your opinions.

this is probably too simplistic for some , but john 3 16 saus ,
for god so loved the world that he gave his only son , that
whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life .

genesis 15 6 , and he (abram) believed the lord and he reckoned
it to him as righteousness .

i do n't find anywhere that god restricts heaven to particular
ethnic groups or religious denominations or any other category
that we humans like to drop people into. but he does require
that we believe and trust him. in hebrews it says that god spoke
of old by the prophets (the old testament) , but in these last days
he has spoken to us by his son jesus christ. and we learn of
him through the pages of the new testament. the bible tells us
what we need to believe. for those who have never heard , i leave
them in god 's capable care , he will make himself known as he
desires. it behooves each one of us to act upon the knowledge
we have. if you reject the claims of jesus , and still go to
heaven , then the joke 's on me. if you reject him and go to hell ,
that 's no joke , but it will be final.


gerry


the opinions expressed
are not necessarily those
of my employer.


from shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double stan
organization shell oil
lines 36

in article apr.14.03.09.10.1993.5497@athos.rutgers.edu dsegard@nyx.cs.du.edu (daniel segard) writes

that argument would be more compelling if it were not for the
ishtar eggs and ishtar bunnies. why mix pagan fertility symbols from the
worship of the pagan goddess of fertility with biblical belief \? what
would really be lost if all of you were to just drop the word easter and
replace all such occurances with resurrection sunday \? would you not
show up for services if they were called resurrection sunday services
rather than easter services \?

there is another way to view this. the true celebration is easter ,
the resurrection of our lord. this has been true from the foundation
of the world. pagan practices are then either

1. foreshadowings of the true celebration of the resurrection ,
in which dim light was shone forth so that people would
recognize the full truth when it was manifested , or

2. satanic counterfeits intended to deceive us so that we would not
recognize the truth when it was manifested.

i do n't believe the second argument , because i believe in the power
of the resurrection , the fulfillment of the incarnation , and our hope.
earlier or parallel ideas in other religions clearly are dim images of
the truth of the resurrection. as paul states , we see through a glass
darkly. so do others. it serves no purpose arguing about who has
the darker or lighter glass. the foreshadowings are not perfect.
so what \? our understnding of god is today imperfect , for we are not
yet perfected. theosis is not a gift such that wham , we 're perfect.

larry overacker (llo@shell.com)


lawrence overacker
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965
llo@shell.com

from whitsebd@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (bryan whitsell)
subject re accepting jesus in your heart...
reply to whitsebd@nextwork.rose hulman.edu
organization computer science department at rose hulman
lines 20

stuff deleted ...

religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.
some people use drugs as an escape from reality. christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high.

your logic is falty. if christianity is a drug , and once we die we
die , then why would you be reluctant to embrase this drug so that
while you are alive you enjoy yourself.

i also question your overall motives for posting this article. why
would you waste your presious fews seconds on this earth posting your
opinon to a group that will generally reject it.

if you die , never having acepting christ as your savior , i hope you
have a fantastic life that it is all you evver dreamed because it is
al of heaven you will ever know.

in christ 's love ,
bryan

from heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 14

in article apr.11.01.02.34.1993.17784@athos.rutgers.edu steve.hayes@f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org writes

i realize i'm entering this discussion rather late , but i do
have one question. was n't it a reagan appointee , james watt , a
pentacostal christian (i think) who was the secretary of the interior
who saw no problem with deforestation since we were living in the
last days and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods
anyway \?


terrance heath heath@athena.cs.uga.edu

your comfort is my silence ! ! ! ! ! act up ! fight back ! talk back !


from cmgrawbu@eos.ncsu.edu (christopher m grawburg)
subject helphelp part2
reply to cmgrawbu@eos.ncsu.edu (christopher m grawburg)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 52

hello , i'm back..

i would first like to thank each and every person who sent me a response (be
it a positive or negative one). i read every letter and thought about
each one ! !

i got all sorts of responses , from marry her to have nothing ever to
do with her again

through reading the bible and through a lot of prayer , here is what i have
decided to do.

i sent her a letter today. first , i told her that if she was really serious
about moving away from home to another state that i would do anything to
get you here in nc. i told her that i tried to find out if there were
any new stores planning to be built but they would n't tell me.

about her marraige comment (i'm not gonna call it a proposal , cause
i still do n't know if it was a total joke or not) i more or less said
that marry me \? \? well , get transferred to nc first and then we 'll talk ) )

hopefully , what i said could be interpreted either way.

needless to say , there has been a lot of praying over this...i
have done a lot of reading about marraige from the bible. if
she was dead serious about getting married i would n't do it
yet simply b c she is not (as far as i know to this point) a christian.
it just would n't work w o god in the marraige as well. i figure
that if god wanrs this to go through he 's kept us in touch for 10
years now he can handle one more. if god wants it to happen , it
will happen !

she will be in nc in june meetinf some relatives so i 'll get to
see her...and i 'll get a letter from her befoe then so i know
more of what to look forward to.

i guess all i can do now is wait and pray. i have decided not to tell
my folks until i'm totally sure what is going on.

i do ask that everyone that wrote me to please keep this situation
in your prayers..

finally , i would like to thank everyone who wrote in...

if you have anything else for me...i will be at this email address
for one week. please tell me anyhting you want...i'm curious
how folks think about what i did.


thanx

chris

from dhawk@netcom.com (david hawkins)
subject need help with they came for the jews quote
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 19

years ago i grabbed the following from the net maybe from this
newsgroup. does anyone know of a source for whether this is an
accurate quote \? thanks ! bartletts leaves out the homosexual lines ,
but they were one of the groups the nazis tried to exterminate.

in germany , they first came for the communists ,
and i did n't speak up because i was n't a communist.
then they came for the jews ,
and i did n't speak up because i was n't a jew.
then they came for the trade unionists ,
and i did n't speak up because i was n't a trade unionist.
then they came for the homosexuals , and i did n't speak up
because i was n't a homosexual.
then they came for the catholics , and i did n't speak up
because i was a protestant.
then they came for me
but by that time there was no one left to speak up.

pastor martin neimoller

from bluelobster @cmu.edu (david o hunt)
subject re serbian genocide work of god \?
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 24

on 23 apr 93 in serbian genocide work of god \?
user james sledd@ssdc.sas.upe writes
are the governments of the united states and europe not moving
to end the ethnic cleansing by the serbs because the targets are
muslims \?

bingo that and there 's no oil there.

on 23 apr 93 in serbian genocide work of god \?
user james sledd@ssdc.sas.upe writes
are the serbs doing the work of god \? hmm...

if this is the work of god then i'm doubly glad that i do n't worship him.



david hunt graduate slave my mind is my own. towards both a
mechanical engineering so are my ideas opinions. palestinian and
carnegie mellon university use golden rule v2.0 jewish homeland !
t h e r e i s n o g o d t h e r e i s n o g o d
email bluelobster @cmu.edu working towards my piled higher and deeper

it will be a great day when scientists and engineers have all the r d money
they need and religions have to beg for money to pay the priest.

from bocherc@hartwick.edu (carol a. bocher)
subject re major views of the trinity
lines 28

ann jackson (ajackson@cs.ubc.ca) wrote on 5 may

in article may 2.09.50.06.1993.11776@geneva.rutgers.edu
jim green writes

ca n't someone describe someone 's trinity in simple declarative
sentences with words that have common meaning \?

the answer to this question appears to be no .

i would like to submit the following which helped me enormously.
if it has already been posted , i apologize.

it seems that during the middle ages , it was customary for pastors to
explain the trinity to their parishoners by analogy to water.
water is water , but can exist in three forms liquid , ice and vapor.
thus it is possible for one essence to exist in three forms.

and recently , the pastor of my church drew an analogy , which i
also found useful a woman is often percieved by others in three
ways , depending on their relationship to her a mother , a wife and
an employee in a business.

thus , it seems clear to me that the essence of god can subsist in
the father , son , and holy spirit or , depending on one 's particular
need for him.

carol bocher

from dxf12@po.cwru.edu (douglas fowler)
subject re christian parenting
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 83


sorry for posting this , but my e mail keeps bouncing. maybe it will
help others here , anyway , and therefore i pray others will read this. it is
actually a response from my aunt , who has 5 kids , since i have none yet.

hi i am a sociology student and i am currently researching into
young offenders. i am looking at the way various groups of
children are raised at home. at the moment i am formlulating
information on discipline within the christian home.

please , if you are a parent in this catagory can you email me
your response to the following questionaire. all responses
will be treated confidentially and will only be used to prepare
stats.
i'm posting this for a good christian relative who does not have e mail
access. since this aunt and uncle have 5 kids i felt they would be more
relevant than i , who have none (yet).

1. ages sexes of children
13 year old (13yo) twins , 10yo boy , 6.5yo boy , 2yo girl

2. do you spank your kids \?
i do n't call it spanking , but they do , so yes , very rarely.

3. if so how often \?
i do n't call it spanking because it 's more of a reaction to something
very dangerous , such as trying to stick their finger in a fan or running
into the road. maybe 3 4 times for each except for the 2yo girl , who has
not been spanked yet.
they call it that because it does hurt their feelings , and of course
i give all the hugs and stuff to ensure they know they 're still loved.

4. do you use an implement to spank with \?
no , that would be too painful. if it 's too traumatic they never recall
why they were punished. besides , it must be immediate , and taking the time
to go get a toolmeans you 're not doing it right away , and that lessens the
impact. it 's very emotional for a child as it is which is evidenced by the
fact that a little slap on the rear which hurts for perhaps 5 seconds
is called a spanking.

5. if you do not spank , what method of discipline do you use \?
lots of logical consequences for instance , when 4yo matthew dared
a good friend to jump out of his treehouse or he would push him out , i made
sure they did n't play together for 5 days so he 'd know that would make him
lose friends very quickly. he 's never done anything like that since.
we also use time out in their rooms i use a timer so they do n't keep
arguing with me over leaving , since it 's hard to argue with a macine.
i will go to the closed door and tell them timeout wo n't be over until they
calm down if they 're too tantrumy. i use the top of the stairs when they 're
really young.

6. your age \?
40

7. your location
bath , ohio. it 's right outside of akron , in the northeast part of ohio.

8. while under the age of 16 did you ever commit a criminal
offence \?
no , and none of my kids would dream of it. i hope you can use this to
teach all parents that physical punishment is n't always required parents use
that as an excuse to hit too hard.

9. how ere you disciplined as a kid
lots of timeouts , same as i use. our family and my husband 's have never
used spankings. in fact , my grandmother in law was one of 11 kids , and they
were almost never spanked. this was around the turn of the century. and ,
none of us has ever been afoul of the law man made or god 's law.
jesus says , referring to a small child whom he is holding , that what
ye do to the least of these , ye do also to me. the bible also says in all
things to be kind , and merciful , and especially loving. (colossians 3 12 15.)
there is no room for selfish anger , which i 'll admit i 've been tempted with
at times. when i 've felt like spanking hard in anger , maybe the kid deserved
a little slap on the rear , but what i would have given would have been the
devil 's work. i could feel the temptation , and just angrily ordered the kid
to his her room and went to my room myself. after praying and asking god 's
forgiveness , i was much calmer , and did not feel like spanking , but felt that
what i had done was enough punishment.

doug fowler dxf12@po.cwru.edu me , age 4 now mommys and daddys other
ever wonder if , after casey relatives have to give lots of hugs love
missed the 3rd strike in the poem support , 'cause heaven is just a great
he ran to first and made it \? big hug that lasts forever and ever ! ! !

from revdak@netcom.com (d. andrew kille)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double stan
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 40

daniel segard (dsegard@nyx.cs.du.edu) wrote

a lot of stuff deleted

for that matter , stay biblical and call it omar rasheet (the feast of
first fruits). torah commands that this be observed on the day following
the sabbath of passover week. (sunday by any other name in modern
parlance.) why is there so much objection to observing the resurrection
on the 1st day of the week on which it actually occured \? why jump it all
over the calendar the way easter does \? why not just go with the sunday
following passover the way the bible has it \? why seek after unbiblical
methods \?

in fact , that is the reason easter jumps all over the calendar passsover
itself is a lunar holiday , not a solar one , and thus falls over a wide
possible span of times. the few times that easter does not fall during or
after passover are because easter is further linked to the vernal equinox
the beginning of spring.

more deletions

so what does this question have to do with easter (the whore
goddess) \? i am all for celebrating the resurrection. just keep that
whore out of the discussion.

your obsession with the term whore clouds your argument. whore is
a value judgement , not a descriptive term.

more deletions

overall , this argument is an illustration of the etymological fallacy
(see j.p. louw semantics of nt greek ). that is the idea that the true
meaning of a word lies in its origins and linguistic form. in fact , our
own experience demonstrates that the meaning of a word is bound up with
how it is used , not where it came from. very few modern people would
make any connection whatsoever between easter and ishtar. if daniel
seagard does , then for him it has that meaning. but that is a highly
idiosyncratic meaning , and not one that needs much refutation.

revdak@netcom.com

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject about eliz c prophet
lines 21

rob butera asks about a book called the lost years of jesus , by
elizabeth clare prophet.

i do not know the book. however , miss prophet is the leader of a
group (the church universal and triumphant) derived from the i am
group founded by a mr. ballard who began his mission in the 1930 's
(i am writing this from memory and may not have all the details
straight for an old account , check your library for a bnook by
marcus bach) after an eighteenth century frenchman appeared , tapped
him on the shoulder , and offered him a cup of cosmic essence. a
major tenet of the movement is that there is a monastery in the
mountains of tibet from which a monk descends to the lower altitudes
every few centuries to preach , and that all major religions have
been founded by monks from this monastery. typically , the ballard
family and their successors , the prophet family (related by
marriage , if i remember aright) , base almost all their teachings on
messages they have allegedly received by telepathy from tibet. i
should be surprised if the book you mention has any scholarly basis.

yours ,
james kiefer

from jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com (jon ogden)
subject re help
organization motorola lpa development
lines 87

i'm a commited christian that is battling with a problem. i know
that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our deeds , yet
hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless , saying' you fools ,
do you still think that just believing is enough \? '

stuff deleted

now i am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what you do)
as taught in romans , but how can i square up in my mind the teachings of james
in conjunction with the lukewarm christian being 'spat out'

can anyone help me , this really bothers me.


will , there has been a lot of discussion going on about this over in
s.r.c.b s.
i will make the case here though and try to help you out

8 for by grace are ye saved through faith and that not of yourselves it
is the gift of god
9 not of works , lest any man should boast.
(ephesians 2 8 9).

yes , it is by god 's grace and our faith that we are saved. we are not
saved by what we do. however ,

15 if ye love me , keep my commandments.
(john 14 15).

keeping christ 's commandments is a work per se , and a demonstration of
our love for him. also ,

6 he spake also this parable a certain man had a fig tree planted in his
vineyard and he came and sought fruit thereon , and found none.
7 then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard , behold , these three years
i come seeking fruit on this fig tree , and find none cut it down why
cumbereth it the ground \?
8 and he answering said unto him , lord , let it alone this year also , till i
shall dig about it , and dung it
9 and if it bear fruit , well and if not , then after that thou shalt cut it
down.
(luke 13 6 9).

again ,

16 ye have not chosen me , but i have chosen you , and ordained you , that ye
should go and bring forth fruit , and that your fruit should remain that
whatsoever ye shall ask of the father in my name , he may give it you.
(john 15 16).

it is clear from these verses that we are called to bring forth fruit.
what is that fruit. well , paul speaks of the fruit of the spirit being
love , joy , peace , patience , etc. all of these are things that are manifest
in the actions that we carry out.

if a person claims to believe in jesus christ , but does not do the things
christ commanded , i dare say , that they really do n't have any faith.
asking which is more important , faith or works , is like asking which blade
on a pair of scissors is most important or like asking which leg of your
pants is more important.

good works should come out of and be a result of our faith. to have faith ,
true faith in christ requires you to do what he commands. the parable
above speaks allegorically of a person who does bear no fruit. christs
commands are actions , and if we do n't do those actions and produce fruit ,
then we shall be uprooted just like the tree.

it is a dead and useless faith which has no action behind it. actions
prove our faith and show the genuineness of it. i can sit and talk for
days about the fact that i have so much faith in my ability to jump off a
building and not hit the ground. in other words , i can sit and tell you
all day long that i have faith in my ability to fly. i really do n't have
that faith though unless i am willing to jump off the roof and take the
test. words and talk mean nothing.

i could go on and give more scriptures and if people want me to i will , but
this should be sufficient.

hope it helped.

jon


sig file broken....

please try later...


from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject 'easter' not derived from 'ishtar'
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 22

several recent posts have identified the english word 'easter' with
the babylonian goddess 'ishtar'.

'easter' is a pagan word all right , but it has nothing to do with ishtar.
if 'easter' and 'ishtar' were related , their history would show it.
but in old english , easter was 'eostre' , cognate with english 'east'
and german 'ost'. the reconstructed proto germanic form is 'austron'.
not until after 1400 did 'easter' have a high front vowel like 'ishtar'.
clearly , the two words have quite separate origins.

there may be neo pagans who worship ishtar at easter , but if so , they
are making either a mistake of etymology , or a deliberate play on words.

michael covington (ph.d. , linguistics)




michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu (james sledd)
subject intolerance eternal life etc
organization social science computing
lines 89

hi xian netters , god bless you

contents
1. intro
2. love your neighbor
3. reaction to posts
a. purpose
b. eternal life

i 've been reading this news group religiously ) for about a month.
sometimes it really gives me what i need , spiritually. at other times i
get a little irate.

there are all kinds of people in every group and i take offense at
intolerance. it 's awfully hard to tolerate such people. ) ( oops ! i 've
gone over my smiley quota already and it 's only the second paragraph (.
imho they should follow the commandment to love thy neighbor and leave
the judging up to god.

specifically
one 's sexual orientation is part of one 's self
love the sinner hate the sin does not apply

pay attention fundaligionists. love your neighbor wether you like it
or not. i 'd be happy to get flamed endlessly and loose scripture
quotation contests galore to defend this point. i beleive this is
correct.

btw love the sinner hate the sin is a slippery slope , with hatred at the
bottom.


incredibly chopped up post
i wo n't even try to tell you where the deletions came out
means jayne
means dan johnson
means eric

in article 28388@athos.rutgers.edu , jayne@mmalt.guild.org
(jayne kulikauskas) writes
gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

no free gifts of meaning. (i never quite understood how any
god can just give your life meaning , actually. if he
says you exists to do or be x , that gives you a purpose
if you care to accept it , but is that the same thing \? but
i digress...)

i find that i am dissatisfied with the little purposes that we can
manufacture for ourselves. little in the cosmic sense. even the
greatest of the great pharos are long gone , the pyramids historical
oddities being worn down by the wind , eventually to be turned into dust.
mankind itself will one day perish. without some interconnectedness
that transcends the physical , without god , it is all pointless in the
end. most people are able to live with that , and for them little
purposes (success , money , power , effecting change , helping others)
suffice. i suppose they never think about the cosmic scale , or are at
least able to put it out of their minds.

to me , it is comforting to know that reality is an illusion. that the
true reality underneath the the physical is spirit. that this world is
a school of sorts , where we learn and grow , and our souls mature. that
gives a purpose to my little purposes , and takes some of the pressure
off. it 's not so necessary to make this life a success in human terms
if you 're really just here to learn. it 's more important to progress ,
grow , persist , to learn to love yourself and others and to express your
love , especially when it 's dificult to do so. honest effort is rewarded
by god , he knows our limitations.


i will live forever with god.

ah , now here we begin to diverge. i will not live forever
with anyone.

(i do n't think you will either , but you are welcome to your
opinion on the matter.)

interesting theological question. i have a feeling that most common
perception of eternal life is way off base. if i were to be imprisoned
in the limited ego mind i am in now i doubt i would choose imortality.
it would get awfully boring.

two serious questions invitations to discussion
1. what is the nature of eternal life \?
2. how can we as mortals locked into space time conceive of it \?

possible answer for 2 the best we can do is metaphor analogy
question 2a what is the best metaphor \?

from lmh@juliet.caltech.edu (henling , lawrence m.)
subject re catholic church poland
organization california institute of technology
lines 10

in article apr.20.03.01.44.1993.3772@geneva.rutgers.edu , s0612596@let.rug.nl (m.m. zwart) writes...
i'm writing a paper on the role of the catholic church in poland after 1989.
church concerning the abortion law , religious education at schools ,

there was an article on clari.news.religion in the last few days about a
polish tribunal decision. it said that crucifixes and religious classes in
public schools were okay and that children who did not want to take religion
class could not be forced to take an ethics class as a substitute.

larry henling lmh@shakes.caltech.edu

from rayssd ! esther@uunet.uu.net (esther a. paris)
subject harrassed at work , could use some prayers
reply to esther@demand.ed.ray.com
organization raytheon equipment division , marlboro , ma
lines 110

my news feed is broken and i have n't received any new news in 243 hours
(more than 10 days). so , if you reply to this , please send private
email to the address esther@demand.ed.ray.com i have set the
reply to line to have that address but i do n't know if it will work.

it depends upon the software , but generally i would n't expect
reply to to cause an email cc to be sent in addition to a posting.
you 'll probably need to do something specific , which will vary
depending upon your news software. clh

at any rate , i need some support. (much thanks to jayne k who is
already supporting me with kind words and prayers ! )

i 've been working at this company for eight years in various
engineering jobs. i'm female. yesterday i counted and realized that
on seven different occasions i 've been sexually harrassed at this
company. seven times. eight years. yesterday was the most recent one
someone left an x rated photo of a nude woman in my desk drawer.

i'm really upset by this. i suppose it could have been worse it
could have been a man having sex with a sheep or something.

there was no note. i do not know if it was

someone 's idea of an innocent joke , that went awry
someone 's sick idea of flirting
an act of emotional terrorism (that worked ! )

i dreaded coming back to work today. what if my boss comes in to ask
me some kind of question , i do n't know the answer so i take a military
specification down off from my shelf to look up the answer , and out
falls a picture of a man having sex with a sheep \? i generally have a
bible on my desk for occasional inspiration what if i open it up to
corinthians and find a picture a la the north american man boy love
association \? i want to throw up just thinking about this stuff.

i can lock up my desk , but i ca n't lock up every book i have in the
office. i ca n't trust that someone wo n't shove something into my
briefcase or my coat pocket when i'm not looking so that i go home to
find such a picture , or a threat , or a raunchy note about what someone
wants to do to my body.

to make it worse , the entire department went out to lunch yesterday to
treat our marvelous secretary to lunch. the appointed hour for
leaving was 11 30. i was working in another building but wanted to go
to the lunch. so i returned at 11 25 , only to find that ever single
person had already left for lunch. they left at 11 15 or so. no one
could be bothered to call me at the other building , even though my
number was posted. so , i came back to a department that looked like a
neutron bomb had gone off and i was the sole survivor. this , despite
the fact that everyone knew how bad i felt about this naked woman being
left in my desk drawer.

i need some prayers i ca n't stop crying. i am so deeply wounded
that it 's ridiculous.

i feel like i'm some kind of sub human piece of garbage for people to
reduce me and my sisters to simply sex organs and the sex act. i feel
like i'm a sub human piece of garbage that 's not worthy of a simple
phone call saying we 're leaving for mary 's lunch a little early so
that bob can get back for a big 1 00 meeting...

please pray that my resentments will either go away , or be miraculously
turned into something positive. please pray that whoever is torturing
me so will stop , and find some healing for him or herself. please pray
for my being healed from this latest wound (which falls on top of a
whole slew of other wounds...). please pray that i can find a new job
in a place where the corporate culture does its best to prevent such
harrassment from happening in the first place , and swiftly acts
appropriately when something occurs despite its best precautions. (this
company , in my opinion , has pretty words about how sexual harrassment
is n't tolerated but when you get right down to it , how is it that one
female engineer can be touched inappropriately , left obsene or
threatening notes , left obscene pictures , spoken to lewdly , etc , seven
times in eight years in the same place \? pretty words from the company
do me no good when i'm terrified or healing from the latest assault.)

and please pray that i do n't turn into an automaton because of this.
that 's my bad habit ignore it and it will go away , you 're not worth
anyone 's time so do n't go talking to anyone about this , you 're right ,
you are a sub human piece of garbage and deserve to be treated this
way , you are just an object , you prostitute your mind to this
company so why ca n't others expect you to prostitute your body there as
well \? , what makes you think women are n't just possessions , and
nothing more than sex organs and their ability to perform the sex act \?
this is the kind of thinking that can catapault one into a major
depressive episode please pray that these thoughts do n't come into
my head and stay there , triggering depression.

please pray that this latest trauma does n't come between me and god.
in a way , a wound like this is an invitation to a deeper connection to
god , and it 's also a possible trigger for a spiritual crisis that can
separate one mentally from god. (i know god does n't drop me from his
loving hand , but it 's awfully easy for me to walk to the edge of the
hand , look down , think i'm falling and forget that god 's still holding
on to me.)

although this probably is n't entirely appropriate for this newsgroup ,
i really can use the kind of loving support you all provide. for this
reason i hope good mr. moderator allows me this latest indulgence. after
all , he 's allowed me the thermometer note , and a few other off the wall
topics.

thanks in advance to everyone for your support and prayers. peace to you ,
esther


esther paris , raytheon equipment div. , marlboro , ma esther@demand.ed.ray.com
in his esteem , nothing that was large enough to please , was too small
for the fingers. john kitto , the lost senses , 1848

from jkellett@netcom.com (joe kellett)
subject re hell
organization netcom
lines 17

in article apr.10.05.33.44.1993.14422@athos.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes

in a short poem ( god in his mercy made the fixed pains of hell ) ,
c. s. lewis expresses an idea that i'm sure was current among others ,
but i have n't be able to find its source

that even hell is an expression of mercy , because god limits the amount
of separation from him , and hence the amount of agony , that one can
achieve.


i have also heard it called an expression of mercy , because heaven would be
far more agonizing for those who had rejected god.


joe kellett
jkellett@netcom.com

from tbrent@florin.ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 26

in article apr.9.01.09.29.1993.16586@athos.rutgers.edu jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com (jon ogden) writes

so we see that we are masters of this planet. it is ours to care for and
ours to look after. we will be judged on how well we do this task.
c.) we are not to be in the business of spreading lies. what we tell
others we must be sure is true. we should check out the information ,
verify it with scientific fact and go from there.


just what are these scientific facts \? i have never heard of such a thing.
science never proves or disproves any theory history does.

tim



timothy j. brent a man will come to know true happiness ,
brent@bank.ecn.purdue.edu only when he accepts that he is but a
small part of an infinite universe.
purdue university spinoza
materials science engineering paraphrased


i hope we do n't get embroiled in a discussion over words here. when
somebody says get the facts , i'm not sure we need to get into
arguments over the philosophy of science. clh

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re cell church discussion group
organization indiana university
lines 7

in article apr.21.03.25.58.1993.1337@geneva.rutgers.edu reid@cs.uiuc.edu (jon reid) writes
i am beginning an e mail discussion group about cell churches. if you are

please , define cell church. i missed it somewhere in the past when this
was brought up before.

joe fisher

from mnhcc@cunyvm.bitnet (marty helgesen)
subject public private revelation (formerly re question about virgin mary
organization city university of new york
lines 35

mark ashley 's account of private revelation does not , as some might
think , contradict my posting in which i said that the catholic church
believes that public revelation , on which catholic doctrine is based ,
ended with the death of st. john , the last apostle. in that posting
i made sure i used the word public . public revelation contains
god 's truth intended for everyone to believe. the revelation contained
in the bible is a significant subset of public revelation. private
revelation is revelation that god gives to an individual. he may speak
directly to the individual , he may send an angel , or he may send the
virgin mary or some lesser saint. the only person who is required to
believe a private revelation is the person to whom it is revealed.
devotional practices may be based on reported private revelations ,
but doctrines can not.

when an alleged private revelation attracts sufficient attention , the
church may investigate it. if the investigation indicates a likelihood
that the alleged private revelation is in fact from god , it will be
approved. that means that it can be preached in the church. however ,
it is still true that no one is required to believe that it came from
god. a catholic is free to deny the authenticity of even the most
well attested and strongly approved private revelations , such as those
at fatima and lourdes. (i suspect that few if any catholics do reject
fatima and lourdes , but if any do their rejection of them does not
mean they are not orthodox catholics in good standing.)

i do not have at hand a list of the criteria the church uses in
evaluating an alleged private revelation it 's not something i need
every day but i know that one of the primary requirements is that
nothing in the alleged private revelation can contradict anything
known through public revelation

marty helgesen
bitnet mnhcc@cunyvm internet mnhcc@cunyvm.cuny.edu

what if there were no such thing as a hypothetical situation \?

from hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za (steve hayes)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization university of south africa
lines 36

in article apr.16.23.18.07.1993.1879@geneva.rutgers.edu phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au writes
but what if the geologists are wrong and these people are warning of a
non existent danger \? analogies can only push an argument so far (on both
sides). both melinda 's and yours assume the premises used to set up your
respective analogies are true and thus the correct conclusion will arise.

the important point to note is the different directions both sides come from.
christians believe they know the truth and thus believe they have the right
(and duty) to tell the truth to all.

christians can get offended if others do not believe (what is self evidently
to them) the truth. non christians do not believe this is the truth and get
offended at them because they (christians) claim to know the truth.

the analogy does not depend on the premisses being true , because the
question under discussion is not truth but arrogance.

a similar analogy might be a medical doctor who believes that a blood
transfusion is necessary to save the life of a child whose parents are
jehovah 's witnesses and so have conscientious objections to blood
transfusion. the doctor 's efforts to persuade them to agree to a blood
transfusion could be perceived to be arrogant in precisely the same way as
christians could be perceived to be arrogant.

the truth or otherwise of the belief that a blood transfusion is necessary
to save the life of the child is irrelevant here. what matters is that the
doctor believes it to be true , and could be seen to be trying to foce his
beliefs on the parents , and this could well be perceived as arrogance.


steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa
internet hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za fidonet 5 7101 20
steve.hayes@p5.f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of
the faculty of theology at unisa

from llcoolj@athena.mit.edu (alfred eaton)
subject re mormon temples
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 16

i was wondering if anyone knew any changes to the temple
ceremony within the last fifty years....
also , why do you think they were made (revelation ,
assimilation to mainstream christianity , etc.) \?
i know that the god makers was published quite a while
ago. could rituals have been changed since then \?

i am also very interested in the influence of freemasonry
on early mormonism , especially in the smith family and
in the nauvoo settlement. info on any new studies would
be appreciated.

thanks ,

freddie eaton
llcoolj@athena.mit.edu

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject clarification easter
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 23

in response to a lot of email i 've gotten , i need to clarify my position.

i am not in favor of paganism.

i am not in favor of the easter bunny or other non christian aspects of
easter as presently celebrated. (incidentally , easter eggs are not
non christian they are a way of ending the lenten fast.)

my point was to distinguish between
(1) intentionally worshipping a pagan deity , and
(2) doing something which may once have had pagan associations , but
nowadays is not understood or intended as such.

many people who are doing (2) are being accused of (1).

it would be illogical to claim that one is really worshipping a
pagan deity without knowing it. worship is a matter of intention.
one cannot worship without knowing that one is doing so.

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from spebcg@thor.cf.ac.uk (bcg)
subject re knowing god 's will
organization uwcc
lines 20

hi ,

i do n't know much about bible. could you tell me the relations of
christians with non christians in bible \? how should be the relations of
christian nations with each other and the relations of christian nations
with other nations who are not christians \?

the other question is about the concept of religion in bible. does the
religion of god include and necessitate any law to be extracted from
bible or is the religion only a belief and nothing to do with the
government sides \? if for example , any government or a nation is one of
the wrongdoings according to bible , how should they be treated \?

is there any statement in bible saying that bible is a guide for every
aspects of life \?

thank you.

beytullah


from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re harrassed at work , could use some prayers
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 22

i 'd just like to repeat and emphasize that because someone else is
trying to make you feel horrible and worthless does not mean that you
should feel that way , although that 's easier to say than believe
sometimes. remember , god made you and loves you , so he must think
you 're something special. (excuse the trite language here.) also ,
the bully may just be someone who is mean for no reason not out of
intentional mental torture. has anyone else been harassed \? maybe
they 're just not talking about it.

i would have emailed but my reactions were n't fast enough and the post
i'm responding to did n't include your address. just take courage and
remember that all of us on the net are rooting for you.

take care !
vera

hand over hand noye@midway.uchicago.edu
does n't seem so much (vera noyes)
hand over hand
is the strength of the common touch drop me a line if you 're in the mood
rush , hand over fist


from jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com (jon ogden)
subject re losing your temper is not a christian trait
organization motorola lpa development
lines 26

in article apr.23.02.55.47.1993.3138@geneva.rutgers.edu , jcj@tellabs.com
(jcj) wrote

i 'd like to remind people of the withering of the fig tree and jesus
driving the money changers et. al. out of the temple. i think those
were two instances of christ showing anger (as part of his human side).

yes , and what about paul saying

26 be ye angry , and sin not let not the sun go down upon your wrath
(ephesians 4 26).

obviously then , we can be angry w o sinning.

jon


jon ogden jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com
motorola cellular advanced products division
voice 708 632 2521 data 708 632 6086


they drew a circle and shut him out.
heretic , rebel , a thing to flout.
but love and i had the wit to win
we drew a circle and took him in.

from schnitzi@osceola.cs.ucf.edu (mark schnitzius)
subject re atheists and hell
organization university of central florida
lines 70

db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler) writes

mark schnitzius writes

literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such.

this is something i 've always found confusing. if all your nerve endings
die with your physical body , why would flame hurt you \? how can one wail
and gnash teeth with no lungs and no teeth \?

one can feel physical pain by having a body , which , if you know the
doctrine of the resurrection of the body , is what people will have after
the great judgement. we look for the resurrection of the dead , and the
life of the world to come. nicene constantinopolitan creed. you
will have both body and soul in hell eventually.

now this is getting interesting !

i was raised roman catholic before becoming an atheist , so i have stated
this creed you quote nearly every sunday until i was about 18. for some
reason , i always took the 'resurrection' in this statement to mean the
resurrection of the soul , but i guess resurrection does strictly mean
the raising of the physical body. i have some questions on this point

1. i always thought that christians believe the descent into hell was
pretty much immediate , and that there are people burning in hell right
now. you seem to be implying that it will not occur until after the
great judgement (which i read as meaning the proverbial judgment day).
i was always a little confused on this point , even when i was with the
church maybe someone can clear it up for me. where will my soul
(which , by the way , i do n't believe in) exist until that time \?

2. will the new body i will have be created out of the same atoms
that my body now is made of , or will it be built from scratch \? my
physical body now is susceptible to aging , etc. so i guess my
new body will have to be radically different in order to be immortal
so it can be tortured for all eternity \?

3. since i will have a physical body , i assume it will need a physical
place to exist in where is this hell \? in the center of the earth \?
do you think we could find it if we dig \?

mark schnitzius
schnitzi@eola.cs.ucf.edu
univ. of central florida

there is not complete agreement on the details of the afterlife. i
think the most common view is that final disposition does not occur
until a final judgement , which is still in the future. in the
meantime , some believe that people sleep until the final
resurrection (or because god is above time , pass directly from death
to the future time when the resurrection occurs) , while others believe
that souls have a disembodied , pre resurrection existence until then.
there are probably other alternatives that i'm omitting.

the new body is generally conceived of being implemented in a
different technology than the current one , one which is not mortal.
(paul talks about the mortal being raised to immortality , and jesus'
resurrected body which is the first example clearly was not
subject to the same kind of limitations as ours.) it is assumed that
there are enough similarities that people will recognize each other ,
but i do n't think most people claim to know the details. i do n't
think i 'd say it 's the same atoms. i 'd assume there would be some
analog of a physical place , but i would n't expect to find it under the
earth or up in the sky. i 'd suspect that it 's in another dimension ,
outside this physical world , or whatever. but again , we have little
in the way of details.

clh

from alvin@spot.colorado.edu (kenneth alvin)
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 66

in article apr.13.00.08.33.1993.28409@athos.rutgers.edu kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (dr nancy 's sweetie) writes
dean velasco quoted a letter from james m stowell , president of
moody bible institute

we affirm the absolutes of scripture , not because we are arrogant
moralists , but because we believe in god who is truth , who has revealed
his truth in his word , and therefore we hold as precious the strategic
importance of those absolutes.

there has been a lot of discussion , but so far nobody seems to have hit on
exactly what the criticism of arrogance is aimed at.

lots of stuff deleted

this is where the arrogance of christians arises many people believe
that their own personal research can give them absolute certainty about the
doctrines of christianity they are implicitly claiming that they are
infallible , and that there is no possibility of mistake.

claiming that you cannot have made a mistake , and that your thinking has led
you to a flawless conclusion , is pretty arrogant.

i agree with what darren has to say here , but would like to add a
personal observation. what i see as arrogance and the problem i have
with it is not a sense of personal certainty , but a lack of respect for
others who come to differing conclusions. clearly , this is not just
christian vs. non christian there is a whole spectrum of belief systems
within christianity. i do not tend to argue with others about matters
of personal faith because , like aesthetics , it is not demonstable by
objective means.

choosing what to believe and rely on are important areas of personal
sovereignty. what bothers me is when others suggest that , in these
matters of faith , their specific beliefs are not only true to them
but are absolute and should be binding on others. it follows from this
that god must give everyone the same revelation of truth , and thus
anyone who comes to a different conclusion is intentionally choosing
the wrong path. this is the arrogance i see a lack of respect for the
honest conclusions of others on matters which are between them and god.
even a personal certainty leaves room for the beliefs of others. it is
universalizing those matters of personal faith , coupled by a proud
notion that one 's relationship with god is superior to other 's , that
leads to arrogance. in my honest (and nonuniversal) opinion. )


darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
at the core of all well founded belief , lies belief that is unfounded.
ludwig wittgenstein

comments , criticism welcome...
ken
alvin@ucsu.colorado.edu

it is certainly reasonable to ask for some humility about our own
ability to know the truth. there are also different paths in some
areas of practice. but i 'd like to see more clarification about what
you mean when you reject the idea of saying their specific beliefs
are not only true to them but are absolute and should be binding on
others. if something is true , it is true for everyone , assuming that
the belief is something about god , history , etc. of course something
of the form i believe that it 's best for me not to xxx could be true
for some people and not others. i have suggested in the past that god
may be less concerned about doctrinal agreement than many people are.
but that does n't mean i doubt that there is a difference between
true and false , nor that i think there is no benefit in finding out
what is true. clh

from rjb@akgua.att.com
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization at t
lines 69

in article apr.23.02.55.25.1993.3117@geneva.rutgers.edu , rjs2@po.cwru.edu (richard j. szanto) writes
in a previous article , randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu (robert anderson) says

i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \? some say that if the two have
publically announced their plans to marry , have made their vows to god , and
are unswervingly committed to one another (i realize this is a subjective
qualifier) they are married joined in god 's sight.

i have discussed this with my girlfriend often. i consider myself married ,
though legally i am not. neither of us have been with other people sexually ,
although we have been with each other. we did not have sexual relations
until we decided to marry eventually. for financial and distance reasons ,
we will not be legally married for another year and a half. until then ,
i consider myself married for life in god 's eyes. i have faith that we
have a strong relationship , and have had for over 4 years , and will be
full of joy when we marry in a church. first , however , we must find a
church( we will be living in a new area when we marry , and will need to
find a new church community).

anyway , i feel that if two people commit to marriage before god , they are
married and are bound by that commitment.


rick szanto


rick has nailed the problem down pretty well.

as i can find no scripture (have i missed it \? ) that details
when you are married , i have to make some assumptions based
on the principles of scripture.

it seems to me that it takes 3 parties to make a marriage
husband to be , wife to be , and god. if you promise before
each other and god that you will convenant together to be
married , then...you are (imo).

so why do we have the ceremonial part \? that seems to be
there for connectedness in the body of christ. my brothers
and sisters ought to be involved so that there can be some
accountability on both our parts. that 's part of the concept
from hebrews about not forsaking the assembling of yourselves
together as is the custom of some. we need each other because
lone ranger christians and lone ranger marriages smack of a
self sufficiency that the i do n't see in the nt. does anyone
see the paul simon i am a rock , i am an island... model anywhere
in christianity. (song lyrics show your age ) ) \?

further , since marriage is a legal matter institution in the usa
and many other places , and such laws do not specifically go
crosswise to the clear teachings of scripture , we ought to
obey them to avoid even the appearance of evil (i thess 5 22)

so this would imply at least a civil ceremony before marriage ,
but keep in mind we are at least doing all of this for the
conscience of others because back to the beginning...you are
married when you and your intended promise each other and god
to be in convenant. (imo)

what ch'all think \?

bobby akgua ! rjb

in some states , the kind of commitment described in richard szanto 's
posting can create a common law marriage. indeed his posting itself
might go a long way towards establishing that a marriage exists ,
should the issue ever end up in court. he might want to consult a
lawyer who is familiar with common law marriage in his state. clh

from mnhcc@cunyvm.bitnet (marty helgesen)
subject re question about virgin mary
organization city university of new york
lines 45

in article may.3.05.01.53.1993.9964@athos.rutgers.edu , a.faris@trl.oz.au (aziz
faris) says
a.faris
posting deleted. the moderator replies
i think you 're talking about the assumption of the blessed virgin
mary . it says that the immaculate mother of god , the ever virgin
mary , having completed the course of her earthly life , was assumed
body and soul into heavenly glory. this was defined by a papal
statement in 1950 , though it had certainly been believed by some
before that. like the immaculate conception , this is primarily a
roman catholic doctrine , and like it , it has no direct biblical
support. note that catholics do not believe in sola scriptura .
that is , they do not believe that the bible is the only source of
christian knowledge. thus the fact that a doctrine has little
biblical support is not necessarily significant to them. they believe
that truth can be passed on through traditions of the church , and also
that it can be revealed to the church. i'm not interested in yet
another catholic protestant argument , but if any catholics can tell us
the basis for these beliefs , i think it would be appropriate. clh

that is generally accuate , but contains one serious error. we catholics
do believe that god 's revealed truth that is not explicitly recorded in
the bible can be and is passed on through the tradition of the church.
it should be noted that the tradition of the church , otherwise known as
sacred tradition , is not the same as ordinary human traditions.
however , we do not believe that additional truth will be revealed to
the church. public revelation , which is the basis of catholic doctrine ,
ended with the death of st. john , the last apostle. nothing new can
be added. theologians study this revelation and can draw out implications
that were not recognized previously , so that the council of nicea could
define statements about the theology of the trinity and the incarnation
that were not explicitly stated in the bible and had been disputed
before the council , but there was no new revelation at nicea or at
any subsequent council.

cardinal newman 's an essay on the development of christian doctrine ,
written while he was still an anglican , is an excellent discussion of
of this point. it was recently reprinted as a doubleday image books
paperback with some related shorter works under the title conscience ,
consensus , and the development of doctrine .

marty helgesen
bitnet mnhcc@cunyvm internet mnhcc@cunyvm.cuny.edu

what if there were no such thing as a hypothetical situation \?

from max@hilbert.cyprs.rain.com (max webb)
subject re a question that has bee bothering me.
organization cypress semi , beaverton or
lines 47

in article apr.14.03.07.55.1993.5435@athos.rutgers.edu wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (malcusco) writes
in article apr.11.01.02.39.1993.17790@athos.rutgers.edu atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes
my problem with science is that often it allows us to
assume we know what is best for ourselves. god endowed us
with the ability to produce life through sexual relations ,

you assume this because you believe in a designing creator ,
and you observe our ability to procreate...

for example , but he did not make that availible to everyone.
does that mean that if science can over ride god 's decision
through alterations , that god wills for us to have the power
to decide who should and should not be able to have
children \?

.... but then you observe our ability to modify fertility
through intelligence experiment , and draw no similar conclusions
about god designing us for scientific inquiry the use of the
technology that it produces. how is it that one ability is obviously
from god , and the other not \?

i cannot draw a solid line regarding where i
would approve of scientific study , and where i would not ,
but i will say this before one experiments with the
universe to find out all its secrets , one should ask
why they want this knowledge.

i want to know the truth , and hold the truth as the most
basic of all ethical values , because correct moral judgement
relies on knowing the truth , not vice versa. moralities that
assert that assent to a belief is a moral choice , and not
compelled by evidence inevitably cut off the limb they sit upon.
falsification of evidence , conscious and unconscious , follows
corrupting both the intellect and the heart.

i will say that each person should pray for guidance
when trying to unravel the mysteries of the universe , and
should cease their unravelling if they have reason to
believe their search is displeasing to god.

malcusco

if there is a god , he has nothing to fear from truth.
as to imaginary gods and there followers be afraid. be very
afraid.

max

from jdt@voodoo.ca.boeing.com (jim tomlinson (jimt ii))
subject an agnostic 's question
organization bogart to you buddy , bellevue , wa
lines 24

pardon me if this is the wrong newsgroup. i would describe myself as
an agnostic , in so far as i'm sure there is no single , universal
supreme being , but if there is one and it is just , we will surely be
judged on whether we lived good lives , striving to achieve that
goodness that is within the power of each of us. now , the
complication is that one of my best friends has become very
fundamentalist. that would normally be a non issue with me , but he
feels it is his responsibility to proselytize me (which i guess it is ,
according to his faith). this is a great strain to our friendship. i
would have no problem if the subject did n't come up , but when it does ,
the discussion quickly begins to offend both of us he is offended
because i call into question his bedrock beliefs i am offended by
what i feel is a subscription to superstition , rationalized by such
circular arguments as 'the bible is god 's word because he tells us in
the bible that it is so.' so my question is , how can i convince him
that this is a subject better left undiscussed , so we can preserve
what is (in all areas other than religious beliefs) a great
friendship \? how do i convince him that i am 'beyond saving' so he
wo n't try \? thanks for any advice.


jim tomlinson 206 865 6578 falling snow
bogart project jdt@voodoo.ca.boeing.com excellent snow
boeing computer services ...uunet ! bcstec ! voodoo ! jdt anderson gabriel

from kste@vm.cc.purdue.edu (kerry stephenson)
subject request for research subjects
organization purdue university
lines 14

please excuse the interruption.

i am seeking pro life activists to fill out a 13 page questionnaire
on attitutes , opinions , and activities. if you would be willing
to participate in this research , please email me privately at
kste@purccvm.bitnet. all replies and questionnaires will be
made anonymous prior to printout and will be kept confidential.

thank you very much for your help.

kerry at purdue

note that i do n't normally accept postings on abortion. so this
is n't an invitation to a discussion in this group. clh

from teama@bucknell.edu (meyers@bucknell.edu)
subject doug sturm
organization bucknell university , lewisburg , pa
lines 3

is anyone familiar with doug sturm \?

if so , please post what you think.

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 17

in article apr.16.23.15.27.1993.1836@geneva.rutgers.edu cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk (michael c davis) writes

it has to do with honoring the laws of the state , and
also to do with how people will perceive us i.e. it is culturally insensitive
to declare yourself married without going through a civil ceremony.)

i would go further if a couple are unwilling to have their commitment
publicly witnessed and recorded , that 's prima facie evidence that the
commitment is n't really there.




michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from eggertj@moses.atc.ll.mit.edu (jim eggert x6127 g41)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to eggertj@atc.ll.mit.edu
organization mit lincoln lab group 41
lines 13

in article apr.12.03.44.39.1993.18842@athos.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes
the real problem was
that christians were pacifist and preached there was only one god. when the
state operates by a system of divinitation of the emperor monotheism
becomes a capital offense. the jews were able to get exemption from this ,
and were also not evangelistic.

i disagree with your claim that jews were not evangelistic (except in
the narrow sense of the word). jewish proselytism was widespread.
there are numerous accounts of jewish proselytism , both in the new
testament and in roman and greek documents of the day.

jim eggertj@atc.ll.mit.edu (jim eggert)

from jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu (james sledd)
subject proof of resurection
organization social science computing
lines 44

i have a few minor problems with the article posted as proof of
christ 's resurrection.

first the scriptural quotations

this sort of reasoning is such that if you beleive you are justified ,
if not then your beleif is in vain , so you might as well beleive. most
of these quotations are of people who do beleive. people who would
try to justify their own positions.

second the logical proof

quoted text...

from xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
subject witness proof of christ's resurrection
date 11 apr 93 05 01 19 gmt

much deleted

4. in nearly 20 centuries , no body has ever been
produced to refute jesus' assertion that he
would indeed rise from the dead.

5. the probability of being able to perpetrate such
a hoax successfully upon the entire world for
nearly 20 centuries is astronomically negative !

...end quoted text

the period of time that has elapsed from the event growing larger
does not increase the odds that a hoax would be discovered. in fact
the longer a hoax is perpetuated the stronger it becomes.

finally

there is no proof of the resurrection of christ , except in our spirits
communion with his , and the father 's. it is a matter of faith , belief
without logical proof. incedently one of the largest stumbling blocks for
rational western man , myself included.

i hope that this is taken in the spirit it was intended and not as a
rejection of the resurrection 's occurance. i beleive , but i wanted to point
out the weakness of logical proofs.

from mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michael d. walker)
subject re question about virgin mary
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 19


two follow up 's to mark 's last posting

1. as far as current investigations , the church recently declared the
crying statue and corresponding messages from mary at akita ,
japan as approved (i found this out about a month ago.)

2. again in the proof department , start with the appearances of mary
at fatima. among other things , there were pictures taken of the
miracle of the sun that appeared in some major american newspaper
(the new york times , i believe) as well as most of the major
european newspapers.

i could talk (or post) for hours on this topic , but...
(i have a thesis to write).
god bless ,
mike walker

p.s. anyone want info , i have more. mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu

from mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server)
subject re cause
lines 38

trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre) writes
norris@athena.mit.edu writes
some stuff deleted
fortunately for the convenience of us believers , there is a class of
questions that can never be reduced away by natural science. for
example why does the universe exist at all \?

must there be a why to this \? i ask because of what you also
assume about god namely , that he just exists , with no why
to his existence. so the question is reversed , why ca n't
we assume the universe just exists as you assume god to
just exist \? why must there be a why to the universe \?
remainder of message deleted

pardon me for replying to only a portion of your message )

the reason we can say god just exists and ca n't say the universe just
exists is because the universe is a natural realm and is subject to natural
laws in general and the law of cause and effect in particular. that is , we
observe in nature that every cause has an effect , and every effect was produced
by a cause. the existence of the natural realm , as an effect itself , cannot be
its own cause it must therefore have a supernatural cause.

god , on the other hand , is a supernatural being , and is therefore not subject
to such natural laws as the law of cause and effect. as a supernatural being ,
god 's eternal existence does not imply a previous cause the way the existence
of a physical , natural cosmos does. thus , those who believe in the
supernatural have a valid basis for accepting the existence of uncaused
phenomena such as the eternal god , whereas those who deny the existence of the
supernatural are faced with the dilemma of a physical universe whose very
nature shows that it is not sufficient to explain its own existence.

this is , of course , an oversimplification of a complex topic , but i just wanted
to clarify some important differences between the supernatural (god) and the
natural (the universe) , since you seem to mistake them as being
interchangeable.

mark

from jwindley@cheap.cs.utah.edu (jay windley)
subject mormon temples
organization university of utah cs dept
lines 113

mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server) writes
one thing i do n't understand is why being sacred should make the
temple rituals secret.

the so sacred it 's secret explanation is a bit misleading. while
there is a profound reverence for the temple endowment , there is no
injunction against discussing the ceremony itself in public. but
since public discussion is often irreverent , most mormons would rather
keep silent than have a cherished practice maligned.

but there are certain elements of the ceremony which participants
explicitly covenant not to reveal except in conjunction with the
ceremony itself.

granted , the gnostic christians
had their secret rituals , but these seem to have been taken entirely
from pagan pre christian mystery religions.

there are other interpretations to christian history in this matter.
one must recall that most of what we know about the gnostics was
written by their enemies. eusebius claims that jesus imparted secret
information to peter , james , and john after his resurrection , and that
those apostles transmitted that information to the rest of the twelve
(eusebius , historia ecclesiastica ii 1 3 4).

irenaeus claims this information was passed on to the priests and
bishops ( against heresies iv 33 8) , but eusebius disagrees. he
claims the secret ceremonies of the christian church perished with the
apostles. interestingly enough , eusebius refers to the groups which
we today call gnostics as promulgators of a false gnosis (eusebius ,
op. cit. , iii , 32 7 8). his gripe was not that thay professed a
gnosis , but that they had the wrong one.

writings dealing with jesus' post resurrection teachings emphasize
secrecy not so much a concealment as a policy of not teaching
certain things indiscriminately. in one story , simon magus opens a
dialog with peter on the nature of god. peter 's response is you seem
to me not to know what a father and a god is but i could tell you
both whence souls are , and when and how they were made but it is not
permitted to me now to disclose these things to you ( clementine
recognitions ii , 60). if any one theme underlies the recognitions
it is the idea that certain doctrines are not to be idly taught , but
can be had after a certain level of spiritual maturity is reached.

now one can approach this and other such evidence in many ways. i
do n't intend that everyone interpret christian history as i do , but i
believe that evidence exists (favorably interpreted , of course) of
early christian rites analogous to those practiced by mormons today.

neither new testament
christianity nor biblical judaism made a secret of their practices.

but if judaism and christianity had such ceremonies , would you expect
to read about them in public documents \? one can search the book of
mormon and other mormon scripture and find almost no information on
temple worship. yes , you could establish that mormons worship in
temples , but you would probably be hard pressed to characterize that
worship. on that basis , can we conclude that the bible explains all
practices which might have taken place , and that absence of such
descriptions proves they did not exist \?

mormon scholar dr. hugh nibley offers us a list of scriptures from
which i have taken a few

1. it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of
heaven , but to them it is not given (matt. 13 11).

2. all men cannot receive this saying , save they to whom it is given
(matt. 19 11).

3. i have yet many things to say unto you , but ye cannot bear them
now (john 16 12).

4. the time cometh , when i shall no more speak unto you in proverbs ,
but i shall shew you plainly of the father (john 16 25).

5. ... unspeakable words , which it is not lawful for a man to utter
(1 cor. 3 1 2).

6. many things ... i would not write with paper and ink but i ...
come unto you and speak face to face (2 jn. 1 12).

(nibley , since cumorah , pp. 92 94)

again , these can also be interpreted many different ways. i believe
they serve to show that not all doctrines which could have been taught
were actually taught openly.

i have heard that joseph smith took the entire
practice (i.e. both the ritual and the secrecy surrounding the ritual)
from the freemasons. anybody in the know have any authoritative
information on whether or not this claim is true \?

historically , joseph smith had been adiministering the temple
endowment ceremony for nearly a year before joining the freemasons.
there is diary evidence which supports a claim that the rite did not
change after smith became a mason. it can be argued that smith had
ample exposure to masonic proceedings through the burlesque of his
time and through his brother hyrum (a mason) , though no specific
connection has yet been established.

my conversations with masons (with respect to temple rite
transcriptions which have appeared on the net) have led me to believe
that the connection from masonry to mormonism is fairly tenuous. as
our moderator notes , most of what was similar was removed in the
recent revisions to the temple ceremony. i believe that critics who
charge that mormon rites were lifted from freemasonry do not have
adequate knowledge of the rites in question.


jay windley university of utah salt lake city
jwindley@asylum.cs.utah.edu


from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject etymology of easter
lines 53

for src

in most languages , the feast of the resurrection of our lord is
known as the pasch , or pasque , or some variation thereof , a word
which comes from the hebrew pesach , meaning passover. in english ,
german , and a few related languages , however , it is known as easter ,
or some variation thereof , and questions have been asked about the
origin of this term.

one explanation is that given by the venerable bede in his de
ratione temporum 1 5 , where he derives the word from the name of an
anglo saxon goddess of spring called eastre. bede is a great
scholar , and it is natural to take his word for it. but he lived
673 735 , and augustine began preaching in kent in 597. the use of
the word easter to describe the feast would have been well
established before the birth of bede and probably before the birth
of anyone he might have discussed the subject with. it seems likely
that his derivation is just a guess , based on his awareness that
there had been an anglo saxon goddess of spring bearing that name ,
and the resemblance of the words. thus , if the said resemblance
(surely it is not surprising that a personification of spring should
have a name similar to the word for dawn) is not in istelf
convincing , the testimony (or rather the conjecture) by bede does
not make it more so.

assuming that bede was right , that would not justify saying that the
christian celebration (which , after all , had been going on for some
centuries before the name easter was applied to it) has pagan roots.
it would simply mean that the anglo saxons , upon becoming christians
and beginning to celebrate the resurrection by a festival every
spring , called it by the name that to them meant simply spring
festival.

however , bede 's is not the only theory that has been proposed. j
knoblech , in die sprach , zeitschrift fuer sprachwissenschaft 5
(vienna , 1959) 27 45 , offers the following derivation

among latin speaking christians , the week beginning with the feast
of the resurrection was known as hebdomada alba (white week) ,
since the newly baptized christians were accustomed to wear their
white baptismal robes throughout that week. sometimes the week was
referred to simply as albae. translaters rendering this into
german mistook it for the plural of alba , meaning dawn. they
accordingly rendered it as eostarum , which is old high german for
dawn. this gave rise to the form easter in english.

yours ,
james kiefer


no , i'm not interested in restarting discussions of the propriety
of celebrating easter. however this seems like it contains enough
interesting information that people might like to see it. clh

from mhsu@lonestar.utsa.edu (melinda . hsu )
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization university of texas at san antonio
lines 74

i 'd like to share my thoughts on this topic of arrogance of
christians and look forward to any responses. in my
encounters with christians , i find myself dismayed by their
belief that their faith is total truth. according to them ,
their beliefs come from the bible and the bible is the word of
god and god is truth thus they know the truth. this stance
makes it difficult to discuss other faiths with them and my own
hesitations about christianity because they see no other way.
their way is the 'truth.'

but i see their faith arising from a willful choice to believe
a particular way. that choice is part faith and part reason ,
but it seems to me a choice.

my discussions with some christians remind me of schoolyard
discussions when i was in grade school

a kid would say , all policemen are jerks ! i 'd ask , how do
you know \? because my daddy told me so ! how do you know
you 're daddy is right \? he says he 's always right !

well the argument usually stops right there. in the end ,
are n't we all just kids , groping for the truth \? if so , do we have
the authority to declare all other beliefs besides our own as
false \?



this is only my third time browsing through this newsgroup. i
apologize if i'm covering tired old ground. some of the
discussions on this topic have piqued my interest and i welcome
any comments.

louis j. kim o ph 512 522 5556
southwest research institute , ' fax 512 522 3042
post office drawer 28510 lkim@swri.edu
san antonio , tx 78228 0510 76450.2231@compuserve.com


i'm sort of mystified about how a christian might respond to this. i
can understand criticisms of christianity that say there 's not enough
evidence to believe it , or that there 's just as good evidence for
other religions. i do n't agree , but clearly there are plenty of
intelligent people who do n't find the evidence convincing. but that
does n't seem to be your point. rather , you seem upset that people who
believe christianity is true also believe that things which contradict
it are false.

this suggests a model of spiritual things that 's rather different than
the christian one. it sounds more like an existentialist view , where
people choose what value to follow , but there 's no actual independent
spiritual reality , and so no way to say that a specific choice is in
some unique sense right. this sort of model with modifications of
one sort or another may be appropriate for some religions. but
christianity is in its essense a historical religion. that is , it 's
based on the concept that there are actual spiritual entities out
there , that one of them has intervened in history in specific ways ,
and that we see evidence of that in history. in the mundane world ,
we are not free to choose how things work. when we drop something , it
falls (aside from well defined situations where it does n't). the
christian concept is that spiritual matters , there is also an actual
external reality. i hope we 're all honest enough not to claim that we
have perfect understanding. but while we may not think we know
everything , we are confident that we know some things. and that
implies that we think things that contradict them are false. i do n't
see how else we could proceed.

this need n't result in arrogance. i'm certainly interested in talking
with people of other religions. they may have things to teach me , and
even if they do n't , i respect them as fellow human beings. but it 's
got to be possible to respect people and also think that on some
matters they are wrong. maybe even disasterously wrong.

clh

from gerhard@vmars.tuwien.ac.at (gerhard fohler)
subject phone number of wycliffe translators uk
organization technical university vienna , dept. for realtime systems , austria
lines 15

sorry for bothering with a request almost irrelevant to anyone except for me
could some kind soul provide me with the phone number of
wycliffe center
horsley green high wycomb
bucks hp 14 3 xl
i want to surprise a friend of mine staying there , but i do n't have the number.

thanks a lot in advance

gerhard

obviously email response is best. what do people think of requests
like this \? unless things are very different in the uk and us , it should
be possible to find this out by calling what we call information .
the netwide cost of a posting is fairly significant. clh

from rick granberry@pts.mot.com (rick granberry)
subject re help
reply to rick granberry@pts.mot.com (rick granberry)
organization motorola paging and telepoint systems group
lines 46

in article apr.21.03.26.51.1993.1379@geneva.rutgers.edu ,
lmvec@westminster.ac.uk (william hargreaves) writes
hi everyone ,
i'm a commited christian that is battling with a problem. i
know that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our
deeds , yet hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless ,
saying' you fools , do you still think that just believing is enough \? '

now if someone is fully believing but there life is totally lead by
themselves and not by god , according to romans that person is still
saved by there faith.

my .02 yes and no. i do not believe the above scenario is not possible.
either they are believing and living (in at least some part) led by god , else
they are not. believing (intellectually , but waiting( \? )) is not enough.
especially important to remember is that no one can judge whether you are
so committed , nor can you judge someone else. i guess the closest we can
come to know someone 's situation is listening to their own statements. this
can be fallible , as is our sense of communion one with another.

but then there is the bit which says that god
preferes someone who is cold to him (i.e. does n't know him condemned)
so a lukewarm christian someone who knows and believes in god but doesn'
t make any attempt to live by the bible.

regarding this passage , we need to remember that this is a letter to a church
(at laodicea) , people who are of the body of christ. (rev.3 14 16) he talks
about their works. a translation could say that he says their lack of
concern makes him sick (to the point of throwing up).

now i am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what
you do) as taught in romans , but how can i square up in my mind the
teachings of james in conjunction with the lukewarm christian being '
spat out'
right , saving is by faith alone , except that faith does not come alone , if
you catch the two meanings.
i can offer the explanation that jesus would that we were either on fire
for him or so cold we knew we were not in his will and thus could be made
aware of our separation. this is admonishment for his children , not eternal
damnation.



answer not a fool according to his folly , lest thou also be like unto him.
answer a fool according to his folly , lest he be wise in his own conceit.
(proverbs 26 4 5)

from christian@geneva.rutgers.edu
subject end of discussion easter
lines 2

i just about closed this once before. i'm now doing so for real , after
tonight 's posting.

from ata@hfsi.hfsi.com ( john ata)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to news@opl.com
organization hfsi
lines 51

in article apr.21.03.26.43.1993.1373@geneva.rutgers.edu parkin@eng.sun.com writes

desperately wanted the jewish people to accept him as the messiah. if
the crucification was the will of god how could jesus pray that this
cup pass from him. was this out of weakness. never. many men and
women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes.
is jesus less than these. no he is not. he knew the crucification
was not the will of god. god 's will was that the jewish people accept
jesus as the messiah and that the kingdom of heaven be established on
the earth with jesus as it 's head. (just like the jewish people
expected). if this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what
.
.
.

why do you assume that jesus 's plea to his father to let this cup
pass from him , was merely a plea to escape death \? when i look at
jesus in the garden , i see a man god , who all his life had had the
presense of his father with him. as a result , he knew every
detail about his death long before the agony in the garden. but
as that hour approached , he felt abandoned by his father , his
presense diminishing with each passing minute. in addition , it
was brought more and more to jesus 's attention (the betrayal of
judas was probably a big impact) that his suffering would be to no
avail for many people , especially those who would reject him , not
only then but in the future. i truly believe that the majority of
jesus 's suffering was mental and spiritual , while the physical
portion was only the tip of the iceburg.

btw , we know from john 's account that jesus shunned becomming an earthly
king. from john

joh 6 14 after the people saw the miraculous sign that jesus did , they
began to say , surely this is the prophet who is to come into the
world.
joh 6 15 jesus , knowing that they intended to come and make him king by
force , withdrew again to a mountain by himself.

this does not seem like a man who would regret not becoming an
earthly king. no , jesus knew his mission was to redeem all (jew
gentile) people and establish his kingdom in the hearts of those
who would believe. this was utterly mistaken , much to jesus 's
dismay , as an aspiration to some earthly kingdom. but he knew
what his father 's will was and followed it obediently even in the
darkness of his passion.


john g. ata technical consultant internet ata@hfsi.com
hfs , inc. va20 uucp uunet ! hfsi ! ata
7900 westpark drive ms 601 voice (703) 827 6810
mclean , va 22102 fax (703) 827 3729

from rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu (tim rolfe)
subject re quality of catholic liturgy
lines 56

in apr.10.05.30.16.1993.14313@athos.rutgers.edu
jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john e murray) writes

i would like the opinion of netters on a subject that has been bothering my
wife and me lately liturgy , in particular , catholic liturgy. in the last few
years it seems that there are more and more ad hoc events during mass. it 's
driving me crazy ! the most grace filled aspect of a liturgical tradition is
that what happens is something we all do together , because we all know how
to do it. led by the priest , of course , which makes it a kind of dialogue we
present to god. but the best masses i 've been to were participatory prayers.

. . .

having lived through the kicking and screaming in the 60s and 70s as the
catholics were invited to participate in the liturgy instead of counting
their rosary beads during mass , i find this comment interesting. there
is a massively longer tradition for proclaiming the passion accounts
without active participation. if you know the latin , one really
beautiful way to hear the passion is it 's being chanted by three
deacons the narrator chants in the middle baritone range , jesus chants
in the bass , and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor.
this is actually the basis for the common proclamation of the passion
that john would prefer.

but there is always a judgement call based on pastoral considerations.
each pastor makes his own decisions (it is n't a church wide conspiracy
against participation). the palm sunday liturgy , with its initial
blessing and distribution of the palms and procession , is already
getting long before you get to the passion some pastors feel that they
should not make the people stand through that long narrative. also , the
orchestrated proclamation with multiple readers and public participation
in the crowd quotations runs longer than the single reader proclamation
in churches with multiple masses for the sunday , it might be
necessary to go with the briefer options just to get 'em in and get 'em
out .

each parish is different. catholics are no longer canonically tied to
their geographic parishes. it is possible that another catholic parish
in the columbus area (based on the ohio state address) has a liturgy
closer to your preferences. or talk to some of your fellow
parishioners and see how common your preferences are pastors
generally are willing to listen to non confrontational requests. though
you probably should bring along a paramedic in case he reacts too strongly
to the shock of people asked for a longer sunday mass.

perhaps the problem is that recent liturgical development has n't follow
the continuous evolution model (the accumulation of small changes , no
single one of which is too hard to take) but rather the punctuated
equilibrium model (things stay the same and we get accustomed to them ,
then the marked mutation hits). my apologies if i am mis remembering
the names of the evolutionary theories.

tim rolfe
rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu
rolfe@junior.dsu.edu
rolfet@columbia.dsu.edu

from lmh@juliet.caltech.edu (henling , lawrence m.)
subject christian 's need for christianity (was ...)
organization california institute of technology
lines 26

in article apr.16.23.17.40.1993.1861@geneva.rutgers.edu , mussack@austin.ibm.com writes...
for example why does the universe exist at all \?

whether there is a why or not we have to find it. this is pascal 's( \? ) wager.
if there is no why and we spend our lives searching , then we have merely
wasted our lives , which were meaningless anyway. if there is a why and we
..
suppose the universe is 5 billion years old , and suppose it lasts another
5 billion years. suppose i live to be 100. that is nothing , that is so small
that it is scary. so by searching for the why along with my friends here
on earth if nothing else we are n't so scared.

i find this view of christianity to be quite disheartening and sad.
the idea that life only has meaning or importance if there is a creator
does not seem like much of a basis for belief.

and the logic is also appalling god must exist because i want him to.

i have heard this line of reasoning before and wonder how prevalent
it is. certainly in modern society many people are convinced life is
hopeless (or so the pollsters and newscasts state) , but i do n't see
where this is a good reason to become religious. if you want 'meaning'
why not just join a cult , such as in waco \? the leaders will give you
the security blanket you desire.

larry henling lmh@shakes.caltech.edu

from luom@storm.cs.orst.edu (luo martha baoming)
subject summer program
organization computer science department , oregon state university
lines 8

does anyone know any good decipleship trainning program during min august
to end of sept. or any missionary programs.
i currently belong to the missionary alliance church in oregon.
please reply by mail.

thanks.

luom@storm.cs.orst.edu

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical \?
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 42

in article may.7.01.09.04.1993.14501@athos.rutgers.edu easteee@wkuvx1.bitnet writes
hello all ,
i have a question about satan. i was taught a long time ago
that satan was really an angel of god and was kicked out of heaven
because he challenged god 's authority. the problem is , i cannot
find this in the bible. is it in the bible \? if not , where did it
originate \?

i did a workshop on this for an episcopalian student gathering a
couple months ago because i wanted to know the answer too. as far as
i could tell , although that story was never specifically told in the
bible , many references are made to it , primarily in the new testament.
in the old testament there is actually an entirely different view of
satan as a (excuse the pun) devil 's advocate for yahweh. see the
book of job. getting back to the fallen angel story , there are no
references to lucifer in the bible except for a mistranslation of
the morning star in the king james version (isaiah 14 12) , which
probably referred to a babylonian monarch much in the same was as the
sun king referred to louis xiv.

all in all , i do n't know where the story came from it may have been
rolling around for a long time , or milton ( paradise lost ) may have
invented it. sorry for the sketchiness of the rest of this , but i am
in a hurry and need to eat lunch ! feel free to email me about the
other stuff i found out.... (although a lot of it is just the result
of a bible concordance program called quickverse it 's really
lousy , by the way do n't buy it.)

wondering ,
eddie
o western kentucky
) ) ) university
( ( ( ( easteee@wkuvx1.bitnet

hope this helped !
vera

je cherche une ame , qui of course i do n't agree with
pourra m'aider mylene farmer 's religious views
je suis i just think they 're interesting.
d'une generation desenchantee (vera noyes)
mylene farmer noye@midway.uchicago.edu

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization fnal ad net
lines 70

in article apr.13.00.08.33.1993.28409@athos.rutgers.edu
kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (dr nancy 's sweetie) writes

there is no way out of the loop.

oh contrer mon captitan ! there is a way. certainly it is not by human reason.
certainly it is not by human experience. (and yet it is both ! ) to paraphrase
sartre , the particular is absurd unless it has an infinite reference point. it
is only because of god 's own revelation that we can be absolute about a thing.
your logic comes to fruition in relativism.

at the core of all well founded belief , lies belief that is unfounded.
ludwig wittgenstein

ah , now it is clear. ludwig was a desciple of russell. ludwig 's fame is often
explained by the fact that he spawned not one but two significant movements in
contemporary philosophy. both revolve around tractatus logico philosphicus
('21) and philosophical investigation ('53). many of witt 's comments and
implicit conclusions suggest ways of going beyond the explicit critique of
language he offers. according to some of the implicit suggestions of witt 's
thought , ordinary language is an invaluable resource , offering a necessary
framework for the conduct of daily life. however , though its formal features
remain the same , its content does not and it is always capable of being
transcended as our experience changes and our understanding is deepened , giving
us a clearer picture of what we are and what we wish to say. on witt 's own
account , there is a dynamic fluidity of language. it is for this reason that
any critique of language must move from talking about the limits of language to
talking about its boundaries , where a boundary is understood not as a wall but
a threshold.
vonwrights 's comment that witt 's sentences have a content that often lies
deep beneath the surface of language. on the surface , witt talks of the
insuperable position of ordinary language and the necessity of bringing
ourselves to accept it without question. at the same time , we are faced with
witt 's own creative uses of language and his concern for bringing about changes
in our traditional modes of understanding. philosophy , then , through more
perspicacious speech , seeks to effect this unity rather than assuming that it
is already functioning. yes \? the most brilliant of scientists are unable to
offer a foundation for human speech so long as they reject christianity ! in his
tractatus we have the well nigh perfect exhibition of the nature of the impasse
of the scientific ideal of exhaustive logical analysis of reality by man.
perfect language does not exist for fallen man , therefore we must get on about
our buisness of relating truth via ordinary language.

this is why john 's gospel is so dear to most christians. it is so simple in
it conveyance of the revealation of god , yet so full of unlieing depth of
understanding. he viewed christ from the ot concept of as a man thinketh , so
he is. john looked at the outward as only an indicator of what was inside ,
that is the consciousness of christ. and so must we. words are only vehicals
of truth. he is truth. the scriptures are plain in their expounding that
there is a truth and that it is knowable. there are absolutes , and they too
are knowable. however , they are only knowable when he reveals them to the
individual. there is , and we should n't shy from this , a mysticism to
christianity. paul in rom 8 says there are 3 men in the world. there is the
one who does not have the spirit and therefore can not know the things of the
spirit (the spirit of truth) and there is the one who has the spirit and has
the capacity to know of the truth , but there is the third. the one who not
only has the spirit , but that the spirit has him ! who can know the deep things
of god and reveal them to us other than the spirit. and it is only the deep
things of god that are absolute and true.
there is such a thing as true truth and it is real , it can be experienced
and it is verifiable. i disagree with dr nancy 's sweetie 's conclusion because
if it is taken to fruition it leads to relativism which leads to dispair.

i would know the words which he would answer me , and understand what he would
say unto me. job 23ff

rex

suggested , easy reading about epistimology he is there and he is not silent
by francis schaeffer.

from marka@amber.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double stan
organization ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 30

in article apr.13.01.04.21.1993.686@athos.rutgers.edu dsegard@nyx.cs.du.edu (daniel segard) writes
seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson) asks
what is the objection to celebration of easter \?
the objection naturally is in the way in which you phrase it.
easter (or eashtar or ishtar or ishtarti or other spellings) is the pagan
whore goddess of fertility.
it is celebration of the resurrection of jesus.
no , you are thinking perhaps of ressurection sunday i think.

tsk.tsk. too much argument on non issues !
i'm roman catholic and it seems to me that people
celebrate easter and christmas for itself rather
than how it relates to jesus. i do n't really
care about some diety. if people have some other
definition of easter , then that 's their business.
do n't let it interfere with my easter.

resurrection sunday 8 ) where did that come from \?
if people celebrate easter for the cadburry bunny ,
that 's their business.

so from this i infer that there are different rules for
christians of jewish descent \? what happened to there is
neither jew nor greek , slave nor free , male nor female , for
all are one in christ jesus \?

i 've always been curious about this. is jesus important
to jews at all \? i thought he was thought of only
as a prophet \? if that 's true what do they celebrate
easter for \?

from bocherc@hartwick.edu
subject does god love you \?
lines 5

i simply wish to thank dave mielke (dave@bnr.ca) for sharing the
tract concerning god 's love. it was most welcome to me and a great
source of comfort.

carol bocher

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject chanting of the passion
lines 14

mike rolfe writes

if you know the latin , one really beautiful way to hear the
passion is its being chanted by three deacons the narrator
chants in the middle baritone range , jesus chants in the bass ,
and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor.

this is done in english (same music as the traditional latin) in
many anglican parishes. i should expect that many rcc parishes would
do likewise. the st matthew passion and st john passion of j s bach
are direct offshoots of this tradition

yours ,
james kiefer

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re unity
organization indiana university
lines 126

in article apr.8.00.59.50.1993.28560@athos.rutgers.edu maarten.van.loon@cwi.nl (maarten van loon) writes
hello fellow netters and fellow christians ,
about the subject of unity between christians and christian churches.
to a bible study group. alltough i do have a personal opinion on this
issue , i thought it would be nice to hear opinions of fellow christian
brothers and sisters from different countries and in different situations.

my background member of a (orthodox) reformed church. let us say a little
the only unity i 've found which is true is when all parties involved are
disciples. i came out of a church in which even the different
congregations were always competing and arguing about which one was
better and who had the better messages (while none of them put anything
into practice from those messages). since becoming a disciple , i 've
found that when i travel to another church in the same movement , they
are just as accepting there as any other. we had a retreat back in
january when some of the congregation from louisville , ky came up (this
retreat was for college students) and it was as though i had known even
the people from louisville for years (and i had only become a disciple
the previous april and had never been to the church in kentucky). one
of the keys to unity is unselfish love and self sacrifice. that is only
one area in which disciples stand out from christians . also , another
part of unity is a common depth of conviction. i 've also been a part of
some christian campus fellowships who were focused on unity between
churches and saw that those churches had one thing involved a lack of
conviction about everything they believed. that was why they could be
unified , they did n't care about the truth but delighted in getting along
together.

the problem here in the netherlands is that there are two other churches
(denominations) with the same characteristics. both have the same
confessions there are only some differences with respect to for
example the matter of appropriation of salvation and how to use
our creeds. in essence a lot of people of these three churches have to
same faith and feel that they should become one church. but how , that is
the question.

creeds \? what need is there of creeds when the bible stands firmly
better \?

so , here is a first question
can the congregation of christ be separated by walls of different
denominations \? or is this definitely an untolerable situation
according to the scriptures \?

according to the scriptures , splits and differences of opinion are going
to be there. as per a previous note , i mentioned that there are those
who teach falsely by many means. there are also differences of opinion
and belief. however , scripture states
in the following directives i have no praise for you , for your
meetings do more harm than good. in the first place , i hear that when
you come together as a church , there re divisions among you , and to some
extent i believe it. no doubt there have to be differences among you to
show which of you have god 's approval (1 corinthians 11 17 19).

how will god show his approval \? by fruitfulness (see acts 2 47) , but
before that , there are these qualities
devotion to the apostles teaching
fellowship
communion
filling with awe for god
all having everything in common.
glad and sincere hearts
praising god
enjoying the favor of the people
all these are mentioned in acts 2 42 47. god also shows that those who
have these qualities are persecuted. look at stephen , a man full of
faith and of the holy spirit (acts 6 5) who was later stoned (acts
7 54 60).

can one say that only one of these three churches is the
true church of jesus christ \?

one can say that a church is the true church only if that church is
perfect not only in the congregation but worldwide as a movement. i
have yet to find that , but the closest one i 've found is the boston
church of christ movement , which constantly strives to have errors
pointed out and corrected. it is also the only one i 've seen which is
totally sold out to god.


a problem closely related to these question is
can we cooperate with other christians from these two churches
before there is a unity \? this question is especially important
for those who think that only one church can be the true one .

as for cooperation , that can always occur. unity , on the other hand may
never occur. as for those who think about only one church being the
true one , i remind them that mark 9 38 41 states that there are
disciples who are not a part of the main group to begin with , but they
will not lose their reward. as with the boston movement , i 've heard
numerous times this exact same thing , that there are disciples out there
that are not a part of the boston movement but that does not make them
any less disciples. of course , few people admit that they 've ever run
into someone who has the qualities of a disciple outside the movement.
i know i have n't.

maybe this last problem sounds a little strange to most of you.
for your information we have a lot of organizations here which
are founded by people of one specific church and whose members
are all members of that church. this has been considered as
correct for years. only a few years ago people started to
discuss about this and now we are in the middle of this process.
some organizations are opening their doors for people from
other churches etc.

i must warn that this sounds cliquey to me. a clique is a group which
runs around together to some extent exclusively. this causes problems
in fellowship and causes divisions. i would not say at all that this is
something correct for a church group to do for any reason. in one of
the churches i attended , for example , there was an internal clique of
people who were on the 14 different groups committees organizational
heads of the congregation. they rarely talked to anyone else outside of
the committees and seldom were voted out of office without another
office being opened up so that they would have to step right back in.
their degree of exclusion was such that when the new pastor came , he
nearly had to wipe out everything and start from scratch (i wish he
would 've since they still have no clue about what it means to be a
disciple). anyway , this rigidity in the clique is beginning to be
broken down , but is still there. so , i must warn against such division
within. there 's enough division without.

thanks for your opinions in advance !

maarten

joe fisher

from jcj@tellabs.com (jcj)
subject re proof of resurection
organization huh \? whuzzat \?
lines 22

in article apr.21.03.26.18.1993.1352@geneva.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes

we also cannot fail to note the intense suffering a devastation which has been
wrecked on our world because of christians who were certain they were
following christ. from captialist ... in strict obedience to the gensis
innocent women who were burned alive in accordance with you shall not allow a
witch to live , the moslems who were killed in the crusades , the god fearing
men destroyed by the inquistion. the religious wars in spain , france , england ,
etc. christianity has undoubtedly caused the most suffering and needless loss
of life by individuals whose certainity that they were following the
instructions therein , was unquestionable. there is much to grieve.

i agree. where in the gospels does jesus advocate any of the actions
you mention \?

i could n't find witch or sorceress in my concordance. is there
something in the epistles about witches \? (i'm still working my way
through the gospels.)

jj

the reference is ex 22 18. it 's witch in kj , sorceress in rsv. clh

from cpage@two step.seas.upenn.edu (carter c. page)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 34

in article apr.10.05.32.36.1993.14391@athos.rutgers.edu gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes
firstly , i am an atheist. . . .

(atheist drivel deleted . . .)

untitled


a seed is such a miraculous thing ,
it can sit on a shelf forever.
but how it knows what to do , when it 's stuck in the ground ,
is what makes it so clever.
it draws nutrients from the soil through it 's roots ,
and gathers its force from the sun
it puts forth a whole lot of blossoms and fruit ,
then recedes itself when it is done.
who programmed the seed to know just what to do \?
and who put the sun in the sky \?
and who put the food in the dirt for the roots \?
and who told the bees to come by \?
and who makes the water to fall from above ,
to refresh and make everything pure \?
perhaps all of this is a product of love ,
and perhaps it happened by chance.
yeah , sure.

johnny hart , cartoonist for b.c.


carter c. page of happiness the crown and chiefest part is wisdom ,
a carpenter 's apprentice and to hold god in awe. this is the law that ,
cpage@seas.upenn.edu seeing the stricken heart of pride brought down ,
we learn when we are old. adapted from sophocles


from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject anybody out there \?
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 30

i seldom see any posts in this group. is anyone out there in christendom
listening \? if so , why do n't we get some dialog going here \?

here 's a topic to get things started. my daughter 's christian school sends
home a weekly update on school related topics. this week they sent
something very interesting. it was an article written by the leader of a
national (us) christian school organization about a trip he recently made
to jerusalem. while there , he was introduced to one of the rabbis who is
working on a project to rebuild the temple at jerusalem. the article
included photos of the many furnishings that have already been made in
preparation for furnishing the rebuilt temple according to the
specifications given in the bible.

what was even more striking is the fact that the plans for the temple are
complete and the group is only awaiting permission from the israeli
government before beginning the building. the other startling fact is the
very recent archeological discovery that the original site of the temple is
unoccupied and available for building. previously it has been thought that
the original site was underneath what is now a mosque , making rebuilding
impossible without sparking a holy war.

now it appears that nothing stands in the way of rebuilding and resuming
sacrifices , as the scriptures indicate will happen in the last days.
although the israeli government will give the permission to start , i think
it is the hand of god holding the project until he is ready to let it
happen. brothers and sisters , the time is at hand. our redemption is
drawing near. look up !

postings are in the range of 30 to 50 per day , except weekends.
if people are n't seeing that , we 've got propagation problems. clh

from cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk (michael c davis)
subject love europe
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
lines 4

are any readers of s.r.c. going to the love europe congress in germany this
july \?

michael davis (cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk)

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization florida state university
lines 13

again , in the normal protestant interpretation , sunday is not a law ,
and worshipping on another day is not a sin. churches are free to
decide on the day they will meet , just as they are free to decide on
the hour. it would not be a sin to worship on some other day , but if
you belong to a church that worships on sunday and you show up on
monday , you will probably worship alone... clh

i totally agree with that sentiment. but why do you have to go further
and advocate violating what god has set up \? that is the question which
you have not answered from scripture. you can worship on every day , as
long as you work. but god says the sabbath is all mine.

darius

from hall@vice (hal f lillywhite 627 3877 59 360 lp a yapg)
subject re help
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 73

in article apr.21.03.26.51.1993.1379@geneva.rutgers.edu lmvec@westminster.ac.uk (william hargreaves) writes

i'm a commited christian that is battling with a problem. i know
that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our deeds , yet
hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless , saying' you fools ,
do you still think that just believing is enough \? '

actually i do n't think there is any conflict if we really understand
what these passages say. first , what is faith \? if you study the
meaning of the greek and hebrew words so translated i think you will
come to the conclusion that the word means a lot more than mere
belief. faith means both trust and action. if you do not put your
belief into action it simply cannot qualify as faith. i think this
is what james means when he says that faith without works is dead
and , i will show you my faith by my works. remember james was
writing to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. this
probably means he was writing to those who would hear the gospel much
later and would n't understand the meaning of the original greek.
(indeed i suspect james was writing to us , today , among others he
intended to reach.) paul , on the other hand wrote mostly to the
people of the roman empire who generally understood the meaning of
the greek.

another key to why there is no conflict is to look at paul 's
statements in their context. i think you will find that when paul
contrasts faith and works it is in the context of comparing the
gospel with the law , meaning the law of moses. this was the great
burden of paul 's life. as the apostle to the gentiles he would go
convert a bunch of people , then the judizers would come along and
try to convince them that they also had to obey the law of moses (cf
acts chapter 15). in this context paul condemns the idea of being
saved by the works of the law , saying that we are saved by the blood
of jesus and our faith in him. i believe that a better translation
for today would be that we are saved by faithfulness . i think
faithfulness today has a meaning closer to what the original
writers intended.

now if someone is fully believing but there life is totally lead by themselves
and not by god , according to romans that person is still saved by there faith.

i think you misunderstand romans. what paul is really saying is
that god prefers a faithful gentile who does not keep kosher to a
kosher jew who fails to stay faithful in the more important matters
of following the lord and having charity toward his fellows.

but then there is the bit which says that god preferes someone who is cold to
him (i.e. does n't know him condemned) so a lukewarm christian someone who
knows and believes in god but does n't make any attempt to live by the bible.

in the sense of faith described above , you cannot have real faith and
be lukewarm. if you know god but are lukewarm (unfaithful) , you are
worse off than the person who never heard of him. remember , jesus in
the parable of the pearl of great price (mat 13 45 46) and again in
the one on the treasure hidden in the field (mat 13 44) indicates that
the price of the kingdom of god is all we have.

i agree with you in general , including the fact that pistis has
some of the force of faithful . however if you take that too far ,
you can end up with something that paul definitely would not have
intended. being faithful means following god in all things. to say
that we are saved by being faithful is very close to saying that we
are saved by commiting no sins. i assume that 's not what you meant.

i have almost given up on finding a specific verbal formula that
completely captures this. however i think paul is describing what i 'd
call a basic orientation , including aspects such as trust and
commitment. jesus speaks of it as rebirth , which implies a basic
change. we may still do things that are sinful , and may fail to show
the new life in christ in many situations where we should. but in any
christian there had better be the basic change in orientation that
jesus calls being born again.

clh

from aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
subject re nature of god (re environmentalism and paganism)
reply to aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 31

in a previous article , mcovingt@aisun2.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) says

in article apr.13.00.08.44.1993.28424@athos.rutgers.edu heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes
that is not necessarily unorthodox. when christians call god 'father' ,
we are using a metaphor. the bible in one place refers to god as being
like a mother. god is neither a father nor a mother in the literal
sense god has some of the attributes of both the father metaphor is
usually used because (for most people at most times) it is the less
misleading of the two possibilities.

i do n't know which passage you are refering to , but the passage i have
often seen cited as an example of a mother image of god is isaiah 49 15
can a woman forget her sucking child that she should have no
compassion on the son of her womb \? even these may forget ,
yet i will not forget you.

this passage is not a mother image of god at all. the mother here
is the image of the best human constancy can show , and it is
contrasted with the constancy of god. the mother figure here represents
mankind , not god.


mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis


luke 13 34 o jerusalem , jerusalem , killing the prophets and stoning those
who are sent to you ! how often would i have gathered your children together
as a hen gathers her brood under her wings , and you would not !

clh

from halsall@murray.fordham.edu (paul halsall)
subject catholic liturgy
reply to halsall@murray.fordham.edu
organization j. random misconfigured site
lines 60


the problems with catholic liturgy are likely to continue for
some time. the problem is , in a nutshell , this the liturgy is a
symbolic action in other words catholics do or should believe that
the signs during the mass water , blessings , vestments , altar ,
relics , etc are real. that is the sprinkling of water bestows real ,
almost tangible , holiness , the vestments are a real indication of real
sacred time. the point of a symbol is that it is understood by all
to be connected to an underlying real referent. this kind of thinking
precludes analysis holy water is not holy because of anything , it
simply is holy.

but , modern westerners find it extremely difficult , especially if
well educated , to think of the mass as a symbol. we are more likely
to see it as a sign , ie an action that represents grace , but which
could be replaced with other signs. in concrete terms , this means the
mass has become a commercial for god 's grace rather than the real
thing. you can mess around with a commercial in a way you would n't
dare with the real thing ask coca cola co. ! . these attitudes have
been encouraged by liturgy workshops , etc. which instead of focusing
on how to do do liturgy , have focused on how to create a meaning in
liturgy. you can only create signs , symbols have to come from god or
the heart , or somewhere deeper than analysis. the most dramatic
example of this shift in understanding has been in the treatment of
the sacred species the consecrated host and wine . now , with pita
bread etc , it is common to come away from the altar with hands covered
in particles. if the host is a sign of grace , this isnt and issue but
catholics in the past would have been distraught at this real
desacration of the real symbol of jesus' body.

modern catholic liturgy is caught in this epistemological shift. we
try to perfrom the old rites , but then we have some liturgomaniac
priest get up and 'explain' what we are doing so we stop doing it and
start pretending to do it. this is not a soul filling experience.
it does n't help btw that we have got stuck witha huge amount of two and
three chord ersatz folk music again a result of mis analysis complicated
tunes are in fact easier to remember than simple ones this was the
genius of wesley and the 19c anglican hymn writers . taize' is only
slightly better.

what are we to do \? well i suggest rejecting the parish system if it
does n't work for you. search out a church where the liturgy is well
prepared not well explained. they exist in every city. this is not btw
a matter of particular style the music might be old or new. it is
the attitude of the church that counts. also , note that a conservative
liturgy harking back to pre vatican ii days , does not necessarily mean
the church will be socially conservative.

in nyc i can recommend
corpus christi w 12st st.
corpus christi w 12st st. very conservative liturgy ,
st. joseph 's , greenwich village. modern , clean , largely gay
oratorian church , brooklyn very beautiful

avoid , anywhere , anytime a church with electric candles.

happy easter christos aneste' , christos voskrezhne , christ is risen

paul halsall
halsall@murray.fordham.edu

from kempmp@phoenix.oulu.fi (petri pihko)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization university of oulu , finland
lines 135

jason smith (jasons@atlastele.com) wrote

the discussion begins why does the universe exist at all \?

one of the laws of nature , specifying cause and effect seems to dictate
(at least to this layman 's mind) there must be a causal event. no
reasonable alternative exists.

i would argue that causality is actually a property of spacetime
causes precede their effects. but if you claim that there must be
an answer to how did the universe (our spacetime) emerge from
nothing , science has some good candidates for an answer.

i have always wondered why christians use the there are questions
science (or atheism) cannot answer argument i hope this is the
appropriate group to ask this question.

the most popular question is the question of origins. why does the
universe exist , or anything , for that matter \?

i think this question should actually be split into two parts , namely

1) why is there existence \? why anything exists \?

and

2) how did the universe emerge from nothing \?

it is clear science has nothing to say about the first question. however ,
is it a meaningful question , after all \?

i would say it is n't. consider the following

a die hard skeptic being (be it human or whatever) attempts to doubt
one 's very existence. since it is so easy to doubt everything else
i cannot be sure the world exists , it may be my mind fooling me
can i ever be sure i exist \?

however , it is only possible to exist or not to exist. (someone
insert an appropriate shakespeare quote here ) )

a being that does not exist cannot doubt one 's existence.
a being that does exist can doubt one 's existence , but this would be
pointless the being would exist anyway.

let us return to the original question why \? a being that does not
exist does not need any reasons for its non existence. this being
is not sure whether anything else exists but his mind , but let
us assume that the world exists independent of the mind (the objectivity
postulate). the question why anything exists can be countered by
demanding answer to a question why there is nothing in nothingness ,
or in non existence . actually , both questions turn out to be
devoid of meaning. things that exist do , and things that do n't exist
do n't exist. tautology at its best.

i seriously doubt god could have an answer to this question.

some christians i have talked to have said that actually , god is
himself the existence. however , i see several problems with this
answer. first , it inevitably leads to the conclusion that god is
actually all existence , good and evil , devils and angels , us and
them. this is pantheism , not christianity.

another answer is that god is the source of all existence.
this sounds much better , but i am tempted to ask does god
himself exist , then \? if god is the source of his own existence ,
it can only mean that he has , in terms of human time , always
existed. but this is not the same as the source of all existence.
this argument sounds like god does not exist , but meta exists ,
and from his meta existent perspective , he created existence.
i think this is actually a nonsolution , a mere twist of words.

the best answer i have heard is that human reasoning is incapable
of understanding such questions. being an atheist myself , i do not
accept such answers , since i do not have any other methods.

the second question how did the universe emerge from nothing \?
belongs to the domain of science , and i , for one , do not doubt the
question can be answered by its methods. many cosmologists have
suggested that it is entirely possible for universes to emerge
from vacuum (this possibility has been suggested in a recent
hawking biography see also lizhi shuxian creation of the universe ,
world scientific , 1989). however , i think the sci groups are more
appropriate for discussions like this.

as far as i can tell , the very laws of nature demand a why . that is n't
true of something outside of nature (i.e. , super natural).

this is not true. science is a collection of models telling us how ,
not why , something happens. i cannot see any good reason why the why
questions would be bound only to natural things , assuming that the
supernatural domain exists. if supernatural beings exist , it is
as appropriate to ask why they do so as it is to ask why we exist.

i believe the genetic code will be entirely deciphered in our lifetimes ,
but we will not see man convert entirely inert material into self sustaining ,
reproducing life , ever . (i 've never been much of a prophet , though. i
ca n't even picture new york in my mind 8 ). i do n't believe any
technology would be able to produce that necessary spark of life , despite
having all of the parts available. just my opinion.

this opinion is also called vitalism namely , that living systems are
somehow fundamentally different from inanimate systems. do christians
in general adopt this position \? what would happen when scientists announce
they have created primitive life (say , small bacteria) in a lab \?

there is a problem with your prophecy artificial life has been created ,
although not yet in a chemical form. computer simulations of evolution
contain systems that are as much alive as any bacterium , although
their code is electronic , as well as their metabolism. see a recent book

steven levy artificial life the quest for a new creation. jonathan
cape , london 1992.

artificial chemical life is just around the corner after all , no
spark of life has been found to be necessary living systems do not
violate any physical laws as we know them.

you do n't mind if a few of us send up a prayer on your behalf during your
research , do you \? after all , if we of christ are deluding ourselves , you
really have nothing to worry about , eh \?

exactly. this is why i think atheists should not post any evangelical
atheist arguments to soc.religion groups , since people who seek to
find peace in religions must be allowed to gather together. i would
normally have asked these questions in alt.atheism or talk.religion.misc ,
but it seems many christians do not read these groups.

petri


. .' ''. petri pihko kem pmp@ mathematics is the truth.
! .' '.' ' ' . pihatie 15 c finou.oulu.fi physics is the rule of
' ' . ' sf 90650 oulu kempmp@ the game.
' . finland phoenix.oulu.fi chemistry is the game.

from tom milligan@rainbow.mentorg.com
subject anyone with l'abri experiences
organization mentor graphics corporation
lines 6

i am curious if anyone in net land has spent any time at any of the l'abri
houses throughout the world and what the experience was like , how it affected
you , etc. especially interesting would be experiences at the original l'abri
in switzerland and personal interactions with francis and or edith schaeffer.

tom milligan

from tas@pegasus.com (len howard)
subject re can sin block our prayers \?
organization pegasus , honolulu
lines 24

in article apr.12.03.45.11.1993.18872@athos.rutgers.edu jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes
mike@boulder.snsc.unr.edu (mike mccormick) writes

not honoring our wives can cause our prayers to be hindered
prayers may not be hindered. i peter 3 7

one interpretation i 've heard of this verse is that it refers to the sin
of physically abusing one 's wife. the husband is usually physically
stronger than his wife but is not permitted to use this to dominate her.
he must honor her as his sister in christ. this would therefore be an
example of a specific sin that blocks prayer.
jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

i would be a bit more specific in looking at this verse in regard to
'blocking' prayer. i have trouble thinking that god would allow
anything to block our access to him in prayer , especially if we have
sinned and are praying for forgivenenss.
i can see , however , how our prayer life might be hindered by our
sin , if we are concentrating on what is causing the sin or what has
happened , we may not be thinking about prayer , thus our prayers are
'hindered' by our own actions.
but i do n't think anything can 'block' the transmission , or
reception of prayer to god.
shalom , len howard

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject re athiests and hell
organization fnal ad net
lines 157

in article may.6.00.35.31.1993.15453@geneva.rutgers.edu
sun075 ! gerry.palo@uunet.uu.net (gerry palo) writes between adam and eve and
golgotha the whole process of the fall of man
occurred. this involved a gradual dimming of consciousness of the spiritual
world.

this was precisely my point. from a theological bent , those who lived
immediately after the flood , such as noah , ham , his son cush , and his son
nimrod had a much stronger appreciation of divine wrath. they also had a
stronger understanding of the true god. in fact , this immediacy was a cause of
hardship for some , so much so that atlas , who is seen with heavens resting on
his shoulders. but this is not merely the physical heavens that he is lifting.
it is to put god and the strict spirituality of his law at a distance , and
thus he became the elevator of the heavens. this god made men able to
feel as if heaven were afar off and as if either the god of heaven could not
see through the dark cloud , or did not regard with displeasure the breakers of
his laws. it is interesting to see that it was that was titled emancipator
or deliverer or phoroneus. it was nimrod who invaded the patriarchal system
and abridged the liberties of mankind , yet was worship for having given many
benefits. he was a deliverer all right but not as we think of christ as a
deliverer. one delivered from a conscious feeling of god 's wrath , the other
actually performed a delivery from gods wrath and it is up to us to accept it
as true.

the question of what happens to human beings who died before christ is
an ever present one with christians. i am not ready to consign adam
or abraham , or even cain to eternal damnation.

i do n't see the problem. from the time of adam , those who looked forward to
the coming anointed one and put their faith in the fact that it was god who
was to do the provision , were accounted as righteous. but up to the
crucifixion , their sins were only covered , not taken away. therefore , the
dispensation of the church views the accountability of sin the same , but see it
as a completed action. rom 's makes it clear that it has always been salvation
via faith and nothing else.

it is possible to experience eternity in a passing moment. the
relationship of eternity to duration is not simply one of indefinitely
extended conditions of greenwich mean time.

i understand what you 're trying to convey , but i do n't think i 'd lay hold of it
because the scriptures do equate the eternality of the second death with the
eternality of , say the church ruling with christ. jn 17 tells us what eternal
life is exactly , as you are correct that it is much more than non cessation of
consciousness.

it was also a standard belief among many peoples that even the righteous
were lost.

it depends upon your def of lost. the elect were lost only in time as
outside of time they had been chosen from the foundation of the world.
existentially we were all born lost , but the righteous were in christ and
therefore never assuredly lost.

it would be interesting to share in the results of your studies of ancient
people 's ideas of life after death.

maybe this summer i could find time to put together a paper on it. i simply
have to buy more books for myself , and these older books are very expensive.
either that or countless trips to the oriental museum.

mankind fell into mist and darkness , and at the turning point of
time a new light entered into the world. the light still grows , and
we are developing the eyes with which to see by it. much new
revelation and growth in under standing lies before us. our new
vision and understanding is still very feeble , but it contains
something new that will grow in time to embrace that which is old and
much more as well.


could n't agree with you more. our understanding , of say eschatology , is
clearly clearer than that of , say isaiah. but that is not what i was referring
to.

(at this point i should acknowledge openly my debt to the work of rudolf
steiner , founder of anthroposophy , for many insights that have led me to my
views on this subject).

the way you refer to it as doctrine puts a modern intellectual coloring
on it. i think it was much less abstract and much more real and spiritually
concrete , a teaching that struck much closer to home than our doctrines or
teachings today can be received.

no , i understand it as you have said. this was my point.


i am not so ready to attribute widespread notions in antiquity to
simple dispersion from an original source. even if they were passed
on , the question is , to what extent did they reflect real perception
and experience \?

ah ! this is it. this is the big question. however , i would say , again i
think , that the best lie is one that has an appreciable amount of truth to it.
look at satan 's twist of god 's word when he coerced eve. that is a very
interesting study.

the similarity in the midst of great variety of
expression of the different people 's ideas of the time immediately
after death testifies to the presence of an underlying reality.

yes , that is my point. but it is a two edged sword. for some do not want the
underlying reality to be revealed. they were not known as mystery religions
for no reason. there was the public side of them and there was the private
side , that was so protected that the initiates to an oath of death if they
revealed that private side. that is why it is so hard to bring their teachings
to light. the mystery of iniquity that we find in the bible , correlates to
this i think. the primary object of the mysteries was to introduce privately ,
little by little , under the seal of secrecy and sanction of oath , what it would
not have been safe to openly profess was the true religion. case in point
today might be the masons. (just a note , that they too worshipped osiris in
egypt , who can be traced to nimrod , the husband son. )

on the other hand , there is one notion firmly embedded in christianity
that originated most definitely in a pagan source. the idea that the
human being consists essentially of soul only , and that the soul is
created at birth , was consciously adopted from aristotle , whose ideas
dominated christian thought for fifteen hundred years and still does
today.

no , i disagree with you here gerry. i know what you 're alluding to in that the
church , primarily the rcc , did endorse aristotelian philosophy into their
worldview , but i would disagree with you that it originated in greece. if you
are a student of history , you will come to see that much of what greece came to
expound to the world as their original , was just an adulteration of that which
they had taken from conquered countries. the soul is clearly mentioned and
discussed at length in the egyptian religions. as was the unity of god and also
the trinity of god. see if you can find wilkinson 's egyptians. he really
does a number on what the greeks did to what they pilfered from the
egyptians.

he was at once the father of modern thought and at the same
time lived during that darkened time when the perception of our
eternal spiritual being had grown dim.

i'm not knocking aristotle or plato or any other greek thinker. its just that
there is nothing new under the sun.


indeed. i should also clarify that i do not deny that eternal
irrevocable damnation is a real possibility. but the narrow range in
which we conceive of the decisive moment , i.e. after the end of a
single earthly life , is not in my mind sufficient to embrace the
reality , and i think that is why the early creeds were couched in
terms that did not try to spell it out.

each age has its own focus of theology. the early church struggled with the
trinitarian formulation. the reformation dealt with authority. today ,
eschatology has had much study. the early creeds do not spell these things out
in detail because , 1) they were n't the topic of concern , 2) there was
insufficient wisdom accumulated , 3) they did n't have the exegetical tools that
we have today. also , each age seems to have an air of revelation to it. one
age has a well tended and cultivated garden in which a particular doctrine is
given growth. it would be natural for the end of times to have the garden
appropriate for the growth of eschatology , would n't it \?

tangents , never ending tangents ,
rex

from desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca (desiree bradley)
subject doing the work of god \? \? ! ! )
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 33

as our local.religion.christian bbs group seems moribund , i'm posting here.

on one of the sundays just before easter i went to church. the sermon was
based on a story in the book of joshua. (the one about joshua sending out
spies to the land he was planning to take) what i particularly remember ,
because of having heard part of a cbc radio documentary on bosnia , was that
the rahab (the woman who sheltered the spies) said that the people were
melting in fear. what with having heard that cbc radio documentary and
knowing that the muslims in bosnia were losing the war , i felt
uncomfortable. after all , the serbs are driving non christians out. on
the other hand , ministers do say that the bible is opposed to the values
held by our secular society. anyhow members of that church are involved in
out of country missionary work. also , the pastor has talked of spiritual
warfare and of bringing christ to the nonreligious people of our area.

the next sunday , the sermon was about joshua 6 (where the israelites
take jericho and then proceed to massacre everybody there except
for rahab , who had sheltered the spies). with those reports about
bosnia in my mind , i felt uncomfortable about the minister saying that
the massacre (the one in joshua) was right. but what really bothered
me was that , if i was going to try taking christianity seriously , i
should n't be so troubled about the reports of ethnic cleansing in
bosnia. certainly , my sympathies should n't be with the moslims.
considering that the bosnian muslims are descendants of christians
who , under turkish rule , converted to islam could the serbs be doing
god 's work \?

the example of god 's people setting out on bloody wars of conquest
has always been troubling in discussions here. i personally question
whether they were right even at the time. but those who believe they
were consider that the wars were justified only because they were
specifically commanded by god. somehow i do n't see the serbs behaving
like a group that is led by god in this matter. clh

from sdixon@andy.bgsu.edu (sherlette dixon)
subject re my original post (was jesus black \? )
organization bowling green state university student
lines 11

my , my , my. i knew that i would receive a response to my post , but not
this extensive. thank you to all who responded it at least showed that
people were willing to think about it , even though the general response was
a return to the same old why should it matter \? question. to those of you
who were a part of this response , i suggest that you read the articles
covering this same question in soc.culture.african.american , for you are in
dire need of some cultural enlightenment.

hasta luego

sherlette

from u2i02@seq1.cc.keele.ac.uk (rj pomeroy)
subject re losing your temper is not a christian trait
lines 72

from article apr.15.00.58.22.1993.28891@athos.rutgers.edu , by ruthless@panix.com (ruth ditucci)
coming from a long line of hot tempered people , i know temper when i see
it. one of the tell tale signs fruits that give non christians away is
when their net replies are acrid , angry and sarcastic.

i do hope that you are not suggesting that merely because a person
replies in an acrid , angry and sarcastic manner that this
demonstrates their 'non christianity' \? the simple fact is that there
is not a christian on the face of the planet (that i know of ! ) that is
perfect. i have been known at times to have a fit of temper , or a
sulk , but this does not make me any the less a christian.

one of the points of being a christian (as i perceive it) is to become
more like christ. this statement inherently suggests that we are not
already like christ. jesus never unrighteously lost his temper. i
do. jesus was perfect. i'm not.

we in the net village do have a laugh or two when professed , born again
christians verbally attack people who might otherwise have been won to
christianity and had originally joined the discussions because they were
spiritually hungry. instead of answering questions with sweetness and
sincerity , these chrisitan net warriors , flame the queries.

you must understand that this is because christians often forget to
treat others as our role model christ would. this is because we are
human and falible. i , for one , do not pretend to be infalible , and i
hope that my fellow men will bear with me when i make mistakes. this
surely is not too much to ask , when i make every effort to bear with
them .


you do n't need any enemies. you already do yourselves the greatest harm.

and do n't we know it !

again i say , foolish , foolish , foolish.

again i say , we are all human !

to my brethren , this

ms duticci has a valid point and we as christians ought to heed the
warning in her article. we oftimes discredit ourselves and our
saviour , in the way that we treat others. strive towards the goal set
us by our lord , but in the meantime , remember

there is no condemnation for those who are in christ...

when you blow it go easy on yourself. forgive yourself , as your
father in heaven forgives you ! and remember and this is something i
firmly beieve and cling to one day , we shall see him face to face ,
and in that day , we shall (finally ! ) be perfected.

i look forward to seeing you there.


rrrrr oo bbbbb
r r oo oo b b
r r oo oo b bb robert pomeroy
r rr o o b b
rrrr o o bbbbb u2i02@teach.cs.keele.ac.uk
r r o o b b
r r oo oo b bb 1993
r r oo oo b b
r r oo bbbbb


ps if you want to draw anything to my attention , then please mail me
direct , because i do n't often read the news...

pps if i have offended anyone with this article , i beg your
forgiveness , in advance !

from desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca (desiree bradley)
subject being right about messiahs
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 39

i must have missed the postings about waco , david koresh , and the second
coming. how does one tell if a second coming is the real thing , unless the
person claiming to be it is obviously insane \?

i'm not saying that david koresh is the second coming of christ. how could
somebody who breaks his word be the second coming \? koresh did promise that
he would come out of his compound if only he was allowed to give a radio
broadcast. he did n't. still it seems to me that he did fool some people.

and , from my meagre knowledge of the bible , it seems that christians have
been hard on the jews of christ 's day for being cautious about accepting
somebody that their religious authorities did n't accept as the messiah.

so i was surprised that nobody had discussed the difficulty of wanting to be
early to recognize the second coming while , at the same time , not wanting to
be credulously believing just anybody who claims to be god.

mark 13 21 and then if any one says to you , 'look , here is the christ ! '
or 'look , there he is ! ' do not believe it.
mark 13 22 false christs and false prophets will arise and show signs and
wonders , to lead astray , if possible , the elect.
mark 13 23 but take heed i have told you all things beforehand.
mark 13 24 but in those days , after that tribulation , the sun will be
darkened , and the moon will not give its light ,
mark 13 25 and the stars will be falling from heaven , and the powers in
the heavens will be shaken.
mark 13 26 and then they will see the son of man coming in clouds with
great power and glory.

my understanding of jesus' answer is that , unlike his first coming ,
which was veiled , the second coming will be quite unmistakeable. he 's
telling us not to be misled by the other things that have to happen
before his second coming the actual second coming will make his
power openly visible.

by the way , from koresh 's public statement it 's not so clear to me
that he is claiming to be christ.

clh

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re tuff to be a christian \?
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 75

in article apr.17.01.10.58.1993.2246@geneva.rutgers.edu mdbs@ms.uky.edu (no name) writes
bissda@saturn.wwc.edu (dan lawrence bissell) writes

same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a

real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but

so you think it is easy to be a muslim \? or be a buddhist \?
good points on buddhism , etc. deleted

just because one says christianity true christianity is hard to
follow faithfully does not mean that one discounts the validity and
difficulty of other religions. i admire those of any religion who are
willing to make the kind of sacrifices and dedicate themselves
spiritually in the way you are talking about.

more deleted
and perhaps some more. but leave the crap in it out ( woman was created
after man , to be his helper etc).

do you think this is what christianity is all about \? not all
christians believe in this particular story literally. it sounds
above like you are supporting a policy of to each his own here is
another example of that. if it helps someone 's faith to take every
word of the bible literally , i support and respect that , too.

time. we do n't rush it in one day , christianity is your whole life.
it is not going to church once a week , or helping poor people once in
a while. we box everything into time units. such as work at this
time , sports , tv , social life. god is above these boxes and should be

when ever i turn on my tv there is this pat robertson and
other brain washers (oh boy , what an act they put on ! ) with an
1 800 number to turn in your pledges.
god it seems is alive and well inside these boxes.

please do n't judge all of christianity by one man. the only man one
can truly judge all of christianity by is jesus (makes sense , right \? ).

i think his point about how we put our lives into little boxes is very
true what does your comment about robertson have to do with that \?

carried with us into all these boxes that we have created for
ourselves.

parting question
would you have become a christian if you had not
been indoctrinated by your parents \? you probably never learned about
any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
you are brain washed.

i was raised agnostic my father was never baptised and was raised
atheist. he is not an atheist because he found a close mindedness
present in the viewpoint of his parents equal to the close mindedness
he found in the viewpoint of the christians he came in contact with.
thus i was free to choose how to live my life , and he supported the
decision i made to join the episcopal church , although he emphasized
to me that his respect for my beliefs should result in my not
intruding on his beliefs , ie , i should not try to convert him , as that
is his decision. (please , no flames or advice on how to convert him ! )
one of my good friends is hindi and i greatly respect her
beliefs and the culture surrounding her religion. my best friend is
jewish and i have always held a profound resepct for the jewish
religion (chaim potok and isaac bashevis singer are two of my favorite
authors). i really do not think you can make that kind of
generalization about how christians choose and i do mean choose
their faith. if they have not consciously accepted the faith in their
adult lives (which is what confirmation represents) , then you can talk
about their being brainwashed.

vera
if you choose not to decide ,
you still have made a choice !
rush , freewill

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 34

in article apr.19.05.11.36.1993.29109@athos.rutgers.edu , ata@hfsi.hfsi.com ( john ata) writes

i think you are vastly oversimplifying things. we know that early christians
suffered totures because of their witness to christ. for example

act 5 40 41

it appears that the jewish rulers of that time had a particular aversion
to even hearing jesus 's name.
...
finally , the first apostle 's death , james of zebedee was certainly
not by rome 's hand any more than the first martyr stephen.
...
the problem was that if one believed in the resurrection , then one
must believe in jesus as truly being the son of god and what he
stood for and preached during his ministry on earth. that would
have been extremely difficult for some people , especially those
that had plotted to kill him.

the basic problem with your argument is your total and complete reliance on
the biblical text. luke 's account is highly suspect (i would refer you to
the hermeneia commentary on acts). moreover luke 's account is written at
least 90 years after the fact. in the meantime everyone he mentions has died
and attempts to find actual written sources behind the text have come up
with only the we section of the later portion of acts as firmly established.
moreover , pauls account of some of the events in acts (as recorded in
galatians) fail to establish the acts accounts.

what we need , therefore , is a reliable text , critically appreciated , which
documents the death of christians for belief in the resurrection. i would
suggest you look at some greek and roman historians. i think you will be
disapointed.

randy

from bruce@liv.ac.uk (bruce stephens)
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity
organization centre for mathematical software research , univ. liverpool
lines 49

on 5 may 93 06 51 23 gmt , shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker) said

in article apr.30.03.11.27.1993.10101@geneva.rutgers.edu fsspr@acad3.alaska.edu (hardcore alaskan) writes

i hope that anyone who remembers seeing rev. troy perry 's
performance at the 1987 march on washington will see for themselves
just how inconceivable it is to mix christianity with homosexuality.

whether or not christianity and homosexuality are compatible is clearly
debatable , since it is being debated. in my opnion , it is genuinely
destuctive to the cause of christianity to use this sort of ad hominem
argument to oppose one 's adversaries. it only serves to further drive
people away from christianity because it projects and confirms the
frequently held opinion that christians are unable to think critically
and intelligently.

i agree entirely. speaking as an atheist (heterosexual , for what it 's
worth) , this is one of the least attractive parts of some varieties of
christianity. although i'm sure it 's possible to argue theologically
that we should n't make analogies between discrimination on the basis
of sex and race and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation ,
morally the case looks unanswerable (for those outside religion) the
three forms are analogous we should n't discriminate on the basis of
sex , race or sexual orientation.

i found the moderator 's faqs on the subject instructive , and recommend
everyone to read them.

there seem to be three different levels of acceptance

1) regard homosexual orientation as a sin (or evil , whatever)
2) regard homosexual behaviour as a sin , but accept orientation
(though presumably orientation is unfortunate) and dislike people who
indulge
3) as 2 , but love the sinner
4) accept homosexuality altogether.

my experience is that 3 is the most common attitude (i imagine 1 and 2
are limited to a few fundamentalist sects).

i suppose i can go along with 3 , except that i have this feeling that
a 14 15 year old living in a community with this attitude , on
discovering that they were more attracted to members of the same sex ,
would not feel the love of the community , but would rather feel the
pressure not to exhibit their feelings. i'm not saying that the
community (in particular the parents) would not love the child , but i
suspect the child would not feel loved.

bruce cmsr , university of liverpool

from drt@athena.mit.edu (david r tucker)
subject re question jesus alone , oneness
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 52

in article apr.21.03.26.22.1993.1355@geneva.rutgers.edu ,
bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no (a 369) writes
can anybody tell me the basic reasons for holding a belief that there
is only jesus \? and vice versa the foundations for the trinity \?

bjorn

i 'd love to know how jesus only proponents would answer questions like

who is this father jesus keeps referring to \? why does he call himself the
son \?

why does he pray to the father , and not to himself \?

why does he emphasize that he does his father 's will , and not his own \? if he
was doing his own will , what kind of example is that \? should we follow it \?

when he says he has to return to the father , who is he going to \?

when he says he does this in order that the comforter , the holy spirit might
come , who might that be \?

if he claims that the coming of the holy spirit is such a blessing that it 's
worth his leaving us and returning to the father , what can that mean if there
is no holy spirit \?

why does n't the best known christian prayer begin our saviour , who art in
heaven , rather than our father \?

do they have answers to these questions that are even plausible \?

(further entertaining queries are left as an exercise to the reader.)

drt



david r. tucker kg2s drt@athena.mit.edu


there may be some misunderstanding over terms here. i believe jesus
only originally was in the context of baptism. these are folks who
believe that baptism should be done with a formula mentioning only
jesus , rather than father , son , and holy spirit. this may have
doctrinal implications , but as far as i know it does not mean that
these folks deny the existence or divinity of the father. i'm not the
right one to describe this theology , and in fact i think there may be
several , including what would classically be called monophysite or
arian (two rather different views) , as well as some who have beliefs
that are probably consistent with trinitarian standards , but who wo n't
use trinitarian language because they misunderstand it or simply
because it is not biblical. clh

from news@cbnewsk.att.com
subject re question about virgin mary
organization at t bell labs
lines 18

in article may.3.05.01.53.1993.9964@athos.rutgers.edu a.faris@trl.oz.au (aziz faris) writes

i think you 're talking about the assumption of the blessed virgin
mary . it says that the immaculate mother of god , the ever virgin
mary , having completed the course of her earthly life , was assumed
body and soul into heavenly glory. this was defined by a papal
statement in 1950 , though it had certainly been believed by some
before that. clh

so true. i'm not sure of the basis of the belief , but it was a widely
held belief among the laity of the rc church and their support of it
lead to it being declared to be true. basically the teaching on infallibility
holds that the pope is infallible in matters of faith and doctrine , the
college of bishops is likewise infallible , and the laity is as well.
the pope gets most of the attention criticism but the consensus of the
other bodies is equally infallible (according to rc teaching).

joe moore

from wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (malcusco)
subject re a question that has bee bothering me.
organization university of california , san diego
lines 56

in article apr.11.01.02.39.1993.17790@athos.rutgers.edu atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes

religious people are threatened by science because it has been systematically
removing the physical proofs of god 's existence. as time goes on we have to
rely more and more on faith and the spiritual world to relate to god becuase
science is removing our props. i do n't think this is a bad thing.

first of all , i resent your assumption that you know why i
am threatened by science , or even that i am threatened at all ,
although i admit the latter. the reason i am threatened by science
has nothing to do with my need for proof of my lord 's existence
god reveals himself in many ways , including , to some degree ,
science.

my problem with science is that often it allows us to
assume we know what is best for ourselves. god endowed us
with the ability to produce life through sexual relations ,
for example , but he did not make that availible to everyone.
does that mean that if science can over ride god 's decision
through alterations , that god wills for us to have the power
to decide who should and should not be able to have
children \? should men be allowed to have babies , if that
is made possible.

people have always had the ability to end lives
unnaturally , and soon may have the ability to bring lives
into the world unnaturally. the closest thing to artificially
created life is artificially created death , and as god
has reserved judgement about when people should die to
himself , i believe we should rely on god 's wisdom about how
people should be brought in to the world.

this is not to say that i reject all forms of
medical treatment , however. treatment that alleviates
pain , or prevents pain from occuring , is perfectly
acceptable , i believe , as it was acceptable for jesus
to cure the sick. however , treatment that merely
prolongs life for no reason , or makes unnecessary
alterations to the body for mere aesthetic purposes ,
go too far. are we not happy with the beauty god
gave us \?

i cannot draw a solid line regarding where i
would approve of scientific study , and where i would not ,
but i will say this before one experiments with the
universe to find out all its secrets , one should ask
why they want this knowledge. before one alters the body
they have been given , they should ask themseles why their
body is not satisfactory too them as it is. i cannot
make any general rules that will cover all the cases , but
i will say that each person should pray for guidance
when trying to unravel the mysteries of the universe , and
should cease their unravelling if they have reason to
believe their search is displeasing to god.

malcusco

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 55

dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) writes
unfaithfully yours ,
pixie
p.s. if you do sincerely believe that a god exists , why do you follow
it blindly \?
do the words question authority mean anything to you \?
i defy any theist to reply.

dear defiant (or unfaithful or pixie)

i will take up the challenge to reply , as i am a theist.

the foundation for faith in god is reason , without which the existence
of god could not be proven. that his existence can be proven by reason
is indisputable (cf. my short treatise , traditional proofs for the
existence of god , and summa theologica).

now , given that god exists , and that his existence can be proven by reason ,
i assert that his commands must be followed blindly , although in our fallen
condition we must always have some measure of doubt about our faith. why \?

because god is the first cause of all things , the first mover of matter ,
the independent thing that requires nothing else for its existence , the
measure of all that is perfect , and the essential being who gives order
to the universe (logos).

i next assert that god is all good. if this is so , then that which is
contrary to the will of god is evil i.e. , the absence of the good. and ,
since god can never contradict himself , then by his promise of a savior
as early as the protoevangelium of genesis 3 5 , god instructs that because
a human (adam) was first responsible for man 's alienation from the source
of all good , a man would be required to act to restore the friendship.
thus god became incarnate in the person of the messiah.

now this messiah claimed that he is the truth (john 14 6). if this claim
is true , then we are bound by reason to follow him , who is truth incarnate.

you next seem to have a problem with authority. have you tried the united
states marine corps yet \? i can tell you first hand that it is an excellent
instructor in authority. if you have not yet had the privilege , i will
reply that the authority which is truth incarnate may never be questioned ,
and thus must be followed blindly. one may not deny the truth. for
example , when the proverbial apple fell on isaac newton 's head , he could
have denied that it happened , but he did not. the laws of physics must
be obeyed whether a human likes them or not. they are true.

therefore , the authority which is truth may not be denied.

qed


boundary

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , vulgata latina)

from eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com (geno )
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 40

if i do n't think my belief is right and everyone else 's belief is wrong ,
then i do n't have a belief. this is simply what belief means.

unfortunatly , this seems to be how christians are taught to think when
it comes to their religion. some take it to the extreme and say that
their religion is the only one and if you do n't accept their teachings
then you wo n't be saved . it takes quite a bit of arrogance to claim
to know what god thinks wants. especially when it 's based upon your
interpretation of a book. the logic in the above statement is faulty
in that it assumes two people with differing beliefs ca n't both be
correct. it 's all about perception. no two people are exactly alike.
no two people perceive everything in the same way. i believe that
there is one truth. call it god 's truth , a universal truth , or call it
what you will. i do n't believe god presents this truth. i think it is
just there and it 's up to you to look for and see it , through prayer ,
meditation , inspir ation , dreams or whatever. just because people may
perceive this truth differently , it does n't mean one is wrong and the
other is right. as an example , take the question , is the glass half
empty or half full \? you can have two different answers which are
contradictory and yet both are correct. so , for your belief to be
true , does not require everyone else 's belief to be wrong.

if a person has what they believe is convincing evidence that god
will save only christians , it 's hard to see how you can criticize them
for arrogance for saying so. it could be that they 're wrong. but i
hardly see that it 's arrogance. let 's look at this a bit closer.
suppose we had some combination of prophets and messiahs that taught
us things , but did n't say anything about exclusivity. if we believe
them , and then add and anybody who believes anything else is damned ,
then you could well criticize us for arrogance. but in this case the
exclusivity is in the message as it comes from the prophets , etc. so
we could be wrong in believing it , but i do n't see how we can be
called arrogant. maybe the world is n't a soft place. maybe certain
choices actually do have eternal consequences. i can see calling the
christian message arrogant , in a certain sense (though only in the
same sense as calling the law of gravitation arrogant because it
does n't give us any option over whether we fall if we jump off a
building). but not christians for passing it on , given that they
believe it. the complaints i can see making are (1) that christians
are wrong , or (2) that god is arrogant. clh

from hall@vice.ico.tek.com (hal f lillywhite)
subject re ancient books
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or.
lines 106

i sent in something on this before but i believe it got lost in the
weekend accident the moderator described. this is an improved
version anyway so no loss the first time. hl

the standard work on detecting forgeries of ancient documents
is probably the writing of friedrich blass , hermeneutrik und
kritik , einleitende und hilfsdisziplinen , vol 1 of
handbuch der klassischen altertums wissenshaft (noerdlingen
beck , 1886). portions of this are described in nibley , the
prophetic book op mormon , pp 219 242 (slc deseret book , 1989).
(if you want to attempt reading this be forewarned. nibley
describes blass as a typical german scholar who claims little
knowledge of his subject , then proceeds to exhaust both the subject
and the reader.) nibley 's extract from blass 's work is in the form
of rules for forgers. it makes interesting reading.

i confess that i have not read blass 's work , only nibley 's extract
thereof. my german falls far short of what would be required and
as far as i know there is no english translation available. however ,
i believe the techniques he describes are known widely enough that
any competent classical scholar could examine a purportedly ancient
document and at least determine if it is consistent with what one
would expect of a genuine document of that time frame. we will not
be able to prove who wrote it but at least we should be able to
determine with reasonable confidence if it is from that time and
culture or is a later forgery.

actually there are 2 types of purportedly ancient documents

1. alleged actual holographs or early copies thereof. for example
the dead sea scrolls. these can be tested by various scientific
means to determine the age of the paper , inks , and objects found
with them. this can provide a pretty clear dating of the actual
physical objects.

2. documents claiming to be copies of ancient works although the
copy itself may be much more recent. for example we might find a
document which monks in a monastary claim is a copy of something
from centuries ago (perhaps even having been through several
generations of copists). this is more of a problem but can still
be tested (although the test is not likely to be simple). we cannot
expect a test of the age of the physical objects to tell us much so
we must confine our testing to the text itself.

it is important to remember that none of these tests can tell us if
the document is really what it claims to be. they can only date the
document and identify its culture of origin. for example i 've heard
of a letter supposed to have been written by jesus himself to a king
in what is now iraq. if this document were to actually turn up
scholars could date the paper and ink (assuming they have the
holograph). they could check the language , content and writing
style to see if they are consistent with what would be expected of a
palestinian jew of that time. however even if all test results were
positive there is no way to determine if jesus himself actually
wrote it. we would know what time and culture it came from but
(barring a known sample of jesus handwriting or other clues for
comparison) scholarship must stop there. there is seldom any way to
determine who the actual author was.

as i say , i'm no expert on blas 's work. i do remember some of the
tests which can be applied to alleged copies of ancient works.
specifically we might ask

1. is the document internally consistent \? does it contradict
itself \? if the work it is short it would be relatively easy to
maintain internal consistency , even if it is a forgery. the
longer the forgery the more difficult it is to maintain consistency.
for this reason most successful forgers stick to short documents.

2. is it consistent with the history and geography of the time \?
again a short , non specific work might not be testable but if the
writing is of any significant length no latter day forger would be
able to escape detection. here we look for the minor , inconspicuous
things which someone from that culture would get right without even
thinking about it but which a later forger would find too numerous
and trivial to check. the devil is in the details.

3. what about the literary style of the work , figures of speech
etc. any ancient writer would almost certainly speak in ways that
seem strange to us. are there any such odd phrases in this book \?
if so do they fit in with the culture \?

of course there are complications if the document has been
translated , or possibly even if somebody just updated language
when he copied it. a few cases of language not from the culture
claimed may be allowed in recent copies. they cause problems and
reduce certainty to be sure but do n't necessarily prove forgery.

these tests can be quite effective (given enough material to work
with) but they are not easy. they require the skills of the
historian , the linguist , the anthropologist etc. the questions to
ask are , is every aspect of this document consistent with what we
know about the culture of claimed origin \? if there are things
which do n't fit how significant are they \? are problem areas due to
our lack of knowledge , later changes by copists or are they really
significant \? there will often be some ambiguity since we never
know everything about the culture.

the end result of any such testing is occasionally certain
(particularly in the case of holographs or other ancient copies).
however often it may just be a probability or an indication that
the document (or maybe parts of it) is probably authentic (or
sometimes maybe other parts are later additions). this is often
unsettling to a generation raised on tv where all problems are
solved in 30 to 60 minutes with time out for commercials. it is ,
however , the real world and what scholarship has to offer.

from wjhovi01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu
subject re why do people become atheists \?
organization university of louisville
lines 13

undoubtedly people adopt atheism for many reasons , but i suspect that a biggie
is that the god they 've believed in is (in j.b. phillips 's words) too small .
if a person 's understanding of god is not allowed to grow and develop , it will
eventually become inadequate. the grey haired gentleman on a throne who was a
comforting image in childhood becomes a joke.

a therapist friend of mine sometimes suggests to her clients that they fire
god . what she means by that is letting go of an inadequate understanding of
god to make room for a fuller one. but she follows up by encouraging them to
hire a new one . my guess is that a lot of folks go through the firing
process , but are not adequately supported in the subsequent re hire.

billh

from oser@fermi.wustl.edu (scott oser)
subject re did he really rise \?
organization washington university astrophysics
lines 4

frank , i got your mailing on early historical references to christianity.
i 'd like to respond , but i lost your address. please mail me.

scott oser

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re revelations babylon \?
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 27

hal heydt writes

that was only the fall of the western empire. the eastern empire
continued for another 1000 years and a key element in it 's fall was
the christian sack of constantinople.

note that i said the fall of rome , not of the empire. the roman empire
lasted until 1453 , with its transfered capital in constantinople. the
main reason for it 's fall was not so much the sack of constantinople by
the men of the 4th crusade (who were not christians they had been
excommunicated down to the last man after attacking the christian city
of zara in croatia) , but rather the disastorous defeat in the battle of
mazinkert. after the turks breached the frontier , it was only a matter
of time before the empire fell , the inability of the empire to hold onto
the rim of anatolia , with the ottomans and rum seljuks in the middle
should be quite obvious to any student of history. the sack of
constantinople only hastened the inevitable along. for if the greeks
had wanted to save their empire , why would they not cooperate with the
crusaders when they came to do battle with the saracens in the 1st 3rd
crusades \? because of their obstinacy over cooperating with people they
considered heretics , even though those heretics were fighting for the
cause of the empire and christendom in doing battle with the turkish
hordes in anatolia , edessa , lebanon , palastine , and syria , the some
hordes who were to later sack constantinople , and overrun a third of
europe (the balkans , hungary , the ukraine , the caucasus , etc.)

andy byler

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re deification
organization indiana university
lines 14

in article apr.10.05.30.35.1993.14329@athos.rutgers.edu holfeltz@lstc2vm.stortek.com writes
aaron bryce cardenas writes
after all , what does prophesy mean \? secondly , what is an apostle \? answer
an especial witness one who is suppose to be a personal witness. that means
to be a true apostle , one must have christ appear to them. now lets see
when did the church quit claiming ...... \?

actually , an apostle is someone who is sent. if you will , mailmen could
be called apostles in that sense. however , with jesus , they were
designated and were given power. remember that there were many
thousands of people who witnessed what jesus did. that did n't make them
apostles , though.

joe fisher

from hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr)
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 35

in article may.6.00.35.17.1993.15441@geneva.rutgers.edu loisc@microsoft.com (lois christiansen) writes
in article apr.30.03.11.27.1993.10101@geneva.rutgers.edu fsspr@acad3.alaska.edu wrote

you might visit some congregations of christians , who happen to be homosexuals ,
that are spirit filled believers ,

gifts of the spirit should not be seen as an endorsement of ones behavior.
a lot of people have suffered because of similar beliefs. jesus said
that people would come to him saying lord , lord , and proclaiming
the miraculous works they had done in his name. jesus would tell
them that they were workers of iniquity that do not know him , and to
depart from him.

that is not to say that this will happen to everyone who commits a homosexual
sin. if the holy spirit were only given to the morally perfect , he would
not be given to me , or any of us. god can forgive any sin , if we repent.
but people should be careful not to think , god has given me a gift of
the spirit , it must be okay to be gay. that is dangerous (see also hebrews
6 about those who have partaken of the holy spirit and of the powers of
the world to come.)

the lord is working in our community (the homosexual community , that is). he 's
not asking us to change our sexual nature ,

jesus does n't ask us to change our own nature. we cannot lift ourselves
out of our own sin but we must submit to his hand as he changes our
nature. practicing homosexual acts and homosexual lusts violates the
morality that god has set forth.

if you do n't believe that , and think those of us who do are just ignorant ,
then at least consider us weak in the faith and be celebate for our sake 's.
is practicing homosexuality worth the cost of a soul , whether it be the
homosexual 's or the one considered ignorant \?

link hudson.

from asket@acad2.alaska.edu
subject when is a couple married...
organization university of alaska
lines 31


i used to be a marriage commissioner for the alaska court
system (sort of a justice of the peace). i had great difficulty
with that duty. i used to pray earnestly in the courthouse
bathroom before the ceremonies , mostly asking that the couples
would come to appreciate and fulfill the true holiness and
divine purpose in marriage couples who obviously did n't realize
that marriage is god 's institution , not the state 's. gradually ,
however , i came to conclude that because i was acting in a
strictly secular , public capacity , established as such by both
the state and the expectations of the couples involved , i was
really conducting a purely secular , legal civil event , with no
greater moral or religious implications than if i had been
conducting a civil trial (the couple who told me , mid ceremony ,
to please hurry it up may have helped me to this conclusion).

i thought i had neatly rationalized a clear and sharp
distinction between marriage before god , and marriage before
the state , until i had to deal with my own divorce. keeping
matthew 19 6 in mind , i felt that the state had no business
dissolving my marriage established before god , but of course it
assumed jurisdiction nonetheless.

i would ask those of you proposing answers to this
question to consider this issue 's logical extension if
intercourse , or the mental intent of the parties , or the
ceremony of the church , or any combination thereof , establishes
marriage , then at what moment is it dissolved \?

karl thoennes iii
university of alaska

from kramersc@expert.cc.purdue.edu (scott kramer)
subject re daily verse
organization purdue university computing center
lines 14

in article apr.15.00.58.36.1993.28909@athos.rutgers.edu petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch) writes
how much better to get wisdom than gold , to choose understanding rather
than silver !

proverbs 16 16

ah and how... \? \? \? amen to that one ! ! ! ! ! ! thanks chuck for sharing...
after all , no one can serve two masters...god and money......
after all , the preciousness of god as lord and savior is far more valuable than
being a millionaire will ever be...


in him ,
scott

from healta@saturn.wwc.edu (tammy r healy)
subject re sda doctrinal distinctives
organization walla walla college
lines 15

in article mar.17.02.04.45.1993.23612@athos.rutgers.edu jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher) writes

there is a book provided by the sda which is entitled the seventh day
adventist church believes , or something like that. it is a basic
coverage of the 30 ideas that sda 's hold to. for further info about it ,
please write me later (once i get the actual title and or copyright
date) or celia chan , cmchan@amber.ucs.indiana.edu , because she first
introduced me to the book (i must also add that she is not a member of
the sda anymore).

the book is called 27 basic fundamental beliefs or something very close to
that. the number is 27 , not 30. i have a copy at home (i'm away at
school.)

tammy

from jenk@microsoft.com (jen kilmer)
subject re sex education
organization microsoft corporation
lines 44

in article mar.26.02.54.26.1993.8940@athos.rutgers.edu swansond@nextnet.ccs.csus.edu (dennis swanson) writes
in article mar.22.02.52.49.1993.330@athos.rutgers.edu heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes
...
when i do programs , i spend
about half the time talking about absitinence ...
i find that most people who object
to sex education actually object to the teaching anything other than
abstinencne , and that imo is just as irresponsible as only talking
about comdom use.

i'm under the impression that most sex ed instructors and or policy makers
actually object to making any more than a passing reference to abstinence ,
wishing to spend time only on the realistic choices.

in the sex ed portion of the high school health course i took
in 1984 , it was impressed that the only 100 positive way to not
get pregnant was to not have sex.

other methods of contraception were discussed , in the framework of
a chart which showed both the expected failure rate (theoretical ,
assumes no mistakes) and the actual failure rate (based on research).
top of the chart was something like this


method expected actual
failure rate failure rate
abstinence 0 0


and nfp (natural family planning) was on the bottom. the teacher even
said , i 've had some students tell me that they ca n't use anything for
birth control because they 're catholic. well , if you 're not married and
you 're a practicing catholic , the top of the list is your slot , not
the bottom . even if you 're not religious , the top of the list is
safest.

yes , this was a public school and after dr koop 's failing abstinence ,
use a condom statement on the prevention of aids.

jen



include stdisclaimer jenk@microsoft.com msdos testing

from noring@netcom.com (jon noring)
subject re should christians fight \? justifiable war
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 35

in article gideon@otago.ac.nz (gideon king) writes

i posted this a couple of weeks ago , and it does n't seem to have appeared
on the newsgroup , and i have n't had a reply from the moderator. we were
having intermittent problems with our mail at the time. please excuse me
if you have seen this before...

should christians fight \?

last week alastair posted some questions about fighting , and whether there
are such things as justifiable wars . i have started looking into these
things and have jotted down my findings as i go. i have n't answered all
his questions yet , and i know what i have here is on a slightly different
tack , but possibly i 'll be able to get into it more deeply later , and post
some more info soon.

may i suggest the book ethics by dr. norm geisler , of dallas theological
seminary. in it , he goes over all the arguments pro and con and in between ,
and comes up with a very reasonable answer. if i have time , and there is
enough interest , i may post his position.

jon noring



charter member infj club.

if you 're dying to know what infj means , be brave , e mail me , i 'll send info.

jon noring noring@netcom.com
jkn international ip 192.100.81.100 fred's gourmet chocolate
1312 carlton place phone (510) 294 8153 chips world 's best !
livermore , ca 94550 v mail (510) 417 4101

who are you \? read alt.psychology.personality ! that 's where the action is.

from hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr)
subject re satanic tounges
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 34

in article may.6.00.34.49.1993.15418@geneva.rutgers.edu marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes
i have a simple test. i take several people who can speak
only one language (e.g. chinese , russian , german , english).
then i let the gifted one start speaking in toungues .
the audience should understand the gifted one clearly
in their native language. however , the gifted one can
only hear himself speaking in his own language.

that would be neat , but nowhere in the bible does it say
that one who has the gift of tounges can do this. if the gift
of tounges were the ability to be understood by everyone ,
no matter what languages they know , there would be no need for the
gift of interpretation , and i corinthians 14 would not have had to
have been written.


perhaps i would believe the gifted ones more if they were
glorifying god rather than themselves. then perhaps we 'd
witness a real miracle.

that 's a pretty harsh assumption to make about a several million
christians world wide. sure , there are some who want glory
for themselves who speak in tounges , just as there are among those
who do not have this gift. there were people like this in the corinthian
church also. that does not mean that there is no true gift or that all
who speak in tounges do it for their own glory in the sight of men.
i would venture to say that a large percentage of those who do speak in tounges
do so more often in private prayer than in public.

link hudson

there were apparently those in the early church who claimed that
at pentecost the miracle was that the crowd were all given the
ability to understand the apostles speaking in greek. clh

from wagner@grace.math.uh.edu (david wagner)
subject re deuterocanonicals , esp. sirach
organization uh dept of math
lines 53

ddavis@cass.ma02.bull.com (dave davis)
writes

ii. the deuterocanonicals are not in the canon because
they are not quoted by the nt authors.

that is not quite accurate. otherwise we would have the book
of enoch in the canon (as dave noted). one can say that the
apocrypha are not quoted by christ.

dave also writes

iii. the deuterocanonicals are not in the canon because
they teach doctrines contrary to the (uncontroverted)
parts of the canon.

then i answer
these is a logically invalid a priori .
besides , we are talking about ot texts
which in many parts are superceded by the nt
(in the xtian view). would not this same
principle exclude ecclesiastes \?
this principle cannot be consistently applied.

i have to reject your argument here. the spirit speaks with one
voice , and he does not contradict himself.

the ultimate test of canonicity is whether the words are inspired
by the spirit , i.e. , god breathed. it is a test which is more
guided by faith than by reason or logic. the early church decided
that the apocrypha did not meet this test even though some books
such as the wisdom of ben sirach have their uses. for example ,
the lutheran hymn now thank we all our god quotes a passage
from this book.

the deutero canonical books were added much later in the church 's
history. they do not have the same spiritual quality as the
rest of scripture. i do not believe the church that added these
books was guided by the spirit in so doing. and that is where
this sort of discussion ultimately ends.

david h. wagner
a confessional lutheran now thank we all our god
with heart and hands and voices ,
who wondrous things hath done ,
in whom his world rejoices
who from our mother 's arms
hath blessed us on our way
with countless gifts of love ,
and still is our today.
nun danket alle gott , v. 1
martin rinckart , 1636
(compare ben sirach 50 22 24)

from cpage@two step.seas.upenn.edu (carter c. page)
subject re reason vs. revelation
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 130

in article apr.8.00.58.08.1993.28309@athos.rutgers.edu trajan (stephen mcintyre) writes
in article apr.2.01.58.09.1993.17541@athos.rutgers.edu writes

i can only reply with what it says in 1 timothy 3 16

i'm not here to discount parts of the bible. rather , i'm
here only to discount the notion of revelation.
the author of 1 timothy told what he thought was the
truth , based on his belief in god , his faith in jesus
as the resurrected son , and his readings of the old
testament. but again , what had been revealed to him
was based on (at best) second hand information , given
by friends and authors who may not have given the
whole truth or who may have exaggerated a bit.

first of all , the original poster misquoted. the reference is from 2 tim 3 16.
the author was paul , and his revelations were anything but (at best)
second hand .

and is came about that as saul journeyed , he was approaching
damascus , and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him and
he fell to the ground , and heard a voice saying to him , saul , saul ,
why are you persecuting me \? and he said , who art thou , lord \? and
he said , i am jesus whom you are persecuting , . . .
(acts 9 3 5 , nas)

paul received revelation directly from the risen jesus ! (pretty cool , eh \? ) he
became closely involved with the early church , the leaders of which were
followers of jesus throughout his ministry on earth.

now , you may say , the holy spirit revealed these things
unto him , and we could go into that argument , but
you 'd be hard pressed to convince me that the holy
spirit exists.

i agree. i do n't believe anyone but the spirit would be able to convince you
the spirit exists. please do n't complain about this being circular. i know
it is , but really , can anything of the natural world explain the supernatural \?
(this is why revelation is necessary to the authors of the bible.)

additionally , what he has written is
again second hand info if it were given by the spirit ,
and still carries the chance it is not true.

the spirit is part of god. how much closer to the source can you get \?
the greek in 2 timothy which is sometimes translated as inspired by god ,
literally means god breathed . in other words , god spoke the actual words
into the scriptures. many theologians and bible scholars (dr. james boice is
one that i can remember off hand) get quite annoyed by the dryness and
incompleteness of inspired by god .

the only way you would be able to escape this notion of
second hand info is to have had the entire bible
written by god himself. and to tell the truth , i 've
studied the bible extensively , and have yet to
hear of scholars who have put forth objective evidence
showing god as the first author of this collection of
books.

that 's what the verse taken from 2 timothy was all about. the continuity of a
book written over a span of 1500 years by more than 40 authors from all walks
of life is a testimony to the single authorship of god.

and as for reason , read what it says in 1 corinthians 1 18 31 about
human wisdom. basically it says that human wisdom is useless when
compared with what god has written for our learning.

if you knew of jesus as well as you know the bible , you 'd
realize he reasoned out the law and the prophets for
the common man.

what source to you claim to have discovered which has information of superior
historicity to the bible \? certainly not josephus' writings , or the writings
of the gnostics which were third century , at the earliest.

and though some claim jesus was
he was human , with all of the human wisdom the
apostle paul set out to criticize. yet , would you not
embrace the idea that jesus was wise \?

jesus was fully god as well. that 's why i 'd assert that he is wise.

i realise that you may not accept the authority of the bible. this is
unfortunate to say the least , because there is no other way of learning
about god and christ and god 's purpose with the earth than reading the
bible and searching out its truth for yourself.

for your information , i was raised without any knowledge of
god. by the time some of the faithful came to show me
the word and share with me its truth , i was living
happily and morally without acknowledging the existence
of a supreme being. i have , though , read the bible
several times over in its entirety and have studied it
thoroughly. it contains truth in it , and i consider
jesus to be one of the most moral of human beings to
have lived (in fact , i darn near idolize the guy.) but
there 's no rational reason for me to except god 's
existence.

please rethink this last paragraph. if there is no god , which seems to be your
current belief , then jesus was either a liar or a complete nut because not
only did he assert that god exists , but he claimed to be god himself ! (regards
to c.s. lewis) how then could you have the least bit of respect for jesus \?
in conclusion , be careful about logically unfounded hypotheses based
on gut feelings about the text and other scholars' unsubstantiated claims.
the bible pleads that we take it in its entirety or throw the whole book out.
about your reading of the bible , not only does the spirit inspire the
writers , but he guides the reader as well. we cannot understand it in the
least without the spirit 's guidance

for to us god revealed them through the spirit for the spirit
searches all things , even the depths of god. (1 cor 2 10 , nas)

peace and may god guide us in wisdom.


carter c. page of happiness the crown and chiefest part is wisdom ,
a carpenter 's apprentice and to hold god in awe. this is the law that ,
cpage@seas.upenn.edu seeing the stricken heart of pride brought down ,
we learn when we are old. adapted from sophocles


other theologians get quite annoyed at the misleadingess of
god breathed. it 's true that the greek word has as its roots god
and breath . however etymology does n't necessarily tell you what a
word means. otherwise , goodbye would be a religious expression
(since it comes from god be with ye ). you have to look at how the
word was actually used. in this case the word is used for wisdom or
dreams that come from god. but god breathed is an overtranslation.
clh

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject deuterocanonicals , esp. sirach
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 132

dave davis writes

let my state my point as provocatively as possible. )

after going through several study bibles , i'm leaning heavily towards the
assertion that sirach ('the wisdom of ben sira' or 'ecclesiasticus')
is directly referenced by james in fact , i think
sirach is more directly referenced by james than job or ruth is
referenced in any nt verse i 've seen.

good point. the new testament does not quote ezra , nehemiah , esther ,
ruth , job , ecclesiastes , or song of songs , just as it does not quote
from the deuterocanon. but if the non quotation of the former does not
disqualify them , neither does the non quotation of the later. and the
wisodm of solomon was quite clearly an influence on st. paul , especially
in the letter to the romans (cf especially romans 1.18 32 and wisdom
13 14).

stuff deleted

i think everyone would agree that principles that cannot be
consistently applied are not very useful as principles.
so , if we are to exclude them (not accord them the authority of
scripture) we would appear to require other reasons. what might these
reasons be \? tradition (always a fav. with episcop.) \? tradition is equivocal
on this subject. sirach , i believe , is in vaticanus sinaiticus
i do n't know if it is listed in the muratorian canon
(the oldest list i know of). sirach (and the others) are discussed
by the fathers , as scripture , but not unanimously.

true. not all accepted them as scripture , though niether were all the
books of the new testament so accepted , which puts to the lie the whole
argument of the books being excluded because they were debated and not
universally accepted. hebrews , the apocalypse , 2 peter , esther , and
others were debated at various times , but eventually retained. as for
the codexes you mention , both vaticanus and sinaitcus include the
deuterocanon , bothe of the new and old testaments , and vaticanus (i
think) inlcudes 1 clement , the shepard of hermas , and the epistle of
baranabas. as for the muratorian canon , it deals with the new testament
only , though it is very valuable in its witness to those books.

my interim conclusion is that protestant exclusion of
(at least one of) these writings is one of those 'traditions
of men' one hears of so often. they were excluded during the
reformation , and that appears to be the reason many people
continue to exclude them.

any takers \? i can be reasonable. (if all else fails )
show me where i'm wrong.

you 're not wrong ! it is a `tradition of men' to exlcude them , as i
will explain below.

that nothing be read in the church under the nmae of divine scripture ,
except the canonical scriptures , and the canoncial scriptures are
genesis , exodus , leviticus , numbers , deuteronomy , joshua , judges , ruth ,
four books of kingdoms being 1 2 samuel and 1 2 kings , two books of
paralpomenon being 1 2 chronicles , job , the psalter of david , the five
books of solomon being proverbs , ecclesiastes , song of songs , wisdom of
solomon , and misatributed to him the wisdom of jesus son of sirach ,
the books of the twelve (minor) prophets , isaiah , jeremiah being
jeremiah , the lamentations , baruch , and the letter , all of which were
formerly counted as one , ezekiel , daniel , tobit , judith , esther , two
books of ezra being ezra and nehemiah , two books of maccabees. and of
the new testament four books of the gospel , one book of the acts of the
apostles , thirteen letters of paul the apostle , one letter of the same
to the hebrews , two of peter the apostle , three of john , one of the
apostle jude , one of the apostle james , one book of the apocalypse of
john.
council of hippo , statute 36 , (393 ad)

this same list was promulgated again at the third council of carthage
(397 ad) , and at the sixth council of carthage (419 ad) at which
council the same list was enumerated with the words because we have
recieved from the fathers that these are the books to be read in the
church. which ought to quiet those who assert in the name of holy
scripture we do understand those books of whose authority there was
never any doubt in the church , as the episcopal church does in removing
the deuterocanon from the realm of scripture. (though the episcopalians
hold them in high regard and read them in the church , they are not
counted as scripture by them , and may not be used to prove dogma. the
lutherans hold out similarly.)
earlier mention of the so called apocrypha as divine scripture can also
be found , and below i inlcude only a portion of the quotes calling it
divine scripture that could be found among the writings of the fathers.

and this is the reason why the law of the old testament is reckoned as
consisting of twenty two books so that they may correspond to the
number of letters in the hebrew alphabet .... it is to be noted also
that by adding to these tobias and judith , there are twenty four books ,
corresponding to the number of letters used by the greeks.
st. hillary of poitiers , commentaries on the psalms , prologue , 15 (365 ad)

the twenty two books according to the hebrews are .... jeremiah , with
lamentations and the letter , reckoned as one .... and also there is
maccabees.
origen , commentaries on the psalms , psalm 1 (245 ad)

divine scripture , addressing itself to those who love themselves and to
the boastful .... says most excellently baruch 3.16 19 follows .
st. clement of alexandria , the instuctor of children , 2 , 3 , 36 , 3 , (203 ad)

....i learned accurately the books of the old testament ... proverbs of
solomon , and also wisdom ...
st. melito of sardes , fragment found in eusebius' history of the
church , and dating from crica 177 ad , book 4 , 26 , 14

it is likewise decreed now , indeed , we must treat of the divine
scriptures what the universal catholic church accepts and what she must
shun. the list of the old testament .... wisdom , one book
ecclesiasticus , one book .... tobit , one book .... judith , one book of
maccabees , two books.
st. damasus i , pope , the decree of damsus , section 2 (382 ad)

i would think this enough , though more can be shown , that the church
has always accepted the deutero canon , though parts have been disputed
by various persons. for if disputes involving the new testament
deutero canon does not disqulaify those books (i.e. hebrews , james , 2
peter , 2 3 john , jude , revelation) in protestant eyes , than neither
should it disqulaify the old testament books. and i must point out that
the jews only drew up their canon in 90 ad , 60 years after the founding
of the christian religion upon the cross. why should we adhere to a
canon that was drawn up by the faithless , in reaction to the chrsitian
use of the greek septuagint , which includes the deutero canon \? as early
as 150 ad , st. justin had already accused the jews of mutilating the
canon of scripture by their removal of certain books. protestants
apparently prefer to think that god 's revelation was limited by a decree
of the jews in the ordering of their (the jews') faithless canon , and
that he could not use other people , like the apostles , in drawing up the
canon. the apostles were most certain users of the septuagint , as some
80 of the old testament quotes use the wording of the septuagint , and
not the hebrew. and the septuagint includes the deuterocanon.

from shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization shell oil
lines 34

in article apr.13.00.09.07.1993.28452@athos.rutgers.edu simon@giaeb.cc.monash.edu.au (simon shields) writes
hi all

hope you all had a blessed easter. i have a document which i believe
refutes the notion that the sspx (society of saint pius x) is in
schism , or that there has been any legitimate excommunication. if
anyone is interested in reading the truth about this matter please
email me and i 'll send them the document via email. its 26 pages long ,
so i wont be posting it on the news group.

i may be interesting to see some brief selections posted to the net.
my understanding is that sspx does not consider itself in schism
or legitimately excommunicated. but that 's really beside the point.
what does the roman catholic church say \? excommunication can be
real apart from formal excommunication , as provided for in canon law.

after all we orthodox do n't cinsider ourselves schismatic or
excommunicated. but the catholic church considers us dissident.

if this is inappropriate for this group or beyond the charter ,
i'm sure ofm will let us know.

larry overacker (llo@shell.com)


lawrence overacker
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965
llo@shell.com

i think it 's within the charter. whether this is actually the best
group in which to discuss it is up to the people concerned. i am not
interested in having this reinvoke the general catholic protestant
polemics , but i do n't see why it should the issue is primarily one
specific to catholics. clh

from conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt)
subject re christians and aids
organization applied research laboratories , university of texas at austin
lines 98

in article apr.8.00.57.49.1993.28271@athos.rutgers.edu marka@travis.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes
in article apr.7.01.55.33.1993.22762@athos.rutgers.edu kevin@pictel.pictel.com (kevin davis) writes
many christians believe in abstinence , but in a moment will be overcome
by desire. we all compromise and rationalize poor choices (sin). last
week i was guilty of anger , jealousy , and whole mess of other stuff ,
yet i am forgiven and not condemned to suffer with aids. to even
suggest that aids is deserved is ludicrous.

some rules are made because at some point man is too stupid
to know better. yet , eventually man learns. but only after
getting a lesson from experience.

yes , it 's important to realize that all actions have consequences ,
and that rules were made for our own good. but to suggest that a
disease is a punishment for certain types of sin i think is
taking things much too far. if we got some kind of mouth disease
for lying , would any of us have mouths left \? what if we developed
blindness every time we lusted after someone or something \? i dare
say all of us would be walking into walls.

i wonder if aids would be a problem now if people did n't get
involved in deviant sexual behaviour. certainly , people who
received tainted blood are not to blame. but it just goes
to show that all mankind is affected by the actions of a few.

yes , sin can have terrible consequences , but we need to be real
careful when saying that the consequences are a punishment for
sin. the jews of jesus 's time believed that all sickness was the
result of a sin. then jesus healed a blind man and said that man was
blind to show the glory of god , not because of sin. if aids , or any
other std is a punishment for sexual sin , what do we do with
diseases like cancer , or multiple sclerosis , which are just as
debilitating and terrible as aids , yet are not usually linked to a
specific behavior or lifestyle \?

in addition , imho forgiveness is not the end of things.
there is still the matter of atonement. is it aids \?
i do n't know.

atonement is extremely important , but i think you 've missed the mark
about as far as you can by suggesting that aids is an atonement for sin.
the atonement for sin is jesus christ period. this is the central
message of the gospel. a perfect sacrifice was required for our sins ,
and was made in the lamb of god. his sacrifice atoned for all of
our sins , past present and future. god does not require pennance for
our sins , nor does he require us to come up with our own atonement. he
has graciously already done that for us. to suggest that aids or
some other consequence is an atonement for sins is literally spitting
on the sacrifice that jesus made.

in case you could n't tell , i get extremely angry and upset when
i see things like this. instead of rationalizing our own fears and
phobias , we need to be reaching out to people with aids and other
socially unacceptable diseases. whether they got the disease through
their own actions or not is irrelevant. they still need jesus christ ,
no more and no less than we do. i 've said this before , but i think
it 's a good analogy. people with aids are modern day lepers. jesus
healed many lepers. he can also heal people with aids , maybe not on
this earth , but in an ultimate sense. my next door neighbor has aids.
she has recently come to have a much deeper and more committed
relationship with god. her theology is n't what i would want it to be ,
but god 's grace covers her. the amazing thing is that she is gaining
weight (she 's had the disease for over 2 years) and her health is
excellent apart from occassional skin rashes and such. she attributes
her improvement in her health to god 's intervention in her life. who
are we to suggest that her disease is some kind of punishment \? it
seems to me that god is being glorified through her disease.

paul overstreet , the country singer , has a good song title that i
think applies to all of us but for the grace of god , there go i
(or something like that).

may we all experience and accept god 's grace.


mark ashley disclaimer the opinions expressed
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com here are my own they do not
.. ! uunet ! gcx1 ! marka reflect the opinion or policies
the lost los angelino of harris corporation.




paul conditt internet conditt@titan.tsd.arlut.utexas.edu
applied research phone (512) 835 3422 fax (512) 835 3416 3259
laboratories fedex 10000 burnet road , austin , texas 78758 4423
university of texas postal p.o. box 8029 , austin , texas 78713 8029
austin , texas the most wonderful place in texas to live


ttttttttttttttt
ttt ttt ttt
ttt
ttttttttttttt texas tech lady raiders
tt ttt tt 1992 93 swc champions
ttt 1992 93 ncaa national champions
ttt
ttttttt

from xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
subject the empty tomb...
reply to xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 218



the empty tomb can we trust it \?

by the late wilbur m. smith , d.d.
(1894 1977)

when jesus was on earth , he made an amazing prediction about
himself , and frequently repeated it. let me quote it for you

behold , we go up to jerusalem and the son
of man shall be betrayed unto the chief
priests and unto the scribes , and they shall
condemn him to death , and shall deliver him
to the gentiles to mock , and to scourge , and
to crucify him and the third day he shall
rise again (matthew 20 18 19).

wholly different from the normal experience of men , jesus ,
who had never done anything worthy of death , even deserving
reproval , knew he would die before he was 40 years of age. he
knew the very city where he would die. he knew that the religious
leaders of his own race would condemn him to death. he knew that
one of his own would betray him. he knew that before his actual
death took place he would be mocked and scourged. he knew exactly
how he would die by crucifixion.

all this is in itself remarkable. but more amazing than the
minute particulars of his foreknowledge was what he predicted
would follow shortly after he was buried that he would rise
again. he even designated the time on the third day.

but since it is on this central fact the death and resurrec
tion of jesus christ that the whole truth or untruth of chris
tianity turns , let us examine it more closely.

the body of jesus was embalmed in long sheets of cloth
between the layers of which a great abundance of spices and
ointments was distributed. the body was placed in a tomb which
had never before been used , and a great stone was rolled against
the entrance. the jewish authorities , fully aware that jesus had
predicted he would rise again , had the stone officially sealed and
on saturday placed a guard before the tomb to prevent the
disciples from carrying away the body. early sunday morning some
of the women who were faithful followers of christ went out to the
tomb to further anoint the body. to their utter astonishment ,
they found the stone rolled away , the body gone. they rushed back
to tell the disciples. shortly two of jesus' friends , peter and
john , utterly skeptical about the whole affair , came and found the
tomb empty , just as the women had said. even the guards came
hurrying into the city to tell the sanhedrin that had hired them
to guard the tomb that the body was gone (matthew 28 11).

how did this tomb become empty \?

one of the most famous new testament scholars in america
professor of new testament literature in a large theological
seminary wrote to the author in answer to my question of how
the tomb became empty , and wrote it in a letter not marked by
bitterness or sarcasm , that he could no more explain how the tomb
became empty than he could explain how santa claus comes down the
chimney at christmas time.

but he did n't realize that santa clause never did come down
any chimney at christmas time , because there never was a santa
claus ! ...and there is a jesus. he died he was buried in the
tomb of joseph of arimathea , and on sunday the body was gone.

those are facts of history. no one can escape the responsi
bility of coming to some conclusion about what really happened by
mentioning a myth we all abandoned before we were eight years old.

another professor , dr. kirsopp lake of harvard university ,
tried to explain the empty tomb by saying (what no other scholar
in the field of new testament criticism has ventured to adopt)
that the women went to the wrong tomb.

the facts are these

first , so far as we know , there was no other tomb nearby to
which by mistake they could have gone.

second , it is contrary to all similar experience for three or
more people to forget the place where they have buried their
dearest loved one within less than three days. even if the women
did miss the tomb , when peter and john came , did they too go to
the wrong tomb \?

third , were the soldiers guarding the wrong tomb \?

there is , of course , a record of an attempt to escape the
evidence of the empty tomb in the new testament itself.

now when they were going , behold , some
of the watch came into the city and showed
unto the chief priests all the things that
were done. and when they were assembled
with the leaders and had taken counsel , they
gave large money unto the soldiers , saying ,
say ye , his disciples came by night , and stole
him away while we slept. and if this come to
the governor 's ears , we will persuade him , and
secure you. so they took the money , and did
as they were taught and this saying is com
monly reported among the jews until this day
(matthew 28 11 15).

this is a good illustration of many later attempts to escape the
fact that the tomb was empty.

you will notice at once that the chief priests and the elders never
questioned but that the tomb was empty. they never even went out to
see if what the guards had reported was true they knew it was true.

another fact about this story makes it ridiculous to maintain that
the tomb was empty the soldiers were told to say that jesus' disciples
came and stole the body away while they (the soldiers) were asleep !

how could they know what was going on while they were asleep \?
obviously , such testimony would be valueless in any court.

even aside from the shallowness and sordidness that make us reject
the explanation , the very character and the later history of the
disciples compel us to believe they did not steal and secretly carry away
the body of jesus.

first , as professor heffern points out , the leaders of judaism in
jerusalem , who had put the lord jesus to death , had nothing to offer to
contradict these disciples as they continued to preach jesus and his
resurrection because all jerusalem knew the tomb was empty. if there
had been trickery here , sooner or later it would have been suspected ,
then proved.

second , surely one of the disciples , even most of them , would
have confessed the fraud under the terrific persecution they underwent.
it may be possible to live a lie , but men seldom die for a lie and most
of these men did.

the result ultimately would have been that the message that christ
had risen would have suffered the fate of all such unfounded stories it
would have lost it power. instead , this truth swept the world , closed
pagan temples , won millions of disciples , brought hope to a despairing
humanity , was the very foundation truth of the early church , and is today
as believable and as freshly glorious as ever.

but not only did jesus come alive again , he did not disappear to
leave the disciples speculating through all the subsequent days as to
what had happened to him.

instead , he appeared to them literally , visibly , frequently.

he appeared to the women at the tomb on resurrection morning
(matthew 28 1 10) later that day to mary magdalene alone (john 20 11
18) and to simon peter , also alone (luke 24 34). in the afternoon he
walked with two of his followers toward emmaus (luke 24 13 35) and that
night he appeared to ten of the apostles gathered together in an upper
room at jerusalem (mark 16 14 16 luke 24 36 40 etc.).

a week later he appeared to all eleven of the apostles , probably at
the same place (john 20 26 28). once he was seen by above 500 brethren
on a mountain in galilee (i corinthians 15 6) and finally to the
apostles just before his ascension (mark 16 19 luke 24 50 52 acts 1 3
8).

as with the fact of the empty tomb , so in regard to these histor
ically recorded appearances , all kinds of theories have been proposed
attempting to deny their literalness. but these theories are
unreasonable , without supporting evidence. none has ever won the
unanimous approval of those who refuse to believe in the reality of the
appearances.

moreover , while it is true we are living in an age when may of our
leading scientists and agnostics and many of our philosophers are
antisuperanaturalistic , let us not forget that some of the greatest
thinkers of the ages have firmly believed in this great miracle.
increase mather , president of harvard timothy dwight , president of yale
nathan lord , president of dartmouth edward hitchcock , president of
amherst mark hopkins , president of williams john witherspoon , president
of princeton these men and countless others have believed it.

but suppose christ did rise from the dead , what of it \? what has
it to do with my life \? what has it to do with your life \? just this
it seals with certitude the teachings of christ.

jesus taught many great truths especially many about himself. he
claimed to have come down from god.

he said he was the way to god.

he said he was the son of god , who alone knew god perfectly.

he said that whoever believed on him had eternal life , and no one
else had it.

he said that whatever we ask god in his name , he would grant it to
us.

thus when he did rise from the grave on the third day , he revealed
that in these amazing , unparalleled predictions , he spoke the truth !

do you know any reason , any good reason , why we should not believe
that his words are all true \?

the point is , does not the truth of the resurrection convince us
that he is none other than the one he claimed to be the son of god \?

and then , of course , the fact that christ rose from the dead
testifies that he has broken the power of death , and that he will some
day raise us also up from the grave , as he promised.

in other words , if this person , jesus christ , the son of god , in all
this , he should be the cornerstone of the foundation of your life. for
he said a life built on him would know forgiveness of sins , his compan
ionship and help , a joy that no circumstances can ever take away , and a
hope that shineth more and more unto a perfect day.

those who have tried it down through the ages and there have been
many have given their testimony. and we today who believe also know.

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary , the catechist)
subject re am i going to hell \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 45

in article apr.23.02.55.31.1993.3123@geneva.rutgers.edu tbrent@ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent) writes
i have stated before that i do not consider myself an atheist , but
definitely do not believe in the christian god. the recent discussion
about atheists and hell , combined with a post to another group (to the
effect of 'you will all go to hell') has me interested in the consensus
as to how a god might judge men. as a catholic , i was told that a jew ,
buddhist , etc. might go to heaven , but obviously some people do not
believe this. even more see atheists and pagans (i assume i would be
lumped into this category) to be hellbound. i know you believe only
god can judge , and i do not ask you to , just for your opinions.

dear tim

you say that you were a catholic , but if you do not believe in the christian
god (i suppose that means the god of the bible) and publicly state this ,
you are in all probability not a roman catholic. public heretics , even
those who err in good faith (material heretics) , do not belong to the body
of the church (fundamentals of catholic dogma , 1960 , ludwig ott , p. 311).

all is not lost , however , as you still might belong spiritually to the
church by your desire to belong to it. as you said , only god can judge
the condition of a man 's soul. about judgment , on the other hand , st. paul
1 cor 5 12) urges christians to judge their fellow christians.
following the apostle 's teaching , i judge that you should reconsider
returning to the christian fold and embrace the god of abraham , isaac ,
and jacob. he is the god who lives.

concerning what you were told about non believers when you were a catholic ,
that is true. as i have posted before , vatican ii (lumen gentium , ii ,
n. 16) teaches those who , through no fault of their own , do not know
the gospel of christ or his chruch , but who nevertheless seek god with a
sincere heart , and moved by grace , try in their actions to do his will
as they know it through the dictates of their conscience those too may
achieve eternal salvation.

responding to your solicitation for opinions on the thinking processes
of god , the best i can do is refer you to scripture. scripture is one
of the best sources for learning what can be known about god.

stick with the best.

boundary , the catechist

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , tr. esp. vulgata latina)

from marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley)
subject re was jesus black \?
organization fl
lines 31

in article apr.24.01.08.17.1993.4217@geneva.rutgers.edu shd2001@andy.bgsu.edu (sherlette dixon) writes
the people who post to this particular newsgroup are either too cowardly ,

...more accusations about a worldwide conspiracy against blacks.

since jesus was born in the middle east , then i expect his human
features to be similar to middle easterners at that point in time.
and since the camera was n't invented yet we can only guess what
he looked like. for example , with all the dinosaur bones we 're
digging up we still do n't know if they were yellow polka dotted ,
or purplish orange 8 ). likewise , i do n't think anybody has a
picture of jesus (is there \? 8 ) ) so our current image of
jesus is our best guess.

okay. so let 's assume that jesus is black. would that make you
follow his techings \? cause if you follow his teachings , skin
color becomes a moot point , anyway. what counts more in your
life \? your faith in jesus or his skin color (as a human) \?

in the interest of historical accuracy , however , since jesus
was from israel would n't his skin color be like any other jew \?
i.e. fair skinned \? although probably heavily tanned from the
desert sun \? experts in this area speak up ! ! ! cause i'm not. 8 )





mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris'
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com
the lost los angelino

from norris@athena.mit.edu (richard a chonak)
subject re interfaith weddings
reply to norris@mit.edu
organization l'organisation , c'est moi
lines 10

bill burns was looking for a description of the differnces between the
catholic and lutheran churches.

i 'd recommend prof. william whalen 's book separated brethren . it 's
an overview of common us denominations , intended for a catholic
audience.


richard aquinas chonak , norris@mit.edu
seeking job change sys mgr vax , sis , cobol programmer unix , c , c , x

from eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com (geno )
subject re the doctrine of original sin
reply to eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 14

4) nothing unclean shall enter heaven (rev. 21.27). therefore ,
babies are born in such a state that should they die , they are cuf off
from god and put in hell , which is exactly the doctrine of st. augustine
and st. thomas. of coures , having only original sins on thier souls ,
they suffer the lightest punishment , the loss of the vision oand
presence of god , but that does not change the undeniable fact that they
cannot possibly come to a forgivenss of original sin , nor can they
inherit eternal life. that , as st. augustine said , is what the
pelagian heretics taught. which is why he said later , if you want to
be a christian , do not teach that unbaptized infants can come to a
forgivenss of original sin.

does n't the bible say that god is a fair god \? if this is true , how can this
possibly be fair to the infants \?

from news@cbnewsk.att.com
subject re anger
organization at t bell labs
lines 31

paul conditt writes
in case you could n't tell , i get extremely angry and upset when
i see things like this. instead of rationalizing our own fears and
phobias , we need to be reaching out to people with aids and other
socially unacceptable diseases. whether they got the disease through
their own actions or not is irrelevant. they still need jesus...

aaron bryce cardenas) writes
the first issue you bring up is your anger. it is obvious ly wrong to
be angry (gal 5 19 20) for any reason , especially extremely angry
which is on par with hatred. jesus has every reason to be angry at us
for putting him on the cross with our sin , yet his prayer was forgive
them father , they know not what they do. ...

i do n't know why it is so obvious. we are not speaking of acts of the
flesh. we are just speaking of emotions. emotions are not of themselves
moral or immoral , good or bad. emotions just are. the first step is
not to label his emotion as good or bad or to numb ourselves so that
we hide our true feelings , it is to accept ourselves as we are , as god
accepts us. it seems that paul 's anger he has accepted and channeled
it to a plea to all of us to refrain from passing judgement on those
afflicted with a disease and to reach out to others. give in \? calling
his arguments foolish , belittling them to only quarrels , avoiding action
because of fear to give others a bad feeling , he 's not forgiving \?

re think it , aaron. do n't be quick to judge. he has forgiven those with
aids , he has dealt with and taken responsibility for his feelings and made
appropriate choices for action on such feelings. he has not given in to
his anger.

joe moore

from shd2001@andy.bgsu.edu (sherlette dixon)
subject was jesus black \?
organization bgsu
lines 43

the people who post to this particular newsgroup are either too cowardly ,
too arrogant , or too apathetic to discuss this issue since i have yet to
see any discussion grace my computer screen. while it holds particular
interest to the african american community , everyone has something to gain
from discussing it. as any knowledgable person should know , christianity
has been used in this country to tighten the spiritual , emotional , mental
hold slavery placed on the minds , souls hearts of african americans.
this was most effectively done by the display of white icons of jesus in
slave churches to encourage the godly superiority of slaveowners. it
was n't enough that the slaveowner was your provider , but he was also your
god , to be looked upon with unconditional love loyalty and to be
worshipped with great pride. but how culturally biblically accurate are
these icons \? pictures statues of a black jesus have been found in
european countries , as that of a black madonna. but what about biblical
physical descriptions of jesus , his hair being compared to that of wool ,
his feet to that of brass \? and think about the area of the world where all
biblical actions took place. i welcome all intelligent commentary on this
important topic flamers need not reply.

sherlette

p.s. i expect at least this type of response it does n't matter what
color his skin was his actions what he did for mankind are what counts.
this is true i am not questioning this. but he walked the earth for 3
decades as a human this part of his existence intrigues me. and as for
saying that it does n't matter... to a member of a physically emancipated
people who is still struggling for mental emancipation , believe me it
matters.

the general attack on the members of this group seems unjustified.
there has been discussion of this issue in the past. we ca n't discuss
everything at once , so the fact that some specific thing has n't been
discussed recently should n't be taken as a sign of general cowardice ,
arrogance or apathy. in past discussions no one has been outraged by
suggestions that jesus could be black (and it has been suggested by a
few scholars) , but the concensus is that he was most likely semitic.
as you probably know , there is a tradition that portrayals of jesus in
art tends to show him as one of the people. thus you would n't be
surprised to find african art showing him as black , and oriental art
showing him as oriental. there are good reasons relating to christian
devotion to think of him in such a way. it 's also good now and then
to have that image challenged , and to think of jesus as being a member
of xxx , where xxx is the group you least respect. clh

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 29

in article apr.9.01.11.16.1993.16937@athos.rutgers.edu , emery@tc.fluke.com (john emery) writes
the one single historic event that has had the biggest impact on the
world over the centuries is the resurrection of jesus. at the same
time , it is one of the most hotly contested topics....

did jesus christ really rise from the dead \? since the eyewitnesses
are no longer living , we have only their written accounts. ...
... because of the magnitude of significance
involved here , either the resurrection is the greatest event in the
history of man or the greatest deception played on man.
massive amounts of data deleted

john ,

while i will not take the time to rebut you point by point , i will suggest
three current works which i think will be helpful in your quest to answer
this question. john dominic crossan (professor of religion at de paul univ)
the cross that spoke harper and row pub. 1988 , also his latest work
the historical jesus the life of a mediterranean jewish peasant harper
and row pub. 1991 , also two works of burton mack (professor of new testament
at the claremont graduate school) a myth of innocence fortress press 1988 ,
and his latest book the lost gospel the book of q and christian origins
harper and row , 1992. you might start with mack 's book on q and then
examine the others afterward. however i think that once you do that you will
see that your evidence is not as sturdy as you 'd like. most of the tired
arguements you stated , assume eyewitness accounts , such is not the case. but
anyway look at mack and crossan and then get back to us.

randy

from kwyatt@ccscola.columbiasc.ncr.com (kershner wyatt)
subject re quality of catholic liturgy
organization ncr corp , e m columbia , columbia , sc
lines 79

in article apr.13.00.08.27.1993.28403@athos.rutgers.edu creps@lateran.ucs.indiana.edu (stephen a. creps) writes
in article apr.10.05.30.16.1993.14313@athos.rutgers.edu jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john e murray) writes

on palm sunday at our parish , we were invited to take the role of
jesus in the passion. i declined to participate. last year at the
liturgy meeting i pointed out how we crucify christ by our sins , so
therefore it is appropriate that we retain the role of the crowd , but
to no avail.

musicians , readers , and so on. new things are introduced in the course of the
liturgy and since no one knows what 's happening , the new things have to be
explained , and pretty soon instead of doing a lot of the mass we 're just
sitting there listening (or spacing out , in my case) to how the mass is about
to be done. in my mind , i lay the blame on liturgy committees made up of lay
people to be aware of the lord 's presence.

as a former catholic and now as a very active lutheran it is some of the
innovations of the mass which made me leave the catholic church and return
to the more traditional catholic chuch the lutherans.

i spent many years as a lector reading the passion parts as appropriate in
the catholic church and i found it very meaningful. our lutheran parish just
instituted the tenebrae service for good friday and i was the lector for
a paraphrased passion which was exceptional. i heard and learned things
that i have previously overlooked in the gospels yet those facts were
always there. as a matter of interest , the pastor and i were talking about
the differences between the rc and lutheran church during holy week over
breakfast easter sunday.

as a member of a liturgy committee , i can tell you that the problem
is certain people dominating , who want to try out all kinds of
innovations. the priests do n't seem even to want to make any
decisions of their own in many cases. i guess it 's easier to try
something new than it is to refuse to allow it.

my wife is the member of the liturgy committee in the family (called music
and worship at our church). our pastor does have control of this committee
but listens very carefully to the committee 's suggestions. it needs a strong
hand to lead and guide , to keep the intent and the message clear and strong
as it should be through lent and the rest of the liturgical year. additional
reason for my leaving the catholic faith lack of any selfless spiritual
guidance by priests in my parishes. aka wishy washy .

as you may gather from my comments , i feel that it is very important , ir
regardless of denominational guidelines , to have a service mass which promotes
the true reason that we are gathered there. i am quite comfortable in a
traditional mass , with receiving holy communion on the tongue , the sacrament
of penance (not reconciliation) , stations of the cross , so on and so forth.
the reason other types of masses and parishes exist is because these feelings
are not shared by everyone.

i want more people to attend church and to find the lord , but i do n't want
them attending a show. it 's not. my church works hard to have a meaningful
service during lent on wednesdays , but follow traditional lutheran book of
worship guidelines. where things are changed or omitted during lent (such
as the hymn of praise) it is noted so that we are aware of the reasons that it
is not there.

quite frankly , it is very hard for a non catholic to go to a mass and fit in .
my dear wife never could (former methodist). and holy week masses and vigils
would intimidate the daylights out of a non catholic. those catholics who
have beared with me this far understand what i mean.

please keep in mind why we are there to gather together in worship. not
to worry about how something is done or not done. if there is something
wrong that you feel needs addressing , by all means talk to your priest or
pastor. i have only ever met one who would n't listen. they are there to
provide spiritual guidance and to help. use them. my differences with
the catholic church are much more fundamental but my decision to change
faiths was done with prayer , intervention , and sessions with priests and
ministers.

in christ ,
kershner

kershner wyatt
kwyatt@ccscola.columbiasc.ncr.com

my opinions are my own and are n't necessarily my employer 's.

from seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
lines 48

in article apr.14.03.07.38.1993.5420@athos.rutgers.edu johnsd2@rpi.edu writes
in article 28388@athos.rutgers.edu , jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes

drugs are a replacement for christ.
those who have an empty spot in the god shaped hole in their hearts must
do something to ease the pain.

i have heard this claim quite a few times. does anybody here know
who first came up with the god shaped hole business \?

this is why the most effective
substance abuse recovery programs involve meeting peoples' spiritual
needs.

you might want to provide some evidence next time you make a claim
like this.

in 12 step programs (like alcoholics anonymous) , one of the steps
involves acknowleding a higher power . aa and other 12 step abuse
recovery programs are acknowledged as being among the most effective.

unfortunately , as evidence for god , this can be dismissed by stating
that the same defect of personality makes substance abusers as makes
people 'religious' , and the debunker could perhaps acknowledge that
being religious is a better crutch than being a drug addict , but
still maintain that both are escapism. (and i suspect that there
are some atheists who would find the substance abuse preferable to
christianity.)

i think that an essential problem with communication between christ
ians and atheists is that as christians we necessarily see ourselves
as incomplete , and needing god (the 'god shaped hole') , while atheists
necessarily see themselves as self sufficient. if the atheists are
right , christians are guilty of being morally weak , and too cowardly
to stand up for themselves if the christians are right , the atheists
are guilty of considerable arrogance. (i use the term atheist to
refer to a person who has a definite conviction that there is no god ,
as opposed to one who does not know and or does not care about god.)

seanna watson bell northern research , pray that at the end of living ,
(seanna@bnr.ca) ottawa , ontario , canada of philosophies and creeds ,
god will find his people busy
opinion , what opinions \? oh these opinions. planting trees and sowing seeds.
no , they 're not bnr 's , they 're mine.
i knew i 'd left them somewhere. fred kaan

(let 's see...i spelled 'sowing' right i got the author 's name right maybe
my 3rd iteration .sig will be a keeper.)

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re christians that are not church members
organization indiana university
lines 51

here are some notes about what the church is to be like and some helpful
ideas about how to choose a church

colossians 1 15 18
a. jesus is the head of the body , the church
b. you cannot say yes to jesus , but no to the church

ephesians 2 19 22
a. the church is the family of god
b. the church is based on the word of god only
cornerstone christ
foundation apostles new testament
prophets old testament (see revelation 21 9 14)

1 corinthians 12 12 13
a. baptism is when we become a member of the church

as for the question of denominations
a. the bible teaches that there is only one church from ephesians
4 4 6 , romans 12 4 5 , 1 corinthians 12 12 13
b. 1 corinthians 1 10 13 says that there should be no divisions in
the church. there should be no following of personalities in the church
(and in time , their writings)
c. there are so many churches today because of a problem. 2 timothy
4 1 4 says that people will turn away from the truth and try to find a
church that teaches a doctrine that suits their lifestyle

hebrews 10 24 25
a. do not miss church
b. purpose is to encourage each other , so we will remain faithful.
involved on a relationship level in the church
c. must come to all services

another verse which is helpful is hebrews 3 12 15. the church should be
encouraging daily , as it is their duty to do.

of course , more standards apply
1 timothy 4 16 people in the church should be watching their lives
and doctrines to make sure they both live up to the word entirely (ie ,
disciples).
acts 17 10 12 the pastor does not come close to the apostle paul
(natural conclusion since the apostle paul talked with jesus directly
face to face) , so if the bereans , who were considered noble , did n't take
paul at his word but checked out what he said with scripture to verify
his statements , then church members are to do the same and verify the
pastor 's statements. if they are not verifiable or valid in light of
other verses , then that group should be avoided as a church (would 've
made a wonderful suggestion to the waco group , especially in light of
matthew 24).

joe fisher

from scott@uniwa.uwa.edu.au (scott shalkowski)
subject re doing the work of god \? \? ! ! )
organization the university of western australia
lines 31

desiree bradley (desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca) wrote

. . ..

the next sunday , the sermon was about joshua 6 (where the israelites
take jericho and then proceed to massacre everybody there except
for rahab , who had sheltered the spies). with those reports about
bosnia in my mind , i felt uncomfortable about the minister saying that
the massacre (the one in joshua) was right. but what really bothered
me was that , if i was going to try taking christianity seriously , i
should n't be so troubled about the reports of ethnic cleansing in
bosnia. certainly , my sympathies should n't be with the moslims.
considering that the bosnian muslims are descendants of christians
who , under turkish rule , converted to islam could the serbs be doing
god 's work \?

perhaps it would be useful to ask whether those doing the ethnic
cleansing could be said to be loving those they are killing in the very
act of killing. does it reflect the attitude of god , who sends rain to
both the just and the unjust \? if not , then christians should be
uncomfortable with it. jesus gave his followers the law of love to
follow and it is by exhibiting this that disciples will be known.
doctrinal (or political) correctness is not the standard , so i do n't see
why christians should be moved against the serbs because their ancestors
converted from christianity to islam. it seems to me that as a
christian you should be troubled by the ethnic cleansing.



peace ,
scott shalkowski scott@arts.uwa.edu.au

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double standard \?
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 31

(moderator this is a replacement for an earlier , more clumsily worded
submission on the same topic which i submitted a few minutes ago.)

i think we need to distinguish etymology from meaning. regardless of
how the word 'easter' originated , the fact is that it does not now
mean anything to christians other than 'the feast day of the resurrection
of jesus christ'.

the meaning of a word is only what people understand it to mean.

and the same goes for other cultural practices. the festival of easter
may possibly have some historical association with some pagan festival ,
but today there are , as far as i know , no christians who intend to
honor any kind of pagan goddess by celebrating easter.

it is nonsense to say this word (or this practice) 'really' means so
and so even though nobody realizes it. words and practices do n't mean
things , people do.

(this is basic semantics i'm a linguist they pay me to think about
things like this.)

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

further , easter is specific to english. in many other languages ,
the word used is based on passover or resurrection. is it ok to
celebrate it in countries using those languages , but not in those
using english \? clh

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary)
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 54

a reply to a post by kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (aka nancy 's sweetheart)

\? human brains are infested with sin , and they can only be trusted
\? in very limited circumstances.

i would beg to differ with you here. the properly formed conscience can
be trusted virtually all the time. i am not so sure , though , about something
so materialistic as the human brain. does that mass of tissue possess
anything trustworthy \? your observation would probably be valid if we were
discussing the mind of an animal , but the human being is only half animal ,
as it were and half spiritual.

\? at the moment he stops speaking , and people start interpreting , the
\? possibility of error appears. did he mean that literally or not \? we do
\? not have any record that he elaborated on the words. was he thinking of
\? tran or con substatiation \? he did n't say. we interpret this passage
\? using our brains we think and reason and draw conclusions. but we know
\? that our brains are not perfect our thinking often leads us wrong. (this
\? is something that most of us have direct experience of. 8 )

now you have hit on the purpose of the church. it is by necessity the
infallible interpreter of divine revelation. without the church ,
christianity would be nothing more than a bunch of little divisive sects.

\? unless you are infallible , there are very few things you can be certain
\? of. to the extent that doctrines rely on fallible human thinking , they
\? cannot be certain.

this argument of yours regarding the certainty of an observation or a
conclusion is not necessarily substantiated by experience. it reminds me
of the theoretical physicist who said that you can never be certain of
a measurment because the sensor interferes with the field you are trying
to measure. now , the experimental physicist will reply that although the
measurement can never be made with absolute certainty , he is able to
determine the certainty with which the measurement can be made , and this
knowledge is often sufficient to render the measurement useful enough
to allow evidence of the true condition of the field under observation.
therefore , although our minds are finite and susceptible to error , our
competence in arriving at inductive insights gives confidence in our
ability to distinguish what is true from what is not true , even in areas
not subject to the experimental method.

\? darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
\? if any substantial number of talk.religion.misc readers read some
\? wittgenstein , 60 of the postings would disappear. (if they understood
\? some wittgenstein , 98 would disappear. )) michael l siemon

this quote seems a little arrogant , do n't you think \?


boundary

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , vulgata latina)

from caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin)
subject re the arrogance of christians
lines 37

vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes

i just thought i 'd share some words that i received in a letter
from moody bible institute a couple of months ago. the words are by
james m. stowell , the president of mbi.

the other day , i was at the dry cleaner and the radio was playing.
it caught my attention because a talk show guest was criticizing evangelical
christians , saying we believe in absolutes and think we are the only ones
who know what the absolutes are.

he missed the point.

no , imo , mr. stowell missed the point.

we affirm the absolutes of scripture , not because we are arrogant
moralists , but because we believe in god who is truth , who has revealed his
truth in his word , and therefore we hold as precious the strategic importance
of those absolutes.

mr. stowell seems to have jumped rather strangely from truth to absolutes.
i do n't see how that necessarily follows.

are all truths also absolutes \?
is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes) \?

if the answer to either of these questions is no , then perhaps you can
explain to me how you determine which parts of scripture are truths , and
which truths are absolutes. and , who is qualified to make these
determinations \? there is hardly consensus , even in evangelical
christianity (not to mention the rest of christianity) regarding
biblical interpretation.

i find mr. stowell 's statement terribly simple minded.

carol alvin
caralv@auto trol.com

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re atheists and hell
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 16

mark schnitzius writes

literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such.

this is something i 've always found confusing. if all your nerve endings
die with your physical body , why would flame hurt you \? how can one wail
and gnash teeth with no lungs and no teeth \?

one can feel physical pain by having a body , which , if you know the
doctrine of the resurrection of the body , is what people will have after
the great judgement. we look for the resurrection of the dead , and the
life of the world to come. nicene constantinopolitan creed. you
will have both body and soul in hell eventually.

andy byler

from phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization monash university melbourne. australia.
lines 96

in article apr.19.05.11.41.1993.29112@athos.rutgers.edu , aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker) writes

i am asking you to believe in things not visible. i do n't know if this is
believeing blindly or not. i'm not sure how blindness comes into it. i do not
deny reason , indeed i insist upon it , but reason only draws conclusions from
evidence. if you decide in advance that your reason will act only on the
evidence of the five physical senses , then you cut reason off from any
possibility of reaching a conclusion outside the physical sphere (beyond the
rather provocative , if inconclusive , conclusion that the physical sphere is
not self explanatory).

so your are saying to rely on our feelings and experiences (since
this is the only other source of information left to us).
how can you then convince somebody that your feelings and experiences
are the correct ones then if you ca n't show somebody visible and
measurable effects \? if my experiences say that there exists no god
and yours says there does , where does that leave us \? since we are only
going on experiences , then both of us are correct within our own personal
realities.

furthermore , the trouble with feelings and experiences is that they
can lead you astray , as the tragic outcome of waco illustrates. i
am sure that many of koresh 's followers really believed in him but
i think that you and i will agree that they were being misled.

finally , how on earth do you come to the conclusion that the physical
sphere is not self explanatory when you only rely on the five senses \?

christians claim that they have received a different kind of evidence ,
which they call faith , and which is a gift of god. that is , this evidence
is the evidence of a thing which chooses to reveal or hide itself. the
evidence of the senses cannot tell you is such a ting exists. reasoning
on the evidence of the senses wo n't help either. but christians do reason
of the evidence of faith , and do claim that this evidence is wholly
consistent with the evidence of the other senses , and indeed , that the
evidence of these other senses is part of god 's revelation of himself
to us.

you must be using a definition of evidence that i am not familiar with.
to me , evidence is something you can show others unambiguously that
what you are saying is true.

however , i agree with you that belief in a diety is a matter of faith.
it is not something you can share around others must experience it
independantly. unfortunately , as i have explained above , this puts
belief down to a matter of experience. my impression is that christians
do not have the monopoly on reason , evidence and faith as far as any of
these things can go.

in a previous article , phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au () says

you are right that science and reason cannot prove anything. however , if
we do not use them we can only then believe on faith alone. and since
we can only use faith , why is one picture of god (e.g. hinduism) any less
valid than another (e.g. christianity) \?

faith , as i have said , is not opposed to reason , it is simply a new source
of evidence on which reason may operate. it is clear that human beings
have many systems for explaining the evidence of the physical senses , and
similarly there are many systems for explaining the evidence provided by
faith. religious believers in general , and christians in particular , use
reason to help sift through the evidence to come to a clearer understanding
of the evidence provided by faith. science claims , with good reason , to be
the most valid system for explaining the physical universe , and christianity
claims , also with good reason , to be the most valid system , possessed of the
best evidence , for explaining gods revelations of himself to man.

at the risk of repeating my argument as i have explained previously ,
the trouble is that moslems , buddhists , jews , etc will all say that they
claim , with good reason , to be a valid system , possessed of the best
evidence , for explaining gods revelations to man (for buddhists it
should read for explaining the non existence of god ). so not only
must you prove your own case , you have to disprove theirs.

(alt.messianic is a good place to see people strong in the belief
of their own faiths ... and with their own good reasons)

if you doubt that christians use reason , read this newsgroup for a while
and you will see rational debate aplenty.

i know that all people can use reason ... i never claimed that they do n't.
i just wish to make sure that their arguments are well founded. it goes
without saying that if i make a blunder that i expect people to correct
me. once we have all gone through this process of removing the
non essential and contradictory bits , we should (hopefully) have made
some progress towards the truth.



mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis



don lowe , department of physics , monash university ,
melbourne , victoria , australia , 3168.

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re sin
organization indiana university
lines 22

sorry for taking this off of sharon 's resp , but i 'd also like to add
some more verses to that and perhaps answer the second q.

verses
1 corinthians 6 9 10
colossians 3 5 10

as for knowing when , that 's a bit tricky. people normally have
consciences which warn them about it. however , as in my case , a
conscience can be hardened by sin 's deceitfulness (hebrews 3 12 13) so
that the person has no idea (or does n't care about it) that they are
sinning. of course , there are those sins which we do when we do n't know
that they 're sinful to begin with. those take searching and examining
of scripture to find out that they are sinful and then repent and
change. the best question to ask in every circumstance to judge sinful
possibilities is would jesus wholeheartedly do this at this point in
time \? i know , it sounds like a cop out , but it truly is a stifling
question.

joe fisher

oh , i missed one. 1 john 1 8 2 11 , 15 23.

from mandtbacka@finabo.abo.fi (mats andtbacka)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc.
lines 12

in apr.22.00.57.03.1993.2118@geneva.rutgers.edu jprzybyl@skidmore.edu writes

i may be wrong , but was n't jeff fenholt part of black sabbath \? he 's a
major brother in christ now. he totally changed his life around , and

why should he have been any different then \? ozzy osbourne ,
ex singer and main character of the black sabbath of good ole days past ,
is and always was a devout catholic. or so i 've heard over on the
alt.rock n roll.metal newsgroups , an' i figure those folks oughta know..


disclaimer \? it 's great to be young and insane !

from hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za (steve hayes)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization university of south africa
lines 27

in article apr.16.23.15.27.1993.1836@geneva.rutgers.edu cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk (michael c davis) writes

i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \? some say that if the two have
publically announced their plans to marry , have made their vows to god , and
are unswervingly committed to one another (i realize this is a subjective
qualifier) they are married joined in god 's sight.

the way i read scripture , a couple becomes married when they are physically
married , i.e. when they first have sexual intercourse.

some years ago an anglican synod was discussing the marriage canons and
there was some debate on what actually constituted a marriage.

the bishop of natal , whose wife of many years had died , and who had recently
remarried , announced it must be consummated and looked like that cat that
got the cream.

so i suppose he at least would agree with you.


steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa
internet hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za fidonet 5 7101 20
steve.hayes@p5.f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
faq missiology is the study of christian mission and is part of
the faculty of theology at unisa

from robp@landru.network.com (rob peglar)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to robp@landru.network.com
organization network systems corporation
lines 71

in article 1373@geneva.rutgers.edu , parkin@eng.sun.com (michael parkin) writes
another issue of importance. was the crucification the will of god or
a tragic mistake. i believe it was a tragic mistake. god 's will can
never be accomplished through the disbelief of man.

i finished reading a very good book , the will of god , weatherhead.
this was very helpful to me in applying thought to the subject of the
will of god.

weatherhead broke the will of god into three distinct parts
intentional will , circumstancial will , and ultimate will. he
(weatherhead) also refuted the last statement (above) by michael
parkin above quite nicely.

summarizing despite the failures of humankind , god 's ultimate will
is never to be defeated. god 's intentions may be interfered with ,
even temporarily defeated by the will of humankind , brought down by
circumstance. his ultimate will (the reconcilication of all
humankind) will never be stopped.

time after time , weatherhead used the cross as the best description of
this process at work. his points , paraphrased , were 1) god 's
intentional will was for jesus , the christ , to live out a full life
and perform the work of the living god. 2) the failures , sins , and
deviousness of humankind frustrated god 's intent for his son. 3)
despite the circumstance , god 's ultimate will was revealed in the
cross , as jesus willingly ( not my will , lord , but yours ) died for
the redemption of all humankind. the cross was utterly triumphant ,
overcoming even the most cruel of circumstances.

this world to build the kingdom of heaven on the earth. he
desperately wanted the jewish people to accept him as the messiah. if
the crucification was the will of god how could jesus pray that this
cup pass from him. was this out of weakness. never. many men and
women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes.
is jesus less than these. no he is not. he knew the crucification
was not the will of god.

it was not the intentional will of god. it was the circumstancial
will , thus enabling the victory of the ultimate will.


god 's will was that the jewish people accept
jesus as the messiah and that the kingdom of heaven be established on
the earth with jesus as it 's head.

right , intentional will.

(just like the jewish people
expected). if this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what
kind of world we would live in today. it would be a very different
world. and that is eactly what god wanted. men and women of that age
could have been saved by following the living messiah while he was on
the earth. jesus could have established a sinless lineage that would
have continued his reign after his ascension to the spiritual world to
live with god. now the kingdom of heaven on the earth will have to
wait for christ 's return. but when he returns will he be recognized
and will he find faith on this earth. is n't it about time for his
return. it 's been almost 2000 years.

we know neither the time nor the place. he will return as a thief in the night.

peace.

rob


legal mumbo jumbo follows
this mail post only reflects the opinions of the poster (author) ,
and in no manner reflects any corporate policy , statement , opinion ,
or other expression by network systems corporation.

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re so far so good
organization indiana university
lines 58

in article apr.19.05.13.16.1993.29204@athos.rutgers.edu armstrng@cs.dal.ca (stan armstrong) writes
in article c4z5u3.jxo@spss.com luomat@alleg.edu writes

this may be a really dumb one , but i 'll ask it anyways
christians know that they can never live up to the requirements of
god , right \? (i may be wrong , but that is my understanding) but they still
try to do it. does n't it seem like we are spending all of our lives
trying to reach a goal we can never achieve \? i know that we are saved by
faith and not by works , but does that mean that once we are saved we do n't
have to do anything \? i think james tells us that faith without works is
dead (paraphrase). how does this work \?

so long as we think that good things are what we have to do rather than
what we come to want to do , we miss the point. the more we love god the
more we come to love what and whom he loves.

when i find that what i am doing is not good , it is not a sign to try
even harder (romans 7 14 8 2) it is a sign to seek god. when i am aware
of jesus' presence , i usually want what he wants. it is his strenth , his love
that empowers my weakness.

stan armstrong. religious studies dept , saint mary 's university , halifax , n.s.
armstrong@husky1.stmarys.ca att ! clyde ! watmath ! water ! dalcs ! armstrng

i apologize to the moderator , but the first quote was deleted and i
would like to respond to both.

as for the goal we can never achieve , the reward comes from the
trying. paul makes a clear claim that we are to continue straining for
the prize over in philippians 3 10 16. only by not living out the
commands do we stagnate and become lukewarm , to be spit out by jesus.
as it says in 1 john 5 3 this is love for god to obey his comands.
that obedience is our straining to achieve for god. of course , this
requires work on our part.

as for the quote in james , satan does n't care what we believe. what
matters is the results of our belief (works). if one truly has faith in
what one believes , one will either act on that faith or be lying to
oneself about believing in the first place.

stan , as for your first line , you have a very good point. obedience by
obligation (grudgery) is not what god desires. instead , look at how
many times the bible talks about being joyous in all situations and when
doing god 's work. being begrudged by the work has no value. also , we
should do the work necessary whenever we can , not just when we feel
jesus' presence. feelings can deceive us. however , as paul states to
timothy in 2 timothy 4 2 preach the word be prepared in season and
out of season correct , rebuke and encourage with great patience and
careful instruction. also , remember that paul tells timothy in 1
timothy 4 16 watch your life and doctrine closely. persevere in
them , because if you do , you will save both yourself and your hearers.
so , in order to do the work necessary , we need to be sure that we are
correct first. remember jesus' warning in matthew 7 3 5 not to be
hypocritical about what we do. the best way to accomplish this is to be
a disciple completely in both thought and deed.

joe fisher


from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject assurance of hell
organization fnal ad net
lines 139

i dreamed that the great judgment morning had dawned ,
and the trumpet had blown.
i dreamed that the sinners had gathered for judgment
before the white throne.
oh what weeping and wailing as the lost were told of their fate.
they cried for the rock and the mountains.
they prayed , but their prayers were too late.
the soul that had put off salvation ,
not tonight i 'll get saved by and by.
no time now to think of ....... religion ,
alas , he had found time to die.
and i saw a great white throne.

now , some have protest by saying that the fear of hell is not good for
motivation , yet jesus thought it was. paul thought it was. paul said ,
knowing therefore , the terror of the lord , we persuade men.

today , too much of our evangelism is nothing but soft soap and some of
it is nothing but evangelical salesmanship. we do n't tell people anymore , that
there 's such a thing as sin or that there 's such a place as hell.

as jayne has said , this does n't mean we have to come on so strong so as to hit
people over the head with a baseball bat. yet the fact remains , there is a
place called hell. a place so fearful that god died to save us from having to
experience it. whatever you or i , as christians , do , we should do whatever we
can to win people to the lord , if for no other reason , to keep them from going
to outer darkness. .

jesus , in mt. 25 , tells us that he did n't prepare hell for people. he prepared
it for the devil and his angels. no where in the bible do i read anywhere ,
that god predestined anybody to go to hell. d.l. moody use to say that the
elect are the whosoever will and the nonelect are the whosoever wont 's.
whether or not that 's theologically sound , i could n't defend , but its
practical. jesus said to the people of israel , ye would not.

now , some of you may not be students of the bible , heck some of you may not be
christians. have you ever said to somebody , i do n't believe in hell. i
believe in the religion of jesus. but did you know that jesus talked more
about hell than he did about heaven ! oh i believe in the religion of the
sermon on the mount. you find hell taught by jesus in the sermon on the
mount. you 'll read that jesus talked about the tree being cast into the fire.
several times he talks about hell and about judgment. in fact , over and over
in the synoptics , matthew , mark and luke , jesus talks about hell. not isaiah.
not moses. not john the baptist , though he did , but jesus , the son of god.
the great beloved one preached about hell because he loved people and did n't
want to see them go there.

now , if there is no hell then jesus preached in vain. it was our lord jesus ,
not some angry baptist preacher , that said , where the worm never dies , and
where the fire never goes out. jesus said that. it was jesus who called hell
a furnace of fire. it was jesus that used the word , condemnation. and
this is the condemnation , that men love darkness rather than light because
their deeds are evil. jesus said that.

how can we get it across to you that a loving , dying jesus preached about hell \?
not only that , but he went through hell. that 's what calgary was all about.
when my lord was on the cross , darkness fell. he called hell , outer
darkness.

do you have this idea that hell is a place where the gamblers are gambling over
here , the drunks are getting drunk over there , and the prostitutes are
prostituting their bodies over there \? that 's not what hell is. hell 's not a
party. there 's no fellowship there. he called it outer darkness. outer
away from god. darkness god is light.

no when he was on the cross , he was made sin for you and for me. god treated
jesus the way sinners have to be treated. that 's is a sobering thought. as my
son would say , an awesome thought.

my god , my god why hast thou forsaken me \? hell is isolation. there 's no
fellowship in hell. there 's no friendship in hell. there 's no loving embrace
in hell. there 's no hand shake in hell. there 's no word of encouragement in
hell.

i thirst. it goes much deeper than physical thirst. hell is eternal craving
with no satisfaction. the man whose life was lived for drugs , will crave it
eternally. the man whose life was lived for the lust of a woman 's body , will
crave it eternally and not be satisfied. one theologian has put it this way
and i think it deserves merit. what is hell \? hell is just the kind of
environment that matches the internal condition of the lost.

in a recent post , i was trying to remember the founder of the word of life
ministries. i 've remembered his name , jack wertzen , and found that the
illustration that i gave was n't his. his illustration was that he was talking
to his barber and his barber 's wife and daughter had just recently been saved
and he was commenting about it to jack. they sing these songs and read bible
verses , and their praising this and that i ca n't stand it ! jack , do you think
god would send me to hell \? jack answered by saying , yes i think he would !
of course the barber said , what do you mean by that. well if you ca n't
stand living at home with your wife and daughter who sing hymns and praises to
god now , what would you do in heaven where they 'll do it for eternity \? you 'd
be miserable. because god loves you , he 'd put you where it would match what
you really are. it makes a man think.

the crucifixion of jesus christ is a fact that necessitates the eternal
existence of hell because on the cross he performed an eternal act. do n't ask
me how , i do n't know. but he is god and he is the infinite eternal and when he
died , he died an infinite eternal death. it is by that eternal act that he
purchased eternal life for the whosoever wills. he suffered eternal
judgment.

a lot of people would like to detour around hell by saying everybody is going
to be saved eventually. universalism. my bible says no , he 'll separate
them. the sheep from the goats. .after you die there 's a probationary period
in which god prepares you for heaven. no , my bible says that it is appointed
unto men once to die and then comes judgment. some of the cultist believe in
annihilation. after you die , sssswish. just like a mosquito you 're squished
out. no , in rev we are told that their is eternal existence in hell just as
there is in heaven.

i do n't enjoy making these kind of statements and maybe you do n't enjoy
listening to them , but we have to preach the entire word of god. there is a
place called hell. if i could give one verse of scripture that could give any
hope that people are n't going there , i 'd give it to you , but i have n't found
it. that fact that there is a place called hell , the fact that our god is a
god of holiness and must judge sin , the fact that he has made us the kind of
creatures we are and therefore we 're responsible , the fact that he has placed
us in a uni verse that has purpose and design behind it , the fact that sin is
such an awful thing and the fact that god himself went through hell to save us
from hell leads us to two applications.

1) as i 've already mentioned. if you are a christian , you must worn others.
its not good enough to stop and fix their flat tire and not tell them that just
around the bend the bridge is out. knowing therefore the terror of lord , we
persuade men.

2) if you have n't accepted jesus are your savior , you 're taking an awful
chance. as i say to the jehovah witnesses (who no longer frequent my door) , if
you are right and i am wrong , then i will have lived a good life and will die
and cease to exist , but if i am right and you are wrong , then you will die and
suffer eternal damnation. i do n't mean to make fun at this point , but its like
dirty harry said , you 've got to ask yourself , 'do i feel lucky \? ' well do
you \? a man 's got to know his limitations. do n't be one of the whosoever
wont 's.

because while i was yet a sinner , he died for me.
there 's no greater love than this , that a man lay down his life for another.
rex


from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject re technology
organization kulikauskas home
lines 28

mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes

...the computer is not a fantasyland where one 's responsibilities
disappear. the people on the net are real slander and deception carried
out by net are just as wrong as they would be if carried out on paper
or face to face.

well said , michael !

the catholic traditon has a list of behaviours called the spiritual
works of mercy

admonish the sinner
instruct the ignorant
counsel the doubtful
comfort the sorrowful
bear wrongs patiently
forgive all injury
pray for the living and the dead (yes , i know there is some controversy
on this and i do n't want to argue about it.)

these are all things that have a direct application to usenet. people
ask questions and express doubts. some are in need of comfort or
prayers. imagine what would happen to flame wars if we bore wrongs
patiently and forgave injuries. i would add that it is probably more
appropriate to do any admonishing by private email than publicly.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from pharvey@quack.kfu.com (paul harvey)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization the duck pond public unix 1 408 249 9630 , log in as 'guest'.
lines 194



in article apr.19.05.12.10.1993.29131@athos.rutgers.edu
pharvey@quack.kfu.com (paul harvey) writes

priority than the direct word of jesus in matt5 14 19 \? paul begins
romans 14 with if someone is weak in the faith ... do you count
yourself as one who is weak in the faith \?

do you count yourself as one who is weak in the faith \?

you read jesus' word in matt5 14 19 \? is there any doubt in your mind
about what is right and what is sin (greek hamartia missing the mark) \?

is there any doubt in your mind about what is right and what is missing
the mark \?

however i 'd like to be clear that i do not think there 's unambiguous
proof that regular christian worship was on the first day. as i
indicated , there are responses on both of the passages cited.
whereas , the ten commandments and jesus' words in matt5 14 19 are fairly
clear , are they not \?

are they clear or do you have doubts \?

no , i do n't believe that paul can overrule god.

an important first step the realization that paul was human.

however paul was writing for a largely gentile audience.

yes , and he was writing and speaking for an audience that was at best ,
very weak in the faith most could not read , most were unfamiliar with
the hebrew scriptures in even the septuagint form. paul adapted the
message of the bible to a largely uneducated market. granted , this
market still exists today , but do you count yourself as part of it \? to
be weak in the faith is not missing the mark (hamartia) if you do the
best that your education allows. are you doing the best \?

the law was regarded by jews
at the time (and now) as binding on jews , but not on gentiles. there
are rules that were binding on all human beings (the so called noachic
laws) , but they are quite minimal.

let me make clear that the law is none other than the pentateuch of
genesis , exodus , leviticus , numbers , deuteronomy. what did jesus say
about the law in matt5 14 19 \? where did jesus say that the law only
applies to jews and that gentiles are above the law \?

the issue that the church had to
face after jesus' death was what to do about gentiles who wanted to
follow christ. the decision not to impose the law on them did n't say
that the law was abolished. it simply acknowledged that fact that it
did n't apply to gentiles.

who acknowledged this fact \? on what basis \? are we extra biblical at this
point \? why not also acknowledge that the bhagavad gita is the only
relevant text for gentiles , after all we see in the bible that it was
magus from the east who observed the star signs of jesus \? why bother
with any texts at all \? why not just follow whatever the church has to
say \?

thus there is no contradiction with mat 5.

i do n't see how you can say this with a straight face. are you a
follower of christ , or do you follow someone else \? are you saying that
the words of jesus only apply to jews \?

as far as i can tell , both paul and other jewish christians did
continue to participate in jewish worship on the sabbath. thus they
continued to obey the law.

how jewish was paul after he changed his name from saul \?

the issue was (and is) with gentile
christians , who are not covered by the law (or at least not by the
ceremonial aspects of it).

who says gentile christians are not covered by the first five books \? who
says that gentile christians are above the ten commandments \?

jesus dealt mostly with jews. i think we can reasonably assume that
mat 5 was directed to a jewish audience.

you 're implying that jesus' words are valid only for jews. is this
really what you mean to say \? you do realize that you are gutting rather
large portions of the bible \? when you read jesus' words , did you ever
consider that maybe , just maybe jesus is talking to you , no matter what
your race or sex \? if the hebrew scriptures and the gospel accounts of
jesus are only directed to jews , why were they translated into english \?

he did interact with
gentiles a few times (e.g. the centurion whose slave was healed and a
couple of others). the terms used to describe the centurion (see luke
7) suggest that he was a god fearer , i.e. a gentile who followed
god , but had not adopted the whole jewish law.

as paul would call him , one who was weak in the faith.

he was commended by
jewish elders as a worthy person , and jesus accepted him as such.
this seems to me to indicate that jesus accepted the prevailing view
that gentiles need not accept the law.

which is more important 1) the recorded word of jesus or 2) indications
that you can deduce from the bible \? was jesus god only of the jews , or
god of all humankind of all race and sex \?

however there 's more involved if you want to compare jesus and paul on
the law. in order to get a full picture of the role of the law , we
have to come to grips with paul 's apparent rejection of the law , and
how that relates to jesus' commendation of the law. at least as i
read paul , he says that the law serves a purpose that has been in a
certain sense superceded.

this is your understanding of paul. compare this to the word of jesus.
are you christian or pauline \?

again , this issue is n't one of the
abolition of the law. in the middle of his discussion , paul notes
that he might be understood this way , and assures us that that 's not
what he intends to say. rather , he sees the law as primarily being
present to convict people of their sinfulness. but ultimately it 's an
impossible standard , and one that has been superceded by christ.

again , this is your understanding of paul. did jesus say that the law
was an impossible standard \? did jesus say that he superceded the law \?
are you christian or pauline \?

paul 's comments are not the world 's clearest here , and not everyone
agrees with my reading.

you acknowledge that it is your reading of paul. what did jesus say \?
can you deny that matt5 14 19 is quite clear in its meaning \? are you
christian or pauline \?

but the interesting thing to notice is that
even this radical position does not entail an abolition of the law.
it still remains as an uncompromising standard , from which not an iota
or dot may be removed. for its purpose of convicting of sin , it 's
important that it not be relaxed.

when did jesus say that the purpose of the law was conviction of sin \?

however for christians , it 's not
the end ultimately we live in faith , not law.

please reread matt5 14 19. are you christian or pauline \?

jesus' interpretations
emphasize the intent of the law , and stay away from the ceremonial
details.

are you saying that the ten commandments are ceremonial details \?

paul 's conclusion is similar. while he talks about the law being
superceded , all of the specific examples he gives involve the
ceremonial law , such as circumcision and the sabbath. he is quite
concerned about maintaining moral standards.

you call observance of the sabbath , the day on which the lord rested ,
ceremonial \? has circumcision been superceded for christians \?

....

are you christian or pauline \?

both. there is no doubt in my mind about what is sin and what is
not , at least not in this case. jesus did not deal explicitly with
the question of whether the law was binding on gentiles. that 's why i
have to cite evidence such as the way jesus dealt with the centurion.

as to general jewish views on this , i am dependent largely on studies
of pauline theology , one by h.j. schoeps , and one whose author i ca n't
come up with at the moment. both authors are jews. also , various
christian and non christian jews have discussed the issue here and in
other newsgroups.

mat 5 19 is clear that the law is still valid. it does not say that
it applies to gentiles.

and yes , i say that the specific requirement for worship on the
sabbath in the ten commandments is a ceremonial detail , when you 're
looking at the obligations of gentiles. similarly circumcision.

i'm not sure quite what else i can say on this subject. again , it 's
unfortunate the jesus did n't answer the question directly. however we
do know (1) what the 1st cent. jewish approach was , (2) how jesus
dealt with at least one gentile , and (3) how jesus' disciples dealt
with the issue when it became more acute (i'm referring to acts 15
more than paul). given that these are all in agreement , i do n't see
that there 's a big problem.

clh

from seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
lines 38

dan johnson asked for evidence that the most effective abuse
recovery programs involve meeting people 's spiritual needs.

i responded
in 12 step programs (like alcoholics anonymous) , one of the steps
involves acknowleding a higher power . aa and other 12 step abuse
recovery programs are acknowledged as being among the most effective.

dan johnson clarified
what i was asking is this

please show me that the most effective substance absure recovery
programs involve meetinsg peoples' spiritual needs , rather than
merely attempting to fill peoples' spiritual needs as percieved
by the people , a.a , s.r.c. regulars , or snoopy.

you are asking me to provide objective proof for the existence of
god. i never claimed to be able to do this in fact i do not believe
that it is possible to do so. i consider the existence of god to
be a premise or assumption that underlies my philosophy of life.
it comes down to a matter of faith. if i were n't a christian , i
would be an agnostic , but i have sufficient subjective evidence to
justify and sustain my relationship with god. again this is a matter
of premises and assumptions. i assume that there is more to life , the
universe and everything than materialism ie that spirituality exists.
this assumption answers the question about why i have apparent spiritual
needs. i find this assumption consistent with my subsequent observat
ions. i then find that god fills these spiritual needs. but i cannot
objectively prove the difference between apparent filling of imagined
spiritual needs and real filling of real spiritual needs. nor can i
prove to another person that they have spiritual needs.

seanna watson bell northern research , pray that at the end of living ,
(seanna@bnr.ca) ottawa , ontario , canada of philosophies and creeds ,
god will find his people busy
opinion , what opinions \? oh these opinions. planting trees and sowing seeds.
no , they 're not bnr 's , they 're mine.
i knew i 'd left them somewhere. fred kaan

from will@futon.webo.dg.com (will taber)
subject soc.religion.christian re the arrogance of christians
lines 50

in a previous message aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker) writes

if i do n't think my belief is right and everyone else 's belief is wrong ,
then i do n't have a belief. this is simply what belief means.

more stuff deleted

this seems to be a pretty arogant definition of belief. my beliefs
are those things which i find to be true based on my experience of the
world. this experience includes study of things that i may not have
experienced directly. but even then , i can only understand the
studies to the extent to which i can relate what i study back to what
i have experienced.

which means that by beliefs about god are directly related to my
experience of god. having experienced god , i try to make sense of
that experience. i study religion and read the bible. i find things
that echo what i have already experienced. out of this i build my
beliefs. i also find things that do n't match my experience. that
does n't make them false. they just do n't match my experience. maybe
i will understand that stuff later. i do n't know. maybe all of my
beliefs are wrong. i can change my beliefs.

if someone else has beliefs that are different from mine , so what.
neither of us are necessarily wrong. someone else is making sense out
of a different set of experiences. even though we have different
explanations and beliefs , if we talk we might even discover that the
underlying experiences are similar.

some people approach religion as a truth that can only exist in one
form , and usually has a single revelation. the more dogmatic and
inflexible the belief system , the more arrogant it will appear to an
outsider. there is another approach possible , however. god is a
mystery. i am trying to solve the mystery , so i look at the evidence
available to me. i try to arrive at the best understanding that i can
based on the evidence. new evidence may cause me to change my
understanding. when i encounter someone with a different belief than
my own , it is n't a threat , it is an opportunity to perhaps discover
something new about this mystery i can never fully comprehend.

peace
will taber

william taber will taber@dg.com any opinions expressed
data general corp. will@futon.webo.dg.com are mine alone and may
westboro , mass. 01580 change without notice.

when all your dreams are laid to rest , you can get what 's second best ,
but it 's hard to get enough. david wilcox


from miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
subject re ancient books
organization university of kansas academic computing services
lines 43

in article apr.14.03.07.58.1993.5438@athos.rutgers.edu , mayne@ds3.scri.fsu.edu (bill mayne) writes
in article apr.13.00.09.02.1993.28445@athos.rutgers.edu miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes
any former atheists converted by argument \?
this is an excellent question and i 'll be anxious to see if there are
any such cases. i doubt it. in the medieval period (esp. 10th cent.
when aquinas flourished) argument was a useful tool because everyone
knew the rules. today , when you ca n't count on people knowing even
the basics of logic or seeing through rhetoric , a good argument is
often indistinguishable from a poor one.

the last sentence is ironic , since so many readers of
soc.religion.christian seem to not be embarrassed by apologists such as
josh mcdowell and c.s. lewis.

i have n't followed whatever discussion there may have been on these
people , but i feel that c. s. lewis is an excellent apologist and i
see no reason for embarrassment. if you think that errors and flawed
arguments are a reason for dismissing a thinker , you must dismiss
nearly every thinker from descartes to kant any philosophy course
will introduce you to their weaknesses.

the above also expresses a rather odd sense
of history. what makes you think the masses in aquinas' day , who were
mostly illiterate , knew any more about rhetoric and logic than most people
today \? if writings from the period seem elevated consider that only the
cream of the crop , so to speak , could read and write. if everyone in
the medieval period knew the rules it was a matter of uncritically
accepting what they were told.

i said nothing about the masses. however comparing the masses in
our day and in aquinas' day really is odd. read ortega y gasset on
this.

i'm talking about the familiar experience of arguing all night and
winning on logic and evidence , only to discover your opponent to be
unaware , even intuitively , of things like entailment (let alone
pragmatics). (i am assuming that both parties are college graduates
or better...) myself , i do n't bother any more.

ken

miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu nobody can explain everything to everybody.
opinions are my own g. k. chesterton

from will@futon.webo.dg.com (will taber)
subject re satanic tounges
lines 38


pwhite@empros.com (peter white) relates a story about a person who
gives a message in tongues which consists entirely of the words pu'
ka. he was asked to refrain from doing that.


well , brother puka controlled himself for a while , but a few weeks
later , the church had invited a missionary in to speak. at the time of
the meeting where tongues and interpretation were appropriate , who
should arise to speak but brother puka. and off he went as before ,
all the words were puka. the pastor was about to apologize for this
embarrassment when the missionary arose to speak saying that he
was sorry that he did not have the interpretation but that he could
give the translation. in a tribe where he had worked , they only had
one word in the language , puka. meaning was derived from the inflection
and other voice qualities. brother puka had given a perfectly inflected
and reasonable message.

nice story but it sets off my urban legend (or is it charismatic
legend \? ) alarms. can the linguists on the net identify the language
from the description \? or can they even attest that such a language
exists. it seems to be odd enough (at least by the standards of
european languages) that if it exists , it should be reasonably well
known to linguists as an extreme case of something or other.

or have i just overreacted to your basic shaggy dog story \?

will



william taber will taber@dg.com any opinions expressed
data general corp. will@futon.webo.dg.com are mine alone and may
westboro , mass. 01580 change without notice.

when all your dreams are laid to rest , you can get what 's second best ,
but it 's hard to get enough. david wilcox


from lieuwen@allegra.att.com (dan lieuwen)
subject re the obvious is n't politically correct.
organization at t bell laboratories , murray hill , nj
lines 5

the last state church was in massachusetts. sam adams , the patriot brewmaster ,
during his tenure as governor after the revolutionary war got it passed.
i believe it was eliminated around 1820.

dan

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject going permanent no mail
organization indiana university
lines 8

well , it 's that time of year again here at iu graduation.
unfortunately , this means that i am out of here , more than likely for
good. i cannot say if i 'll be in here under another username or not , or
even if i 'll ever get back in here at all. i am leaving this part of my
ministry to another brother , john right. so , have fun and remember that
flaming can be considered slander.

joe fisher

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization florida state university
lines 36

in response to some of the discussions on the sabbath , andrew byler
commented that if we really followed sola scriptura we would worship
on saturday the change to sunday was a law made by the church , and
we do n't acknowledge its authority to make laws. i noted that
protestants do not consider sunday worship a law. clh

he was not referring to the faq but to the five sabbath admissions posted
on the bible study group. this is what prompted someone to send the faq
to me.

the argument against the sabbath is
that it is part of the ceremonial law , and like the rest of the
n ceremonial law is not binding on christians.

you cannot show , from scripture , that the weekly sabbath is part of the
ceremonial laws. before you post a text in reply investigate its context.

if you accept that
the sabbath is not binding on christians , then the day of worship
falls into the category of items on which individual christians or
(since worship is by its nature a group activity) churches are free to
decide.

can the churches also decide what is and is not sin \? interesting. where
there is no divine imperative of course we must establish rules of
operation. but we cannot be as creative with what god has explicitly
spoken on.

darius

again , in the normal protestant interpretation , sunday is not a law ,
and worshipping on another day is not a sin. churches are free to
decide on the day they will meet , just as they are free to decide on
the hour. it would not be a sin to worship on some other day , but if
you belong to a church that worships on sunday and you show up on
monday , you will probably worship alone... clh

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

let us not become weary in doing good , for at the proper time we will reap
a harvest if we do not give up.

galatians 6 9

from cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk (michael c davis)
subject re help
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
lines 27

jon ogden (jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com) wrote
it is a dead and useless faith which has no action behind it. actions
prove our faith and show the genuineness of it.

a good example of this is abraham (referred to in the james passage). hebrews
says that abraham was justified by faith but his faith was demonstrated
through his works (i.e. , he obeyed what god told him to do).

reading abraham 's ``biography'' in genesis is very instructive. he was a man
beset by lack of faith a lot of the time (e.g. lying about sarah being his
wife on 2 occasions trying to fulfil god 's promise on god 's behalf by
copulating with hagar). . . yet it seems that god did n't evaluate him on the
basis of individual incidents. abraham is listed as one of the ``heroes of
faith'' in hebrews 11. i.e. , when it really came to the crunch , god declared
abraham as a man of faith. he believed god 's promises.

this gives us confidence. although real faith demonstrates itself through
works , god is not going to judge us according to our success failure in
performing works.

``not by works of righteousness which we have done , but according to his mercy
he saved us , through the washing of regeneration , and renewing of the holy
spirit.'' (titus 3.5)

amazing grace ! hallelujah !

michael davis (cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk)

from jkellett@netcom.com (joe kellett)
subject re opinions asked about rejection
organization netcom
lines 22

william mayne (mayne@pipe.cs.fsu.edu) wrote
in article apr.1.02.34.21.1993.21547@athos.rutgers.edu jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes

people who reject god do n't want to be wth him in heaven. we spend our
lives choosing to be either for him or against him. god does not force
himself on us.

i must say that i am shocked. my impression has been that jayne kulikaskas
usually writes this much less offensive and ludicrous than this. i am not
saying that the offensiveness is intentional , but it is clear and it is
something for christians to consider.

jayne stands in pretty good company. c.s. lewis wrote a whole book
promoting the idea contained in her first sentence quoted above. it is
called the final divorce . excellent book on the subject of heaven and
hell , highly recommended. it 's an allegory of souls who are invited , indeed
beseeched to enter heaven , but reject the offer because being with god in
heaven means giving up their false pride.


joe kellett
jkellett@netcom.com

from mussack@austin.ibm.com (christopher mussack)
subject re sex education
organization ibm austin
lines 9

in article apr.19.05.13.02.1993.29198@athos.rutgers.edu , jkellett@netcom.com (joe kellett) writes
...
question for further discussion (as they say in the textbooks) why do n't
we teach safe drug use to kids , instead of drug abstinence \? ...

and how come we do n't pass out bullet proof vests in school
to promote safe gun usage \?

chris mussack

from by028@cleveland.freenet.edu (gary v. cavano)
subject pantheism environmentalism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 21

hi...

i'm new to this group , and maybe this has been covered already ,
but does anybody out there see the current emphasis on the
environment being turned (unintentionally , of course) into
pantheism \?

i 've debated this quite a bit , and while i think a legitimate
concern for the planet is a great thing , i can easily see it
being perverted into something dangerous.

as evidence , may i quote the wall street journal (of all
things ! ) , april 2 (editorial page)
we suspect that 's because one party to the (environmental)
dispute thinks the earth is sanctified. it 's clear that much
of the environmentalist energy is derived from what has been
called the religious left , a secular , or even pagan fanaticism
that now worships such gods as nature and gender with a
reverence formerly accorded real religions. (emphasis mine).

thoughts \? reactions \? harangues \?

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject paul on weekly collections
lines 15

mark gregory foster writes (concerning 1 corinthians 16 2)

the idea was introduced to me once that the reason paul wanted
the corinthians to lay aside money for the collection on the
first day of the week was that this was when they received their
weekly wages.

but the ancient romans did not observe a seven day week. unless a
man was working for a jewish employer , he is unlikely to have been
paid on the first day of a seven day week. nor would a jewish
employer have kept his wages over the week end (see lev 19 13 dt
24 15).

yours ,
james kiefer

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re what was the immaculate conception
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 48

biblical basis for the immaculate conception

1) i will put enmity between you the serpent and the woman , and
between your seed and her seed , she can also be read he shall crush
your head and you shall bruise her or his heel.
genesis 3.15

2) he who commits sin is of the devil ...
1 john 3.8

3) hail , full of grace greek kecharitomene , the lord is with thee ...
luke 1.28

from the above , we prove the doctrine of the immaculate conception.
first , god has given the proto evangel in genesis 3.15 , which is the
first promise of a savior , who will redeem mankind from the wiles of
satan. satan was a murderer from the beginning , and has not stood in
the truth because there is no truth in him. john 8.44. now the
proto evangel promises several things , enmity between satan and the
woman , and enmity between satan and her seed. now the woman is both
eve (who is the immediate point of reference) and mary , the second eve.
her seed is jesus christ , and he is also at enmity with satan in the
same way as mary is said to be at enmity with satan. thus , knowing as
we do that jesus christ is sinless (hebrews 7.26) , we can conclude that
mary is also sinless because if she was n't she would 1) not be at enmity
with the devil , as 1 john 3.8 tells us , and 2) the relation of her
sinlessness to christ 's sinlessness would be called into question , as
would god 's veracity. for god promised an enmity between mary and the
serpent , and it is not possible for god to lie or be decieved.
second , we have the angelic greeting where mary is called by the
archangle gabriel full of grace. as i pointed out above this is from
the greek word kecharitomene which means not just full of grace , but a
plenitude or perfection of grace. the sense of it is best grasped by
the footnote to the jerusalem bible , hail you who have been and reamin
filled with grace. but that is a little to long to say , so it is
reduced to full of grace. and as it says , you who have been mary had
always been filled with grace , from the moment of her conception , which
was also the moment of her salvation , until her death some years later.
it must be admitted that it is possible that god could have done
what the doctrine of the immaclute conception says he did do. and if
god could keep himself free from any contact with sin , through his
mother , he would have , and the bible records this fact , to which the
fathers of the church such as st. john damascus , st. augustine of hippo
, st. ambrose and others are in complete agreement with , as is all of
christian tradition , and as is the infallible declaration of the pope on
the matter in ineffibilus deus.

andy byler

from pmoloney@maths.tcd.ie (paul moloney)
subject re am i going to hell \?
organization somewhere in the twentieth century
lines 17

xopr131@maccvm.corp.mot.com (gerald mcpherson) writes

if you reject the claims of jesus , and still go to
heaven , then the joke 's on me. if you reject him and go to hell ,
that 's no joke , but it will be final.

if this is god 's attitude , then i 'll think i 'll go along with
terry pratchett 's religious philosophy

oh , i believe in god. i just do n't actually like the blighter.

p.

moorcockpratchettdenislearydelasoulu2iainmbanksneworderheathersbatmanpjorourke
clive p a u l m o l o n e y come , let us retract the foreskin of misconception
james trinity college dublin and apply the wire brush of enlightenment geoffm
brownbladerunnersugarcubeselectronicblaylockpowersspikeleekatebushhamcornpizza

from jcj@tellabs.com (jcj)
subject re losing your temper is not a christian trait
organization huh \? whuzzat \?
lines 12

sheila patterson writes

i always suspected that i was human too ) it is the desire to be like
christ that often causes christians to be very critical of themselves and
other christians. ...

i 'd like to remind people of the withering of the fig tree and jesus
driving the money changers et. al. out of the temple. i think those
were two instances of christ showing anger (as part of his human side).

jeff johnson
jcj@tellabs.com

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

how much better to get wisdom than gold , to choose understanding rather
than silver !

proverbs 16 16

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re opinions asked about rejection
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 23


here 's how i talk to non christians who are complaining about hell.

me do you believe you 're going to heaven \?
him i do n't believe in heaven.
me so are you going there \?
him if there was a heaven , i would.
me but since there is n't a heaven , you 're not going there , are you \?
him no.

the point is that heaven is based on faith if you do n't believe in heaven ,
there 's no way you 're going to be in it.
of course , the next step is , i do n't believe in hell either , so why will i
be there \? it seems to me that hell is eternal death and seperation from god.
most atheists do believe that when they die they will die forever , and never
see god so they do , in fact , believe that they 're going to hell.
hell does n't have to be worse than earth to be hell because it 's eternal ,
and it 's a lot worse than heaven. that 's the only comparison that matters.

alan terlep incestuous vituperousness
oakland university , rochester , mi
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu melissa eggertsen
rushing in where angels fear to tread.

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re christ references in ot
organization indiana university
lines 11

adam , i just finished a study on this , not only looking at the
prophecies themselves , but where they were fulfilled. while going only
through the ot , i found 508 references. after starting to show their
fulfillment , i found out that i had missed some , so needless to say i
cannot post them here. however , the study i did i intend to publish (i
am in the process of organizing and showing the fulfillments , then i
will be ready to write and send it to a publisher). with any luck
(and or free time) i should have it finally done sometime around
september (i hope).

joe fisher

from bruce@liv.ac.uk (bruce stephens)
subject re sex education
organization the university of liverpool
lines 22

joe kellett (jkellett@netcom.com) wrote
bits deleted
i am told that planned parenthood siecus style values free methods , that
teach contraceptive technology and advise kids how to make choices ,
actually increase pregnancy rates. i posted a long article on this a while
back and will be happy to email a copy to any who are interested. ...

the same research produced the results that abstinence related curricula
were found to decrease pregnancy rates in teens. i assume that it is
reasonable to assume that the aids rate will fluctuate with the pregnancy
rate.

i 'd be fascinated to see such evidence , please send me your article !
on the negative side however , i suspect that any such simplistic link
abstinence education decreased pregnancy ,
contraceptive education increased pregnancy
is false. the us , which i 'd guess has one of the largest proportion of
non liberal sex education in the western world also has one of the highest
teenage pregnancy rates. (please correct me if my guess is wrong.)


bruce stephens bruce@liverpool.ac.uk

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject hell 2 black sabbath
organization fnal ad net
lines 70

in looking through my files this weekend , i ran across some lyrics from
various rock groups that have content. here are two from black sabbath 's
master of reality . i 'll say this much for the music of the '60 's and early
'70 's , at least they asked questions of significance. jethro tull is another
to asked and wrote about things that caused one to wonder. rex

after forever

have you ever thought about your soul
can it be saved \?
or perhaps you think that when you 're dead
you just stay in you grave.
is god just a thought within you read in a book
when you were at school \?
when you think about death
do you lose your breath
or do you keep your cool \?

would you like to see the pope on the end of a rope \?
do you think he 's a fool \?
well i have seen the truth. yes i have seen the light
and i 've changed my ways.
and i 'll be prepared
when you 're lonely and scared
at the end of your days.

could it be you 're afraid of what your friends might say
if they knew you believed in god above \?
they should realize before they criticise
that god is the only way to love.

is your mind so small that you have to fall
in with the pack wherever they run \?
will you still sneer when death is near
and say they may as well worship the sun \?

i think it was true it was people like you
that crucified christ.
i think it is sad the opinion you had
was the only one voiced.
will you be so sure when your day is near
to say you do n't believe \?
you had the chance but you turned it down
now you ca n't retrieve.
perhaps you 'll think before you say that god is dead gone
open your eyes , just realize that he is the one.
the only one who can save you now from all this sin and hate.
or will you still jeer at all you hear \?
yes ! i think it 's too late.


lord of this world

you 're searching for your mind do n't know where to start.
ca n't find the key to fit the lock on your heart.
you think you know but you are never quite sure
your soul is ill but you will not find a cure.
your world was made for you by someone above
but you choose evil ways instead of love.
you made me master of the world where you exist
the soul i took from you was not even missed.
lord of the world ,
evil possessor ,
lord of this world ,
he 's now your confessor !
you think you 're innocent you 've nothing to fear
you do n't know me , you say , but is n't it clear \?
you turned to me in all your worldly
greed and pride.
but will you turn to me when it your turn to die \?

from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)
subject re quality of catholic liturgy
organization none
lines 13

tim rolfe writes

without active participation. if you know the latin , one really
beautiful way to hear the passion is it 's being chanted by three
deacons the narrator chants in the middle baritone range , jesus chants
in the bass , and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor.

i heard the gregorian chant of the passion on good friday. in this
liturgy , our lord is definitely very sad. it 's as if he has
resigned himself to die for these poor pitiful creatures who are
killing him.

the chant is quite beautiful.

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

therefore , whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the
kingdom of heaven.

matthew 18 4

from vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization case western reserve univ. cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 32

in article apr.10.05.32.15.1993.14385@athos.rutgers.edu dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) writes
pardon me , a humble atheist , but exactly what is the difference
between holding a revealed truth with blind faith as its basis (i.e.
regardless of any evidence that you may find to the contrary) as an
absolute truth , fully expecting people to believe you and arrogance \?

they sound like one and the same to me.

i see no wisdom whatsoever in your words

i'm not surprised that you see no wisdom in them. that is because your
premises are wrong from the word go . you claim that christianity is
based on blind faith , but this simply is not so. just look at the
current thread on the evidence for jesus' resurrection for evidence
that jesus was real and that he triumphed over death.

furthermore , you say that christians hold to their beliefs regardless of
any evidence that you may find to the contrary. without any evidence
to support your claim , this statement is little more than an ad hominem
argument.

mind you , i do n't mean this as a personal attack. i'm merely pointing out
the intellectual dishonesty behind condemning christianity in this fashion.
it would make much more sense if you could prove that all christians do
base their belief on empty nothings , and that they do ignore all evidence to
the contrary. only then can you expect your attack to make sense.


virgilio dean velasco jr , department of electrical eng'g and applied physics
cwru graduate student , roboticist in training and q wannabee
bullwinkle , that man 's intimidating a referee ! my boss is a
not very well. he does n't look like one at all ! jewish carpenter.

from gilham@csl.sri.com (fred gilham)
subject poem
organization computer science lab , sri international , menlo park , ca.
lines 145


the sophomore
(romans 1 22)

the sophomore says , ``what is truth \? ''
and turns to bask in the admiration of his peers.

how modern how daring how liberating
how modern how daring how liberating
they chant

the sophomore , being american
does n't know
that his ``question''

modern
skeptical
cynical

was asked before , by a

modern
skeptical
cynical
urbane cosmopolitan

politician (appointed not elected)
who happened to live two thousand years ago.

like many politicians he cared

less about ideals
than results

less about ends
than means

less about anything
than keeping his job
(and his head).

we might call him
a bit brutal
though `firm' would be kinder
(and no doubt stalin , who let nobody go , laughed at his laxness)
he did n't like his job perhaps he no longer hoped for better
(nor feared worse , except regarding his head).

and when these wily jews
with their heads i win , tails you lose
conundrums
brought forth their madman ,
his first impulse was to play the roman
``i find nothing wrong with him ,
see to it yourselves.''

but when they mentioned `king' and `caesar'
his heart froze.

if he killed their madman
he 'd start a riot
and lose his job
(and his head)

if he saved the king of the jews
he 'd piss off caesar
and lose his job
(and his head)

and when his wife told him to have
nothing to do with the righteous lout
she did n't tell him anything
he had n't already figured out.

so he punted.

``not my jurisdiction ! take him to see herod ! ''
(who just happened to be in town....)

herod appreciated the courtesy
but was n't worried
and sent the sharp tongued fool
(who suddenly did n't have much to say ,
funny how people lose it under pressure....)
back
in the attire proper
to his royal state.

his ass is covered if herod has no problem ,
caesar certainly wo n't. the fool can be king
of whatever world he wants
as long as it 's not caesar 's.

``i'm letting him go , '' he said with a shout.
(looks like he 'll last this one out....)

the crowd 's reaction puzzled him.
they really wanted him dead.
they did n't want the king of the jews ,
they wanted barabbas instead
(and , as josephus records , they got him)

oh well , he thought ,
they all look the same to me.
and we 'll get barabbas next time.

and if i can get them to say
``we have no king but caesar ! ''
by killing a madman ,
hell , i 'll kill ten a day.

and then pilate had his fun
a little joke
short
to the point
trilingual

and all this
went as it always does
when someone gets caught
in the gears of government

and there 's a scientific explanation
(no doubt)
for the superstitious rumors
(persisting to this day)
that it did n't all end
with a tomb
and a roman squadron on guard.

our sophomore does n't know about this
he does n't recognize his kindred spirit
(or truth either , as he admits).

i guess we have n't learned much
in two thousand years.





fred gilham gilham@csl.sri.com
peace is only better than war when it 's not hell too. war being hell
makes sense.
walker percy , the second coming

from simon@monu6.cc.monash.edu.au
subject saint story st. aloysius gonzaga
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 113

heres a story of a saint that people might like to read. i got it from
a the morning star , and am posting it with the permission of the
editor.


saint aloysius gonzaga

the patron of youth


the marquis gonzaga had high aspirations for his son , the prince
gonzage. he wanted him to become a famous , brave and honoured
soldier. after all , he must carry on the great family name of
gonzaga. of course , he was to become far more famous , brave and
honoured than his father could ever have imagined though not in
the manner expected.

saint aloysius' mother was a woman who received immense joy from
praying to god and meditating on the divine mysteries and the
life of our lord. she had little time for the pleasures of this
life. as saint aloysius grew , he began to resemble his mother
more than his father.

saint aloysius had learned numerous expressions from his father 's
soldiers , but the moment he discovered that they were vulgar , he
fainted from shock. this shows his immense hatred of sin (what an
example for us of the contempt we must have for sin).

about the time of his first holy communion (which he received
from the archbishop of milan , charles borromeo , whom himself
became a great saint) , he con secrated his purity to god and
asked the blessed virgin to protect his innocence for life.

he wanted to share our lord 's suffering to show his reciprocal
love. he started by denying his passions he avoided eating the
finest foods , wearing the best clothes , and would put pieces of
wood in his bed in order to mortify himself for the love of god.
while he was in his early teens his father sent him (and his
younger brother) to the court of the spanish king , phillip 11.
obediently , he set out to make the best of it. he mixed in well
with the people of the royal court , for he was handsome , polite ,
intelligent and always had something interesting to say.


not long before this time , the great soldier saint , saint igna
tius of loyola , had founded the society of jesus (the jesuits)
towards which saint aloysius


12







began to have a yearning. when he finally told his father , the
marquis flew into a rage and forbade his son to become a priest.

after a short time , his father sent him to the great cities in
order that he be tempted away from the priesthood , but even

through these trials , saint aloysius grew in his desire for the
religious life and was strengthened in the virtue of purity.

the marquis' plans were obviously failing , so he con fronted his
son will you or will you not obey me and forget this foolish
ness \? i will not , father , was the in evitable reply. then
leave from my sight and do n't return until you change your mind !
with tears clouding his eyes , the saint left the room to pray
tell me lord , what am i to do \? tell me ! tell me ! he knelt down
to flagellate himself as he had done several times before , but
this time he was seen. the onlooker rushed to the marquis. this
at last brought the proud man to his senses. the lord wants him ,
the lord can have him. he gave his consent for his son to become
a jesuit.

after some years (at the end of the sixteenth century) , a terri
ble epidemic broke out in rome. all the hospitals were full and
could house no more , so the jesuits opened their own. saint aloy
sius did all he could in the hospitals , particularly to prepare
the dying for a holy death.

saint aloysius himself contracted the plague from carrying and
nursing the sick. for three months he lay with a burning fever
and finally , on june 21st , 1591 , he gave his soul to the lord
while gazing at a crucifix.

let us invoke saint aloysius as our patron and imitate him in his
humility , purity and confidence in prayer.

saint aloysius gonzaga , pray for us.

brendan arthur






prayer is as necessary to a person consecrated to the service of
others as a sword is to a soldier

god bless

from simon
lines 106


simon p. shields programmer viva cristo rey ! !
monash university college gippsland ph 61 51 226 357 .jhs.
switchback rd. churchill. fax 61 51 226 300

from rcfec@westminster.ac.uk (james holland)
subject re help
organization university of westminster
lines 41

in article apr.21.03.26.51.1993.1379@geneva.rutgers.edu lmvec@westminster.ac.uk (william hargreaves) writes
hi everyone ,
i'm a commited christian that is battling with a problem. i know
that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our deeds , yet
hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless , saying' you fools ,
do you still think that just believing is enough \? '

some deleted

now i am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what you do)
as taught in romans , but how can i square up in my mind the teachings of james
in conjunction with the lukewarm christian being 'spat out'

can anyone help me , this really bothers me.

dear will ,

i 've never replied on this thing before so i hope it gets thru ok.
i had a few thoughts !

faith on its own , if not accompanied by action is dead james 2 17

faith is both belief and action.
if i say that i am a great swimmer but i never go swimming , am i really a
swimmer \? and will people believe that i am \?
likewise if i say i'm a christian but i never talk to god , am i really a
christian \? my faith is demonstrated by my action. the fact that we talk to
god proves we have faith. satan believes in god but does not follow him !

in a similar vein , i have recently been challenged by 1john2 3 6
v3 says we know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands
i find this verse quite encouraging as it could imply that 'if we have
come to know him , then we 'll obey his commands' cos he lives within us and
we cannot help but obey what he says.
i tend to feel that as we daily submit ourself to god he will keep changing
us into the likeness of jesus and his fruit and works will be automatically
produced in our lives.

hope this helps.

james holland (rcfec@westminster.ac.uk)

from mussack@austin.ibm.com (christopher mussack)
subject re christian 's need for christianity
lines 44

in article apr.19.05.12.31.1993.29175@athos.rutgers.edu , lmh@juliet.caltech.edu (henling , lawrence m.) writes
in article apr.16.23.17.40.1993.1861@geneva.rutgers.edu , mussack@austin.ibm.com writes...
for example why does the universe exist at all \?

whether there is a why or not we have to find it. this is pascal 's( \? ) wager.
if there is no why and we spend our lives searching , then we have merely
wasted our lives , which were meaningless anyway. if there is a why and we
..
i find this view of christianity to be quite disheartening and sad.
the idea that life only has meaning or importance if there is a creator
does not seem like much of a basis for belief.

please forgive all the inclusions. i suppose they are neccessary to follow
the argument.

my point is that if life has meaning or importance then we should try
to find that meaning or importance which is almost a tautology. (i hope
i'm not being too patronizing.) one term for that meaning is creator ,
though that is not obvious from my above argument.

and the logic is also appalling god must exist because i want him to.

(it 's more like i think , therefore i am , therefore god is. )

i have heard this line of reasoning before and wonder how prevalent
it is. certainly in modern society many people are convinced life is
hopeless (or so the pollsters and newscasts state) , but i do n't see
where this is a good reason to become religious. if you want 'meaning'
why not just join a cult , such as in waco \? the leaders will give you
the security blanket you desire.

unfortunately the term religious is ambiguous to me in this context.
i could say that searching for meaning in life is by definition being
religious. i could say cult followers by definition have given up on
the search.

if you want meaning why not search for the truth \?

so far , my understanding of christianity is congruent with my understanding
of truth. there have been many before me who have come to conclusions
that are worded in ways that make sense to me. by no means does that imply
that i understand everything.

chris mussack

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re tuff to be a christian \?
organization indiana university
lines 59

in article apr.17.01.10.58.1993.2246@geneva.rutgers.edu mdbs@ms.uky.edu (no name) writes
bissda@saturn.wwc.edu (dan lawrence bissell) writes

i do n't think most people understand what a christian is. it
is certainly not what i see a lot in churches. rather i think it
should be a way of life , and a total sacrafice of everything for god 's
sake. he loved us enough to die and save us so we should do the

typical statement from an irrational and brainwashed person.
the bible was written by some male chavnist thousands of years ago
(as were all of the holy books). follow the parts that you think are
suitable for modern life. ignore the others. for heaven 's ( ! ) sake do n't
take it literally.

please , leave heaven out of it. for his own sake , i pray that dan does
take it literally because that 's how god intended it to be taken. dan ,
your view of many groups appears correct from my point of view.
however , i have found a group which is truly meeting requirements laid
down by the bible on what it means to be a disciple of jesus. i have no
clue where wwc is , but please mail me. i 'd really like to get you in
touch with them.


same. hey we ca n't do it , god himself inspires us to turn our lives
over to him. that 's tuff and most people do n't want to do it , to be a

real christian would be something for the strong to persevere at. but

insert deletion of ranting about other religions which obviously has
gone off center of dan 's original context

dan , i'm familiar with this one. you 've got a point , though. there are
some who do n't want to turn over everything and be a disciple , some have
no clue about it because they 've not been taught , some have done exactly
that and turned over everything to follow jesus , some are blocked by
difficult doctrine taught by uncaring pharisees and teachers of the law.
however , jesus pointed out what it takes to follow him and to be his
disciple in luke 9 23 26 and luke 14 25 33. my question is why do
people ignore the command and treat it as optional \? i certainly do n't
have an answer to this.

insert deletion

parting question
would you have become a christian if you had not
been indoctrinated by your parents \? you probably never learned about
any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
you are brain washed.

my parents had nothing to do with it. god had and has everything to do
with it. as for these attacking responses , i must say that i disagree
with your tone and what appears to be some very judgmental statements
(possibly to the point of slander) when talking about people , not what
they do. please , if you have a response , state it instead of flying off
the handle on some discourse which may have nothing truly to do with
what is being discussed. i'm sure both dan and i would have a much
happier time with your responses.

joe

from marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley)
subject re question about virgin mary
organization ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 74

i think you 're talking about the assumption of the blessed virgin
mary . it says that the immaculate mother of god , the ever virgin
mary , having completed the course of her earthly life , was assumed
body and soul into heavenly glory. this was defined by a papal
statement in 1950 , though it had certainly been believed by some
before that. like the immaculate conception , this is primarily a
roman catholic doctrine , and like it , it has no direct biblical
support. note that catholics do not believe in sola scriptura .
that is , they do not believe that the bible is the only source of
christian knowledge. thus the fact that a doctrine has little
biblical support is not necessarily significant to them. they believe
that truth can be passed on through traditions of the church , and also
that it can be revealed to the church. i'm not interested in yet
another catholic protestant argument , but if any catholics can tell us
the basis for these beliefs , i think it would be appropriate. clh

in the bible , there are a lot of instances where god speaks
to people , where a person just came to know some piece
of information , where a person walks off into the desert
for 40 days , etc. with all of god 's power he certainly can
do whatever he wants when he wants it. the bible ends
with the book of revelations. but does god 's reign end there \? no.
so who can say for sure that god 's messages are either no longer
happening or still happening \?

i can now hear the clamor for proof. 8 )
with the cold response i 've gotten from the past from this
group , it 's very hard to get the point across. i 'll only
go over the physical stuff so that skeptics can look
at documents stored somewhere. i 've cited the uncorrupted
bodies of saints before. they 're still there. 8 )
the apparitions at fatima , portugal culminated in a miracle
specifically granted to show god 's existence. that was
the spinning descending of the sun. it was seen in several
countries. that event is approved by the pope. currently ,
images of mary in japan , korea , yugoslavia , philippines , africa
are showing tears (natural or blood). these are still under
investigation by the church. but realize that investigations
take decades to finish. and if the message is christ will come
in ten days , that 's a bit too late , is n't it 8 ).
other events under investigation are inner locutions ( coming
to know ) , stigmata (the person exhibits christ 's wounds. and
they do n't heal. and doctor 's do n't know why).
non believers are welcome to pore through documents , i'm sure.

this stuff is not like koresh. or oral roberts (give me 5m
or god will call me home). it 's free. find out why they 're
happening (as we ourselves are studying why). if anybody
can figure this out , tell us ! you can be of any religion.
if you have the resources , go to one of the countries i mentioned.
these are not members only events. god and mary invites
everybody.

so in conclusion (finally) ...
we rc 's believe in the modern day manifestations of god and mary.
we are scared to death sometimes although we 're told not to.
there are more proofs and events. and that is why not everything
is in the bible . although in a lot of the apparitions , we are told
to read the bible.

as far as the protestant vs. catholics issue is concerned...
in the end , god 's churches will unite. i'm not sure how.
i have some idea. but the point is we should n't worry
about the versus part. just do god 's work. that 's all
that matters. unity will come.

btw , i'm just a plain person. i'm not the pope 's spokesperson.
but i am rc.



mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris'
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com
the lost los angelino

from jasons@atlastele.com (jason smith)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization atlas telecom inc.
lines 169

in article apr.19.05.13.48.1993.29266@athos.rutgers.edu kempmp@phoenix.oulu.fi (petri pihko) writes
jason smith (jasons@atlastele.com) wrote

the discussion begins why does the universe exist at all \?

one of the laws of nature , specifying cause and effect seems to dictate
(at least to this layman 's mind) there must be a causal event. no
reasonable alternative exists.

i would argue that causality is actually a property of spacetime
causes precede their effects.

and i must concede here. cause before effect , implies time , time is part
of spacetime. hense , the argument would be valid. i could return and say
that this does not infer the cause and effect relationship being unique
to this spacetime , but i wo n't 8 ) , because the point is moot. does n't
address why (which petri pikho addresses below).

i also concede that i was doubly remiss , as i asserted no reasonable
alternative exists , an entirely subjective statement on my part (and one
that could be invalidated , given time and further discovery by the
scientist). i also understand that a proving a theory does not necessarily
specify that this is how it happened , but proposes a likely description of
the phenomena in question. am i mistaken with this understanding \?

but if you claim that there must be
an answer to how did the universe (our spacetime) emerge from
nothing , science has some good candidates for an answer.

all of which require something we christians readily admit to ``faith''.

the fact that there are several candidates belies that none are conclusive.
with out conclusive evidence , we are left with faith.

it could even be argued that one of these hypotheses may one day be proven (as
best as a non repeatable event can be proven ). but i ask , what holds
someone today to the belief that any or all of them are correct , except by
faith \?

a couple of paragraphs deleted. summary we ask why does the
universe exist

i think this question should actually be split into two parts , namely

1) why is there existence \? why anything exists \?

and

2) how did the universe emerge from nothing \?

it is clear science has nothing to say about the first question. however ,
is it a meaningful question , after all \?

i would say it is n't. consider the following

apparently it is for many persons. hence , we have religions.

the question why anything exists can be countered by
demanding answer to a question why there is nothing in nothingness ,
or in non existence . actually , both questions turn out to be
devoid of meaning. things that exist do , and things that do n't exist
do n't exist. tautology at its best.

carefully examine the original question , and then the counter question .
the first asks why , while the second is a request for definition. it
does n't address why something does or does not exist , but asks to define
the lack of existence. the second question is unanswerable indeed , for
how do we identify something as nothing (are n't they mutually exclusive
terms) \? . how do we identify a state of non existence (again , this is
nearing the limits of this simple layman 's ability to comprehend , and i
would appreciate an explanation).

i might add , the worldview of things that exist do , and things that
do n't...do n't is as grounded in the realm of the non falsifiable ,
as does the theist 's belief in god. it is based on the assumption
that there is not a reason for being , something as ultimately
(un)supportable as the position of there being a reason. its very
foundation exists in the same soil as that of one who claims there is a
reason.

we come to this. either i am , therefore i am. , or i am for a reason.
if the former is a satisfactory answer , then you are done , for you are
satisfied , and need not a doctor. if the latter , your search is just
beginning.

i seriously doubt god could have an answer to this question.

time will tell. 8 )


some christians i have talked to have said that actually , god is
himself the existence. however , i see several problems with this
answer. first , it inevitably leads to the conclusion that god is
actually all existence , good and evil , devils and angels , us and
them. this is pantheism , not christianity.

agreed. it would lead me to question their definition of christianity as
well.

another answer is that god is the source of all existence.
this sounds much better , but i am tempted to ask does god
himself exist , then \? if god is the source of his own existence ,
it can only mean that he has , in terms of human time , always
existed. but this is not the same as the source of all existence.

this does not preclude his existence. it only seeks to identify his
qualities (implying he exists to have qualities , btw).

the best answer i have heard is that human reasoning is incapable
of understanding such questions. being an atheist myself , i do not
accept such answers , since i do not have any other methods.

like the theist , we come to a statement of faith , for this position assumes
that the evidence at hand is conclusive. note , i am not arguing against
scientific endeavor , for science is useful for understanding the universe in
which we exist. but i differ from the atheist in a matter of perspective. i
seek to understand what exists to understand and appreciate the art of the
creator.

i also have discovered science is an inadequate tool to answer why . it
appears that m. pihko agrees (as we shall see). but because a tool is
inadequate to answer a question does not preclude the question. asserting
that 'why' is an invalid question does not provide an answer.

as far as i can tell , the very laws of nature demand a why . that is n't
true of something outside of nature (i.e. , super natural).

this is not true. science is a collection of models telling us how ,
not why , something happens. i cannot see any good reason why the why
questions would be bound only to natural things , assuming that the
supernatural domain exists. if supernatural beings exist , it is
as appropriate to ask why they do so as it is to ask why we exist.

my apologies. i was using why as why did this come to be . why did
pre existence become existence. why did pre spacetime become spacetime.

but we come to the admission that science fails to answer why \? . because
it ca n't be answered in the realm of modern science , does that make the
question invalid \?
i do n't believe any
technology would be able to produce that necessary spark of life , despite
having all of the parts available. just my opinion.

this opinion is also called vitalism namely , that living systems are
somehow fundamentally different from inanimate systems. do christians
in general adopt this position \? what would happen when scientists announce
they have created primitive life (say , small bacteria) in a lab \?

i suppose we would do the same thing as when galileo or capernicus was
vindicated (before someone starts jumping up and down screaming
inquisition ! , note i said vindicated . i certainly hope we 've gotten
beyond the shooting the messenger stage).

m. pihko does present a good point though. we may need to ask what do i
as an individual christian base my faith on \? will it be shaken by the
production of evidence that shatters our sacred cows or will we seek to
understand if a new discovery truly disagrees with what god said (and
continues to say) in his word \?

why do i ask why \? (apologies to budweiser and company 8 ).

jason.




jason d. smith
jasons@atlastele.com i'm not young enough to know everything.
1x1

from bassili@cs.arizona.edu (amgad z. bassili)
subject need a book
lines 4

i appreciate if anyone can point out some good books about the dead sea
scrolls of qumran. thanks in advance.

please reply by e mail at bassili@cs.arizona.edu

from kbanner@philae.sas.upenn.edu (ken banner)
subject re satanic tounges
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 51

in article may.5.02.53.10.1993.28880@athos.rutgers.edu koberg@spot.colorado.edu (allen koberg) writes

.....................................................there is dis
crepancy even among charismatic organizations as to the proper use
of tongues. be it revelatory with interpretation , for prayer use ,
or for signifying believers (which i doubt since any one can do it).
pentecostals (assembly of god , church of christ) , seem to espouse all
three. neo pentecostals tend to view prayer use and as a sign as the
uses. speaking in tongues during a service is not usually done by
neo pentecostals because for the most part , they still attend protestant
churches. non denominational churches seem to view the use as a sign
as merely optional , but recommended.

koberg ,

just a couple of minor corrections here...

1) the churches of christ do not usually believe in speaking in
tongues , in fact many of them are known for being strongly opposed to
pentecostal teaching. you are probably thinking of church of god in
christ , the largest african american pentecostal denomination.

2) i'm not sure what you mean by signifying believers but it
should be pointed out that the assemblies of god does not now , nor has it
ever , held that speaking in tongues is the sign that one is a christian.
the doctrine that traditional pentecostals (including the a g) maintain is
that speaking in tongues is the sign of a second experience after becoming
a christian in which one is baptized in the holy spirit that may be
what you were referring to , but i point this out because pentecostals are
frequently labeled as believing that you have to speak in tongues in order
to be a christian. such a position is only held by some groups and not the
majority of pentecostals. many pentecostals will quote the passage in
mark 16 about these signs following them that believe but they generally
do not interpret this as meaning if you do n't pactice the signs you are n't
saved .

3) i know it 's hard to summarize the beliefs of a movement that
has such diversity , but i think you 've made some pretty big
generalizations here. do neo pentecostals only believe in tongues as a
sign and tongues as prayer but not tongues as revelatory with a message \?
i 've never heard of that before. in fact i would have characterized them
as believing the same as pentecostals except less likely to see tongues as
a sign of spirit baptism. also , while neo pentecostals may not be
inclined to speak in tongues in the non pentecostal churches they attend ,
they do have their own meetings and , in many cases , a whole church will be
charismatic.

ken banner
dept. of religious studies
university of pennsylvania
kbanner@philae.sas.upenn.edu

from mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michael d. walker)
subject re question about virgin mary
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 58

a.faris@trl.oz.au (aziz faris) writes

helllo netters

i was told the bible says that god took the body of the virgin mary as
she was being carried for burial. is this true , if so were in the bible
does it say that.

regards ,
a.faris

i think you 're talking about the assumption of the blessed virgin
mary . it says that the immaculate mother of god , the ever virgin
mary , having completed the course of her earthly life , was assumed
body and soul into heavenly glory. this was defined by a papal
statement in 1950 , though it had certainly been believed by some
before that. like the immaculate conception , this is primarily a
roman catholic doctrine , and like it , it has no direct biblical
support. note that catholics do not believe in sola scriptura .
that is , they do not believe that the bible is the only source of
christian knowledge. thus the fact that a doctrine has little
biblical support is not necessarily significant to them. they believe
that truth can be passed on through traditions of the church , and also
that it can be revealed to the church. i'm not interested in yet
another catholic protestant argument , but if any catholics can tell us
the basis for these beliefs , i think it would be appropriate. clh


again i find myself wanting to respond to a posting and having neither
the time nor the proper materials with me (you would think i would learn my
lesson by now but i'm trying to finish writing my thesis and do n't have tons
of time. anyway...)

the basis for our (the catholic church 's) belief in the assumption of
mary , body and soul , into heaven is that , to put it simply , the apostles
and all the early generation christians believed it. in fact , throughout their
ministry the apostles kept in close contact with mary , and 11 of the 12 were
present when she died. only thomas was missing when he arrived several days
later , he asked to be shown her body , and moved with pity , peter and several of
the other apostles brought him to her tomb. when they arrived the seal was
still unbroken. they broke the seal , entered , and the body was missing. there
was no sign that anyone had entered , forcibly or otherwise , and everything else
was laid out exactly as it had been left. the apostles present all believed
that mary was assumed into heaven and the apostles taught this in their
preaching (of course , this does not appear in any of the texts currently
considered part of the bible , but it does appear in other writings left behind
by several of them.) basicaly , as an apostolic church (ie. founded by the
apostles) , we believe that the teachings of the apostles , whether written down
in the bible or written down in other sources , is true , providing that the
authenticity of those other sources can be confirmed. at least in the case of
the assumption of mary , the authenticity is quite clear.

hope this helps i would welcome anyone who has more information to
add to what i 've said.
mike walker
mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
(univ. of illinois)


from emery@tc.fluke.com (john emery)
subject re can sin block our prayers \?
organization john fluke mfg. co. , inc. , everett , wa
lines 28

in article apr.12.03.45.11.1993.18872@athos.rutgers.edu jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes

this verse also makes me think of the kind of husband who decides what
is god 's will for his family without consulting his wife. god reveals
his will to both the husband and the wife. there needs to be some
degree of mutuality in decision making. even those whose understanding
of the bible leads to a belief in an authoritarian headship of the
husband need to incorporate this in order to have a functional family.
one way to look at it is that god speaks to the wife through the husband
and to the husband through the wife.


jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

i agree. god makes the husband the head of the house. but he surely
ca n't do it alone. he needs the help of his beloved wife whom the
lord gave him.

at least that 's how it is in my house. i thank god for the beautiful
woman he has brought into my life. i could n't lead without the help
of my wonderful wife.



john emery i will praise you , o lord my god , with all my heart
emery@tc.fluke.com i will glorify your name forever. for great is your
love toward me you have delivered me from the
depths of the grave. (psalm 86 12 13)

from stephen@mont.cs.missouri.edu (stephen montgomery smith)
subject re latest on branch davidians
organization university of missouri
lines 63

in apr.22.00.55.06.1993.2048@geneva.rutgers.edu aaron@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (scott aaron) writes

in article apr.20.03.02.42.1993.3815@geneva.rutgers.edu ,
conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt) wrote


i think it 's really sad that so many people put their faith in a mere
man , even if he did claim to be the son of god , and or a prophet.

i 'll pose a question here that 's got me thinking what distinguishes
true religion from cults (i'm speaking generally here , not specifially
about christianity) \? jerry falwell was on good morning america on
tuesday ostensibly to answer this question. basically , he said that
true religion follows a message whereas a cult follows a person.
but , then , christianity is a cult because the message of christianity
is the person of jesus. so what distinguishes , for example , the
branch davidian cult from the presbyterian church \? doctrinal
differences do n't answer the question , imho , so do n't use them as
an answer.


as far as i can see , one of the big differences between davidians and
christians is in who they follow. i have sometimes tried to put myself
in the feet of one of jesus 's disciples. basically , they gave up a
lot career , possibly family , and well , a whole bunch , to follow
jesus.

so what is the difference \? it is quite plain. jesus was good and
david koresh was not.

the problem is , i think , is that we try to legislate what is good
and what is bad in terms of principles. for instance , there are thousands of
laws in the u.s. governing what is legal and what is not. often , it is hard
to bring people to justice , because it is not possible to find
a legal way to do it. if only we could trust judges to be just ,
then we could tell them to administer justice fairly , and justice
would be followed. but since judges do n't always get it right ,
we have a complicated system involving precedent and bunches
of other stuff which attempt to make the imperfect (the justice
of man) into something perfect. but what i hear about the justice
system in the u.s. tells me that quite the opposite is true.

there is also a problem that we tend to judge the presentation
more than the material being presented. so we might consider
a ranting christian to be bad , but an eloquent person from another
religion to be good. this goes along with the american desire
to protect the constitution at all costs , even if it allows
people to do bad things.

i think that it is the message that is important. if a man is
presenting a false message , even if he is ever ever so mild mannered ,
then that man is performing a tremendous disservice.

i know that i am rambling here. i guess that what i am trying to
say is that we should n't be looking for principles that tell us
why the davidians got it wrong. it is not wrong to follow and
worship a person. but it is important to choose the right person.
it is simple. choose jesus , and you got it right. choose
anyone else , and you got it wrong. why \? because jesus is the
begotten son of god , and nobody else is. jesus was without sin , and
nobody else was.

stephen

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re ancient books
organization indiana university
lines 8

of course , i 'd still recommend that michael read true and reasonable
by douglas jacoby.

joe fisher

oh , and michael , i wait to see any dents in any armor and my faith
has n't wavered since the day i became a disciple. you may want to try
it sometime. it 's life changing !

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re question about virgin mary
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 28

as the moderator noted , i think you mean the assumption. catholics
believe that the blessed virgin mary went to heaven body and soul at
the end of her life. this is unusual because the normal course of
events is for your body to decay in the grave and stay that way until
the resurrection of the dead.

well , it was n't that way for enoch and elijah , both of whom were
translated directly into heaven. it 's beyond my grasp why some object
that mary , who was far greater than either enoch or elijah , should not
benefit from the same privelege they recieved. she was after all ,
mother of god , full of grace , and immaculate.

historically , belief in the assumption can be found in the writings of
st. gregory of tours (late 6th century).

and in st. germain of constantinople and st. john of damascus , and in
st. andrew of crete , among others.

and it should be noted that the monophysite chruches of egypt and syria
also hold to this belief as part of divine revelation , even though they
broke away from the unity of the chruch in 451 ad by rejecting the
council of chalcedon. it might be argued by some protestants that the
catholics and orthodox made this belief up , but the monophysites , put a
big hole in that notion , as they also hold the belief , and they split
from the chruch before the belief was first annunciated in writing (as
far as is known , much has been lost from the time of the fathers).

andy byler

from jerryb@eskimo.com (jerry kaufman)
subject re questions from a newbie
organization eskimo north (206) for ever
lines 27

the concept of god as a teacher is indeed interesting. does he grade on
a curve , does he cheat \? that is interesting. not to mention thought
provoking. my own concept is that he is a father and we are his
children. in that he loves us , with a love that we can never understand
until we are with him. the bible says that he looks on the heart as the
final measure. from that perspective , in a grading context , the heart is
the final test.
specifically , most christians would agree that there is only one heaven
and one hell. from that perspective , it is heaven or hell. you either go
to one or the other. the grading on a pass fail basis is done by god
the father with intervention by jesus the son. not by others. for only
god sees the heart. the bible says of the heart , ...who can know it. i
would say there has always been , and always be , an unchanging method.
that is what makes a relationship with christ so secure. in an uncertain
and ever changing landscape he is always the same. yesterday , today and
tomorrow. concerning whether or not our childhoods are considerd as part
of the test , my own conviction is no. were that the case i certainly
would n't be going to heaven. the bible speaks very plainly about the
love and care jesus had for and about children. the reality is that we
are all children. some of us just have bigger bodies and grey hair. but
the father , our father is always there. like most fathers he wants only
the best for his own. there maybe decipline , but there is more love.
it 's sometimes looks like christianity is a test , to see who makes it
and who does n't. those who do pass heaven , and those who do n't go to the
other place. but it is really much more than that...
there are few experts. most of us are just travelers looking for the
light and the way home. praying that we can bring others with us.

from wagner@grace.math.uh.edu (david wagner)
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization uh dept of math
lines 162

darren dr nancy 's sweetie kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu writes

darren in an earlier article , i explained that what many people find
darren arrogant about christians is that some christians profess
darren absolute certainty about their beliefs and doctrines.

and

darren in short , the problem is that no matter how good your sources
darren are , if any part of your doctrines or beliefs rest on your own
darren thinking and reasoning , then those doctrines are suspect.

the point that darren raises is a very lutheran viewpoint.
while reason is a gift from god , it is also infected by sin.
yet we do not reject reason entirely and neither , i think ,
does darren. we need reason , as darren himself has pointed
out , to comprehend god 's revelation of himself in the bible.
but reason alone is not sufficient to comprehend and believe
the word. we need , first and foremost , faith. for the sinful
mind is hostile to god. it does not submit to god 's law ,
nor can it do so (romans 8 7).

luther accepted scripture as the sole means of revelation
( sola scriptura ) , but accepted the necessity of the use
of reason (with faith) in comprehending that revelation.
yet luther also said , regarding baptism , but mad reason
rushes forth , and , because baptism is not dazzling like
the works which we do , regards it as worthless. (large
catechism , fourth part , baptism). to make matters more
complicated , luther was the sort of theologian that many
people would describe as an `absolutist'. i 've seen him
described as a `take no prisoners' theologian.

we might conclude , given these observations , that luther
was inconsistent or mad. and surely at least some have
come to that conclusion. but it might be useful to
recall that jesus was also called mad. and peter felt
compelled to defend himself and the apostles against
a charge of drunkenness on pentecost. so we as christians
ought to be careful about rejecting luther (or others)
as mad. rather , we should imitate the bereans , who
examined the scriptures every day to see if what paul
said was true (acts 17 11).

the basis for the confidence with which luther , peter , paul , and many
others preached the gospel was not just reason , but faith and the holy
spirit. this is not faith divorced from reason , but a faith that
guides , informs , and uses reason. the spirit enables us to know the
truth and to proclaim it boldly. god does not want us to preach the
message that i think that jesus might have risen from the dead but
rather i know that my redeemer lives ! (job 19 25). the christian
does not side with pilate in saying what is truth \? but rather
follows christ , who said , in fact , for this reason i was born , and
for this i came into the world , to testify to the truth. everyone on
the side of truth listens to me (john 18 37).

we can know the truth because god has promised us that we can
know the truth. jesus said , if you hold to my teachings ,
you are really my disciples. then you will know the truth ,
and the truth will set you free (john 8 31 , 32). the proverbs
urge us buy the truth , and do not sell it. (pr 23 23).
the psalmist prayed do not snatch to word of truth from my mouth
(ps 119 43). evidently he believed that the word of truth
was in fact `in his mouth'.

yet we do indeed appear arrogant if our claim to the truth
is motivated by self glorification. but if we present the
truth as the teachings of scripture , revealed by the
spirit , and not our own invention , and if we stand ready
to be proved wrong on the basis of scripture , as luther
did , then we are not arrogant , but humble. we should humbly
trust in god 's promise of truth , just as we trust in his
promise of forgiveness.

rexlex it is only because of god 's own revelation that we can be
rexlex absolute about a thing.

darren but how far does that get you \? once god 's revelation stops ,
darren and your own reasoning begins , possibility for error appears.

i agree that we must make a distinction between the clear teachings
of scripture , and the products of our own reason even when such
reasoning is based on scripture. however i think i would draw
the line of distinction more `reasonably' ) and less `academically'
than you would.

darren for example , let 's suppose that our modern bible translations
darren include a perfect rendering of jesus words at the last supper ,
darren and that jesus said , exactly , this is my body.

darren we 'll presume that what he said was totally without error and
darren absolutely true. what can we be certain of \? not much.

darren at the moment he stops speaking , and people start
darren interpreting , the possibility of error appears. did he mean
darren that literally or not \? we do not have any record that he
darren elaborated on the words. was he thinking of tran or con
darren substantiation \? he did n't say.

darren is almost at the point of making a very lutheran statement
about the lord 's supper. the lutheran approach is to say
that if jesus said , this is my body , then that is what we
should believe. other interpretations are rejected simply because
they are not taught in scripture.

recall that jesus' words do not stand alone on this subject. we also
have paul 's words in 1 corinthians 11 17 34 , in which he passed on to
us , what he received from the lord. in particular he said , for
whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup , you proclaim the
lord 's death until he comes. by these words we should believe that
the bread that we eat in the lord 's supper really is bread (as well as
the lord 's body) as our senses in fact tell us. does this prove
that tran substantiation is false \? i suppose someone could say that
paul spoke metaphorically of the lord 's body as bread , simply because
that is the way the body appears when we eat it. but this thought is
found nowhere in scripture. so we reject it. thus the primary
reason for rejecting tran substantiation is not that we can
prove it false , but that it is simply not found in scripture.

side remark
i 've been told that the lutheran doctrine on real presence is
con substantiation. but it has been non lutherans who have told
me this. we tend not to use the word. i almost think that this
is used more by professors of comparative religion , who need labels
to compare catholic , lutheran and reformed teachings on the lord 's
supper. but almost every church wants to call their own teaching
real presence because that was the traditional teaching of
the church.
end side remark

darren when christians speak as if they believe their own reasoning
darren can never lead them astray when we implicitly claim that we
darren are infallible the non christians around us rarely believe
darren that implicit claim. witnessing is hardly going to work when
darren the person you are talking to believes that you are either too
darren foolish to recognise your own limits , or intentionally trying
darren to cover them up.

this is precisely why christians should not rely on rationalizations
in their witnessing. it is far better to take the approach ,
i 'd like to show you what scripture says. you decide for
yourself whether to believe it or not.

darren `rexlex' suggested that people read he is there and he is not
darren silent , by francis schaeffer. i did n't think very highly of
darren it , but i think that mr schaeffer is grossly overrated by many
darren evangelical christians. somebody else might like it , though ,
darren so do n't let my opinion stop you from reading it.

darren if someone is interested in my opinion , i 'd suggest on
darren certainty , by ludwig wittgenstein.

as long as we 're trading references , i 'd like to suggest dr. siegbert
becker 's paperback , the foolishness of god the place of reason
in lutheran theology , published by northwestern publishing house.
this book was based on becker 's doctoral thesis at the university
of chicago.

david wagner not by might , nor by power ,
a confessional lutheran but by my spirit ,
says the lord almighty.
zechariah 4 6.

from tedr@athena.cs.uga.edu (ted kalivoda)
subject rom 9 11 article ready..requests
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 14

a section of richard badenas' book , christ the end of the law , romans 10.14
in pauline perspective. the section i have is on the contextual setting and
meaning of romans 9 11. in addition , there are 111 endnotes.

since the file is so long , and because of other reasons , i will take requests
for the article personally.

of course , i believe badenas' insights to be true , and , quite damaging to the
traditional augustinian calvinist view.


ted kalivoda (tedr@athena.cs.uga.edu)
university of georgia , athens
ucns institute of higher ed.

from ata@hfsi.hfsi.com ( john ata)
subject re hell
reply to news@opl.com
organization hfsi
lines 19

in article apr.12.03.44.24.1993.18836@athos.rutgers.edu dmn@kepler.unh.edu (there 's a seeker born every minute.) writes

that would depend on what heaven is like. if god is a king , and
an eternity in heaven consists of giving thanks and praise to the king ,
i might opt for hell. i read a lovely account of a missionary trying to

but then , on the other hand , if you really loved that king more
than you did yourself , and he loved you to the point of assuring
you that the eternal time spent with him would be eternal ecstasy ,
would you really opt for that choice \?

dana



john g. ata technical consultant internet ata@hfsi.com
hfs , inc. va20 uucp uunet ! hfsi ! ata
7900 westpark drive ms 601 voice (703) 827 6810
mclean , va 22102 fax (703) 827 3729

from dohertyl@dcs.gla.ac.uk (dohertyl)
subject (none)
organization glasgow university computing science dept.
distribution uk
return path dohertyl@uk.ac.gla.dcs
x mailer mail news 2.0.5
lines 2

i am satan !


from jerryb@eskimo.com (jerry kaufman)
subject re prayers and advice requested on family problem
organization eskimo north (206) for ever
lines 11

cloak yourself in god 's sustaining and abiding love. pray , pray , pray.
pray for your brother , that he will assume the godly role that is his.
pray for your sister in law , the what ever is driving her to separate
your brother and herself from the the rest of the family will be healed.
pray for god to give you the peace in the knowledge that you may not be
able to 'fix' it. from your description it would appear that it will
require devine intervention , and the realization by your brother as to
what his responsibilities are. seek godly counsel from your pastor , or
other spiritually mature believer. know always that he is akways there
as a conforter , and will give you wisdon and direction as you call on
him.

from isc10144@nusunix1.nus.sg (chan nicodemus)
subject greek wordprocessor database.
organization national university of singapore
lines 25

hi there ,

does anyone know about any greek database word processor that
can do things like count occurrences of a word , letter et al \?

i'm posting this up for a friend who studies greek.

thanks ,

nico.

p.s. can you email as i seldom look into usenet nowadays.


nicodemus chan , raffles hall , nus , kent ridge cres.
department of information systems singapore 0511. (tel 02 7797751)
computer science , hometown address
national university of singapore. 134 , nanyang estate , jinjang north
kent ridge crescent , 52000 , kuala lumpur , malaysia
singapore 0511 e mail isc10144@nusunix.nus.sg
channico@iscs.nus.sg


call unto me and i will answer you and show thee great and unsearchable
things you do not know. jeremiah 33 3

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re translations
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 25

in article may.9.05.41.02.1993.27540@athos.rutgers.edu ab4z@virginia.edu (andi beyer) writes
which version of the bible do you consider to be the most
accurate translation \?

well , knowing greek and hebrew , i'm probably not as picky about translations
as i would be if english translations were my only source of information.
but...

(1) any verse that comes out substantially different in different trans
lations is almost certainly unclear in the original.

(2) it is very bad practice to shop for a translation that fits your own
doctrinal positions.

personally , i still like the rsv. nrsv and nasv are also very good.

i have a strong preference for editions that do not indent the beginning
of each verse as if verses were paragraphs. the verse numbering is a
relatively modern addition and should not be given undue prominence.


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from bluelobster @cmu.edu (david o hunt)
subject conversions
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 13

on 12 apr 93 in environmentalism and paganism
user michael covington@aisun3 writes
i would like to see christians devote a bit less effort to bashing
paganism and more to figuring out how to present the gospel to pagans.

christ is the answer the pagans have a lot of the right questions.
unlike materialists , who deny the need for any spirituality.

and what of those of us who already have answers to their questions without
turning to christianity (or , in my case , any religion) \? whay right do you
have to presume to lecture me about what i should believe \? \?

david hunt

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re does 'just justifiable war' exist \?
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 32

some thoughts

a. on the non pacifist side

(1) killing to defend the innocent may be , if anything , more justifiable
than killing in self defense. i can turn my own other cheek , but i have
no right to turn someone else 's.

(2) it seems to me that if jesus had meant to teach pacifism , he would have
made his position more explicit. he did n't tell the centurion to leave the
army , for instance and the nt is full of military metaphors.

b. on the pacifist side

(1) apparently many early christians refused to fight in the roman army ,
or stated that one should refuse if given a choice. but it 's not clear
whether they were objecting to war per se , or objecting to roman policies.

(2) in modern warfare , it seems to be impossible to direct attacks only at
combatants. bombing , both conventional and nuclear , kills lots of civilians.

(3) it 's hard to tell whether any particular war is justified at the time.
often it takes decades for the requisite information to become available
to the general public.

please , no email replies this is meant as a contribution to a public
discussion , and anyone wanting to reply should also reply publicly.

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com (jon ogden)
subject re latest on branch davidians
organization motorola lpa development
lines 23

in article apr.20.03.02.42.1993.3815@geneva.rutgers.edu ,
conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt) wrote


i think it 's really sad that so many people put their faith in a mere
man , even if he did claim to be the son of god , and or a prophet.

it is just as christ said about his return

some will say , 'he is in the desert.' or some will say , 'he is in the
wilderness.' but do not believe them. for as lightning flashes east to
west so shall the coming of the son of man be.
my paraphrase i think the
verse is
somewhere in john

jon


sig file broken....

please try later...


from rick granberry@pts.mot.com (rick granberry)
subject pastoral authority
reply to rick granberry@pts.mot.com (rick granberry)
organization motorola paging and telepoint systems group
lines 17

there is some controversy in my denomination as to what authority is vested
in the pastor. i am still forming my opinion. i am solicing opinions , and
references for what that is , how much , and how it should be used.

as a general reference , i would not exclude responses from different
denominations based on biblical teachings , but you have to understand our
church is independent , protestant and likely to be much different from those
that follow ecclesiastical authority in the church. we may need to discuss
the roles of deacons and elders.

thanks for your replies.



answer not a fool according to his folly , lest thou also be like unto him.
answer a fool according to his folly , lest he be wise in his own conceit.
(proverbs 26 4 5)

from ruthless@panix.com (ruth ditucci)
subject losing your temper is not a christian trait
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 13

coming from a long line of hot tempered people , i know temper when i see
it. one of the tell tale signs fruits that give non christians away is
when their net replies are acrid , angry and sarcastic.

we in the net village do have a laugh or two when professed , born again
christians verbally attack people who might otherwise have been won to
christianity and had originally joined the discussions because they were
spiritually hungry. instead of answering questions with sweetness and
sincerity , these chrisitan net warriors , flame the queries.

you do n't need any enemies. you already do yourselves the greatest harm.

again i say , foolish , foolish , foolish.

from christopher.s.weinberger@williams.edu (gib)
subject re divine providence vs. murphy 's law
organization williams college , williamstown , ma
lines 21

in article apr.19.05.13.28.1993.29224@athos.rutgers.edu rolfe@junior.dsu.edu (tim rolfe) writes
romans 8 28 (rsv) we know that in everything god works for good with those
who love him , who are called according to his purpose.
murphy 's law if anything can go wrong , it will.
we are all quite familiar with the amplifications and commentary on
murphy 's law. but how do we harmonize that with romans 8 28 \? for that
matter , how appropriate is humor contradicted by scripture \?

both christians and non christians laugh at this quote because
it exaggerates something we all feel , but know is not true. us
christians just know that a little better ! )



in god we trust !


christopher


email @ 96csw@williams.edu

from shimpei@leland.stanford.edu (shimpei yamashita)
subject survey faith vs. reason
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 55

the following is a survey we are conducting for a term project in a philosophy
class. it is not meant to give us anything interesting statistically we want
to hear what kind of voices there are out there. we are not asking for full
blown essays , but please give us what you can.

as i do not read these groups often , please email all responses to me at
shimpei@leland.stanford.edu. as my mail account is not infinite , if you can
delete the questions and just have numbered answers when you write back
i would really appreciate it.

since we would like to start analyzing the result as soon as possible , we
would like to have the answers by april 30. if you absolutely cannot make
it by then , though , we would still liken to hear your answer.

if anyone is interested in our final project please send a note to that effect
would like to have the answers by april 30. if you absolutely cannot make
it by then , though , we would still like to hear your answer.

if anyone is interested in our final project please send a note to that effect
(or better yet , include a note along with your survey response) and i 'll try
to email it to you , probably in late may.

survey

question 1)
have you ever had trouble reconciling faith and reason \? if so , what was the
trouble \?
(for example have you ever been unsure whether creationism or evolutionism
holds more truth \?
do you practice tarot cards , palm readings , or divination that
conflicts with your scientific knowledge of the world \?
does your religion require you to ignore physical realities that
you have seen for yourself or makes logical sense to you \? )
basically , we would like to know if you ever believed in something that your
reason tells you is wrong.

question 2)
if you have had conflict , how did do you resolve the conflict \?

question 3)
if you have n't had trouble , why do you think you have n't \? is there a set of
guidelines you use for solving these problems \?

thank you very much for your time.





shimpei yamashita , stanford university email shimpei@leland.stanford.edu
there are three kinds of mathematicians
those who can count and those who ca n't.

it seems to be that time of year. please remember that he 's asked for
you to respond by email. clh

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re ancient books
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 20

cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (mike cobb) writes

if i talk with an atheist and tell him the new testament is an historically
reliable document , what reasons would i give him \?

i have found that this is n't a very effective argument. most atheists are
perfectly willing to acknowledge the existence and ministry of jesus but are
quite capable of rationalizing the miracles and the resurrection into
misunderstandings , hoaxes , or simple fabrications. they can always make an
analogy with the iliad , a book that tells the story of the historical trojan
war , but also talks about gods and goddesses and their conversations.
i do n't think it 's possible to convince atheists of the validity of
christianity through argument. we have to help foster faith and an
understanding of god. i could be wrong are there any former atheists here who
were led to christianity by argument \?

alan terlep incestuous vituperousness
oakland university , rochester , mi
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu melissa eggertsen
rushing in where angels fear to tread.

from lmvec@westminster.ac.uk (william hargreaves)
subject help
organization university of westminster
lines 25

hi everyone ,
i'm a commited christian that is battling with a problem. i know
that romans talks about how we are saved by our faith not our deeds , yet
hebrews and james say that faith without deeds is useless , saying' you fools ,
do you still think that just believing is enough \? '

now if someone is fully believing but there life is totally lead by themselves
and not by god , according to romans that person is still saved by there faith.
but then there is the bit which says that god preferes someone who is cold to
him (i.e. does n't know him condemned) so a lukewarm christian someone who
knows and believes in god but does n't make any attempt to live by the bible.

now i am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what you do)
as taught in romans , but how can i square up in my mind the teachings of james
in conjunction with the lukewarm christian being 'spat out'

can anyone help me , this really bothers me.

in christ ,
will



dallas cowboys world champions 1992 93


from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject what 's in a name \? the sequel
organization kulikauskas home
lines 57

i 've been thinking about the idea that was raised (by michael covington ,
i think) that words mean what we think they mean , regardless of
etymology. i 've been reflecting on what certain words meant in my
childhood and tracing how this shaped some of my attitudes.

i grew up in a home where christ was a bad word. people who were very
angry said it. the word christian meant someone who was not a jew. it
carried connotations of otherness , of threat , of enemy. it took some
time to figure out that there was a connection between `christ' and
`christian'. when i accepted jesus , i expected to be disowned. to
become a christian meant to join the enemy. i knew others would
consider me a traitor. at some level , i agreed , but was still prepared
to pay this price. like esau , i sold my birthright. however , i made a
better bargain. he only got some stew , but i got the incomparable
riches of knowing christ.

as it turned out , my parents did not disown me. i found out later that
they were hoping it was a phase that i would grow out of. by the time
they had decided it was n't a phase , they were sort of used to it. they
did n't disown me but they did n't completely accept the situation either.
for example , they did n't come to my wedding because it was in a church.
when i visited my grandmother in the hospital a few days before her
death , she said to me , as far as i'm concerned , you still are a jew.
what she meant was that she loved me and forgave me. but i am not a
jew. i am a christian. (i 'll concede , one that likes chicken soup with
matzoh balls. ))

i do not keep kosher. i do not celebrate the sabbath on saturday. my
sons are not circumcised. but these things are true of some people who
do consider themselves jews. it is not these rules that make people
jews it is the heritage from the past. i gave up the past.

this is why i find it hard to relate to messianic jews. their
experience is unlike mine. they still consider themselves jews while
following jesus. some would even say that i must do so , too.

i am at a stage of my life now where i would like to have a heritage.
it was not something i valued very much when i gave it. but i did have
a sense that i was giving it for god. it may have been a small
sacrifice. it may have been an unnecessary sacrifice. but i gave it
and do not want to ask for it back.

and while i do n't have the heritage i was born with , i do have another.
i am an outcast from the house of israel , but i am a member of the
church. one of the things i like about being a catholic christian is
that it is rich in tradition. it gives me a feeling of , once again ,
being rooted in the past.

this is probably one of the reasons why i do n't like it when people mess
around with christian traditions (for example , changing the name of
easter). these traditions fill an important emotional need of mine.

i suppose the point of all this is that people should n't assume that all
believers of jewish background are the same. for some `jewish
christian' is a good name , for others it is an oxymoron.

jayne kulikauskas jayen@mmalt.guild.org

from armstrng@cs.dal.ca (stan armstrong)
subject re prodigal son
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 18

the parable of the prodigal son is not about who is and who is n't an
immoral person. it is about grace and the love of god. most people
would agree with that concerning the younger son. the elder son is
simply a negative example of the some thing. he thinks that he must
earn his father 's love , that he has earned it , that he is entitled
to it. his father tells him that he is on the wrong track. he has always
been loved for the same reason his brother has always been he is
his father 's son.

we are too performance oriented to consistently get the point. we are
willing to be saved by grace , but once we are christians we want to
go back to earning and deserving.

are you so foolish \? after beginning with the spirit , are you now trying
to attain your goal by human effort \? gal 3 3 niv

stan armstrong. religious studies dept , saint mary 's university , halifax , n.s.
armstrong@husky1.stmarys.ca att ! clyde ! watmath ! water ! dalcs ! armstrng

from jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu (james sledd)
subject afterlife
organization social science computing
lines 23

here is another way of looking at it.

when we die we are released from the arc of time , and able
to comprehend our lives in toto. to visit each moment in
time sequentially or all at once , but not able to alter the
actions thoughts or feelings we had have will have in this
life.

from that perspective , i posit that all will have direct knowledge
of god , and be able to recognize at each moment of time wether
we were doing what we ought. that the experience of having
lived a life far from god will be an eternal torment. that
having lived a life of grace , will be an eternal joy. that the
resurrection of the body comes not from any physical reconstitution
of our present forms , but knowledge of our present forms by our
fully cognizant souls.

as an aside if we were to be restricted for all time to
our present form , would you opt for immortality \?

james sledd

think in n dimensions listen for the voice of god

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 34

all of the arguments concerning the sabbath ought to make the point
pretty clear anyone outside of the catholic or orthodox oranglican or
monophysite churches ourght to worship on saturday if they are really
sola scriptura. otherwise , they are following a law put into effect by
the church , and only the above chruches really recognize any power of
the chruch to do so.

andy byler

you will note that nothing in the faq said anything about the church
establishing or changing a law. the argument against the sabbath is
that it is part of the ceremonial law , and like the rest of the
ceremonial law is not binding on christians. this argument is based
on paul 's letters , acts , and in a more general sense , jesus'
teachings. further , most people argue that scripture shows worship
occuring on sunday , and paul endorsing it. i understand that these
points are disputed , and do not want to go around the dispute one more
time. the point i'm making here is not that these arguments are
right , but that the backing they claim is scripture.

accepting the principle of sola scriptura does not commit us to
obeying the entire jewish law. acts 15 and paul 's letters are quite
clear on that. i think even the sda 's accept it. the disagreement is
on where the bible would have us place the line.

by the way , protestants do give authority to the church , in matters
that are not dictated by god. that 's why churches are free to
determine their own liturgies , church polity , etc. if you accept that
the sabbath is not binding on christians , then the day of worship
falls into the category of items on which individual christians or
(since worship is by its nature a group activity) churches are free to
decide.

clh

from mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server)
subject re src
lines 39

dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe) writes

i find it interesting that cls never answered any of the questions posed.
then he goes on the make statements which make me shudder. he has
established a two tiered god. one set of rules for the jews (his people)
and another set for the saved gentiles (his people). why would god
discriminate \? does the jew who accepts jesus now have to live under the
gentile rules.

god has one set of rules for all his people. paul was never against the
law. in fact he says repeatedly that faith establishes rather that annuls
the law. paul 's point is germane to both jews and greeks. the law can
never be used as an instrument of salvation. and please do not combine
the ceremonial and moral laws in one.

in matt 5 14 19 christ plainly says what he came to do and you say he was
only saying that for the jews 's benefit. your christ must be a
politician , speaking from both sides of his mouth. as paul said , i have
not so learned christ. forget all the theology , just do what jesus says.
your excuses will not hold up in a court of law on earth , far less in
god 's judgement hall.

pardon me for being a little confused , but at the beginning of your second
paragraph , you say , god has one set of rules for all his people , yet at the
end of the same paragraph you declare , please do not combine the ceremonial
and moral laws in one. not only do i not understand where in the bible you
find the declaration that there are 2 laws (ceremonial and moral) , but i am
also unclear on whether you think it is bad to have 2 sets of laws in the first
place. if it 's bad to have 2 sets of laws , how can there be a ceremonial law
that is different from the moral law (and vice versa) \?

i would also be interested in your comments on the passage in i cor. 10 1 16 ,
where paul teaches different rules for covering you head while praying
depending on whether you are a man or a woman. do you think the apostles can
prescribe different sets of rules for men and women \? if so , then why not for
jews and gentiles \? also , why did paul , who was so opposed to circumcising
gentiles , voluntarily circumcise timothy \?

mark

from jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com (jon ogden)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization motorola lpa development
lines 38

in article apr.23.02.54.12.1993.3063@geneva.rutgers.edu ,
salaris@niblick.ecn.purdue.edu (rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits) wrote

jeff fenholt claims to have once been a roadie for black sabbath.
he was never ever a musician in the band. he was in st. louis several
months back. the poster i saw at the christian bookstore i frequent
really turned me off. it was addressed to all homosexuals , prostitutes ,
drug addicts , alcoholics , and headbangers... or something like that.

well , if i showed up with my long hair and black leather jacket i
would have felt a little pre judged.

i have seen jeff fenholt speak and i did n't find him judgemental. i think
that the wording for that add was certainly inappropriate , but i think they
were trying to say that headbangers would like the program. but i would
not put headbangers in the same class as alcholics , etc. it is
condescending. and i believe that jeff was wearing black when i saw him.

by the way , fenholt played jesus in jesus christ superstar.

personally , i'm a headbanger at times too , but i have a hard time with what
most of the secular metal groups promote. free sex and drugs (my opinion
that many promote these) are n't my thing. i have found several good
christian metal groups that i like.


jon


jon ogden jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com
motorola cellular advanced products division
voice 708 632 2521 data 708 632 6086


they drew a circle and shut him out.
heretic , rebel , a thing to flout.
but love and i had the wit to win
we drew a circle and took him in.

from djohnson@cs.ucsd.edu (darin johnson)
subject re harrassed at work , could use some prayers
organization cse dept. , u.c. san diego
lines 63

(well , i 'll email also , but this may apply to other people , so
i 'll post also.)

i 've been working at this company for eight years in various
engineering jobs. i'm female. yesterday i counted and realized that
on seven different occasions i 've been sexually harrassed at this
company.

i dreaded coming back to work today. what if my boss comes in to ask
me some kind of question...

your boss should be the person bring these problems to. if he she
does not seem to take any action , keep going up higher and higher.
sexual harrassment does not need to be tolerated , and it can be an
enormous emotional support to discuss this with someone and know that
they are trying to do something about it. if you feel you can not
discuss this with your boss , perhaps your company has a personnel
department that can work for you while preserving your privacy. most
companies will want to deal with this problem because constant anxiety
does seriously affect how effectively employees do their jobs.

it is unclear from your letter if you have done this or not. it is
not inconceivable that management remains ignorant of employee
problems strife even after eight years (it 's a miracle if they do
notice). perhaps your manager did not bring to the attention of
higher ups \? if the company indeed does seem to want to ignore the
entire problem , there may be a state agency willing to fight with
you. (check with a lawyer , a women 's resource center , etc to find out)

you may also want to discuss this with your paster , priest , husband ,
etc. that is , someone you know will not be judgemental and that is
supportive , comforting , etc. this will bring a lot of healing.

so i returned at 11 25 , only to find that ever single
person had already left for lunch. they left at 11 15 or so. no one
could be bothered to call me at the other building , even though my
number was posted.

this happens to a lot of people. honest. i believe it may seem
to be due to gross insensitivity because of the feelings you are
going through. people in offices tend to be more insensitive while
working than they normally are (maybe it 's the hustle or stress or...)
i 've had this happen to me a lot , often because they did n't realize
my car was broken , etc. then they will come back and wonder why i
did n't want to go (this would tend to make me stop being angry at
being ignored and make me laugh). once , we went off without our
boss , who was paying for the lunch )

for this
reason i hope good mr. moderator allows me this latest indulgence.

well , if you ca n't turn to the computer for support , what would
we do \? (signs of the computer age )

in closing , please do n't let the hateful actions of a single person
harm you. they are doing it because they are still the playground
bully and enjoy seeing the hurt they cause. and you should not
accept the opinions of an imbecile that you are worthless much
wiser people hold you in great esteem.

darin johnson
djohnson@ucsd.edu
luxury ! in my day , we had to make do with 5 bytes of swap...

from xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
subject national day of prayer
reply to xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 54


the n a t i o n a l d a y
o f
p r a y e r

6 m a y 1 9 9 3

immmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

join america in prayer to

acknowledge our dependence upon god

give thanks for his many blessings

ask god to guide our leaders and to
bring healing , reconciliation and whole
ness to our nation and all its people.

hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

our founding fathers said...

george washington i now make it my earnest prayer that god...
(a.d. 1783) would be pleased to dispose us all to do
justice , to love mercy , and to demean
ourselves with charity and humility , and a pacific temper of mind ,
which were characteristics of the divine author of our blessed
religion , and without an humble imitation of whose example in
these things , we can never hope to be a happy nation.


john adams it must be felt that there is no national security
(a.d. 1853) but in the nation 's humble , acknowledged dependence
upon god and his overruling providence.


abraham lincoln it is the duty of nations , as well as of men ,
(a.d. 1863) to own their dependence upon the overruling
power of god , to confess their sins and
transgressions...and to recognize the sublime truth , announced in
the holy scriptures and proven by all history , that those nations
only are blessed whose god is the lord...


note you can join with people in your area in observing the
national day of prayer. to learn who is affiliated with
the concerts of prayer group in your area , contact

mr. barry garred , coordinator
p.o. box 6637
springdale , arkansas 72766
voice (501) 756 8421
fax (501) 756 0131

from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization none
lines 138

in article apr.20.03.03.06.1993.3836@geneva.rutgers.edu shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker) writes

you ask where we are. i would echo that question. i'm not trying to be
contentious. but assuming that the pope has universal jurisdiction
and authority , what authority do you rely upon for your decisions \?
what prevents me from choosing any doctrine i like and saying that
papal disagreement is an error that will be resolved in time \?
this is especially true , since councils of bishops have basically
stood by the pope.

the ultimate question is the traditional theology of the church. this
is the only thing that it is possible to resist a pope for his
departure from the traditional doctrine of the church. if commands
from any authority conflict with tradition , the commands must be
disobeyed.

my own view on this is that this conflict could only happen in a major
way. god would never allow a hair splitting situation to develop it
would be too complex for people to figure out. i do n't view the
present situation in the church as anything extremely complicated.
run through a list of what has happened in the last 30 years in the
catholic church , and any impartial observer will be aghast.

it appears that much of what lies at the heart of this matter is
disagreements over what is tradition and tradition , and also over
authority and discipline.

the problems stem from a general widespread ignorance of the catholic
faith , in my opinion. most catholics know about zilch about the
catholic faith this leaves them wide open for destruction by erring
bishops. it 's basically the reformation part ii.

there is not even a question in my mind that in some respects the
shards of the catholic church are currently being trampled upon by the
catholic hierarchy. i could go on listing shocking things for an
hour , probably.

take the situation in campos , brazil , for example. i'm reading a book
on what happened there after vatican council ii. the bishop , antonio
de castro mayer , never introduced all the changes that followed in the
wake of vatican ii. he kept the traditional mass , the same old
catechisms , etc. he made sure the people knew their faith , the
catholic theology of obedience , what modernism was , etc. he
innoculated the people against what was coming.

well , one day the order came from rome for his retirement. it came
when the pope was sick. bishop de castro mayer waited until the pope
recovered , then inquired whether this command was what the pope really
wanted , or something that some liberal had commanded in his absence.
the pope confirmed the decision. so the good bishop retired.

the injustice that followed was completely incredible. a new bishop
was installed. he proceeded to expel most of bishop de castro mayer 's
clergy from their churches , because they refused to celebrate the new
mass. the new bishop would visit a parish , and celebrate a new mass.
the people would promptly walk out of the church en masse. the bishop
was enraged by this. he usually resorted to enlisting the help of
the secular authorities to eject the priest from the church. the
priests would just start building new churches the people were
completely behind them. the old parishes had the new mass , as the
bishop desired and virtually no parishioners.

the prime motivation for all this was completely illegal , according to
canon law. no priest can be penalized in any way for saying the
traditional mass , because of legislation enacted by pope saint pius v.
nor is there any obligation to say the new mass.

during all this process , the people of campos , not just private
individuals , but including civil authorities , were constantly sending
petitions and letters to rome to do something about the new modernist
bishop. nothing was ever done no help ever arrived from rome.
eventually 37 priests were kicked out , and about 40 , 000 people.

my question to the supporters of sspx is this

is there any way that your positions with respect to church reforms
could change and be conformed to those of the pope \? (assuming that
the pope 's position does not change and that the leaders of sspx
do n't jointly make such choice.)

if not , this appears to be claiming infallible teaching authority.
if i adopt the view that i'm not wrong , i can't be wrong , and
there 's no way i 'll change my mind , you must change yours , that
i 've either left the catholic church or it has left me.

if the pope defines certain things ex cathedra , that would be the end
of the controversy. that process is all very well understood in
catholic theology , and anyone who does n't go along with it is an
instant non catholic.

the problem here is that people do not appreciate what is going on in
the catholic world. if they knew the faith , and what our bishops are
doing , they would be shocked !

we sould argue from now until the second coming about what the real
traditional teaching of the church is. if this were a simple matter
east and west would not have been separated for over 900 years.

this is n't the case in the catholic church. there is a massive body
of traditional teaching. the popes of the last 150 years are
especially relevant. there is no question at all what the traditional
doctrine is.

i thought that the teaching magisterieum of the church did not allow
error in teachings regarding faith and morals even in the short term.`
i may be wrong here , i'm not roman catholic. )

that 's heresy , more or less. although they have done a great job
since the reformation , the last 30 years have seen so many errors
spread that it 's pitiful.

infallibility rests in the pope , and in the church as a whole. in the
short term , a pope , or large sections of the church can go astray. in
fact , that 's what usually happens during a major heresy large
sections of the church go astray. (the pope historically has been
much more reliable.) everything will always come back in the long
run.

what would be the effect of a pope making an ex cathedra statement
regarding the sspx situation \? would it be honored \? if not , how
do you get around the formal doctrine of infallibility \?
again , i'm not trying to be contentions , i'm trying to understand.
since i'm orthodox , i 've got no real vested interest in the outcome ,
one way or the other.

yes , it would be honored. infallibility is infallibility. but what
is he going to define \? that the new mass is a better expression of
the catholic faith than the old \? that sex education in the catholic
schools is wonderful \? that all religions are wonderful except for
that professed by the popes prior to vatican ii \?

it does if the command was legitimate. sspx does not view the
pope 's commands as legitimate. why \? this is a very slippery slope.

not really start studying the major catholic theologians of the last
300 years. everything is very well spelled out. the west excels at
critical thought , remember \? that 's what catholic theologians have
been busy at for centuries.

from psb@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (jr phillip s buckland)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization kansas state university
lines 168

disclaimer throughout this post , there are statements and questions which
could easily be interpreted as being sarcastic. they are not. i have written
this reply in the most even handed manner that i can , with no emotions boiling
to the surface as it was written. please accept this as a serious attempt to
foster dialog and rest assurred that i make every attempt to make fun of no
one , except myself )

gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

firstly , i am an atheist. i am not posting here as an immature flame
start , but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.

...

1) the human being is an animal who has , due to his her advanced
mental facilities , developed religious as a satisfiable solution to
explain the unexplainable. ...

hmmm. there are other animals on this planet with advanced
mental facilities which have not developed religion as a
satisfactory explaination for the unexplained. why is this so \?

further , it appears that only humans have a need to explain the
unexplained. why is this so \? the other animals on this planet ,
including those with advanced mental facilities , seem perfectly
content in their ignorance.

i 'd like to point out that your presuppositions scream out at me
from your unsupported statement. they are 1) humans are animal
only 2) religion exists as a crutch so that the unexplained need
not be researched 3) religion was made up by humans to address a
perceived need 4) the biological aspect of humans is deified (that
is , all aspects of human life can be categorized in a hierarchical
structure with biology at the apex).

needless to say , i disagree with your strong opinion 1 and the
underlying presuppositions.

christianity is an infectious cult. the reasons it flourishes are
because 1) it gives people without hope or driven purpose in life
a safety blanked to hide behind. oh wow..all i have to do is
follow this christian moral standard and i get eternal happiness.
for all of you found jeezus , how many of you were on the brink \?

i disagree that christianity is an infectious cult . it has
certainly shown itself to be persistent as a belief system , in
spite of various persecutions throughout the past two millenia.
that it continues to persevere does not demonstrate that it is
infectious in a derrogatory sense it may be that it provides
a workable system for its adherents (and i would argue that this
is the case).

i disagree that christianity is a safety blanket which supplants
hope and purpose. rather , it points an individual to the one
source of hope and purpose. there is nothing hidden about a
christian 's source for hope and purpose. of what usefulness to
you is the distinction between internally motivated hope and purpose
and externally given hope and purpose \? is the (apparent) loss of
control over one 's own life the problem or is it something else \?

finally , one does not appropriate eternal happiness by following
christian moral standards. indeed , the sole reason for the existance
of christianity is because standards are inadequate to save people
from their imperfections. moral standards are merely guides to the
christian the real power to moral living is given to the christian
in the person of god 's spirit.

heaven is one of two final states that
christian doctrine postulates. however , christians are generally
not motivated to live according to christian moral standards by this
promised future reward rather , they are motivated by the perceived
benefits to them in the here and now.

but i digress... the other reason christianity flourishes is its
infectious nature. a best friend of mine breifly entered a christian
group and within months , they set ministry guidelines for him which
basicaly said this priority 1 spread the word.

many christian organizations are concerned with evangelism as a
priority , and rightly so (for it was jesus himself who gave this
as a priority for his followers). however , it is not the penultimate
priority as evangelism is normally understood (i.e. preach the word ,
convert at nearly any cost , repeat with new convert ad infinitum).
rather , such evangelism is generally best done through respecting
the opinions of others while demonstrating the very real benefits
of a christian lifestyle. this demonstration should be so powerful
that it compels the non christian to seek out the christian to ask
why \? needless to say , such a demonstration is not easily accom
plished (it takes a radical committment to the person of jesus) , it
does not happen quickly (so perseverance on the part of the christian
is required) , and it cannot occur where no personal bonds of
friendship exist (it is ineffective with strangers who cannot
evaluate the demonstration over time , and it is easy to alienate or
harm others if the sole purpose of being a friend is to gain a
conversion).

as a long time christian (nearly 20 years) , i view with some skep
ticism all evangelism programs which incorporate a hurry up
attitude. pressured conversions may ultimately be worse than no
conversion at all (because the pressured convert realizes s he was
coerced and disavows christianity when they would have been open
to it in the future had they not been taken advantage of now).
the bible states that it is the very spirit of god which brings
conviction of wrong doing to people. i am content to do my part
(witness) and let the spirit do the rest.

we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and we
die.

we are far more than animals. we sleep , eat , reproduce , and die
just as other animals do true. but , we are also capable of more
than this. if your personal vision of humanity (or of yourself) is
so limited , i can only hope and pray ) that you will someday find
a more expansive view.

(for reflection , what animals have the wide variety of performing
arts that humans do \? how is it that humans can learn the language
of other humans (or animals) but that other animals cannot do so \?
how is it that humans can organize themselves in various social
structures whereas other animals have only one structure \? )

religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.

blatant assertion. christianity is not physically addictive.
christianity is not psychologically addictive. christianity is not
a thing which one snorts ingests shoots up it is a relationship
with a living being. you might as validly characterize any close
knit relationship with this appelation.

some people use drugs as an escape from reality. christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high.

there are jesus freaks who let the emotional aspects of worship
and christian living gain (and retain) the upper hand. even so ,
this does not by itself invalidate the foundation from which these
things flow.

it pities me how many millions of lives have been lost in religious
wars , of which christianity has had no small part.

guilty by association \? that christianity which forces itself
upon another is not christianity at all.

when christians see a non believer , they say that person is blind
to the truth , but they cannot realize that it is they who live
with this mask of fakeness each day. jesus was just prophet 37696
who happened to have a large influence because at that time the romans
were (circa 69ad) dispersing the jewish population and communities
needed some sort of cohesive element to keep them strong in that time
of dire need.

you appear to have an amazing certainty about what really happened
2000 years ago. how did you come by it \?

i cannot accept your conclusion that jesus' influence was a sole
result of the roman sack of jerusalem in 70ad. he was 30 years
gone by this time. it strains the bounds of credulity to assert
that nothing about jesus' life was noteworthy until the sack.

i must go. these are but a few of my thoughts on christianity.

christianity is having a relationship with jesus christ himself.
what do you know of him \?


we read the world wrong phil buckland
and say that it deceives us. psb@eece.ksu.edu
tagore , from stray birds psb@matt.ksu.ksu.edu

from pwhite@empros.com (peter white)
subject some questions from a new christian
lines 50

reply to pwhite@empros.com
in article apr.15.00.58.29.1993.28900@athos.rutgers.edu , 18669@bach.udel.edu (steven r hoskins) writes

i have another question i would like to ask. i am not yet affiliated
with any one congregation. aside from matters of taste , what criteria
should one use in choosing a church \? i do n't really know the difference
between the various protestant denominations.

here in america people tend to think of choosing a church much like they
think of choosing a car or a country club. what i mean is that our
culture is such that we tend towards satisfying our own wants rather
than considering things with others in mind and not making prayer
an initial and primary part of the decision process. people tend to
treat church as they would a club and when something is less than to
their liking , off they go to another one.

i think that scripture presents the idea that god takes a different
perspective on the church choosing process . it seems to me from 1cor 12
that god does n't subscribe to the idea of us choosing a church at all
but that he places us in the body as he wants us. so , i think a better
question is not how do i choose a church but how do i figure out where
god is trying to place me.

if a person was instrumental in leading you to christ , the church they
go to is a logical first choice. you have been born into the family of
god. people should hop around from church to church as often as they
hop from natural family to family.

if you met the lord on your own (so to speak) there may not be an
easily identifiable church to try for starters. here you are more
like an orphan. prayerfully go and leave yourself on a few doorsteps
and see if anyplace feels like home.

i would n't expect that god want to place you in a church where you
have difficulty fitting in with the people , but on the other hand
there are no perfect churches. if you have an attitude of looking
for problems you will both find them and make them. on the other hand
if you have an attitude of love and committment , you will spread that
wherever you go.

in general , i think that god will try to place you in a church that
talks about the lord in the way that you have come to know him and is
expanding on that base.

peter white
disclaimer none of what is written necessarily reflects
a view of my company.
phil i want to know christ and the power of his
3 10 resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in
niv his sufferings , becoming like him in his death

from shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker)
subject re christians and aids
organization shell oil
lines 49

in article apr.8.00.57.49.1993.28271@athos.rutgers.edu marka@travis.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes
in article apr.7.01.55.33.1993.22762@athos.rutgers.edu kevin@pictel.pictel.com (kevin davis) writes
many christians believe in abstinence , but in a moment will be overcome
by desire. we all compromise and rationalize poor choices (sin). last
week i was guilty of anger , jealousy , and whole mess of other stuff ,
yet i am forgiven and not condemned to suffer with aids. to even
suggest that aids is deserved is ludicrous.

when man was told not to have sex with relatives , did they listen \?
no ! and man found out why !

so what 's your point \? mark 's comment still is valid. to suggest that
aids is deserved is ludicrous. i sin. i can resolve to abstain from
sin , and do weekly (more often , actually). yet i routinely fail.
i surely do deserve what i get , yet god compassionately provided
the incarnate logos , jesus , as a rememdy and a way out of our situation.
if aids is deserved , i surely deserve instant death just as much , as do
we all , as st. paul so cogently remids us.

to willingly judge others as deserving punishment seems to me
to be the height of arrogance and lack of humility.

i wonder if aids would be a problem now if people did n't get
involved in deviant sexual behaviour. certainly , people who
received tainted blood are not to blame. but it just goes
to show that all mankind is affected by the actions of a few.

so what 's the point here \? i can get aids and never engage in
deviant sexual behavior. in fact , i could engage in lots
of deviant sexual behavior with hiv people and never be
infected. aids is a consequence of particular behaviors ,
many of which are not sexual. and not all sexual behaviors
carry the risk of transmission.

in addition , imho forgiveness is not the end of things.
there is still the matter of atonement. is it aids \?
i do n't know.

the end of all things is to know , love and serve god , growing
daily closer through prayer , meditation and discipline. even so
i could get aids. anyone could , unless they remain forever celibate ,
iv drug free , and transfusion free.

larry overacker (llo@shell.com)


lawrence overacker
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965
llo@shell.com

from cpage@two step.seas.upenn.edu (carter c. page)
subject re prayer in jesus' name
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 46

in article apr.9.01.09.22.1993.16580@athos.rutgers.edu munns@cae.wisc.edu (scott munns) writes
eventually , we got around to how
we should pray in jesus' name. then , an excellent question came up , one
that i do n't have a real answer to. the question was , if we need to pray
in jesus' name , what about the people before jesus \? they prayed to god
and he listened then , in spite of their sins. why ca n't it be the same
way now \?

and in that day you will ask me no question. truly , truly , i say to
you , if you shall ask the father for anything , he will give it to you
in my name. until now you have asked for nothing in my name ask , and
you will receive , that your joy may be made full.
john 16 23 24

i do n't believe that we necessarily have to say . . . in christ 's name.
amen , for our prayers to be heard , but it glorifies the son , when we
acknowledge that our prayer is made possible by him. i believe that just as
those who were saved in the ot , could only be saved because jesus would one day
reconcile god to man , he is the only reason their prayers would be heard by
god.

for all of us have become like one who is unclean ,
and all our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment
and all of us wither like a leaf ,
and our iniquities , like the wind , take us away.
isaiah 64 6 , nas

our prayers like the rest of our deeds are too unholy to go directly to the
father because they are tainted by our sin. only by washing these prayers with
christ 's blood are they worthy to be lifted to to the father.

first , i thank my god through christ jesus . . .
romans 1 8 , nas

some scholars believe that this is paul recognizing that even his thanks are
too unholy for the father.
basically , prayer is a gift of grace , i believe that only through jesus
do our prayers have any power thus , praying in his name glorifies and praises
jesus for this beautiful and powerful gift he has given us.


carter c. page of happiness the crown and chiefest part is wisdom ,
a carpenter 's apprentice and to hold god in awe. this is the law that ,
cpage@seas.upenn.edu seeing the stricken heart of pride brought down ,
we learn when we are old. adapted from sophocles


from gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com (gary chin)
subject re when are two people married in god 's e
reply to gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 32

in article 28727@athos.rutgers.edu , 62johnson@cua.edu (yusef al tariq) writes
who 's law is it that a wedding has to happen in a church \? the only reqirement
is that you and the bride agreee to marry each other. how also can you say
christian wedding when the proces of marriage is nt really discussed in the
bible. why mus t a person get a civil marriage also \? the only standards i
look to are those imposed upon me by god... not of society.

if you want to live with someone , you can.
if you do n't want to have a civil marriage , do n't.
if you do n't want to have a wedding in a church , do n't.
if you want to call that a marriage , go right ahead.

i hope that the young people that are around you , do n't follow your example.



gary chin
staff engineer
sun microsystems
mt. view , ca
gchin@eng.sun.com


if the original message claims that marriage is not discussed in the
bible , i have to disagree. various aspects of marriage are discussed
in some of paul 's letters , ephesians 5 sees marriage as a symbol of
god 's relationship with the church. if it means specifically that the
marriage ceremony is n't described , then that seems to be true. but i
think what most people mean by christian marriage is not so much that
it takes place in a church as that the parties undertake the various
commitments to each other that are associated with marriage in the
bible. clh

from jonh@david.wheaton.edu (jonathan hayward)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization wheaton college , il
lines 46

in article apr.5.23.31.36.1993.23919@athos.rutgers.edu by028@cleveland.freenet.edu (gary v. cavano) writes
i'm new to this group , and maybe this has been covered already ,
but does anybody out there see the current emphasis on the
environment being turned (unintentionally , of course) into
pantheism \?

yes.

(i am adamantly an environmentalist. i will not use styrofoam table service.
please keep that in mind as you read this post i do not wish to attack
environmentalism)

a half truth is at least as dangerous as a complete lie. a complete lie will
rarely be readily accepted , while a half truth (the lie subtly hidden) is more
powerfully offered by one who masquerades as an angel of light.

satan has (for some people) loosened the grip on treating the earth as something
other than god 's intricate handiwork , something other than that on which the
health of future generations is based. it is being treated with respect. you
think he 's going to happily leave it at that \? no. when one error is rejected ,
it is his style to push people to the opposite error. therefore the earth is
not god 's intricate handiwork , not because it is rubbish , but because it is
god. mother earth is the one you are to primarily love and serve.

i see two facets of a response to it

1 care for the environment. treat it with proper respect , both because it is
god 's intricate handiwork and the health of future generation , and because
showing the facet of one who is disregardful of such things does not
constitute what the apostle paul called becoming all things to all men so
that by all possible means i might save some.

do n't say forget the environment , i 've got important things to spend my time
on. putting your foot in your mouth in this manner will destroy your
credibility in expressing the things that are more important.

2 show that it is not the ultimate entity , that it is creature and not
creator. show that its beauty and glory points to a greater beauty and
glory. show that it is not the ultimate tapestry , but one of many cords
woven in the infinite tapestry.


god , give me mountains but the greatest jonathan hayward
to climb and the of these is love. jonathan hayward@wheaton.edu
strength for climbing. i corinthians 13 13 jhayward@imsa.edu


from e p@unl.edu (edgar pearlstein)
subject legal definition of religion
organization university of nebraska lincoln
lines 8


.
it 's my understanding that the u.s. supreme court has never
given a legal definition of religion. this despite the many
cases involving religion that have come before the court.
can anyone verify or falsify this \?
has any state or other government tried to give a legal
definition of religion \?

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck)
subject daily verse
lines 4


the god of peace will soon crush satan under your feet.
the grace of our lord jesus be with you.
romans 16 20

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 39

to recapitulate a bit

the essence of marriage is two people 's commitment to each other.

if two people claim to be married in their hearts but are not
willing to have the marriage recognized by church and state , that 's
prima facie evidence that the commitment is n't really there.

there are obvious situations in which christian marriage is possible
without a civil or church wedding if you 're stranded on a desert
island , or if your state forbids the marriage for an unjust reason
(e.g. , laws against interracial marriage).

the legal concept of common law marriage is meant to ensure that
the state will recognize marriages that did not start out with the
usual ceremony and record keeping.

pastorally , i'm concerned that people should not use being married
in god 's eyes as an excuse for living together without a formal wedding.
one has a duty to have one 's marriage properly recorded and witnessed.

but there are also people who have been through a wedding ceremony
without making a genuine commitment , and therefore are not married
in god 's eyes. right \?

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

i think the last statement is dangerous. i believe as long as
someone has formally undertaken the responsibility of marriage , they
have a moral obligation , even if their intention was not right. other
people are involved in the marriage covenant. if they believed in
good faith that a marriage occurred , then i think there are
obligations created to them. of course there are situations where
intent can cause a marriage not to exist. the classic example is when
it 's done as part of a play. but these are exceptions , and should be
clear to all parties. clh

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization indiana university
lines 13

i 've just read carol 's response and i just had to get into this. i 've
got some verses which are not subject to interpretation because they say
what they say. they are 2 peter 1 20 21 , 2 timothy 3 16 17 , and
galatians 1 11 12.

also , based on the fact that jesus is the word incarnate and he judges
people if they follow him (see acts 17 29 31 and john 5 21 27) and that
those who reject jesus' teachings are judged by the very words he spoke
(see john 12 47 50) , then jesus' words are true and do not need
interpretation , nor would it be just of god to judge based on his word
if it had to be interpreted.

joe fisher

from gifford@oasys.dt.navy.mil (barbara gifford)
subject the mystery in the paradox
reply to gifford@oasys.dt.navy.mil (barbara gifford)
organization carderock division , nswc , bethesda , md
lines 9

i have been looking for a book that specifically addresses
the mystery of god in the paradox. i have read some that touch
on the subject in a chapter but would like a more detailed read.

is anyone aware of any books that deal with this subject.

please e mail me. thanks.

barbara

from mls@panix.com (michael siemon)
subject re weirdness of early christians
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 58

were the early christians weird \? yes ! so were their non christian
contemporaries (the more familiar you are with late republican rome
or the pricipate , the weirder those people will seem forget the
creative filtering done by renaissance and eighteenth century hero
worship.) so are modern non christians. and christians.

you are pretty weird , yourself , with your rather acid dismissal of
luther and of protestantism and in apparently buying into a
simplistic propaganda model about catholicism not being faddish.
sure , it 's so large that global fads take longer cycles than they
do in smaller denominations (and local ones are not usually visible
unless you do a lot of traveling to exotic lands )). may i recom
mend , as a salutary antidote to this nonsense philippe aries' book
the hour of our death , a longitudinal study of death customs in
western specifically catholic christendom \?

and it wo n't help to escape into the obscurity of the first christian
century. paul was pretty weird , too as were peter and the others in
the (apparently quite weird) circle around jesus.

what i think you might find helpful is a bit more charity try to
understand these weirdos and nutcases with the same respect and love
you would expect others to show your notions. we are commanded to
love one another , after all. and brown 's book is , in fact , a heroic
attempt to see the groupings he talks about as motivated in love and
the gospel and their social contexts. (if anything , brown is too
heroic here he manages to overstrain himself at times ))

i do n't suggest that we follow any of these old cult paths and
it raises hard questions from the skeptic inside me that so much of
early christianity was like the weird (christian and non christian)
cults we see today. to that extent , i think you raise a serious
problem (and perhaps your phrasing is implicitly self deprecatory
and ironic.)

but the first principle for answering these questions is respect and
love for those we do not understand. and it helps to work at under
standing (as long as we do not get overwhelmed by revulsion and begin
to withdraw our respect for them as people.) i would advise , in other
words , more historical reading (brown 's other books are also good , most
especially his bio. of augustine also try robin lane fox 's christians
and pagans , maybe the paul veyne ed. history of private life , some
of foucault 's books on sexuality in the ancient world ...)

humanity is weird we have known one sane person , and we killed him.
fortunately for us , this has proved a comedy rather than a tragedy.

easter , 1993.

(yes this is a tad early our vigil service here has been moved forward
because so many churches in the area have taken to doing their own vigils ,
and the seminarians must therefore worship and run if they are to do it
here and there as well. think of this as an anglican fad. ))

michael l. siemon we must know the truth , and we must
mls@ulysses.att.com love the truth we know , and we must
or act according to the measure of our love.
mls@panix.com thomas merton

from schnitzi@osceola.cs.ucf.edu (mark schnitzius)
subject re atheists and hell
organization university of central florida
lines 33

atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes

1) atheists believe that when they die , they die forever.

2) a god who would condemn those who fail to believe in him to eternal death
is unfair.

i do n't see what the problem is ! to christians , hell is , by definition ,
eternal death exactly what atheists are expecting when they die.

well , i think that most christians believe that your conciousness will
somehow continue on after your 'physical' death , which contradicts what
most atheists (myself included) believe , namely that your conciousness ,
being contained in your brain , dies when your brain dies.

there 's no
reason hell has to be especially awful to most people , eternal death is bad
enough.

i fear the pain that often comes with the process of dying , but since i
wo n't be around to worry about it , i do n't fear eternal death.

literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such.

this is something i 've always found confusing. if all your nerve endings
die with your physical body , why would flame hurt you \? how can one wail
and gnash teeth with no lungs and no teeth \?


mark schnitzius
schnitzi@eola.cs.ucf.edu
university of central florida

from salaris@niblick.ecn.purdue.edu (rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits)
subject satan and mtv
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 25

somewhere , someone told me that satan was the angel in charge of
music in heaven , and on top of that , he was the most beautiful
of the angels. is n't it funny that these days how mtv has become
the bible of music and beauty these days. mtv controls what bands
are popular , no matter how bad they are. in fact , it is better to
be politically correct like u2 , madonna than to have any
musical talent. then of course , you have this television station
that tells us all how to dress. think about it , who started the
retro fashion craze \? \? mtv and madonna. gag.

anyway , just food for thought. it is really my own wierd theory.

if revelation was to come true today , i think mtv would the ever
changing waters (music and fashion world) that the beast would
arise from , and madonna will be the whore of babylon , riding the
beast and drinking the blood of the martyrs.

hmmmm....great idea for a book movie.....



steven c. salaris we 're...a lot more dangerous than 2 live crew
salaris@carcs1.wustl.edu and their stupid use of foul language because
we have ideas. we have a philosophy.
geoff tate queensryche

from aaronc@athena.mit.edu (aaron bryce cardenas)
subject re christians and aids
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 94

paul conditt writes
yes , it 's important to realize that all actions have consequences ,
and that rules were made for our own good. but to suggest that a
disease is a punishment for certain types of sin i think is
taking things much too far.
text deleted
yes , sin can have terrible consequences , but we need to be real
careful when saying that the consequences are a punishment for
sin.

i wish that you had followed this thread before jumping to conclusions.
i have n't seen anybody write that aids was a punishment for certain
types of sin (this includes mark ashley who you were responding to
here). i myself wrote that when you do n't do things god 's way that
curses will come on you and others. although one definition of 'curse'
is 'retribution' , i only meant 'harm or misfortune' when i used the
word. because god loves us he has told us the best way to live in his
bible. god does n't cause curses , he warns us of them.

kevin davis wrote (a while ago)
last week i was guilty of anger , jealousy , and whole mess of
other stuff , yet i am forgiven and not condemned to suffer with
aids. to even suggest that aids is deserved is ludicrous.

the bible makes it clear that we all equally deserve death (which is
much worse than aids) we have all hurt god with our sin.

paul conditt reveals his feelings
in case you could n't tell , i get extremely angry and upset when
i see things like this. instead of rationalizing our own fears and
phobias , we need to be reaching out to people with aids and other
socially unacceptable diseases. whether they got the disease through
their own actions or not is irrelevant. they still need jesus...

the first issue you bring up is your anger. it is obvious ly wrong to
be angry (gal 5 19 20) for any reason , especially extremely angry
which is on par with hatred. jesus has every reason to be angry at us
for putting him on the cross with our sin , yet his prayer was forgive
them father , they know not what they do. knowing how forgiving jesus
has been with me calls me to be more forgiving with everyone out of
love for him. please do n't give in to anger , it will only cause
foolish quarrels and more bad feelings.

it 's okay if you read something that bothers you , but you need to
address it in a loving way. if right now , i felt like someone out
there was saying that god punishes gay or sexually immoral people with
aids because they deserve punishment that others do n't then i would
frame a response something like this

it makes me feel very sad for someone to believe that aids , which is
simply a harmful disease not so unlike any other , is god 's punishment
for people who have committed certain sins. god loves all of his
children equally and rejoices when a single one comes back to him. we
will all be judged after we die , but until then we all have the
opportunity to accept god 's grace by earnestly seeking after him with
all of our hearts , believing the gospel 's testimony , repenting of our
sin , confessing that jesus is lord at baptism , and living a new life
for him.
let us not judge someone to be eternally condemned. god 's arm is not
to short to save. he will do anything he can to move a hardened heart
or a misled person. he works for the good of all men. even through
the worst of situations , he has set the times and places for all men
that they may perhaps reach out and find him.

the second issue you bring up is seeing people rationalize their fears
of people with aids. fortunately , what you describe as seeing is
actually misperceiving. you have been missing the points made in the
earlier posts and reacting in anger to attitudes that have n't been
expressed. i know that its sometimes hard to discount your
perceptions , but please try to be open minded.

you are quite correct in saying that we should reach out to all people
because they all need jesus. this is what my brothers and sisters and
i do on a daily basis. if you would like to send me the name of the
city and state you live in , i will find and get you in touch with some
brothers who have aids or know people with aids and live nearby you so
that you can see the loving attitudes for yourself.

the third issue you bring up is the importance of how some individual
contracted aids. how someone gets aids is only relevant to their
salvation in that there may be repetence involved.

the important point to be made , however , is that not listening to god 's
commands (or advice or warnings) , i.e. sinning , causes harm or
misfortune to yourself and others. for this reason , a good way to
prevent the misfortune of aids , which can be transmitted in sinful ways ,
is to listen to god 's advice and have sex only with your wife or
husband.

i hope that you are feeling better now , paul.

love ,

aaron cardenas

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re the doctrine of original sin
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 22

eugene bigelow writes

does n't the bible say that god is a fair god sic \? if this is true ,
how can this possibly be fair to the infants \?

what do you mean fair \? god is just , giving to everyone what they
deserve. as all infants are in sin from the time of conception (cf
romans 5.12 , psalm 1.7) , they cannot possibly merit heaven , and as
purgatory is for the purging of temporal punishment and venial sins , it
is impossible that origianl sin can be forgiven. hence , the unbaptized
infants are cut off from the god against whom they , with the whole of
the human race except mary , have sinned. which is why jesus said ,
truly , truly i say to you , no one can enter the kingdom of god unless
he is born of water and spirit which is the true meaning of born again
(john 3.5). thus , as infants are in sin , it is very fair for them to be
cut off from god and exlcuded from heaven.

as st. augustine said , i did not invent original sin , which the
catholic faith holds from ancient time but you , who deny it , without a
doubt are a follower of a new heresy. (de nuptiis , lib. 11.c.12)

andy byler

from noring@netcom.com (jon noring)
subject re christians that are not church members
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 69

in article gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com writes

over the years , i have met christians who are not associated with
any local church and are not members of any local church. this is
an issue that may be very personal , but is important. what does
the bible say about this and how can we encourage our friends with
regard to this issue \?

this brings up an interesting subject that has not been discussed much ,
and probably has not been studied much.

as some of you may be aware , i 've posted a lot of articles lately on
personality typing (of which the mbti is a test vehicle). to come up
to speed , just read 'alt.psychology.personality' and or ask for by
personality type summary file.

one observation is that people have significantly different personalities
(no question on this) which seem to be essentially in born. with respect
to church attendance and participation , some people thrive on this , while
other people have real difficulty with this because they prefer a more
solitary and contemplative lifestyle that is , they are de energized if
confronted with excessive closeness to outside activities and lots of
people. of course this is measured by extroversion introversion.

my impression is that many churches are totally blind to this fact , and
create environments that 'scare away' many who are naturally introverted
(there are many introverted characters in the bible , btw). i know , i am
quite introverted in preference , and find the 'pressure' by many churches
to participate , to meet together in large groups , etc. , to be very
uncomfortable. knowing what i know now , these churches have been overly
influenced by highly extroverted people who thrive on this sort of thing.
(btw , there 's nothing wrong with either extroversion or introversion , both
preferences have their place in the body).

maybe i should define extrovert introvert more carefully since these words
are usually not used correctly in our culture. the extrovert introvert
scale is a measure of how a person is energized. the following is
excerpted from my summary

1. energizing how a person is energized

extroversion (e) preference for drawing energy from the outside
world of people , activities or things.

introversion (i) preference for drawing energy from one 's internal
world of ideas , emotions , or impressions.


hopefully this will elicit further discussion as to how churches can
structure themselves to meet the real needs of the people who comprise
the body of christ , instead of trying to change people 's personalities
to fit them into a particular framework. i'm sure there are other aspects
of how churches have not properly understood personality variances among
their members to the detriment of all.

jon noring



charter member infj club.

if you 're dying to know what infj means , be brave , e mail me , i 'll send info.

jon noring noring@netcom.com
jkn international ip 192.100.81.100 fred's gourmet chocolate
1312 carlton place phone (510) 294 8153 chips world 's best !
livermore , ca 94550 v mail (510) 417 4101

who are you \? read alt.psychology.personality ! that 's where the action is.

from caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin)
subject re the arrogance of christians
lines 88

vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes
in article apr.13.00.08.35.1993.28412@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
(virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes
(carol alvin) writes
...
are all truths also absolutes \?
is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes) \?

the answer to both questions is yes.

...
an absolute is something that is constant across time , culture ,
situations , etc. true in every instance possible. do you agree
with this definition \? ...

yes , i do agree with your definition. ...

example of women covering their heads and not speaking

hold it. i said that all of scripture is true. however , discerning
exactly what jesus , paul and company were trying to say is not always so
easy. i do n't believe that paul was trying to say that all women should
behave that way. rather , he was trying to say that under the circumstances
at the time , the women he was speaking to would best avoid volubility and
cover their heads. this has to do with maintaining a proper witness toward
others. remember that any number of relativistic statements can be derived
from absolutes. for instance , it is absolutely right for christians to
strive for peace. however , this does not rule out trying to maintain world
peace by resorting to violence on occasion. (yes , my opinion.)

i agree that there is truth in scripture. there are principles to be
learned from it. claiming that that truth is absolute , though , seems
to imply a literal reading of the bible. if it were absolute truth
(constant across time , culture , etc.) then no interpretation would be
necessary.

it may be that the lessons gleaned from various passages are different
from person to person. to me , that does n't mean that one person is
right and the other is wrong. i believe that god transcends our simple
minds , and that scripture may very well have been crafted with exactly
this intent. god knows me , and knows that my needs are different
from yours or anyone else 's. by claiming that scripture is absolute ,
then at least one person in every disputed interpretation must be wrong.
i just do n't believe that god is that rigid.

evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture
to be absolute truth. (and there are plenty of other examples.)
can you reconcile this \?

sure. the bible preaches absolute truths. however , exactly what those
truths are is sometimes a matter of confusion. as i said , the bible does
preach absolute truths. sometimes those fundamental principles are crystal
clear (at least to evangelicals).

this is where the arrogance comes in to play. since these principles
are crystal clear to evangelicals , maybe the rest of us should just take
their word for it \? maybe it is n't at all crystal clear to me that
their fundamental principles are either fundamental or principles.

i think we 've established that figuring out biblical truth is a matter
of human interpretation and therefore error prone. yet you can still
claim that some of them may be crystal clear \? maybe to a certain
segment of christianity , but to all.

it 's very difficult to see how you can claim something which is based
on your own interpretation is absolute.

god revealed his truths to the world , through his word. it is utterly
unavoidable , however , that some people whill come up with alternate
interpretations. practically anything can be misinterpreted , especially
when it comes to matters of right and wrong. care to deny that \?

not at all. i think it supports my position much more effectively
than yours. )

so , i think that your position is
the bible is absolute truth , but as we are prone to error in our
interpretation , we cannot reliably determine if we have figured out
what that truth is.
did i get that right \?

what 's the point of spending all this time claiming and defending
absolute truth , when we can never know what those truths are , and we
can never (or at least should n't) act upon them \? what practical
difference can this make \?

carol alvin
caralv@auto trol.com

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

be devoted to one another in brotherly love. honor one another above
yourselves.

romans 12 10

from ka2czu@cbnewsh.att.com
subject christians in the martial arts
organization at t
lines 39

greetings and salutations !

i would like to get in touch with people who
(a) consider themselves christians (you define it) , and
(b) are in the martial arts

some topics for discussion
your particular martial art
your view of the relationship between
christianity and your art
your view of the relationship between
your christianity and your art
why should a christian participate in ma
why should n't a christian participate in ma
biblical views of ma pro or con.

for example , i heard from one fellow
...i tried the karate for christ thing and it was n't for me...
why or why not \?

as an aside , i am involved (in no official way) with an
organization called the christian black belt association and
i would also like to distribute info regarding upcoming events
to those who are interested . no , you wo n't be put on any
mailing list nor will your name be sold .

however , if you are intested in an email list , let me know.

i am interested in email replies only as this is cross posted
to groups i do n't normally read. if anyone wants a summary
or , of course , on going discussion , then let me know.


shalom ,
robert switzer
ka2czu@cbnewsh.att.com

bell labs , 200 laurel ave. , 2b 334 , middletown , nj 07748 4801 usa (908)957 2923
... . amateur radio operator ka2czu robert switzer

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck)
subject daily verse
lines 6

for the lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout , with the voice
of an archangel , and with the trumpet of god. and the dead in christ will
rise first. then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together
to meet the lord in the air. and thus we shall always be with the lord.

1 thessalonians 4 16 17

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject when are two people married
lines 128

listowner i have sent this to mr anderson privately. post it only
if you think it of general interest.

here is a copy of something i wrote for another list. you may
find it relevant.

a listmember asks

what makes common law marriages wrong \?

a common law marriage is not necessarily wrong in itself. there is
nothing in the bible (old or new testament) about getting married by
a preacher , or by a priest (jewish or christian). and in fact jewish
priests have never had any connection with weddings.

there is a common notion that the marriage is performed by the
clergyman. in fact , the traditional christian view (at least in the
west) is that the bride and groom are the ministers of the marriage ,
and that the clergyman is there only as a witness.

however !

the essential ingredient of a marriage is mutual commitment. two
persons are considered to be married if and only if they have bound
themselves by mutual promises to live together as husband and wife ,
forsaking all others , till death do them part.

the reason why those who have reason to be concerned about who
is married to whom have always insisted on some kind of public
ceremony is in order that society , and the couple themselves , may be
clear about whether a commitment has been made.

suppose that we do away with the public ceremony , the standard vows ,
etc. instead , we have a man and a woman settling down to live
together.
after a year or so , the man says to the woman hey , honey , it
was great while it lasted , but i think it 's time to move on.
she says what are you talking about \?
he says i am leaving you and looking for someone prettier and
younger.
she says but you ca n't. we are married !
he says what are you talking about \? we never got married.
she says i remember distinctly what you said to me the night
we first made love. you said my love for you is as deep as the
ocean , as eternal as the stars. as long as i live , i am yours ,
utterly and completely. when i lie on my deathbed , my last feeble
breath will utter your name. my...
he says oh that ! that was just rhetoric. just poetry. when a
man is in a romantic mood , he is bound to say all kinds of silly
things like that. you must n't take them literally.

and that is why you have an insistence on a formal ceremony that is
a matter of public record.
the church insists on it , because it is her duty (among other
things) to give moral advice , and you cannot give a man moral advice
about his relations with a woman if you have no idea who is married
to whom , if anybody , and vice versa.
the state insists on it , since the state has a concern with
property rights , with child care and support , and therefore needs to
know who has made what commitments to whom.
prospective fathers in law insist on it , because they do n't
want their daughters seduced and abandoned.
prospective spouses insist on it , because they want to make
sure they know whether what they are hearing is a real commitment ,
or just poetry.
and persons making vows themselves insist on making them
formally and publicly , in order that they may be clear in their own
minds about what it is that they are doing , and may know themselves
that this is not just rhetoric. this is the real thing.

hence the insistence on a formal public explicit avowal of the
marriage commitment. the church goes further and insists that , when
christians marry , a clergyman shall be present at the wedding and
record the vows on behalf of the church , not because it is
impossible to have a valid wedding without a clergyman , but in order
to make sure that the couple understand what the christian teaching
about marriage is , and that they are in fact promising to be married
in a christian sense. the church also prefers a standard marriage
vow , and is wary of letting couples write their own vows , for much
the same reason that lawyers prefer standard terminology when they
draw up a will or a contract. certain language has been repeatedly
used in wills , and one can be sure how the courts will interpret it.
try to say the same thing in your own words , and you may find that
the probate judge 's interpretation of them is not at all what you
intended. similarly , the church prefers to avoid endless debates
about whether you are my main squeeze and i am here for the long
haul do in fact cover the same territory as forsaking all others
and till death do us part.

this topic has come up on the list before. (is there any topic
that has n't \? ) one listmember was asking , if a couple love each
other and are living together , is n't that marriage in the eyes of
god \? eventually someone asked , in that case , what is their status
if they break up \? is that the moral equivalent of getting a divorce \?
are they in a relationship that god forbids either of them to walk
out on \? the original questioner said good grief , i never thought
of that ! in fact , there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that
someone who says , we do n't need a piece of paper or a ceremony in
front of a judge or a preacher in order to show that we love each
other , is trying to have it both ways to have the advantages of
marriage plus the option of changing his mind with a minimum of
bother.

at this point someone may say , none of this applies to me and my
mate. we are quite clear on the fact that we have assumed a lifelong
commitment , 'for better or worse , forsaking all others , till death
us do part.' so in our case , no ceremony is needed.
to this my reply would be the reason for requiring a driver 's
license is to keep dangerous drivers off the road. what is wrong in
itself is not the existence of unlicensed drivers , but the existence
of dangerous drivers. however , testing and licensing drivers is an
obvious and reasonable means of pursuing the goal of reducing the
number of dangerous drivers on the road. therefore the state rightly
makes and enforces such laws , and you the citizen have a positive
moral obligation to refrain from driving without a license no matter
how much of a hotshot behind the wheel you think you are.

back to the original question. we have a listmember who knows a
couple who have been living together for around 20 years. he asks
at what point did they stop fornicating and start being married \? i
answer at the point , if any , where they both definitely and
explicitly accepted an obligation to be faithful to each other , for
better or worse , as long as they both lived. if they have accepted
such an obligation , what are their reasons for not being willing to
declare it in front of , say , a justice of the peace \?

yours ,
james kiefer

from fsspr@acad3.alaska.edu (hardcore alaskan)
subject looking for videotapes
lines 44

i have been looking at some of the recent productions on homosexuality
and decided that i was interested in videotaped copies of these. if
anyone can help me out here , i would very much appreciate it.

here is what i am looking for

the gay agenda produced by ty beeson 's group the report.

john ankerberg 's recent series understanding homosexuality and
experiencing genuine change.

james kennedy 's special on homosexuality which aired this week ,
and the portion of the previous week 's program which discussed the
gay agenda.

i will not pay money for copies , since this is copyrighted material
and that would be illegal. i will pay for return postage. if
somebody can think of something they would desire in trade , please let
me know and i 'll see what i can do.

oh , btw , i'm watching the march on washington right now on c span.
other than the fact that i'm generally repulsed by what i'm watching ,
i found one thing of interest. general david dinkins just finished
speaking , and remarked that the new york city delegation consists of
about 200 , 000 people. funny , i do n't see 200 , 000 people out there ,
period. must 've been quite the party scene last night. or maybe
their exaggerations were just too much.

sean patrick ryan fsspr@aurora.alaska.edu or sean@freds.cojones.com
3215 oregon dr. 2 , anchorage , ak 99517 2048 907 272 9184 fnord
abortion stops a beating heart disclaimer i did n't inhale , either
iditarod scoreboard 1993 men 16 , women 5 read alt.flame.sean ryan

i do n't suppose you 'd be interested in hearing about the homosexual
agenda from homosexual christians \? these portrayals of the homosexual
agenda are regarded by some as being somewhat akin to trying to
understand fundamentalist christianity by looking at the branch
dividians. you might also want to look at some outside evaluations of
the groups claiming to change homosexuals. when our church (the
presbyterian church (usa)) looked into this issue , even the
conservative members of the committee were concerned about how real
and long lasting the changes were. i 'll be interested to get reports
from police and the press about the number of people participating
today. presumably we 'll have a better idea by tomorrow. clh

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re revelations babylon \?
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 38

rex (rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov) writes

it is also of interest to note that in 1825 , on the occasion of a
jubilee , pope leo the 12th had a medallion cast with his own image on
one side and on the other side , the church of rome symbolized as a
woman , holding in her left hand a cross , and in her right a cup with
legend around her , 'sedet super universum' , 'the whole world is her
seat.

you read more into the medal than it is worth. the woman is the
church. catholics have always called our church holy mother church
and our mother. an example would be from st. cyprian of carthage , who
wrote in 251 ad , can anyone have god for his father , who does not have
the church for his mother \?
hence the image of the church as a woman , holding a cross and a cup ,
which tell of the crucifxition of our lord , and of the power of his
blood (the grail legend , but also , more significantly , it shows that
this is the cup of the new covenant in my blood , which shall be shed
for you and for many. (luke 22.20) , the cup represents the new covenant
and holds the blood of redemption). the fact that the woman is holding
both and is said to have the whole world for her seat , is that the
catholic church is catholic , that is universal , and is found throughout
the world , and the church shows the crucifixtion and applies the blood
of redemption to all mankind by this spread of hers , thorugh which the
holy sacrafice of the mass , can be said and celebrated in all the
nations as malachi predicted in malachi 1.11 , from the rising of the
sun to its setting , my name is great among the gentiles , and everywhere
there is sacrafice , and there is offered to my name a clean oblation ,
for my name is great among the gentiles , says the lord of hosts. and
so we acknowledge what st. paul wrote for as often as you eat this
bread and drink this cup , you show the lord 's death until he comes. (1
corinthians 11.26)

you are quite right about the identification of babylon the great ,
mother of all harlots with rome. i think we simply disagree as to what
time period of rome the apostle john is talking about.

andy byler

from kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (dr nancy 's sweetie)
subject questioning authority
organization rowan college of new jersey
lines 36

chris mussack writes

for all those people who insist i question authority why \?

how about

the holocaust
the spanish inquisition
jonestown

(just to name a few) \?

authorities sometimes tell people to do evil things. people who just
follow orders have tortured and killed others in very large numbers ,
and protest their innocence afterwards.

when your authority starts telling you to do things , you should ask
questions. except for situations of pressing need ( i said shut the
hatch because the submarine is filling with water ! ) , any reasonable
authority should be able to give at least some justification that you
can understand.

just be sure to listen when authority answers.

(if anybody is interested in questions of psychological pressure and
following orders , you might want to read about a study done by solomon ashe
in 1951 on conformity , and another done by stanley milgram in 1963 on
obedience. both should be in any good book on psychology sociology. the
results are both fascinating and terrifying.)


darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
we do what we 're told
we do what we 're told
we do what we 're told
told to do peter gabriel

from steve.hayes@f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
subject major views of the trinity
lines 22

04 may 93 , d. andrew byler writes to all

dab i think i need to again post the athanasian creed , whicc pretty well
dab delinieates orthodox christian belief on the trinity , and on the
dab incarnation.

dab it 's a pretty good statement of the beliefs eventually accpeted , and the
dab creed is in use by the catholic church , as well as the lutheran ,
dab anglican , and orthodox churches (the last minus the filioque , which they
dab delete from the original form of the creed).

do you have any evidence that it is used by the orthodox churches \?

as far as i know it is purely western , like the apostles' creed . the
orthodox churches use the symbol of faith , commonly called the
nicene creed .

steve hayes
department of missiology
university of south africa

golded 2.40

from marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization fl
lines 22

i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \?

i'm waiting for an rc to speak up ! 8 )
nobody has , so i will...

those with bibles on hand can give the exact chapter verse...
at the time jesus told peter that he was the rock , he said
whatever you hold true on earth is held true in heaven , and
whatever you do n't hold true wo n't be true in heaven.

therefore , with respect to marriage , the ceremony has to be
done by an rc priest. no big parties required. just the priest ,
the couple and witnesses. divorce is not allowed. but anullments
are granted upon approval by either the bishop or the pope
(not sure if the pope delegates this function).



mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris'
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com
the lost los angelino

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization florida state university
lines 27

i have been following this thread on talk.religion ,
soc.religion.christian.bible study and here with interest. i am amazed at
the different non biblical argument those who oppose the sabbath present.

one question comes to mind , especially since my last one was not answered
from scripture. maybe clh may wish to provide the first response.

there is a lot of talk about the sabbath of the tc being ceremonial.
answer this

since the tc commandments is one law with ten parts on what biblical
basis have you decided that only the sabbath portion is ceremonial \?
or you say that the seventh day is the sabbath but not applicable to
gentile christians. does that mean the sabbath commandment has been
annulled \? references please.

if god did not intend his requirements on the jews to be applicable to
gentile christians why did he make it plain that the gentiles were now
grafted into the commonwealth of israel \?

darius

acts 15 , rom 14 5 , col 2 16 , gal 4 10. i believe we 've gotten into
a loop at this point. this is one of those classic situations where
both sides think they have clear scriptural support , and there 's no
obvious argument that is going to change anybody 's mind. i do n't think
we 're going anything but repeating ourselves. clh

from harwood@umiacs.umd.edu (david harwood)
subject re essene new testament
organization umiacs , university of maryland , college park , md 20742
lines 11

william christie asked about the essene nt.
andrew kille reponded
there is a collection of gospels which usually goes under the name of the
essene gospel of peace. these are derived from the gnostics , not the
essenes , and are ostensibly translations from syriac texts of the fourth
and fifth centuries (i vaguely recall i ca n't find my copy right now).
clh

there had been recent criticism of this in a listserv for academic
biblical scholars they all say the book(s) are modern fakes.
d.h.

from lhep ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (leonidas hepis)
subject re prophecy on nyc
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 46

marka@travis.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes

in soc.religion.christian you write

regarding david wilkerson 's prophecies. while i'm not real sure of
his credibility , i do remember a book he wrote , called a vision or
something like that. he made a prediction that people who bought gold
would be hurt financially. at the time , gold was up to about 800
now it is less than half that. this prediction stuck in my mind
because a lot of people where i worked were buying gold.

note that the above type of prediction does not require a god to be made.
an expert in a field can also predict things based on experience.
beware of predictions like the volcano will erupt tomorrow ! do n't
follow the preacher because of such statements that come true.

note also , that if i'm describing a (hypothetical) death of a friend as
a result of his passion for fast motorcycles , i might say his mother
predicted he would die. of course , his father may have said he 'll
make good money because of his hobby and depending upon the final
outcome of the situation i end up mentioning the one that 's
relevant. a reader down the road will get the impression that the
mother or father had predicted accurately the event , when it was just
a casual statement.

finally , on prophesies , note that there are many prophesies that can be
fulfilled my people , often to fool believers. if i say , beware , the
terminal will unexpectedly be shut off ! and then after 2 secs i turn
it off (or have someone come out from another room and do it) there was
no prediction. a similar situation arises with the establishment of
the jewish state. while pressing for it , prominent jews argued that it
was predicted that they 'd have a state again , and that the time has
come. (i 've read this somewhere , but ca n't think of the source if
you can , please let me know.) in this case , the establishment of the
state does not really fulfill the prophesy since the prophesy was used
in order to push for the establishment of the state.

deciding what was truely a fulfillment of prophesy is very tricky.

leo


my mother wanted to save herself until marriage. every leonidas hepis
day i thank god that she did n't. because without pre
marital sex , i would never have been born. premarital lhep ltd@uhura
sex what a beautiful choice. greg weeks .cc.rochester.edu

from jbuddenberg@vax.cns.muskingum.edu (jimmy buddenberg)
subject revelations babylon \?
organization muskingum college
lines 34


hello all. we are doing a bible study (at my college) on revelations. we
have been doing pretty good as far as getting some sort of reasonable
interpretation. we are now on chapters 17 and 18 which talk about the
woman on the beast and the fall of babylon. i believe the beast is the
antichrist (some may differ but it seems obvious) and the woman represents
babylon which stands for rome or the roman catholic church. what are some
views on this interpretation \? is the falling babylon in chapter 18 the same
babylon in as in chapter 17 \? the catholic church \?
hate to step on toes.
thanks


jimmy buddenberg internet jbuddenberg@vax.cns.muskingum.edu
muskingum college

reading this imagery as the roman catholic church was certainly
common in earlier protestant writers. a lot of us find that frankly
embarassing now , though some of our readers will certainly advocate
such a position. the problem is that the description makes it look a
lot like a political entity. it 's associated with kings , controls
world commerce , is seated on seven mountains (17 9 recall that rome
is traditionally regarded as built on seven hills). if it 's a church ,
then it 's not the current roman catholic church , but a church that has
been taken over by the anti christ and merged with the state , turning
into something rather different than it is now. presumably in such a
scenario the true catholics are among those who are persecuted. given
the overall impression that satan is pretending to be an angel of
light , and the true church is a persecuted remnant , i think the most
consistent playing out of the image would be that the anti christ
would be presiding over a church that claims to be the heir of both
the protestant and catholic traditions , but that the true spiritual
descendants of both peter and the reformers are equally being
persecuted. clh

from mussack@austin.ibm.com (christopher mussack)
subject re tuff to be a christian \?
organization ibm austin
lines 66

please realize that i am frequently getting in trouble for
straying from orthodoxy , but here is my opinion

in article apr.17.01.10.58.1993.2246@geneva.rutgers.edu , mdbs@ms.uky.edu (no name) writes
... moreover the buddha says that we are
intrinsically good (as against christ 's we are all sinners ).

i never thought of these two ideas being against each other.
people might quibble about what intrinsically means but the
reason we are sinners is because we do not behave as good as we
are. the message of christ is that each of us are not only good ,
but great , that we can approach perfection , albeit perhaps through a
different technique than you claim buddhism teaches. because we do
not realize our greatness , we sin. peter had no problem walking
on water until a little doubt crept in.

does n't david ask in the 8th psalm what is man that you god
should care for him , but you have made him just a little lower
than the angels \?

i probably exagerate in my mind what a scrawny little kid david
was , just as i probably exagerate what a gigantic monster goliath
was , but david 's power easily defeated goliath 's.

remember the rich young man who comes up to jesus and asks what
he can do to enter the kingdom , jesus says follow the commandments.
i always picture the smug look on his face as he says he 's done that
his whole life , probably anticipating an attaboy from the
messiah. instead jesus gives him a harder task , sell everything
and follow him. jesus is raising the bar. the desciples say
how can anyone do this if it 's so hard even for rich people.
jesus says anyone can do it , with god 's help.

jesus says not only can we avoid killing people , we can avoid
getting angry at people. not only can we avoid committing
adultery , we can control our own desires.

i realize this was not your main point , but i wonder how other
people see this.

...
parting question
would you have become a christian if you had not
been indoctrinated by your parents \? you probably never learned about
any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
you are brain washed.

(please forgive any generalizations i am about to make.)

your point about how hard other religions are is a good one , just
as your parting question is a tough question. i think that muslims
worship the same god as i do , we can learn from their name submission .
hindus and buddhists and taoists , etc. claim that god is impersonal.
is god personal or impersonal \? i say yes , but if i think a little
more my answer is whichever is greater. i think it is greater
to be a personal entity , with an individual consciousness , but
you 're right that that might be a cultural bias. if i think more
i must admit that god 's personal nature is as far beyond my
conception as his impersonal nature is beyond the hindu 's
conception. if somehow jesus could fit into hindu cosmology
then maybe i would n't have a problem , though that is hard to imagine.

are there any former (or present) eastern religion members here
who could comment \?

chris mussack

from dwatson@cser.encore.com (drew watson)
subject ethics vs. freedom
organization encore computer corporation
lines 70

being a parent in need of some help , i ask that you bear with me while i
describe the situation which plagues me...

i am a divorced father. chance would have it that my weekend with my
daughter has fallen upon easter weekend this year.

although i am presbyterian , i had married a catholic woman. we decided
that the catholic moray of indoctrination of the spouse into the faith
was too confining (and restrictive due to time as we had already set a
date) , and we were married in a christian church which was non denominational.

during the years of our marriage , we did not often attend church.

when our daughter was born , some years later , my wife insisted that she
be baptised as catholic. this was n't a problem with me.

during a separation of five years , my ex wife was taken ill with a disease
that affected her mental capacities. she was confined to a mental ward for
two months before it was diagnosed. it has since been treated effectively .

in other words , professionals have deemed her a functioning member of society.

during the recuperation , my ex wife has embraced buddism. her influence over
my daughter has been substantial , and has primarily allowed me only saturday
visitation for a number of years. during this period i have read bible study
books to my daughter , and tried to keep her aware of her christian heritage.

last fall , our divorce was finalized after a year of viscious divorce hearings.
at that time i was awarded visitation rights every other weekend. at that time ,
i started taking my daughter to church quite often , although not every weekend.
i did this to attempt to strengthen the christian ethic and expose her to a
religious community.

today , easter sunday , i took my daughter to church. when it came time for
communion , my daughter took the bread (the body of christ) but left the wine
(the blood of christ) professing that she was too young for wine. she then
balled the bread up in her hand and tried to descretely throw it under the
pew in front of us.

i feel this was a slap in the face to me , my religion , and an afront to her
religious heritage. it can be construed as breaking several of the commandments
if you try. i really felt dishonored by the action.

my daughter is only nine years old , but i think she should have been old and
mature enough to realize her actions. i have difficulty blaming her directly
for religious teachings her mother swears to , but when i discussed this with
my daughter she made it clear she believed in buddhism and not christianity.

my initial response of anger (moderated) was to suggest if there is no faith
in christ then why does she celebrate easter , or christmas \? i suggested i
would never force her to practice my religious beliefs by celebrating holidays
with her again.

i do not want to drive her from the fold , and would be willing to allow her
to continue practicing buddhism (as though i had a choice seeing her only
for two days out of fourteen) but i want her to want to embrace christianity.

any suggestions \?

if you have a response , please e mail me a copy. (i'm not a regular reader
of this newsgroup.) (naturally , feel free to post too ! )

thanks , and i hope you 've had a happy easter.

drew


drew watson systems analysis encore computer corp
dwatson@encore.com (301)497 1800 (703)691 3500 customer services


from vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization case western reserve univ. cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 56

in article apr.10.05.32.29.1993.14388@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes

no , imo , mr. stowell missed the point.

we affirm the absolutes of scripture , not because we are arrogant
moralists , but because we believe in god who is truth , who has revealed his
truth in his word , and therefore we hold as precious the strategic importance
of those absolutes.

mr. stowell seems to have jumped rather strangely from truth to absolutes.
i do n't see how that necessarily follows.

are all truths also absolutes \?
is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes) \?

if the answer to either of these questions is no , then perhaps you can
explain to me how you determine which parts of scripture are truths , and
which truths are absolutes.

the answer to both questions is yes.

all scripture is true , being inspired by god. the evidence for this
claim has been discussed ad nauseum in this group.

similarly , all truth is absolute. indeed , a non absolute truth is a
contradiction in terms. when is something absolute \? when it is always
true. obviously , if a truth is not always true then we have a
contradiction in terms.

many people claim that there are no absolutes in the world. such a
statement is terribly self contradictory. let me put it to you this
way. if there are no absolutes , should n't we conclude that the statement ,
there are no absolutes is not absolutely true \? obviously , we have a
contradiction here.

this is just one of the reasons why christians defy the world by claiming
that there are indeed absolutes in the universe.

there is hardly consensus , even in evangelical
christianity (not to mention the rest of christianity) regarding
biblical interpretation.

so \? people sometimes disagree about what is true. this does not negate
the fact , however , that there are still absolutes in the universe. moreover ,
evangelical christianity , at least , still professes to believe in certain
truths. man is sinful , man needs salvation , and jesus is the propitiation
for mankind 's sins , to name a few. any group that does not profess to
believe these statements cannot be accurately called evangelical.



virgilio dean velasco jr , department of electrical eng'g and applied physics
cwru graduate student , roboticist in training and q wannabee
bullwinkle , that man 's intimidating a referee ! my boss is a
not very well. he does n't look like one at all ! jewish carpenter.

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re am i going to hell \?
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 51

in article apr.24.01.09.10.1993.4254@geneva.rutgers.edu stoney@oyster.smcm.edu (stanley toney) writes
muslims , i fear have been given a lie from the
fater of lies , satan. they need christ as do us all.

stan toney stoney@oyster.smcm.edu
my opinions are my own , you may borrow them

just picked out this one point because it struck me....
why do you believe this \? muslims believe in many of the same things
that christians and jews believe they believe jesus , while not the
messiah , is a prophet. this seems to me to be much closer to
christianity than other religions are. (then again i tend to be
somewhat liberal about others' beliefs.)

this also relates to the serbian ethnic cleansing question. i have
been waiting for condemnations of this and have seen very few. how
can we stand by and watch innocent people , even people whose beliefs
we condemn , if this is the case (and do n't get me wrong , the things
fundamenalist muslims have to say about women make my blood boil) , be
tortured , raped (the stories about that made me physically ill) , and
killed \? jesus loves all , not just those who love him back and he
would advocate kindness toward them (in the hopes of converting them ,
if that 's the way you want to put it) rather than killing them.

i'm sorry i got off the subject here maybe i should have used a
different title. i did need to get this off my chest , however.

peace (shalom) ,
vera shanti

hand over hand noye@midway.uchicago.edu
does n't seem so much (vera noyes)
hand over hand
is the strength of the common touch drop me a line if you 're in the mood
rush , hand over fist


i am also worried about this issue. i 've made a posting under my own
name earlier today. i do not much want to discuss moslem beliefs
here. this is n't the right group for it. their beliefs about jesus
appear to come as much from the koran as the bible. this means that
while they honor him , what they think he did and stood for differs in
many ways from christian beliefs about him. but moslem beliefs are
an appropriate topic for soc.religion.islam.

as i'm sure you know , many christians believe that you must accept
christ in order to be saved. while stanley 's comment appears to be
anti moslem , i would assume he would say the same thing about all
religions other than christianity.

clh

from jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john e murray)
subject quality of catholic liturgy
organization the ohio state university
lines 20

i appreciated the follow ups and replies to my earlier query. one reply , which
i have lost , suggested several parishes in new york that have good masses , one
of which was corpus christi in downtown manhattan. by coincidence , last week 's
america , the national jesuit magazine , carried an interview with fr. myles
bourke , corpus christi 's pastor emeritus. fr. bourke also directed the nt
translation in the new american bible. he noted ...certain practices have
been introduced into the mass in such a manner that an atmosphere of banality ,
and sometimes of hilarity , has trivialized the liturgy. i note that at my
parents' parish on easter , helium filled balloons were distributed at the
offertory , apparently to aid in understanding the word risen . this was not a
kiddie mass , either , but the well attended 11 00 mass.

i wanted to note the generous spirit behind the replies. this newsgroup as a
whole offers generally moderate (perhaps because it 's moderated) conversation
on topics that often lead people to extreme behavior (including myself).
sometimes people do go over the top , but the remarkable thing is how that is
the exception , i think. benefits of the doubt are generally granted. it seems
so...christian \?

john murray

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject re post
organization kulikauskas home
lines 30

jono@mac ak 24.rtsg.mot.com (jon ogden) writes

my advice is this if you know someone that you have the hots for who is
not a christian , befriend them and try to develop just a friendship with
them. at the same time , witness and share the gospel with them , not so
that you can date them , but so that they can be saved. once they become a
christian , then it is quite possible to let the relationship progress
beyond friendship. however , if they do n't accept christ , you still have a
good friendship and you have n't wasted a lot of emotional energy and gotten
hurt.

while i agree with most of jon says (i deleted those parts , of course) , i
have serious reservations about this advice. maintaining a `just
friends' level of relationship is much easier said than done. people
usually end up getting hurt. this is especially likely to happen when
they start off with feelings of attraction.

when people feel attracted those feelings can cloud their judgement.
i 've had the experience of going quickly from believing that i should n't
date non christians to believing that dating this man would be okay to
believing that premarital sex is fine when people really love each
other. when the relationship ended my beliefs immediately returned to
their original state.

this is an especially extreme case because i was young and away from home
and fellowship. i do n't think it would work exactly this way for most
people. however , it 's important not to underestimate the power of
feelings of attraction.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from tas@pegasus.com (len howard)
subject re question from an agnostic
organization pegasus , honolulu
lines 18

hi damon , no matter what system or explanation of creation you wish
to accept , you always have to start with one of two premises , creation
from nothing , or creation from something. there are no other
alternatives. and if we accept one or the other of those two
premises , then again there are two alternatives , either creation was
random , or was according to some plan.
if it was random , i am unable to accept that the complex nature of
our world with interrelated interdependent organisms and creatures
could exist as they do. therefore i am left with creation under the
control of an intelligence capable of devising such a scheme. i call
that intelligence god.
i also prefer the creatio ex nihilo rather than from chaos , as it
is cleaner.
there is obviously no way to prove either or neither. we are and
we must have come from somewhere. choose whatever explanation you
feel most comfortable with , damon. you are the one who has to live
with your choice.
shalom , len howard

from ejalbert@husc3.harvard.edu
subject re monophysites and mike walker
organization harvard university science center
lines 113

in article may.6.00.34.58.1993.15426@geneva.rutgers.edu , db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler) writes
mike walker

if you are using the standard formula of fully god and fully human ,
that i'm not sure why you object to saying that jesus was human. i
think the usual analysis would be that sin is not part of the basic
definition of humanity. it 's a consequence of the fall. jesus is
human , but not a fallen human. clh

i differ with our moderator on this. i thought the whole idea of god coming
down to earth to live as one of us subject to sin and death (as one of
the consecration prayers in the book of common prayer (1979) puts it) was
that jesus was tempted , but did not succumb. if sin is not part of the
basic definition of humanity , then jesus fully human (nicea) would not
be subject to sin , but then the resurrection loses some of its meaning ,
because we encounter our humanity most powerfully when we sin. to distinguish
between human and fallen human makes jesus less like one of us at the
time we need him most.

these issues get mighty subtle. when you see people saying different
things it 's often hard to tell whether they really mean seriously
different things , or whether they are using different terminology. i
do n't think there 's any question that there is a problem with
nestorius , and i would agree that the saying christ had a human form
without a real human nature or will is heretical. but i 'd like to be
a bit wary about the copts , armenians , etc. recent discussions
suggest that their monophysite position may not be as far from
orthodoxy as many had thought. nestorius was an extreme
representative of one of the two major schools of thought. more
moderate representatives were regarded as orthodox , e.g. theodore of
mopsuestia. my impression is that the modern monophysite groups
inherit the entire tradition , not just nestorius' version , and that
some of them may have a sufficient balanced position to be regarded as
orthodox. clh

first , the monophysites inherited none of nestorius 's version they
were on the opposite end of the spectrum from him. second , the historical
record suggests that the positions attributed to nestorius were not as
extreme as his (successful) opponents (who wrote the conventional history)
claimed. mainly nestorius opposed the term theotokos for mary , arguing
(i think correctly) that a human could not be called mother of god. i mean ,
in the athanasian creed we talk about the son uncreate surely even
arians would concede that jesus existed long before mary. anyway , nestorius 's
opponents claimed that by saying mary was not theotokos , that he claimed
that she only gave birth to the human nature of jesus , which would require
two seperate and distinct natures. the argument fails though , because
mary simply gave birth to jesus , who preexisted her either divinely ,
if you accept nestorianism as commonly defined , or both natures intertwined ,
a la chalcedon.

second , i am not sure that nestorianism is not a better alternative than
the orthodox view. after all , i find it hard to believe that pre incarnation
that jesus 's human nature was in heaven likewise post ascension. i think
rather that god came to earth and took our nature upon him. it was a seperate
nature , capable of being tempted as in gethsemane (since i believe the divine
nature could never be tempted) but in its moments of weakness the divine nature
prevailed.

comments on the above warmly appreciated.

jason albert

there may be differences in what we mean by subject to sin . the
original complaint was from someone who did n't see how we could call
jesus fully human , because he did n't sin. i completely agree that
jesus was subject to temptation. i simply object to the idea that by
not succumbing , he is thereby not fully human. i believe that you do
not have to sin in order to be human.

i again apologize for confusing nestorianism and monophysitism. i
agree with you , and have said elsewhere , that there 's reason to think
that not everyone who is associated with heretical positions was in
fact heretical. there are scholars who maintain that nestorius was
not nestorian. i have to confess that the first time i read some of
the correspondence between nestorius and his opponents , i thought he
got the better of them.

however , most scholars do believe that the work that eventually led to
chalcedon was an advance , and that nestorius was at the very least
rash and dogmatic (as the editor of the christological controversy
refers to him) in rejecting all approaches other than his own. as
regular usenet readers know , narrowness can be just as much an
impediment as being wrong. furthermore , he did say some things that i
think are problematical. he responds to a rather mild letter from
cyril with a flame worthy of usenet. in it he says to attribute also
to the logos , in the name of the incarnation the characteristics
of the flesh that has been conjoined with him ... is , my brother ,
either the work of a mind which truly errs in the fashion of the
greeks or that of a mind diseased with the insane heresy of arius and
apollinaris and the others. those who are thus carried away with the
idea of this association are bound , because of it , to make the divine
logos have a part in being fed with milk and participate to some
degree in growh and stand in need of angelic assistance because of his
fearfulness ... these things are taken falsely when they are put off
on the deity and they become the occasion of just condemnation for us
who perpetrate the falsehood.

it 's all well and good to maintain a proper distinction between
humanity and divinity. but the whole concept of incarnation is based
on exactly the idea that the divine logos does in fact have to some
degree a part in being born , growing up , and dying. of course it
must be understood that there 's a certain indirectness in the logos'
participation in these things. but there must be some sort of
identification between the divine and human , or we do n't have an
incarnation at all. nestorius seemed to think in black and white
terms , and missed the sorts of nuances one needs to deal with this
area.

you say i find it hard to believe that pre incarnation that jesus 's
human nature was in heaven. i do n't think that 's required by
orthodox doctrine. it 's the divine logos that is eternal.

clh

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double standard \?
organization kulikauskas home
lines 22

seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson) writes

in quebec french , the word for the celebration of the resurrection is
pa ques this is etymologically related to pesach (passover) and the
pascal lamb. so is the french canadian (mostly roman catholic) celebration
better because it uses the right name \?

i was at my parents' seder and noticed the labelling on one of the
packages was english , hebrew and french. in the phrase kosher for
passover the french word used was pa ques. we 've deliberately
mistranslated this at the kulikauskas home and keep referring to foods
being kosher for easter. )

back to the original questions in this thread concerning christians of
jewish descent and the law i always wonder when i see posts on this
subject whether the writers are christians of jewish descent relating
the life decisions god has led them to or people who take only an
academic interest in the topic. (having known seanna since she was nine
years old , i do know in this case.) i admit that the answer to this
question affects the amount of weight i give to the writer 's statement.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from qtm2w@virginia.edu (quinn t. mccord)
subject questions from a newbie
organization university of virginia
lines 56


is life a pass fail course , and does god grade on a
curve \?
i'm new here , and only vaguely religious , but i want to
know what some of you people think. specifically , are there an
infinite number of heavens , and a person goes to the one that
he she deserves \? or is it simply heaven or nothing (hell \? )
also , are we graded by those around us , or has there always
been some unchanging method \? is the person 's childhood taken
into account \?
i'm sure these must sound like over simplifications to
most of you , but i figure that you 're the experts.

quinn

eschatology is an area on which christians do not agree. i suspect
that 's because our primary source of information is prophets and
visionaries , and their writings tend to be highly symbolic. however
both jesus' teachings in the gospels and books such as the revelation
to john talk primarily about the difference between eternal life and
eternal death. on a number of occasions jesus does say things that
imply some sort of differentiation , e.g. lk 10 14 and a number of
similar passages where jesus says things like even xxx will be better
off than you in the judgement. also , i cor 3 talks about someone who
gets into heaven , but by the skin of his teeth , as it were. but these
passages are not normally interpreted as suggesting separate heavens ,
so much as differing levels of prestige or punishment in heaven or
hell (and not all christians would even go as far as that). the only
christian group i know of that believes in multiple heavens is the
mormons , and they are very far from mainstream christianity (far
enough that many of our readers would not call them christian). their
ideas in this area involve specific mormon revelations , in addition
to the bible and holy tradition of a more generic christian sort.

note that many christians will cringe at the very thought of
associating grading with god. the whole point of christ was to free
us from the results of a test that we could n't possibly pass. if you
like test analogies , god grades on a very strict and unbending scale ,
but he also cheats he replaces our test papers with an exam that
was prepared by the teacher , before actually doing the grading.
because some people end up in heaven and others in hell , it 's easy to
see why you 'd be inclined to think of it as grading. while there are
differences among branches of christianity on details , i think we all
agree that in one way or another , god cheats.

i am personally very sceptical about anyone who claims to know exactly
how far god 's cheating extends. will he accept people who do n't
explicitly acknowledge christ , but somehow still follow him in their
hearts \? many christians believe that this is possible , at least in
principle , but certainly not all do. jesus provided us with a clear
description of how to be saved , but it 's not clear to me that he
provided an exact description of how he 's going to place the dividing
line. certainly he made it clear that we ca n't expect to know whether
other individuals are saved or not.

clh

from will@futon.webo.dg.com (will taber)
subject re being right about messiahs
lines 41

in article 2262@geneva.rutgers.edu , desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca (desiree bradley) writes
i must have missed the postings about waco , david koresh , and the second
coming. how does one tell if a second coming is the real thing , unless the
person claiming to be it is obviously insane \?

one rule of thumb is that if a person is making the claim , they are
wrong. i was just reading john 14 this morning (i think that is the
right chapter , anyway it is close and i do n't have a bible at work to
check with.) and in it jesus is talking to his disciples about his
impending death and he says that he will be going away and then later
he will be with them. he said something along the lines of i will
be in you and you will be in me. (again i cannot provide the exact
quote or citation.) anyway , my understanding of this is that
the second coming will not be an outward event. it is an inward
event , christ will come to live in our hearts and we will live in him.
if you look for a person you will be deceived.

it seems to me that the jews had been looking for a messiah that would
be a political or military leader and so did n't recognize jesus when
he came. jesus tried to show that his kingdom was not of this earth.
a lot of what i have seen written about the second coming seems to
based on an expectation of christ coming back and finally taking over
the world and running it the way it should be. it sounds a lot like
what the jews were looking for. the first coming was n't like that and
i see no reason for the second coming to be like that either.

oh and by the way , i do n't expect it to happen once. there is no one
second coming , there are a lot of little ones. every time christ
comes into someones heart , christ has come again.

peace ,
will.


william taber will taber@dg.com any opinions expressed
data general corp. will@futon.webo.dg.com are mine alone and may
westboro , mass. 01580 change without notice.

when all your dreams are laid to rest , you can get what 's second best ,
but it 's hard to get enough. david wilcox


from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization none
lines 52

bob van cleef writes

if the papacy is infallible , and this is a matter of faith , then the
pope cannot be wrong ! if , on the other hand , this is not a matter
of faith , but a matter of church law , then we should still obey as the
pope is the legal head of the church.

in other words , given the doctrine of infallibility , we have no choice
but to obey.

this is a primary problem in the church today. what you are saying is
more or less heresy. you might call it infallibilism . it 's the
idea that the pope is always right in everything he says or does.
this is virtually all over the place , especially in this country.

the pope is only infallible under certain very specific and
well defined conditions. when these conditions are not met , he can
make mistakes. he can make big mistakes.

a couple historical examples come to mind.

bishop robert grosseteste was perhaps the greatest product of the
english catholic church. at one point during his career , the reigning
pope decided to install one of his nephews in an english see. bishop
grosseteste said that this would happen over his dead body (though
maybe not in so many words you have to treat popes with respect , even
when they are wrong). the problem was that this nephew would just
collect the income of the see , and probably never set foot there.
this would deprive the people of the see of a shepherd. bishop
grosseteste was quite right in what he did !

another example is that of pope john xxii , a pope of the middle ages.
he decided that souls that were saved did not enjoy the beatific
vision until the last judgement. he decided that this should be a
defined doctrine of the church. though he did n't quite get around to
defining it. now there 's no way this is compatible with catholic
doctrine. the pope 's doctrine was criticised by many in the church.
he went so far as to put a number of his opponents in jail , even. in
the end , he had to admit his mistake. shortly before he died , he
recanted. his successor made the exact opposite idea a dogma of the
church.

if you consult any of the great catholic theologians who treat of such
subjects , such as st. robert bellarmine (a doctor of the church) , you
will find detailed discussions of whether the pope can personally fall
into heresy or schism.

the teaching of all such theologians is that the commands of a pope
must be resisted if they are to the detriment of the catholic faith.
a pope 's authority is given for the purpose of building up the
catholic church. commands in conflict with this purpose have no
legal or moral force.

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re proof of resurection
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 30

in article apr.20.03.01.50.1993.3776@geneva.rutgers.edu , jcj@tellabs.com (jcj) writes
in article apr.16.23.15.09.1993.1823@geneva.rutgers.edu smayo@world.std.com (scott a mayo) writes
...
i think christianity goes down in flames if the resurrection is
ever disproved. ...

did n't paul write that if the resurrection is not true , we are the
biggest fools of all \? however , whether you believe in christ or not ,
his teachings (e.g. love your brotherman as yourself) , even if only
followed at a secular level , could do a great deal to alleviate some of
the problems we see today in the world. even when i was a rabid atheist
i could n't deny that.

jeff johnson
jcj@tellabs.com

we also cannot fail to note the intense suffering a devastation which has been
wrecked on our world because of christians who were certain they were
following christ. from captialist who have polluted the enviorment in strict
obedience to the gensis command to subdue the earth , to nazi 's who have
justly
punished the jews for the killing christ (as well as the other progroms) , the
innocent women who were burned alive in accordance with you shall not allow a
witch to live , the moslems who were killed in the crusades , the god fearing
men destroyed by the inquistion. the religious wars in spain , france , england ,
etc. christianity has undoubtedly caused the most suffering and needless loss
of life by individuals whose certainity that they were following the
instructions therein , was unquestionable. there is much to grieve.

randy

from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)
subject re what was the immaculate conception
organization none
lines 21

maxwell c muir writes

just a quick question. if mary was immaculately concieved , so she
could be a pure vessel , does this mean that she was without sin
and , therefore , the perfect (meaning sinless) female human being \?
is this why she is held so highly in the catholic church despite
it 's basically patriarchical structure \?

she was immaculately conceived , and so never subject to original sin ,
but also never committed a personal sin in her whole life. this was
possible because of the special degree of grace granted to her by god.

she is regarded so highly because of her special relationship to god ,
and everything that flows from that relationship.

the catholic church sees her as the new eve. (the fathers in the
early church use this particular figure a lot.)

eve is the mother of all the living in a genetic sense. mary is the
mother of all the living in the order of grace. as sin came through
eve , so grace jesus christ came through mary.

from chrstie@ccu.umanitoba.ca (william john m. christie)
subject re essene new testament
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada
lines 16

in apr.10.05.31.12.1993.14351@athos.rutgers.edu harwood@umiacs.umd.edu (david harwood) writes

there had been recent criticism of this in a listserv for academic
biblical scholars they all say the book(s) are modern fakes.
d.h.

which listsev was this and is the discussion still current \? my questioning
is based on some information presented from the essene nt that challenges
some of my eating choices. as the info came from a biased (opposed to my
preferences) third party i am looking for info as to whether i should
dismiss this work or put some consideration into it. thanks again for info !

will christie aatchoo ! philosophy the principles and
university of manitoba uh oh... science of thought and reality
winnipeg , mb , canada i'm leaking philosopher someone who thinks
chrstie@ccu.umanitoba.ca brain lubricant. they 're useful to society

from b8 ! anthony@panzer.b17b.ingr.com (new user)
subject re the doctrine of original sin
organization intergraph
lines 24

in article may.2.09.48.32.1993.11721@geneva.rutgers.edu , db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler) writes
beyt (bcg@thor.cf.ac.uk) writes


4) nothing unclean shall enter heaven (rev. 21.27). therefore ,
babies are born in such a state that should they die , they are cuf off
from god and put in hell ,

oh , that must explain matthew 18

1) in that hour came the disciples unto jesus , saying , who then is greatest in
the kingdom of heaven \?
2) and he called to him a little child , and set him in the midst of them ,
3) and said , verily i say unto you , except ye turn , and become as little
children , ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.
14) even so it is not the will of your father who is in heaven , that one of these
little ones should perish.

nice thing about the bible , you do n't have to invent a bunch of convoluted
rationalizations to understand it , unlike your arguments for original sin. face
it , original sin was thought up long after the bible had been written and has no
basis from the scriptures.

anthony

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re revelations
organization florida state university
lines 11

hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr) writes

biblical prophecy tends to be somewhat cyclical. for example , the virgin
prophecy of isaiah also prophecied of christ. how does this apply to the
book of revelation in regard to the perterist view \?

much of the ot prophecies have a double application to the jewish
captivity , and to the end of time. but if rev. is dated at ad96 its
prophecies could not apply to the ad70 destructioin of jerusalem.

darius

from sun075 ! gerry.palo@uunet.uu.net (gerry palo)
subject re good jewish arguments
lines 90

kwfinken@pooh.harpo.uccs.edu (kevin w. finkenbinder) wrote

scott@born.phys.virginia.edu wrote

intro deleted...

1) jesus was n't really descended from david as the messiah was supposed
to have been. joseph was , but christians say that joseph was n't related to
jesus truthfully.

if you look at the geneology of christ in luke 3 and the one in
matthew 1 you will notice that they trace different lines back to david.
i have been told that one traces mary 's line back to david and the other
traces joseph 's line back to david. (both of them go beyond david in
history) acording to some of my jewish friends , jewishness is passed
to a child by the mother and the legal rights of jewishness are passed
through the father. if it is true that one of these geneologies is
mary 's , then christ 's bloodline is from david through his mother. this
also means that christ had all of the legal rights of a decendant of
david as according to at least roman law (and possibly mosaic law as
well , but i am not sure) joseph was christ 's legal father.

the argument for luke 's genealogy being that of mary is very weak. according
to luke 3 23

and when he began his ministry , jesus himself was about
thirty years of age , being supposedly the son of joseph ,
the son of eli ,

aside from the fact that mary is not mentioned , there are two possible
interpretations either joseph was her father or he was her brother.
clearly this is not acceptable. a third would be that joseph , the son
of eli , was her father and just happened to have the name as the man
to whom she was betrothed. but that would seem to be grasping at
straws. the most straightforward interpretation is that luke had no
intention of tracing mary 's genealogy (in which case he would have
named her) but that he traces her husband 's , from david 's son nathan.

the matthew descendant list most definitely traces down from david 's
son , solomon , to joseph. matthew 1 16 reads

and to jacob was born joseph , the husband of mary , by whom was born
jesus , who is called christ.

there are two apparent problems. the first is , how to reconcile the
two paternal genealogies which diverge with the sons of david ,
solomon and nathan. the second is , why is any genealogy of joseph
relavent at all , if joseph had nothing to do with it. if joseph was
not jesus 's physical father , then the original poster is quite
correct , that claims for jesus 's messianic heritage are not based on
truth but only on appearances , whatever jesus 's divine nature was.

the second problem is easy , in my mind. we assume that joseph was not
involved in the conception of jesus in any way. however , a holy
spirit capable of working a physical conception in mary is also
capable of employing the physical agency of joseph 's seed in this
work. in our materialistic times we interpret viginity and its loss
solely in terms of a physical act , whereas it is really a matter of
purity on a much higher level as well. the important thing is that
neither mary nor joseph was conscious of any union between them (they
had not known each other). thus the first gospel 's dedication of
half its opening chapter to the genealogy of joseph is quite relevant
to jesus , the virgin birth not withstanding.

to the first question there is an answer that creates , to begin with , more
problems than it resolves. it is that the two evangelists are relating
the births of two entirely different children of two entirely different
sets of parents. except for the names of the parents and the child , and
the birthplace in bethlehem there is no point in common between the two
stories. matthew and luke converge in their accounts only thirty years
later with the baptism of jesus in jordan. rudolf steiner offered his
explanation of how these accounts begin with two children and then converge
with their accounts of the one jesus of nazareth. he did not derive his
resolution from biblical study or speculation , or from other external
documents , and the discussion of how this could be might bring us beyond
the limits of appropriateness for this newsgroup. in any case , the
details are described in steiner 's the spiritual guidance of the human
being and of humanity , the gospel of st. luke , and the gospel of st.
matthew .

whether or not rudolf steiner 's methods and explanation are accepted
as valid , at least this interpretation resolves the apparent
contradictions of the two genealogies while leaving the text intact.

as for the passing of one 's jewishness through the mother , this was
never an issue with jesus. no one ever questioned his or mary 's
jewishness. the issue of the genealogies has to do with his paternal
line of descent from david , the king.

gerry palo (73237.2006@compuserve.com)

from aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 58

in a previous article , dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) says

do the words question authority mean anything to you \?

i defy any theist to reply.

well , despite what my mother told me about accepting dares , here goes.

you have to be very careful about what you mean by question authority .
taken literally , it is nonsense. that which is authoratative is authoratative ,
and to say i question to word of this authority is ridiculous. if it is
open to question , it is n't an authority. on the other hand , it is perfectly
reasonable to question whether something is an authority. the catch phrase
here should be authenticate authority. once you have authenticated
your authority , you must believe what it says , or you are not treating it as
an authority.

the difficulty is that authenticating an authority is not easy. you
can perhaps discredit a claim to authority by showing logical inconsistency
in what it teaches , or by showing that it does not obey its own rules of
discourse. but the fact that i cannot discredit something does not , in
inself , accredit it. (nor does the fact that i can convince myself and
other that i have discredited something necessarilly mean that it is false.)
i cannot accredit an authority by independantly verifying its teachings ,
because if i can independantly verify its teachings , i do n't need an
authority. i need an authority only when there is information i need which
i cannot get for myself. thus , if i am to authenticate an authority , i must
do it by some means other than by examining its teachings.

in practical matters we accept all kinds of authorities because we do n't
have time to rediscover fundamental knowledge for ourselves. every scientist
woring today assumes , on the authority of the scintific community , all sorts
of knowledge which is necessary to his work but which he has not time to
verify for himself.

in spiritual matters , we accept authority because we have no direct source
ofinformation. we select our authorities based on various criteria. (i am
a catholic , in part , because the historical claims of the rc church seem
the strongest.) without authorities there would be no subject matter for
belief , unless we simply made something up for ourselves (as many do).

the atheist position seems to be that there are no authorities. this is a
reasonable assertion in itself , but it leads to a practical difficulty.
if you reject all authority out of hand , you reject all possibility of
every receiving information. thus the atheist position can never possibly
change. it is non falsifiable and therefore unscintific.

to demand scintific or rational proof of god 's existence , is to deny
god 's existence , since neither science , nor reason , can , in their very
nature , prove anything.





mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis


from mussack@austin.ibm.com (christopher mussack)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization ibm austin
lines 12

general question since the world was discovered to be
round , the definition of saturday is , if not ambiguous ,
at least arbitrary. how would someone answer this \?

also , when the calendar was changed (gregorian to julian \? )
was the day of the week changed or just the date \? once again
this points to the arbitrariness of the days.

chris mussack

when calendars change , there is no change in the 7 day weekly cycle ,
just months and dates. clh

from holfeltz@lstc2vm.stortek.com
subject re what did lazarus smell like \?
organization storagetek sw engineering
lines 20

in article apr.10.05.31.34.1993.14365@athos.rutgers.edu
rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu (tim rolfe) writes


my guess is that the lazarus , come out ! was also for the sake of the
crowd.

i read somewhere , i think in morton smith 's jesus the magician , that
old lazarus was n't dead , but going in the tomb was part of an initiation
rite for a magi cult , of which jesus was also a part. it appears that
a 3 day stay was normal. i wonder .... \?

i have n't read that book , but another one by smith in which similar
claims were made about jesus. while i'm sure smith knows more about
early chrisitanity than i do , i found his arguments similar to those
of books like holy blood , holy grail building conjectures on top
of other conjectures. there was no direct evidence. if you 'd like
to summarize the argument for us , i 'd be happy to see it. but in
doing so , i 'd like you to pay careful attention to the nature of
the evidence. clh

from simon@giaeb.cc.monash.edu.au (simon shields)
subject sspx schism \?
organization monash university , melb. , australia.
lines 78

hi all

hope you all had a blessed easter. i have a document which i believe
refutes the notion that the sspx (society of saint pius x) is in
schism , or that there has been any legitimate excommunication. if
anyone is interested in reading the truth about this matter please
email me and i 'll send them the document via email. its 26 pages long ,
so i wont be posting it on the news group.

its titled


neither schismatic nor excommunicated


this article was originally an english translation , by the
society of saint pius x in ireland , from the french journal
'courrier de rome'. the french article , in its turn , was a
translation from the italian of the roman newsletter 'si si no
no'.

this booklet contains the transcription , with some minor editing ,
of the irish article , and was transcribed and produced by john
clay , townsville , queensland , australia.

(there is no copyright attached. simon shields)

contents

neither schismatic nor excommunicated.......................1
catholics on the rack.......................................1
the choice of the 'sensus fidei'............................3
ambiguity...................................................4
the church is not bicephalous (two headed)..................6
the person and the function of the pope.....................6
unity of faith and unity of communion.......................8
the criteria of choice.....................................10
ecumenism an attack on the unity of the church...........10
the extraordinary situation within the church..............11
extraordinary duties of lay people.........................12
duties and powers of bishops...............................14
from the fact of their greater duties......................14
from the fact of their greater power.......................14
the power and the duty of the papacy.......................15
the election of bishops....................................15
state and right of necessity...............................16
1. there is in the church a real state of necessity........17
for souls..................................................18
for seminarians............................................18
2. all the ordinary means have been exhausted..............19
3. the act itself is not intrinsically evil and there resul..........21
4. in the limits of effective requirements.................22
5. the authority of the pope is not put into question......23
the excommunication........................................24
conclusion.................................................25
bibliography...............................................26 31

god bless ye all ,



an irish fairwell

may the road rise to meet you
may the wind be always at your back
may the sun shine warm upon your face ,
the rains fall soft upon your fields ,
and until we meet again ,
may god hold you in the palm of his hand.




simon p. shields programmer viva cristo rey ! !
monash university college gippsland ph 61 51 226 357 .jhs.
switchback rd. churchill. fax 61 51 226 300
australia 3842 internet simon@giaec.cc.monash.edu.au m j


from gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com (gary chin)
subject christians that are not church members
reply to gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 13

over the years , i have met christians who are not associated with
any local church and are not members of any local church. this is
an issue that may be very personal , but is important. what does
the bible say about this and how can we encourage our friends with
regard to this issue \?


gary chin
staff engineer
sun microsystems
mt. view , ca
gchin@eng.sun.com


from jcj@tellabs.com (jcj)
subject re when are two people married
organization huh \? whuzzat \?
lines 14

jek@cu.nih.gov writes

...
the essential ingredient of a marriage is mutual commitment. two
persons are considered to be married if and only if they have bound
themselves by mutual promises to live together as husband and wife ,
forsaking all others , till death do them part.


does that imply that people who take marriage vows but are n't sincere
are not married \?

jeff johnson
jcj@tellabs.com

from todd@nickel.laurentian.ca
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \? y
organization laurentian university
lines 48

in article apr.24.01.08.03.1993.4202@geneva.rutgers.edu , marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes

those with bibles on hand can give the exact chapter verse...
at the time jesus told peter that he was the rock , he said
whatever you hold true on earth is held true in heaven , and
whatever you do n't hold true wo n't be true in heaven.

therefore , with respect to marriage , the ceremony has to be
done by an rc priest. no big parties required. just the priest ,
the couple and witnesses. divorce is not allowed. but anullments
are granted upon approval by either the bishop or the pope
(not sure if the pope delegates this function).

maybe i'm a little tired but i ca n't seem to follow the logic here. if
whatever is held true on earth is held true in heaven how is it that a priest
(rc only apparently) is required.

in fact if i read the next verse correctly (matthew 18 19) i understand that
for a marriage to take place only two are required to agree on earth touching
one thing and it shall be done.

todd




mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris'
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com
the lost los angelino

unfortunately i have n't been able to find any completely precise
statements about what is needed. (as usual , the current edition of
the catholic encyclopedia is frustratingly vague.) i do know that the
priest is viewed as a witness , and thus in some sense would not be
required. however part of the purpose of formal marriage is to avoid
any ambiguity about who has and has not taken on the commitment. the
community provides support to marriage , and in cases of problems are
involved in helping to make sure that the people carry out as much of
their commitment as possible. thus marriage must be a public
commitment. the presence of a priest is required for a regular
marriage. where i'm not clear is exactly where the boundaries are in
exceptional cases ( valid but irregular ). ne temere (1907) says that
no marriage involving a catholic is valid without a priest (according
to the oxford dictionary of the church) , and they imply that the new
canon law retains this , but i 'd rather see a more recent and
authoritative source. note that while a catholic priest is required
for catholics , the catholic church does recognize marriage between
baptized non catholics as valid without a priest. clh

from mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michael d. walker)
subject re the doctrine of original sin
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 24




just a quick reminder

the way you are interpreting those passages is your opinion. you make
it sound as if your opinion is somehow an undisputable fact.

many would interpret the passages you cite very differently.

(many have several of the great theologians you mentioned do that
very thing. these were people who had much more expertise in the
interpretation of scripture than you or me or probably anyone reading
this newsgroup. to say that all of them are wrong and you are right
is , in my opinion , (notice those last three words) coming pretty darn
close to the sin of pride.

in the future i would suggest you not be so absolutist in your
interpretations , especially when contradicting highly respected
doctors of christianity.

mike walker
mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
(univ. of illinois)

from u0mrm@csc.liv.ac.uk (m.r. mellodew)
subject re if there were no hell
organization computer science , liverpool university
lines 31

in article may.5.02.51.25.1993.28737@athos.rutgers.edu , shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker) writes

here 's a question that some friends and i were debating last night.

q if you knew beyond all doubt that hell did not exist and that
unbelievers simply remained dead , would you remain a christian \?

my contention is that if you answer this question with no. i would
not then remain a christian then you really are not one now.
following jesus christ has everything to do with sharing in
his work and spreading the news that the kingdom of heaven is already
among us. fear based religion is not a faith relationship with the
one who made us all.

so does that mean that anyone who is a christian to avoid hell is n't really
a christian at all \? it sounds like it to me.

mit liebe in christus ,
martyn r. mellodew. (u0mrm@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk)



martyn r. mellodew , e mail u0mrm@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk
department of applied mathematics arpa internet u0mrm@csc.liv.ac.uk
and theoretical physics , janet u0mrm@uk.ac.liv.csc
the university of liverpool ,
p.o. box 147 ,
liverpool ,
england ,
l69 9bx. `dubito ergo deus est.'


from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re cell church discussion group
organization indiana university
lines 5

then by that definition , i would be in a cell church only here at iu ,
not when the whole group gets together at indianapolis ( 950 every week
in attendance).

joe fisher

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject watt misquoted
lines 30


heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes

i realize i'm entering this discussion rather late , but i do
have one question. was n't it a reagan appointee , james watt , a
pentacostal christian (i think) who was the secretary of the
interior who saw no problem with deforestation since we were
living in the last days and ours would be the last generation
to see the redwoods anyway \?

for the record

on february 5 , 1981 , at a house of representatives
interior committee meeting , rep. james weaver (d , ore) , asked watt
whether you agree that we should save some of our scenic resources
for our children , not just gobble them up all at once \? watt 's
answer was

absolutely. that is the delicate balance the secretary of the
interior must have to be steward for the natural resources
for this generation as well as future generations. i do not
know how many future generations we can count on before the
lord returns. whatever it is , we have to manage with a skill
to have the resources needed for future generations.

my source is a column by rowland evans and robert novak on the
op ed page of the washington post for friday 21 august 1981.

yours ,
james kiefer

from weaver@chdasic.sps.mot.com (dave weaver)
subject help
lines 44

in a prior article , lmvec@westminster.ac.uk (william hargreaves) writes

now i am of the opinion that you a saved through faith alone (not what you do)
as taught in romans , but how can i square up in my mind the teachings of james
in conjunction with the lukewarm christian being 'spat out'

if you agree that good works have a role somewhere , you will
generally find yourself in one of two camps

(1) faith works salvation
or (2) faith salvation works

either (1) works are required for salvation , or (2) faith will
inevitably result in good works.

i am also of the opinion that salvation is by faith alone , based on
ephesians 2 and romans 3 21 31. i also conclude that james 2 , when
read in context , is teaching bullet (2) above. when james speaks of
justification , i would claim that he is not speaking of god declaring
the believing sinner innocent in his sight (paul 's use of the word).
instead he is speaking of the sinner 's profession of faith being
justified or proven by the display of good works. also according
to james 2 , the abscence of such works is evidence for a dead or
useless faith which fails to save.

james 2 is not a problem for the doctrine of salvation by faith if it
is teaching (2). works would have their place , not as merit toward
salvation , but as evidence of true faith.

regards ,


dave weaver he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to
weaver@chdasic.sps.mot.com gain what he cannot lose. jim elliot (1949)

there are of course a number of other possibilities. the reformers
believed

salvation faith works

some of us suspect that the three things are tied up together in such a way
that no diagram of this form can do it justice.

clh

from cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk (michael c davis)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
lines 62

robert anderson (randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu) wrote
i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \? some say that if the two have
publically announced their plans to marry , have made their vows to god , and
are unswervingly committed to one another (i realize this is a subjective
qualifier) they are married joined in god 's sight.

the way i read scripture , a couple becomes married when they are physically
married , i.e. when they first have sexual intercourse.

e.g. the end of genesis 2 (quoted from memory) ``for this reason , a man shall
leave his parents and be joined to his wife , and they will become one flesh''
(jesus also quotes this scripture referring to marriage).

if you read through genesis in particular , you will often come across the
phraseology `` man lay with woman , and she became his wife''. this
implies that she became his wife when they lay together , i.e. at the
point of intercourse.

compare this with jewish tradition joseph , when he heard that mary
was pregnant , had it in mind to divorce her quietly but mary and joseph were
betrothed , not married. i.e. , they were in a binding relationship (which
required a divorce to get out of) , but marriage would not occur until mary
and joseph went to bed together.

compare with christ and the church (ephesians 5 , revelation 19) the church is
described as the ``bride'' of christ , but the marriage of the lamb takes
place when jesus returns. i.e. , we are in a binding love relationship with
jesus , but we are still looking forward to the time when the marriage will
take place. i see this as the spiritual equivalent of sexual intercourse ,
because it represents the most intimate fellowship possible between man and god.

in summary , engagement should be honoured as a binding relationship , but it is
not marriage. a civil ceremony is not marriage either. marriage occurs at the
point when the betrothed couple go to bed together. (i do n't mean to demean the
civil or church ceremony ours was great ! i do n't mean to be too pedantic.)
historically , i think i am correct in stating that the civil ceremony (i.e. a
marriage recognised by the state) , has only been around in the west since
napoleon , who introduced it to keep tabs on the people (although i'm ready to be
corrected on that point ! )

this view obviously raises some questions

what about those who have had sex with one or more partners , without considering
marriage. are those people also ``married'' \?

if it is true that marriage occurs at the point of intercourse , is it necessary
to be married in the eyes of the state \? (i would say yes , because this honours
the laws of our nations in the west. although it is not illegal to sleep
together though unmarried in most western countries , i believe that it is god
honouring to proclaim our marriage to the state and to our friends before
actually consummating our marriage. its to do with our being salt and light , and
also to do with how people will perceive us i.e. it is culturally insensitive
to declare yourself married without going through a civil ceremony.)




michael davis (cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk)

and hast thou slain the jabberwock \?
come to my arms , my beamish boy !

from pharvey@quack.kfu.com (paul harvey)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization the duck pond public unix 1 408 249 9630 , log in as 'guest'.
lines 86

in article apr.20.03.02.26.1993.3803@geneva.rutgers.edu clh writes
re are you christian or pauline \?
both.

sure , why not \? but , are you using paul to correct the words of jesus \?

there is no doubt in my mind about what is sin and what is
not , at least not in this case. jesus did not deal explicitly with
the question of whether the law was binding on gentiles.

so anyone who dissolves even one of the smallest commands and teaches
others the same way , will be known as the lowest in the kingdom of the
skies whereas anyone who keeps the commands and teaches them too , will
be known as someone great in the kingdom of the skies. mat5 19 (gaus)

are you an anyone or are you a no one \?

why not assume , that since jesus did n't say that his words apply only to
jews , that they apply to all human beings , irregardless of race or sex \?

why not assume , that even though jesus did not mention your name , still
jesus was talking directly to you \?

that 's why i
have to cite evidence such as the way jesus dealt with the centurion.
as to general jewish views on this , i am dependent largely on studies
of pauline theology , one by h.j. schoeps , and one whose author i ca n't
come up with at the moment. both authors are jews. also , various
christian and non christian jews have discussed the issue here and in
other newsgroups.
mat 5 19 is clear that the law is still valid. it does not say that
it applies to gentiles.

does it say that it applies to you \? are you anyone or no one \?

and yes , i say that the specific requirement for worship on the
sabbath in the ten commandments is a ceremonial detail , when you 're
looking at the obligations of gentiles.

ex20 8 11(jps) remember the sabbath day and keep it holy. six days you
shall labor and do all your work , but the seventh day is a sabbath of
the lord your god you shall not do any work you , your son or
daughter , your male or female slave , or your cattle , or the stranger who
is within your settlements. for in six days the lord made heaven and
earth and sea , and all that is in them , and he rested on the seventh
day therefore the lord blessed the sabbath day and hollowed it.

note there is no specific requirement for worship here , however i for
one would not be so bold as to call these verses a ceremonial detail.

similarly circumcision.

do n't many christians still practice circumcision \?

i'm not sure quite what else i can say on this subject. again , it 's
unfortunate the jesus did n't answer the question directly.

it 's unfortunate that jesus did n't use your name directly , or maybe
jesus did \? are you somebody or nobody \?

however we
do know (1) what the 1st cent. jewish approach was , (2) how jesus
dealt with at least one gentile , and (3) how jesus' disciples dealt
with the issue when it became more acute (i'm referring to acts 15
more than paul). given that these are all in agreement , i do n't see
that there 's a big problem.

if you do n't see a problem , then perhaps there is none. as paul closes
romans 14 (gaus)

in short , pursue the ends of peace and of building each other up.
do n't let dietary considerations undo the work of god. everything may be
clean , but it 's evil for the person who eats it in an offensive spirit.
better not to eat the meat or drink the wine or whatever else your
brother is offended by. as for the faith that you have , keep that
between yourself and god. the person is in luck who does n't condemn
himself for what he samples. on the other hand , the person with doubts
about something who eats it anyway is guilty , because he is n't acting on
his faith , and any failure to act on faith is a sin.

as far as i know , christians (except specific jewish christian
groups , and maybe some of the sabbatarians both of which are very
small groups) do not practice circumcision on religious grounds. in
some countries it has been done for supposed health reasons , but i 've
not heard it argued that it is being done because of the biblical
commandment. clh

from sschaff@roc.slac.stanford.edu (stephen f. schaffner)
subject re ancient books
organization stanford linear accelerator center
lines 18

in article apr.10.05.32.47.1993.14396@athos.rutgers.edu ,
whheydt@pbhya.pacbell.com (wilson heydt) writes

as for the dating of the oldest extant texts of the nt.... how would
you feel about the us civil war in a couple of thousand years if the
only extant text was written about now \? now adjust for a largely
illiterate population , and one in which every copy of a manuscript is
done by hand....

considerably better than i feel about , say , the punic wars , or the
peloponnesian war (spelling optional) , or almost any other event in
classical history. how close to the events do you think the oldest
extent manuscripts are in those cases \?


steve schaffner sschaff@unixhub.slac.stanford.edu
the opinions expressed may be mine , and may not be those of slac ,
stanford university , or the doe.

from aaronc@athena.mit.edu (aaron bryce cardenas)
subject re questions from a newbie
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 7

jerry kaufman writes

the bible says that he looks on the heart as the
final measure. from that perspective , in a grading context , the heart is
the final test.

very true. one might also say that life is an open book test.

from topcat ! tom@tredysvr.tredydev.unisys.com (tom albrecht)
subject re revelations
organization applied presuppositionalism , ltd.
lines 30

hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr) writes

now , as to the suggestion that all prophecy tends to be somewhat cyclical ,
can you elaborate \? i'm not exactly sure what you mean. how does the
suggestion relate to isaiah 's prophecy of the birth of christ by a virgin \?
i do n't see any cycles in that prophecy.

maybe cyclical is not the best word. ...

another example would be the scripture quoted of judas , and his bishoprick
let another take. another example is something that isaiah said of his
disciples which is also applied to christ in hebrews , the children thou
hast given me.

how does the preterist view account for this phenomenon.

ah , double fulfillment. first of all i would say that i'm not sure all
the prophecies had double fulfillment , e.g. , the isaiah 7 14 prophecy.

i would say that just because this happens on some occasions does not mean
it will occur always , especially with regard to nt prophecies. the apostles
who quoted the ot and applied those passages to jesus were acting as divine
messengers and giving the inerrant word of god to the church. no one has
that authority today. no one has the apostolic authority to say that
such and such a prophecy has double fulfillment. if the imagry of
revelation fits with events of the 1st century , it is folly for us to try
and make it apply to events 20 centuries later.


tom albrecht

from eng10205@nusunix1.nus.sg (ling siew wee)
subject online bible as bible study
organization national university of singapore
lines 33

hello , i am about to embark on a bible study on acts. i have online
bible software with me. i would like to know the the background of the
authors of its various topics articles and about the author of the
people 's new testament. i need to know how realible is the articles in
the online bible software. specifically (for your convenience) i want to
know about the


1. darby translation ( i have never heard of this one)
2. young 's literal translation (i have also never heard
of)
3. the realiability of the hebrew greek lexicon
4. the authors (from which denomination etc) of the
articles in the topics modules.
5. the realiability of the treasury of scripture
knowlege ( as i have never heard of too)
6. who are the commentators , scofield and b.w. johnson
who wrote the scofield reference bible and the people 's new testament respectively
7. the realiability of the strong numbers.

i will be most happy to receive a reply of any of you who knows about
the above. also , please 'qualify' yourself so that i may know that i am
not receiving a 'rubbish' letter. i just want to make sure.

wilfred ling




name wilfred ling siew wee national university of s'pore
internet eng10205@nusunix.nus.sg electrical engineering
bitnet eng10205@nusvm.bitnet


from thssccb@iitmax.iit.edu (catherine c bareiss)
subject re phone number of wycliffe translators uk
organization illinois institute of technology
lines 36

in article apr.17.01.11.19.1993.2268@geneva.rutgers.edu mprc@troi.cc.rochester.edu (m. price) writes

i'm concerned about a recent posting about wbt sil. i thought they 'd
pretty much been denounced as a right wing organization involved in
ideological manipulation and cultural interference , including vietnam
and south america. a commission from mexican academia denounced them in
1979 as a covert political and ideological institution used by the
u.s. govt as an instrument of control , regulation , penetration , espionage and
repression.

i have personally know quite of few of the wycliffe bible translators.
as an organization their fundamental purpose is to translate the scriptures
into the native languages which in terms usual means learning it and
developing a written language (along with teaching the natives to read).
it is not associated with the u.s. govt. at all. many governments
want the help of the translators. to the best of my knowledge the
mexican government now encourages them to come. their idea is not
cultural interference but the presentation of the good news.

to understand more about what they do , i suggest you read some of the books
(autobiographical and biographical) about some of the translators. one
that stands out in my mind as an excellent is called peace child.
this would give a true picture of what their mission is.

my concern is that this group may be seen as acceptable and even
praiseworthy by readers of soc.religion.christian. it 's important that
christians do n't immediately accept every christian organization as
automatically above reproach.

mp
i agree with this statement , but we cannot also accept what others
say without looking into the issues. that would be the same as taking
suddan 's discussion about the cia , etc. as being true. we must look
at both sides.

cathy bareiss

from wjhovi01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu
subject re tuff to be a christian \?
organization university of louisville
lines 24

someone writing anonymously asks

would you have become a christian if you had not
been indoctrinated by your parents \? you probably never learned about
any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
you are brain washed.

i did become a christian without having been indoctrinated by my parents , and
having studied buddhism fairly carefully and other religions to a lesser
degree. i made a decision to accept the truth claims of christianity after
having given it a lot of thought. (i have to point out that the process was not
purely a cold , rational one there was a powerful experiential element as well.
also , my calvinist should rest assured that i do n't lay any of the
responsibility for the outcome my conversion on anyone but god.)

it took me years and years for this all to happen , because i had many of the
objections that this poster puts forward. i grew up in the shadow of generic
authoritarian conservative denomination , and i knew that that was n't a way
of life that i could adopt. but i gradually learned not to tar all of
christianity with the same brush , and realized quite suddenly one cold winter
night that i accepted what i had heretofore rejected. i am quite certain that
i was not brain washed .

bill hovingh

from jcj@tellabs.com (jcj)
subject re proof of resurection
organization huh \? whuzzat \?
lines 14

in article apr.16.23.15.09.1993.1823@geneva.rutgers.edu smayo@world.std.com (scott a mayo) writes
...
i think christianity goes down in flames if the resurrection is
ever disproved. ...

did n't paul write that if the resurrection is not true , we are the
biggest fools of all \? however , whether you believe in christ or not ,
his teachings (e.g. love your brotherman as yourself) , even if only
followed at a secular level , could do a great deal to alleviate some of
the problems we see today in the world. even when i was a rabid atheist
i could n't deny that.

jeff johnson
jcj@tellabs.com

from rbutera@owlnet.rice.edu (robert john butera)
subject re about eliz c prophet
organization rice university
lines 33

in article apr.21.03.27.03.1993.1388@geneva.rutgers.edu jek@cu.nih.gov writes
rob butera asks about a book called the lost years of jesus , by
elizabeth clare prophet.

...

marriage , if i remember aright) , base almost all their teachings on
messages they have allegedly received by telepathy from tibet. i
should be surprised if the book you mention has any scholarly basis.

actually , there was very little to the book. first of all looking at
the titles of her other books , i would personally consider her
to be engaged in a bizarre form of christian like mysticism
heavily influenced by eastern philosphies (great titles like
the astrology of the 4 horsemen ).

however , other than the chapter one into , there 's nothing original ,
biased , or even new this book. it is basically a collection of previously
published works by those who claim that there exist buddhist and hindu
stories that christ visited india and china (he was known as issa)
during the period from late teens to age 30.

conclusion the book actually lets you come to your own view by presenting
a summary of various published works and letters , all of which you
could verify independently. it includes refutations to such works as
well. therefore , even if you think she is theologically warped , this
book is a nice reference summary for the interested.


rob butera
ece grad student only sick music makes money today
rice university
houston , tx 77054 nietzsche , 1888

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject re does god love you \?
organization kulikauskas home
lines 32

davem@bnr.ca (dave mielke) writes ,

however , god 's love is qualified. the bible says

the way of the wicked is an abomination unto the lord but he
loveth him that followeth after righteousness. proverbs 15 9

for the lord knoweth the way of the righteous but the way of
the ungodly shall perish. psalm 1 6


i am extremely uncomfortable with this way of phrasing it. god 's love
is unconditional , unqualified , unfathomable. we are capable of
rejecting god 's love but he never fails to love us.

these verses do not show that god 's love is qualified but rather that he
is opposed to evil.

i am uncomfortable with the tract in general because there seems to be
an innappropriate emphasis on hell. god deserves our love and worship
because of who he is. i do not like the idea of frightening people into
accepting christ.

i see evangelism as combining a way of living that shows god 's love with
putting into words and explaining that love. preaching the gospel
without living the gospel is no better than being a noisy gong or a
clanging cymbal.

here 's a question how many of you are christians because you are
afraid of going to hell \? how many are responding to god 's love \?

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 58

in article apr.19.05.10.33.1993.29070@athos.rutgers.edu , gene.gross@lambada.oit.unc.edu (gene gross) writes

of course they knew where it was. do n't forget that jesus was seen by both
the jews and the romans as a troublemaker. pilate was no fool and did n't
need the additional headaches of some fishermen stealing jesus' body to
make it appear he had arisen. since jesus was buried in the grave of a
man well know to the sanhedrin , to say that they did n't know where he was
buried begs the question.

here again , the problem with most of the individuals posting here , you take the
biblical account as though it were some sort of historical recounting in the
modern sense. i would refer you to john dominic crossans book the cross that
spoke (pub. harper and row , 1988). the earliest texts which we have make no
reference to an empty tomb. nor is an empty tomb necessary for a claim of
resurrection. modern evangelicals fundamentalists have completely missed what
the point of resurrection is here the work of george nickelsburg 's work
resurrection , immortality , and eternal life in intertestamental judaism (publ
cambridge , havard univ. press , 1972) is most helpful. look at rom 1 1 3. paul
here has no need of an empty tomb. additionally in 1 cor 15 , here again there
is no mention of an empty tomb. he was raised (note the passive) , he appeared ,
no ascension either.

resurrection could be accomplished without ever disturbing the bones in the
grave. the whole idea of an empty tomb is n't broached in any of our texts
until well after the fall of jerusalem. by that time , the idea of coming up
with a body would have been ludicrious. moreover mack has argued (convicingly ,
i think) that the empty tomb story first appears in mark (we have no texts
before this which mention the tomb).



now , you say that you think that the disciples stole the body. but think on
this a moment. would you die to maintain something you knew to be a
deliberate lie ! \? if not , then why do you think the disciples would ! \? now , i'm
not talking about dying for something you firmly believe to be the truth ,
but unbeknown to you , it is a lie. many have done this. no , i'm talking about
dying , by beheading , stoning , crucifixion , etc. , for something you know to
be a lie ! thus , you position with regards to the disciples stealing the
body seems rather lightweight to me.

as for graverobbers , why risk the severe penalties for grave robbing over
the body of jesus \? he was n't buried with great riches. so , again , this is
an argument that can be discounted.

that leaves you back on square one. what happened to the body ! \?


again , let me comment that the most plausible non christian scenario ,
and the one typically suggested by sceptics who are knowledgeable
about the nt , is that the resurrection was a subjective event , and the
empty tomb stories are a result of accounts growing in the telling.
clh

you are quite right here. even the idea of a subjective mystical event as the
foundation of the resurrection narratives is currently becoming more untenable.
see b. mack a myth of innocence .

randy

from shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization shell oil
lines 99

in article apr.17.01.11.35.1993.2284@geneva.rutgers.edu jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler) writes

descriptions of true and false obedience

obedience is not solely a matter of compliance refusal. the nature of
the commands must also be taken into account it is not enough to
consider someone 's compliance or refusal and then say whether they are
obedient or disobedient . you also have to take into consideration
whether the commands are good or bad.

you ask where we are. i would echo that question. i'm not trying to be
contentious. but assuming that the pope has universal jurisdiction
and authority , what authority do you rely upon for your decisions \?
what prevents me from choosing any doctrine i like and saying that
papal disagreement is an error that will be resolved in time \?
this is especially true , since councils of bishops have basically
stood by the pope.

it appears that much of what lies at the heart of this matter is
disagreements over what is tradition and tradition , and also over
authority and discipline.

my question to the supporters of sspx is this

is there any way that your positions with respect to church reforms
could change and be conformed to those of the pope \? (assuming that
the pope 's position does not change and that the leaders of sspx
do n't jointly make such choice.)

if not , this appears to be claiming infallible teaching authority.
if i adopt the view that i'm not wrong , i can't be wrong , and
there 's no way i 'll change my mind , you must change yours , that
i 've either left the catholic church or it has left me.

the orthodox church does not recognize papal authority jurisdiction
viewing authority as present in each bishop , and in ecumenical
councils. we regard the subsequent development of the doctrines
regarding papal authority and jurisdiction to be a separation of
the bishop of rome from the orthodox church. without going into
the merits of the great schism , at least the orthodox agree that
a split occurred , and do n't paly what appear to be semantic games
like he 's the pope , but we do n't recognize that what he does
is effective... . words aside , it appears to be a de facto split.

so where are we \? are we in another arian heresy , complete with weak
popes \? or are the sspx priests modern martin luthers \? well , the only
way to answer that is to examine who is saying what , and what the
traditional teaching of the church is.

we sould argue from now until the second coming about what the real
traditional teaching of the church is. if this were a simple matter
east and west would not have been separated for over 900 years.

many catholics will decide to side with the pope. there is some
soundness in this , because the papacy is infallible , so eventually
some pope will straighten all this out.

i thought that the teaching magisterieum of the church did not allow
error in teachings regarding faith and morals even in the short term.`
i may be wrong here , i'm not roman catholic. )

what would be the effect of a pope making an ex cathedra statement
regarding the sspx situation \? would it be honored \? if not , how
do you get around the formal doctrine of infallibility \?
again , i'm not trying to be contentions , i'm trying to understand.
since i'm orthodox , i 've got no real vested interest in the outcome ,
one way or the other.

schism is a superset of disobedience (refusal to obey a legitimate
command). all schismatics are disobedient. but it 's a superset , so
it does n't work the other way around not all disobeyers are
schismatics. the mere fact that the sspx priests do n't comply with
the holy father 's desires does n't make them schismatics.

it does if the command was legitimate. sspx does not view the
pope 's commands as legitimate. why \? this is a very slippery slope.

but my problem with this is
this according to the traditional theology of holy orders , episcopal
consecration does not confer jurisdiction. it only confers the power
of order the ability to confect the sacraments.

true enough.

jurisdiction must be
conferred by someone else with the power to confer it (such as the
pope). the society bishops , knowing the traditional theology quite
well , take great pains to avoid any pretence of jurisdiction over
anyone. they simply confer those sacraments that require a bishop.

one could argue that they are establishing a non geographic jurisdiction.
i do n't know if that 's even a concept or problem in catholic circles.

larry overacker (llo@shell.com)


lawrence overacker
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965
llo@shell.com

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject q the lost gospel
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 5

just finished reading burton mack 's new book , the lost gospel , q and christian
origins . i thought it was totally cool. anyone else read it and want to
talk \?

randy

from salaris@niblick.ecn.purdue.edu (rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits)
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical \?
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 23

in article may.7.01.09.04.1993.14501@athos.rutgers.edu , easteee@wkuvx1.bitnet writes
hello all ,
i have a question about satan. i was taught a long time ago
that satan was really an angel of god and was kicked out of heaven
because he challenged god 's authority. the problem is , i cannot
find this in the bible. is it in the bible \? if not , where did it
originate \?

satan was one of god 's highest ranking angels , like uriel , raphael ,
michael , and gabriel. in fact , his name was satanel. he did challenge
god 's authority and got kicked out of heaven. a lot of the mythology
of satan (he lost the el suffix when he fell) comes from the
book of enoch and is not found in the bible.

read the book of enoch , available thru bookstores , or get the book
called angels an endangered species (i think).



steven c. salaris we 're...a lot more dangerous than 2 live crew
salaris@carcs1.wustl.edu and their stupid use of foul language because
we have ideas. we have a philosophy.
geoff tate queensryche

from rjs2@po.cwru.edu (richard j. szanto)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
reply to rjs2@po.cwru.edu (richard j. szanto)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 27

in a previous article , randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu (robert anderson) says

i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \? some say that if the two have
publically announced their plans to marry , have made their vows to god , and
are unswervingly committed to one another (i realize this is a subjective
qualifier) they are married joined in god 's sight.

i have discussed this with my girlfriend often. i consider myself married ,
though legally i am not. neither of us have been with other people sexually ,
although we have been with each other. we did not have sexual relations
until we decided to marry eventually. for financial and distance reasons ,
we will not be legally married for another year and a half. until then ,
i consider myself married for life in god 's eyes. i have faith that we
have a strong relationship , and have had for over 4 years , and will be
full of joy when we marry in a church. first , however , we must find a
church( we will be living in a new area when we marry , and will need to
find a new church community).

anyway , i feel that if two people commit to marriage before god , they are
married and are bound by that commitment.


rick szanto
polk speakers rock computer engineer
mac 's suck (nothing personal) case western
zeta psi rules reserve university

from holfeltz@lstc2vm.stortek.com
subject re deification
organization storagetek sw engineering
lines 19

aaron bryce cardenas writes

basically the prophet 's writings make up the old testament , the apostles'
writings make up the new testament. these writings , recorded in the bible ,
are the foundation of the church.

hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za (steve hayes) writes

that seems a most peculiar interpretation of the text. the apostles and
prophets were people , rather than writings. and there were new testament
prophets as well , who built up the churches.

remember the ot doctrine of 2 witnesses \? perhaps the prophets
testified he is coming. the apostles , testified he came.

after all , what does prophesy mean \? secondly , what is an apostle \? answer
an especial witness one who is suppose to be a personal witness. that means
to be a true apostle , one must have christ appear to them. now lets see
when did the church quit claiming ...... \?

from stanly@grok11.columbiasc.ncr.com (stanly)
subject re elder brother
organization ncr corp. , columbia sc
lines 15

in article apr.8.00.57.41.1993.28246@athos.rutgers.edu rexlex@fnal.gov writes
in article apr.7.01.56.56.1993.22824@athos.rutgers.edu shrum@hpfcso.fc.hp.com
matt. 22 9 14 'go therefore to the main highways , and as many as you find
there , invite to the wedding feast.'...

hmmmmmm. sounds like your theology and christ 's are at odds. which one am i
to believe \?

in this parable , jesus tells the parable of the wedding feast. the kingdom
of heaven is like unto a certain king which made a marriage for his son .
so the wedding clothes were customary , and given to those who chose to
attend. this man refused to wear the clothes. the wedding clothes are
equalivant to the clothes of righteousness . when jesus died for our sins ,
those clothes were then provided. like that man , it is our decision to
put the clothes on.

from bassili@cs.arizona.edu (amgad z. bassili)
subject copt net newsletter 4
lines 18

this is to let you know that the fourth issue of the copt net newsletter
has been issued. the highlights of this issue include


1. easter greating christ is risen truly he is risen !
2. the holy family in egypt (part 1)
3. anba abraam , the friend of the poor (part 4)
4. a review of the coptic encyclopedia
5. a new dictionary of the coptic language


this newsletter has been prepared by members of copt net , a forum
where news , activities , and services of the coptic orthodox churches
and coptic communities outside egypt are coordinated and exchanged.
if you want your name to be included in the mailing list , or have any
questions please contact nabil ayoub at ayoub@erctitan.me.wisc.edu .

copt net editorial board

from cctr114@cantua.canterbury.ac.nz (bill rea)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand.
lines 68

carol alvin (caralv@caralv.auto trol.com) wrote

in the new testament (sorry i do n't have a bible at work , and ca n't
provide a reference) , women are instructed to be silent and cover
their heads in church. now , this is scripture. by your definition ,
this is truth and therefore absolute.

do women in your church speak \? do they cover their heads \? if all
scripture is absolute truth , it seems to me that women speaking in and
coming to church with bare heads should be intolerable to evangelicals.
yet , clearly , women do speak in evangelical churches and come with bare
heads. (at least this was the case in the evangelical churches i grew
up in.)

evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture
to be absolute truth. (and there are plenty of other examples.)
can you reconcile this \?

the problem you see here is that some christians claim things about
the bible which they do n't actually believe or practice. i 've known
all sorts of christians , ranging from the trendiest of liberals to
the fire breathing fundamentalists , and although many on the
conservative side of the christian faith do claim that the bible is
a (perhaps the ) source of absolute truth , i do n't know of anyone
who treats it as anything other than a valuable part of a living tradition.
while i am not a roman catholic , i believe this is close to the official
position of the rc church (perhaps an rc would like to comment).

the particular practice you refer to will usually be explained in
terms of the social context of the time. you would think the fact
that the conservatives seem to have to break out the tophat and cane
and give you some big song and dance routine about why this
(other passages as well) are n't directly applicable today would
show them that what they claim about the bible and what they
actually practice are two different things , but mostly it doens't.

while this thread is supposed to be about the arrogance of christians ,
i would suggest that some of the problem is really hypocrasy , in this
case , making claims about the bible which the claimants do n't actually
put into practice. but if we step back from the name calling and
look at what people are attempting to say , we see that they are trying
to express very concisely the unique place the bible holds within the
christian faith. so when people use such words or phrases as word of
god , inerrant , infallibale , the manufacturer 's handbook , the
only rule of faith and practice in the church today to describe the
bible , we should try to hear what they are saying and not just look at
the mere words they use. some of the above descriptions are demostratably
false and others are self contradictory , but in my experience people are
generally pretty good at picking out the intention of the speaker even
when the speaker 's words are at variance with their intentions. a biblical
example is from the garden of eden where god asks where are you \? and adam
explains that he was naked and afraid and hid himself. if adam had
answered god 's words he would have said something like i'm here in this
tree. the problem seems to arise when christians insist that these
words are indeed accurate reflections of their beleif. most people
have not made a determined effort to work out their own understanding of
the place of the bible within their own faith and so rely on the phrases
and explanations that others use.

i hope this helps.


bill rea (o o)
w u w
bill rea , computer services centre , e mail b.rea@csc.canterbury.ac.nz
university of canterbury , or cctr114@csc.canterbury.ac.nz
christchurch , new zealand phone (03) 642 331 fax (03) 642 999


from creps@lateran.ucs.indiana.edu (stephen a. creps)
subject re quality of catholic liturgy
organization indiana university
lines 72

in article apr.10.05.30.16.1993.14313@athos.rutgers.edu jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john e murray) writes
example. last sunday (palm sunday) we went to the local church. usually
on palm sunday , the congregation participates in reading the passion , taking
the role of the mob. the theology behind this seems profound when we say
crucify him we mean it. we did it , and if he came back today we 'd do it
again. it always gives me chills. but last week we were invited to sit
during the gospel ( passion) and listen . besides the orwellian invitation ,

on palm sunday at our parish , we were invited to take the role of
jesus in the passion. i declined to participate. last year at the
liturgy meeting i pointed out how we crucify christ by our sins , so
therefore it is appropriate that we retain the role of the crowd , but
to no avail.

musicians , readers , and so on. new things are introduced in the course of the
liturgy and since no one knows what 's happening , the new things have to be
explained , and pretty soon instead of doing a lot of the mass we 're just
sitting there listening (or spacing out , in my case) to how the mass is about
to be done. in my mind , i lay the blame on liturgy committees made up of lay
experts , but that may not be just. i do think that a liturgy committee has a
bias toward doing something rather than nothing that 's just a fact of
bureaucratic life even though a simpler liturgy may in fact make it easier for
people to be aware of the lord 's presence.

as a member of a liturgy committee , i can tell you that the problem
is certain people dominating , who want to try out all kinds of
innovations. the priests do n't seem even to want to make any
decisions of their own in many cases. i guess it 's easier to try
something new than it is to refuse to allow it.

at our parish on holy thursday , instead of the priests washing feet
( who wants to get around people 's feet , according to one of our
priests) the congregation was invited to come up and help wash one
another 's hands.

the symbolism of this action distressed me , and again i refused to
participate. i thought that if we were to have to come up with
rubrics for this liturgical action (i.e. body of christ amen
for receiving communion) , that they could be i am not responsible for
the blood of this man.

also for part of the eucharistic prayer ( blessed are you , god of
all creation... ) was substituted some text read by a lay couple. the
priest certainly should not have given this part of the mass over to
others , and i was so disturbed that i declined to receive communion
that night (we are n't required to anyway i instead offered up
prayers for our priests and parish).

so we 've been wondering are we the oddballs , or is the quality of the mass
going down \? i do n't mean that facetiously. we go to mass every thursday or
friday and are reminded of the power of a very simple liturgy to make us aware
of god 's presence. but as far as the obligatory sunday masses...maybe i should
just offer it up ) has anyone else noticed declining congregational
participation in catholic masses lately \?

the quality of the mass has not changed. again , if it were to be
celebrated according to the rubrics set down by the church , it would
still be liturgically beautiful. the problem comes about from
people trying to be creative who are not.

i think the answer to your question on participation could be that
given by father peter stravinskas in answer to the question posed by
the title of thomas day 's why catholics ca n't sing . they do n't
want to because of all this nonsense.

by the way , for any non catholics reading this , the problem does
not reflect bad liturgy by the catholic church , but by those who are
disobedient to the church in changing it on their own authority.


steve creps , indiana university
creps@lateran.ucs.indiana.edu

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck)
subject daily verse
lines 5


when he came near the place where the road goes down the mount of olives ,
the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise god in loud voices for
all the miracles they had seen
luke 19 37

from (phil bowermaster)
subject c. s. lewis is ok (was ancient books)
organization u s west advanced technologies
lines 49

in article apr.14.03.07.58.1993.5438@athos.rutgers.edu ,
mayne@ds3.scri.fsu.edu (bill mayne) wrote


the last sentence is ironic , since so many readers of
soc.religion.christian seem to not be embarrassed by apologists such as
josh mcdowell and c.s. lewis. the above also expresses a rather odd sense
of history. what makes you think the masses in aquinas' day , who were
mostly illiterate , knew any more about rhetoric and logic than most people
today \? if writings from the period seem elevated consider that only the
cream of the crop , so to speak , could read and write. if everyone in
the medieval period knew the rules it was a matter of uncritically
accepting what they were told.

bill mayne

this may be unfair to lewis. the most prominent fallacy attributed
to him is the liar , lunatic , and lord . as quoted by many
christians , this is a logical fallacy. in its original context , it
was not. clh


exactly.

c. s. lewis has taken a couple of pretty severe hits in this group lately.
first somebody was accusing him of being self righteous and unconvincing.
now we are told that we christians should be embarrassed by him. (as well
as by josh mcdowell , about whom i have no comment , having never read his
work.)

anyone who thinks that c. s. lewis was self righteous ought to read his
introduction to the problem of pain , which is his theodicy. in it , he
explains that he wanted to publish the book anonymously. why \? although he
believed in the argument he was presenting , he did not want to seem to
presume to tell others how brave they should be in the face of their own
suffering. he did not want people to think that he was presenting himself
as some kind of model of fortitude , or that he was anything other than what
he considered himself to be a great coward.

ofm has adequately handled the question of whether we ought to be
embarrassed by lewis' liar lunatic lord argument (which , by the way , is
part of a much bigger discourse.) i would just like to add that , far from
being embarrassed by lewis , i am in a state of continual amazement at the
soundness and clarity of the arguments he presents.

phil

hey , we 're talking about the phone company , here. the phone company does n't
have opinions on this kind of stuff. this is all me.

from conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt)
subject latest on branch davidians
organization applied research laboratories , university of texas at austin
lines 28

most of you will have probably seen the news by the time you read this ,
but the branch davidian compound is no more. this morning about 6 00 ,
the feds punched holes in the compound walls by using a tank. they
then started using non lethal tear gas. shortly after noon , 2 cult
members were seen setting fire to the compound. so far , about 20 30
people have been seen outside the compound. the fate of the other 60 or
70 people is unknown , neither is the fate of the 17 children that were
inside. the compound did burn to the ground.

koresh , who at times has claimed to be the messiah , but then backed off
and only claimed to be a prophet , had promised several times to come
out peacefully if his demands were met. first , he demanded that his
message be broadcast on the radio , which it was , but he did n't come out.
he claimed to be waiting for a message from god. finally , he said that
god told him that he needed to decipher the mystery of the 7 seals in
revelation , and when he was finished , he 'd come out. he finished the
first one , but did n't do any more work that anyone knows of since then.
the federal agents did warn him that if they did n't come out , they
would be subjected to tear gas.

i think it 's really sad that so many people put their faith in a mere
man , even if he did claim to be the son of god , and or a prophet. i
think it underscores the importance of putting you faith only in
things that are eternal and knowing for yourself what the scriptures
say and what they mean , instead of relying on others to do it for you ,
even if those others are learned and mean well.

paul conditt

from mangoe@cs.umd.edu (charley wingate)
subject re was jesus black \?
lines 45

this subject seems to be incredibly inflammatory. those who subscribe to
biblical archaeology review will remember a spectacular letter battle set off when someone
complained about a franklin mint ad. ( bar is a great magazine , but the
contrast between the rather scholarly articles and the incredibly sleazy ads
is extreme.) in this ad , they were hawking a doll with a head based on the
famous bust of nefertiti , giving the face a typical doll pink complexion.
the letter complained about this as a misrepresentation on the grounds that
nefertiti was a beautiful black queen. this set off an exchange of
hotheaded letters than ran for several issues , to the point where they had
an article from an egyptologist titled was cleopatra black \? (the answer
to the title is no she was greek.)

i have to say that i hear a hysterical note in much of the complaining. i
personally have seen only one blond haired jesus (in the national shrine in
wash. dc) , and i found it very jarring. western representations vary
enourmously , but in general the image of is of a youngish male with dark
hair and beard , of a sort that can be found (modulo the nose) all up and
down the mediterranean.

(also , if what i remember is correct , the black madonna does n't represent
a person with negroid features. it is black because of an accident. joe
buehler.... \? )

in the presence of all those marble statues , one is prone to forget that
greeks are rather likely to have black hair. when one crosses the bosporus ,
the situation breaks down completely. are turks white \? how about persians ,
or various groups in the indian subcontinent \? was gandhi white \? how about
the arabs \? or picture nassar and sadat standing side by side. and then
there are the ethiopians....

those of a white racist bent are not likely to say that any of these
people are white (i.e. , of the racist 's race ). if i may risk a
potentially inflammatory remark , one undercurrent of this seems to be the
identification of modern jews as members of the oppressor race. considering
the extreme dicotomy between medieval religion on the one hand and medieval
antisemitism on the other , i do n't think that this jesus was white thesis
ever played the roles that some hold it did.

representations of jesus as black or korean or whatever are fine. it seems
awfully self serving to insist that jesus belongs to one 's own racial group.

c. wingate the peace of god , it is no peace ,
but strife closed in the sod.
mangoe@cs.umd.edu yet , brothers , pray for but one thing
tove ! mangoe the marv'lous peace of god.

from regy105@cantva.canterbury.ac.nz (james haw)
subject any good electronic christian magazine \?
organization university of canterbury , christchurch , new zealand
lines 9

hi ,
i 'd like to subscribe to leadership magazine but wonder if there is one on
disk instead of on paper. having it on disk would save me retyping
illustrations , etc into a word processor. it 's just cut and paste.
if there are other good christian magazines like leadership on disk media ,
i 'd appreciate any info.

with gratitude ,
james.

from belville@athena.mit.edu (sharon belville)
subject re god shaped hole (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 13

in article apr.14.03.07.38.1993.5420@athos.rutgers.edu , johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson) writes

those who have an empty spot in the god shaped hole in their hearts must
do something to ease the pain.

i have heard this claim quite a few times. does anybody here know
who first came up with the god shaped hole business \?

i 've seen this verse used to back up this idea

...he has also set eternity in the hearts of men... (ecclesiastes 3 11)

sharon belville

from moy@acf2.nyu.edu (moy)
subject apology
organization new york university
lines 3

i responded to a post last week and it carried somewhat of a hostile
tone for which i am apologizing for. it is not my intent to create
contriversy or to piss people off. to those who i offend , i'm sorry

from news@cbnewsk.att.com
subject re an agnostic 's question
organization at t bell labs
lines 42

in article apr.17.01.11.16.1993.2265@geneva.rutgers.edu jdt@voodoo.ca.boeing.com (jim tomlinson (jimt ii)) writes
pardon me if this is the wrong newsgroup. i would describe myself as
an agnostic , in so far as i'm sure there is no single , universal
supreme being , but if there is one and it is just , we will surely be
judged on whether we lived good lives , striving to achieve that
goodness that is within the power of each of us. now , the
complication is that one of my best friends has become very
fundamentalist. that would normally be a non issue with me , but he
feels it is his responsibility to proselytize me (which i guess it is ,
according to his faith). this is a great strain to our friendship...

sorry to disappoint you , but i'm afraid your friendship is in danger.
perhaps you should examine in yourself why as such a good friend , you
are unwilling to accept this imortant part of your friends life \? why
do you call into question his faith \? your friend has changed , he has
found something that fills a need in his life. you need to decide if
you are still his friend , whether you can accommodate his new life.
it sounds as if you are criticizing him for a fundamental belief in
the bible , yet you are quick to reveal that your fundamental belief
that it is superstition. perhaps if he knew you at least took him
seriously , that you at least took an interest in the light he has found ,
that you at least tried to understand what has become a special part of
his life , you could together decide to become fundamentalists , respect
each others differences and remain friends , or part ways. maybe even if
you stuck it out with him , you could help him to un convert. of course ,
if you go in with that attitude he will surely see through your intentions
and begin to resent you.

i happen to be a person very tolerant of fundamentalists , because i know
that the idea of a simple black and white approach to life is appealing.
i do n't happen to share the beliefs of fundamentalists , but i am not
offended by their prosyletizing. i had a few good conversations with
some witnesses who came to my door. i did n't switch my beliefs , but for
those at home who maybe need a friendly face to invite them somewhere ,
the witnesses provide a wonderful service. you may have been conditioned
to believe that religion is unimportant and witnessing is obnoxious , but
why \? are you afraid you might be converted and become one of them , that
you will be swept up in fundamentalism , that you will become a weirdo.
friendship 's a two way street. you must respect your friend , all of him ,
including his beliefs , if you want the friendship to continue.

joe moore

from loisc@microsoft.com (lois christiansen)
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity
organization microsoft corp.
lines 37

in article apr.30.03.11.27.1993.10101@geneva.rutgers.edu fsspr@acad3.alaska.edu wrote
this subject was beaten to death on bit.listserv.christia recently ,
until madge stepped in and closed the topic. it has been discussed
since privately in e mail amongst their participants , and i 've
received some of it. a fairly large file (approx. 18 kb) of comments
made on the march on washington was among these. if it has n't been
posted here already (i do n't know i just scan through this
newsgroup , as at 1200 bps , i could n't possibly read it all) , i would
be glad to send it along. i believe that it would be of interest to
people here.


i hope that anyone who remembers seeing rev. troy perry 's
performance at the 1987 march on washington will see for themselves
just how inconceivable it is to mix christianity with homosexuality.

sean patrick ryan fsspr@aurora.alaska.edu or sean@freds.cojones.com

you might visit some congregations of christians , who happen to be homosexuals ,
that are spirit filled believers , not mcc'rs before you go lumping us all
together with troy perry.

the lord is working in our community (the homosexual community , that is). he 's
not asking us to change our sexual nature , but he is calling us to practice
the morality that he established from the beginning.

is n't satan having a hayday pitting christian against christian over any issue
he can , especially homosexuality. let 's reach the homosexuals for christ.
let 's not try to change them , just need to bring them to christ. if he
does n't want them to be gay , he can change that. if they are living a moral
life , committed to someone of the same sex , and god is moving in their lives ,
who are we to tell them they have to change \?

that 's my two cent.

god bless you all
loisc

from kempja@rcwusr.bp.com
subject re religious wars
organization bp research , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 30


in article apr.21.03.24.44.1993.1288@geneva.rutgers.edu , fraseraj@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (andrew j fraser) writes
well you know that religion has caused more wars than
anything else
it bothers me that i cannot seem to find a satisfactory
response to this. after all if our religion is all about
peace and love why have there been so many religious wars \?

of course if this question was asked in a group dealing with economics ,
the answer would be that the cause of war was economic. my observations
over the past 30 years (and not withstanding a little history reading
beside) is that while religious differences do play a part in many of
the conflicts , so does (unfortunately) race , economics and any other
items that identify one group of men as being different from another.

if we want to couch the cause of conflict in christian terms , i would
put it while christ died for our sins , we are yet sinners. while some
individuals assume christlike natures , most of us do not even
come close.

i realize that in many ways this is a trite answer , but i guess that
it is my way of rationalizing man 's constant (or so it seems)
conflict.




jerry kemp (somtime consultant)
internet kempja@rcwusr.bp.com
kemp ja@tnd001.dnet.bp.com

from kene@acs.bu.edu (kenneth engel)
subject re why do people become atheists \?
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 32

let me tell you my story.
i grew up catholic. up until i was 14 , it was n't an issue for me. then i met
a born again christian , a very sweet person , not proseletyzing(sp \? ) , not
imposing. i tried to get into being as christian as i could , as i felt i
'should'.

but the more i tried , the more depressed i got. i felt guilty for some of my
own personal , honest feelings. i tried so hard to reconcile this conflict.
until i was 23.

then i taught myself to think rationally. i read a lot of books , pro and con
religion in general and , specifically , catholicism. i came to a crisis point ,
then it finally clicked and now i am a staunch atheist.

this is a very loose explanation , but it 's the gist of it.

now , (at 26) i feel better about myself , better self esteem , a generally
stronger person. i have well defined goals. i have a strong and stable sense
of morals and values. i am not a neo nazi or a corrupt politicain , etc. i
believe in human rights and 'live and let live' among other things. i am very
anti violent and anti hatred. (this is to debunk the myth that atheists are
depraved.)
religion has no place in my system.
tough.

bertrand russell said that we cannot know god does n't exist , we ca n't prove
it. so , in that sense , we can only truly be agnostic. but , for all practical
purposes there is no god.

thanqs
ken engel
kene@acs.bu.edu

from dotsonm@dmapub.dma.org (mark dotson)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization dayton microcomputer association dayton , ohio
lines 10

i may be wrong , but was n't jeff fenholt part of black sabbath \? he 's a
major brother in christ now. he totally changed his life around , and
he and his wife go on tours singing , witnessing , and spreading the
gospel for christ. i may be wrong about black sabbath , but i know he
was in a similar band if it was n't that particular group...

yes , but jeff also speaks out against listening to bands like black
sabbath. he says they 're into all sorts of satanic stuff. i do n't know.

mark (dotsonm@dmapub.dma.org)

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 51

i have a question for you all related to this. jesus condemns divorce
several times in the new testament , and i have a hard time with this.
the catholic church (as far as i can tell) does grant annulments with
the statement that the marriage never really existed in god 's eyes.
(please , if i am mistinterpreting , correct me.) however , i have
witnessed marriages where two people were very much in love but
recognized that they were destroying themselves and each other by
staying in a marriage , and that the problems were due to personal
childhood issues that had never been resolved. i ask you , is divorce
justified in such a case \? they knew who they were , what they were
doing , they were deeply in love , but in the end , it did not work out.
i must admit that i do n't see jesus forcing them to live together , or
even condemning that they go and seek happiness with someone else
later on. opinions \?

vera

i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes
i am your religion ! the strong name of the noye@midway.uchicago.edu
i own you ! trinity.... no disclaimer what
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim \?


this is a commonly discussed question , though it 's been long enough
that i 'll allow it to be asked. as you might expect , there is a range
of answers. catholics and some others will say that divorce is never
justified. (by the way , in situations where someone is being abused ,
or for other serious cause , separation is allowed by all traditions
that i know. no one should be forced to stay in a situation where
they are in danger.) others see it as a last resort in situations
that have fallen apart badly enough that the best we can hope for is
to choose the lesser of evils. in some sense the difficult legal
question turns out not to be divorce , but remarriage. that 's because
of jesus' statement in mark 10 11 12 and par. as with so many other
things , this turns on your approach to the bible. conservative
protestants tend to see statements like this as having no exceptions.
more liberal ones are willing to make allowances for situations where
a literal interpretation would lead to painful results. (it is noted
that at the time it was possible for a man to divorce his wife almost
on a whim. thus a common explanation in the more liberal approach is
that jesus was trying to protect people from this sort of thing , not
to establish an absolute rule to which there could never be
exceptions.) catholics , as is typical with catholic ethics , take a
theoretical hard line , but allow for exceptions in practice through
the process of anullment. in the last discussion most of our
non catholic readers seemed to accept with some reluctance that
in some cases there might be no good alternative , but there was a
feeling that the church should often be doing a better job of
helping people prepare for marriage and deal with problems that
come up during it , and that in a properly run church , divorce
should not be necessary. clh

from mtf@vipunen.hut.fi (antti lahelma)
subject re atheists and hell
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 40

in apr.19.05.14.08.1993.29279@athos.rutgers.edu atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes

hello ,

i have seen two common threads running through postings by atheists on the
newsgroup , and i think that they can be used to explain each other.
unfortunately i do n't have direct quotes handy...

1) atheists believe that when they die , they die forever.

more correctly when people die , they cease to exist.

2) a god who would condemn those who fail to believe in him to eternal death
is unfair.

i do n't see what the problem is ! to christians , hell is , by definition ,
eternal death exactly what atheists are expecting when they die.

the idea i 've gotten is that to christians , hell is like heaven
afterlife i.e , you do n't cease to exist , but are subjected to eternal
torture (well , that 's the orthodox idea anyway eternal death if you
prefer that). atheists do n't believe in any sort of afterlife.

literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such. personally , i do n't think
that people in hell will be thrust into flame any more than i expect to jesus
with a double edged sword issuing from his mouth i treat both these state
ments as metaphorical.

i think it 's safe to say that hell was never intended metaphorical. certainly
not the equivalent of ceasing to exist. some christian concepts are indeed
metaphors , but your idea of hell is a 20th century interpretation. it is , of
course , nice to see that even christianity might evolve to fit the worldview
of modern age , but i fear the church will not accept it. understandably , per
haps , because if you accept that hell is a metaphor , then you 're one step
closer to turning god into a metaphor as well.

antti lahelma mtf@saha.hut.fi gnothi seauton
lehtotie 3 o stel@purkki.apu.fi
00630 helsinki jumalat ovat pakanoille suosiollisia tunne itsesi

from nabil@cae.wisc.edu (nabil ayoub)
subject re monophysites and mike walker
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 127

hello src readers ,

again the misconception that copts among other oriental orthodox
churches believe in monophysitism pops up again. we had a discussion
about it a while ago.

in article may.6.00.34.58.1993.15426@geneva.rutgers.edu db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler) writes

the proper term for what mike expresses is monophysitism. this was a
heresy that was condemned in the council of chalcedon in 451 ad. it
grew up in reaction to nestorianism , which held that the son and jesus
are two different people who happened to be united in the same body
temporarily. monophysitism is held by the copts of egypt and ethipoia
and by the jacobites of syria and the armenian orthodox.

then ofm comments



these issues get mighty subtle. when you see people saying different
things it 's often hard to tell whether they really mean seriously
different things , or whether they are using different terminology. i
do n't think there 's any question that there is a problem with
nestorius , and i would agree that the saying christ had a human form
without a real human nature or will is heretical. but i 'd like to be
a bit wary about the copts , armenians , etc. recent discussions
suggest that their monophysite position may not be as far from
orthodoxy as many had thought.

with my appreciation to the moderator , i believe that further elaboration
is needed. this is an excerpt from an article featured in the first issue
of the copt net newsletter

under the authority of the eastern roman empire of constantinople (as opposed
to the western empire of rome) , the patriarchs and popes of alexandria played
leading roles in christian theology. they were invited everywhere to speak
about the christian faith. st. cyril , pope of alexandria , was the head of the
ecumenical council which was held in ephesus in the year 430 a.d. it was said
that the bishops of the church of alexandria did nothing but spend all their
time in meetings. this leading role , however , did not fare well when politics
started to intermingle with church affairs. it all started when the emperor
marcianus interfered with matters of faith in the church. the response of st.
dioscorus , the pope of alexandria who was later exiled , to this interference
was clear you have nothing to do with the church. these political motives
became even more apparent in chalcedon in 451 , when the coptic church was
unfairly accused of following the teachings of eutyches , who believed in
monophysitism. this doctrine maintains that the lord jesus christ has only
one nature , the divine , not two natures , the human as well as the divine.

the coptic church has never believed in monophysitism the way it was
portrayed in the council of chalcedon ! in that council , monophysitism meant
believing in one nature. copts believe that the lord is perfect in his
divinity , and he is perfect in his humanity , but his divinity and his
humanity were united in one nature called the nature of the incarnate word ,
which was reiterated by st. cyril of alexandria. copts , thus , believe in two
natures human and divine that are united in one without mingling ,
without confusion , and without alteration (from the declaration of faith at
the end of the coptic divine liturgy). these two natures did not separate
for a moment or the twinkling of an eye (also from the declaration of faith
at the end of the coptic divine liturgy).

the coptic church was misunderstood in the 5th century at the council of
chalcedon. perhaps the council understood the church correctly , but they
wanted to exile the church , to isolate it and to abolish the egyptian ,
independent pope. despite all of this , the coptic church has remained very
strict and steadfast in its faith. whether it was a conspiracy from the
western churches to exile the coptic church as a punishment for its refusal
to be politically influenced , or whether pope dioscurus did n't quite go the
extra mile to make the point that copts are not monophysite , the coptic
church has always felt a mandate to reconcile semantic differences between
all christian churches. this is aptly expressed by the current 117th
successor of st. mark , pope shenouda iii to the coptic church , faith is
more important than anything , and others must know that semantics and
terminology are of little importance to us. throughout this century , the
coptic church has played an important role in the ecumenical movement. the
coptic church is one of the founders of the world council of churches. it has
remained a member of that council since 1948 a.d. the coptic church is a
member of the all african council of churches (aacc) and the middle east
council of churches (mecc). the church plays an important role in the
christian movement by conducting dialogues aiming at resolving the
theological differences with the catholic , greek orthodox , presbyterian , and
evangelical churches.

...

as a final note , the oriental orthodox and eastren orthodox did sign
a common statement of christology , in which the heresey of monophysitism
was condemned. so the coptic orthodox church does not believe in
monophysitism.

peace ,

nabil

. .
nabil ayoub
engine research center
dept. of mechanical engineering
university of wisconsin madison
email ayoub@erctitan.me.wisc.edu
' '

as i mentioned in a brief apology , the comment quoted above from me
is confused. i appear to say that nestorius was monophysite. as
andrew byler correctly stated it , the nestorians and monophysites were
actually opposite parties. the point i was making , which nabil
explains in some detail , is that some groups that have been considered
heretical probably are n't.

chalcedon was a compromise between two groups , the alexandrians and
antiochenes. it adopted language that was intended to be acceptable
to moderates in both camps , while ruling out the extremes. i agree
that there were extremes that were heretical. however in the course
of the complex politics of the time , it appears that some people got
rejected who did n't intend heresy , but simply used language that was
not understood or even was mispresented. and some seem not to have
jointed in the compromise for reasons other than doctrine. there are
groups descended from both of the supposedly heretical camps. this
posting discussed the descendants of the alexandrians. there are also
a remaining nestorians. like some of the current so called
monophysites , there is reason to believe that the current so called
nestorians are not heretical either. they sheltered nestorius from
what they saw as unfair treatment , but claim they did not adopt his
heresies , and in fact seem to follow more moderate representatives of
the antiochene tradition.

clh

from jblanken@ccat.sas.upenn.edu (james r. blankenship)
subject re when are two people married in god 's e
organization school of arts and sciences , upenn
lines 13

the only reason for the death penalty is revenge \? \? if you are going to
try to refute a position , try to refute the whole position or acknosledge
that you are only speaking to small piece of the problem. broad sweeping
the only reason , etc on as tough nut to crack as the death penalty
reallly does n't help much.

every year the fbi releases crime stats showing an overwhelming amount of
crime is committed by repeat offenders. people are killed by folks who
have killed (who knows how many times) before. how aobut folks who are for
the death penalty , not for revenge , but to cut down on recidivism \?


jim

from max@hilbert.cyprs.rain.com (max webb)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization cypress semi , beaverton or
lines 55

in article apr.14.03.08.08.1993.5448@athos.rutgers.edu jasons@atlastele.com (jason smith) writes

one of the laws of nature , specifying cause and effect seems to dictate
(at least to this layman 's mind) there must be a causal event. no
reasonable alternative exists.

the big bang model supposes a temporal singularity at the point of
origin. there was no time for a prior cause to occur in. if you
want to invent fables for the surrounding context , fine , but one fable
is only as good as any other. why should i prefer to believe in a god that
just exists , as opposed to a singularity that just happened , or
giant puce subspace iguanas , that fling universes off their tongues
like gobs of spit \?

as far as i can tell , the very laws of nature demand a why . that is n't
true of something outside of nature (i.e. , super natural).

i believe the genetic code will be entirely deciphered in our lifetimes ,
but we will not see man convert entirely inert material into self sustaining ,
reproducing life , ever . (i 've never been much of a prophet , though. i
ca n't even picture new york in my mind 8 ). i do n't believe any
technology would be able to produce that necessary spark of life , despite
having all of the parts available. just my opinion.

just your opinion , and unfortunately wrong. self assembling molecules
have already been produced , entirely from inert matter , and have
spontaneously mutated into a more rapidly assembling form on exposure
to ultraviolet light. both abiogenesis and the beginnings of evolution ,
today. (saw this in nature , early last year.)

biological vitalism is dead , and has been dead for many , many years.
give it up. life is not a 'spark'. life is the self organization
of systems poised between chaos and order.

until the king returns ,

jason

your king baldly and repeatedly stated he would be back within the lifetime
of some then present and alive. soon , soon he said , over and over as
have many would be messiahs.

it is nineteen ninety three
of years anno domini
tell me , tell me , where is he \?
nowhere at all , q. e. d.

max g. webb

i should have watched this more closely. we had a discussion about
the first cause , etc. , not long ago. i'm not up for a replay.
there was also a detailed discussion of the point max brings up
here about the initial singularity. the geometry near the big bang
is very interesting. time turns into space , so there is no before .
clh

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 17

in article apr.14.03.07.21.1993.5402@athos.rutgers.edu randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu (robert anderson) writes
i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \?

not if they are unwilling to go through a public marriage ceremony ,
nor if they say they are willing but have not actually done so.

let 's distinguish real logistical problems (like being stranded on a
desert island) from excuses (such as waiting for so and so 's brother
to come back from being in the army so he can be in the ceremony)...



michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from dsegard@nyx.cs.du.edu (daniel segard)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double stan
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 15


mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
and the same goes for other cultural practices. the festival
of easter may possibly have some historical association with
some pagan festival , but today there are , as far as i know ,
no christians who intend to honor any kind of pagan
goddess by celebrating easter.

that argument would be more compelling if it were not for the
ishtar eggs and ishtar bunnies. why mix pagan fertility symbols from the
worship of the pagan goddess of fertility with biblical belief \? what
would really be lost if all of you were to just drop the word easter and
replace all such occurances with resurrection sunday \? would you not
show up for services if they were called resurrection sunday services
rather than easter services \?

from rbutera@owlnet.rice.edu (robert john butera)
subject book review wanted
organization rice university
lines 18

i'm interested if anyone out here can point me towards a review of the
following book in any scholarly christian journal , whether it be
conservative or liberal , protestant or catholic.

the lost years of jesus (documentary evidence for jesus' 17 year
journey to the east) , by elizabeth clare prophet. supposedly this
is a theory that was refuted in the past , and she has re examined it.

i thought this was just another novel book , but i saw it listed as
a text for a class in religious studies here. also , the endorsements seem
to come from some credible sources , so i'm wondering if scholars have
reviewed it (or anyone on the net , for that matter).


rob butera
ece grad student only sick music makes money today
rice university
houston , tx 77054 nietzsche , 1888

from steve.hayes@f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
subject confession communion
lines 14

04 apr 93 , david cruz uribe writes to all

dc also , what is orthodox practice regarding communion \? i read
dc a throw away remark someplace that the orthodox receive less
dc frequently than catholics do , but was is their current practice \?
dc have their been any variations historically \?

i think orthodox practice varies from place to place , from parish to parish and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. in some parishes here in south africa the only ones who receive communion are infants (i.e. children under
7). in our parish it is expected that one will have been to vespers and confessional prayers the evening before , and that one will have been fasting. as we have to travel 70km to the church , we don'
t receive communion every sunday , but about every third sunday.

steve

golded 2.40

from eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com (geno )
subject re when are two people married in god 's e
reply to eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 8

in article apr.14.03.07.21.1993.5402@athos.rutgers.edu randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu (robert anderson) writes
i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \?

not if they are unwilling to go through a public marriage ceremony ,
nor if they say they are willing but have not actually done so.

how do you know this \?

from mcovingt@aisun2.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re nature of god (re environmentalism and paganism)
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 18

in article apr.13.00.08.44.1993.28424@athos.rutgers.edu heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes

fortunately , my own personal theology , which will probably not
fall into line with a lot others , recognized god as a being both
without gender and posessing qualities of both genders , as being both
a masculine and feminine force.

that is not necessarily unorthodox. when christians call god 'father' ,
we are using a metaphor. the bible in one place refers to god as being
like a mother. god is neither a father nor a mother in the literal
sense god has some of the attributes of both the father metaphor is
usually used because (for most people at most times) it is the less
misleading of the two possibilities.

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from news@cbnewsk.att.com
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization at t bell labs
lines 23

in article apr.16.23.15.03.1993.1820@geneva.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
in article apr.14.03.07.21.1993.5402@athos.rutgers.edu randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu (robert anderson) writes
i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \?

not if they are unwilling to go through a public marriage ceremony ,
nor if they say they are willing but have not actually done so.

let 's distinguish real logistical problems (like being stranded on a
desert island) from excuses (such as waiting for so and so 's brother
to come back from being in the army so he can be in the ceremony)...

i disagree. people marry each other. when they commit fully to each
other as life partners , they are married. the ceremony may assist in
emphasizing the depth of such a commitment , but is of itself nothing.
god knows our hearts. he knows when two have committed themselves to
be one , he knows the fears and delusions we have that keep us from fully
giving ourselves to another. the way i see it , you 'd have to be living
together in a marriage for somewhere between 10 and 100 years before anyone
knew if a marriage really existed , but god knows. i do n't think god keeps
a scorebook.

joe moore

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re a question that has bee bothering me.
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 18

wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (malcusco) writes

especially as we approach a time when scientists are trying to match god 's
ability to create life , we should use the utmost caution.

i question the implications of this statement namely , that there are certain
physical acts which are limited to god and that attempting to replicate these
acts is blasphemy against god. god caused a bush to burn without being
consumed if i do the same thing , am i usurping god 's role \?
religious people are threatened by science because it has been systematically
removing the physical proofs of god 's existence. as time goes on we have to
rely more and more on faith and the spiritual world to relate to god becuase
science is removing our props. i do n't think this is a bad thing.

alan terlep incestuous vituperousness
oakland university , rochester , mi
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu melissa eggertsen
rushing in where angels fear to tread.

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 15

in article apr.13.00.08.56.1993.28439@athos.rutgers.edu , eggertj@moses.atc.ll.mit.edu (jim eggert x6127 g41) writes

i disagree with your claim that jews were not evangelistic (except in
the narrow sense of the word). jewish proselytism was widespread.
there are numerous accounts of jewish proselytism , both in the new
testament and in roman and greek documents of the day.

jim ,

please feel free to correct me and give me some texts. as far as i can see the
only text which vaugely relates to jewish evangelism is found in mt. 23 15.
however since this is found only in mt. it cannot be dated before 90ce which
makes it unusefull for understanding second temple judaism.

randy

from alvin@spot.colorado.edu (kenneth alvin)
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 48

responding to the moderator

in article apr.14.03.09.07.1993.5494@athos.rutgers.edu alvin@spot.colorado.edu (kenneth alvin) writes

choosing what to believe and rely on are important areas of personal
sovereignty. what bothers me is when others suggest that , in these
matters of faith , their specific beliefs are not only true to them
but are absolute and should be binding on others. it follows from this
that god must give everyone the same revelation of truth , and thus
anyone who comes to a different conclusion is intentionally choosing
the wrong path. this is the arrogance i see a lack of respect for the
honest conclusions of others on matters which are between them and god.

it is certainly reasonable to ask for some humility about our own
ability to know the truth. there are also different paths in some
areas of practice. but i 'd like to see more clarification about what
you mean when you reject the idea of saying their specific beliefs
are not only true to them but are absolute and should be binding on
others. if something is true , it is true for everyone , assuming that
the belief is something about god , history , etc....

yes , i agree. what i'm trying to point out is that , in matters of faith
(i.e. tenets which are not logically persuasive) , one may be convinced
of the truth of certain things through , for instance , personal
revelation. and its certainly fine to share that revelation or those
beliefs with others. and i do n't think that its arrogant , persay , to
accepts matters of pure faith as truth for oneself. where i think the
conflict arises is in assuming that , where disagreements on beliefs
arise , all others must have been given the same truth , and that god
must reveal his truth to everyone in such a way that all would
honestly agree. i think this can lead to the conclusion that anyone
who disagrees with you are being sinful or dishonest that they are
rejecting something they know to be truth because it is inconvenient
for them , or because they wish to spurn god.

i would say that this is equivalent to assuming that all truths one
holds are universal and absolute. and the problem i see with this is
that it negates the individuality of humans and their relationships with
god. this does not mean there is no absolute truth just that some areas
of doctrinal disagreement may be areas where god has not established or
revealed that truth.


comments , criticism welcome...
ken
alvin@ucsu.colorado.edu

i agree with you. clh

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re prayer in jesus' name
organization indiana university
lines 42

in article apr.9.01.09.22.1993.16580@athos.rutgers.edu munns@cae.wisc.edu (scott munns) writes
i am doing a dormitory bible discussion with my christian roommate and
in jesus' name , what about the people before jesus \? they prayed to god
and he listened then , in spite of their sins. why ca n't it be the same
way now \?


insert huge deletion of all following material since it had little
relevance to what i 've found

ok. the people before jesus did n't have jesus , right (so far , i 've
announced that space is a vacuum) \? the people who lived during the time
jesus lived (especially disciples) were taught this i tell you the
truth , anyone who has faith in me will do what i have been doing. he
will do even greater things than these , because i am going to the
father. and i will do whatever you ask in my name , so that the son may
bring glory to the father. you may ask me for anything in my name , and
i will do it. (john 14 12 14)
so , jesus asked them to pray for things in his name. since that time ,
the request has been the same , not to ask for intercession from other
beings , but from jesus. remember that there is one god and one
mediator between god and men , the man christ jesus , who gave himself as
a ransom for all men the testimony given in its proper time. (1
timothy 2 5 6. also , there have been many of those priests talking
about priests among the hebrews , since death prevented them from
continuing in office but because jesus lives forever , he has a
permanent priesthood. therefore he is able to save completely those who
come to god through him , because he always lives to intercede for them.
(hebrews 7 23 25). hebrews is also full of areas talking about jesus
being our mediator rather than any other man.

joe fisher

the people before jesus did n't have jesus , right may not be as
obvious as you think. in what sense to you mean did n't have \?
christian thought has generally said that they had jesus in the sense
that they were saved by his death. god is not bound by our
chronology. so in some real spiritual sense they did have jesus .
even in terms of knowledge , while they surely did n't have the explicit
knowledge that we have , christians have normally seen messianic
prophecy as knowledge of jesus , even if knowledge from afar.
clh

from armstrng@cs.dal.ca (stan armstrong)
subject re so far so good
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 22

in article c4z5u3.jxo@spss.com luomat@alleg.edu writes

this may be a really dumb one , but i 'll ask it anyways
christians know that they can never live up to the requirements of
god , right \? (i may be wrong , but that is my understanding) but they still
try to do it. does n't it seem like we are spending all of our lives
trying to reach a goal we can never achieve \? i know that we are saved by
faith and not by works , but does that mean that once we are saved we do n't
have to do anything \? i think james tells us that faith without works is
dead (paraphrase). how does this work \?

so long as we think that good things are what we have to do rather than
what we come to want to do , we miss the point. the more we love god the
more we come to love what and whom he loves.

when i find that what i am doing is not good , it is not a sign to try
even harder (romans 7 14 8 2) it is a sign to seek god. when i am aware
of jesus' presence , i usually want what he wants. it is his strenth , his love
that empowers my weakness.

stan armstrong. religious studies dept , saint mary 's university , halifax , n.s.
armstrong@husky1.stmarys.ca att ! clyde ! watmath ! water ! dalcs ! armstrng

from jbf101@psuvm.psu.edu
subject same sex marriages
organization penn state university
lines 17

there has been some talk recently of latin rites from the early church used to
bless same sex unions.if anyone has any idea where copies of these rites
exist (in whole or in part) , please notify me by e mail. (i understand that
similar ceremonies written in slavonic exist as well. let me know where i can
find these.) it does n't matter whether the latin rite is in the original or a
translation. however , i would prefer to have an english version of the slavon
ic rite , if it exists. thanks in advance.

doug hayes @ psu

we 've had questions about this in the past. the only source i know
of is claims by john boswell in some talks. he is said to be working
on publication , but as far as i know , nothing is published yet. i
have n't heard of any other source. if anyone knows of another source ,
please tell us. but i think we 're going to have to wait for boswell 's
publication to appear in order to see what he 's really talking about.
clh

from aaron@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (scott aaron)
subject re latest on branch davidians
reply to aaron@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 36

in article apr.20.03.02.42.1993.3815@geneva.rutgers.edu ,
conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt) wrote


i think it 's really sad that so many people put their faith in a mere
man , even if he did claim to be the son of god , and or a prophet.

i 'll pose a question here that 's got me thinking what distinguishes
true religion from cults (i'm speaking generally here , not specifially
about christianity) \? jerry falwell was on good morning america on
tuesday ostensibly to answer this question. basically , he said that
true religion follows a message whereas a cult follows a person.
but , then , christianity is a cult because the message of christianity
is the person of jesus. so what distinguishes , for example , the
branch davidian cult from the presbyterian church \? doctrinal
differences do n't answer the question , imho , so do n't use them as
an answer.

scott at brandeis

but god demonstrates his the lord bless you , and keep you
own love for us , in that the lord make his face shine on you ,
while we were yet sinners , and be gracious to you
christ died for us. the lord lift up his countenance on you ,
and give you peace.
romans 5 8 nasb numbers 6 24 26 nasb

there have been some attempts to characterize cult . most commonly
it uses characteristics involving high pressure , brainwashing
techniques , etc. but some people characterize it by doctrinal
error. in the end i'm afraid it becomes a term with no precise
meaning that 's used primarily to dismiss groups as not worthy
of serious consideration. that does n't mean that there are n't
groups that do highly irresponsible things and have serious
doctrinal errors. but past discussions have not suggested to me
that cult is a very helpful term. clh

from trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre)
subject theists and objectivity
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 90

can a theist be truly objective \? can he be impartial
when questioning the truth of his scriptures , or
will he assume the superstition of his parents
when questioning \?

i 've often found it to be the case that the theist
will stick to some kind of superstition when
wondering about god and his scriptures. i 've
seen it in the christian , the jew , the muslim ,
and the other theists alike. all assume that
their mothers and fathers were right in the
aspect that a god exists , and with that belief
search for their god.

occasionally , the theist may switch religions or
aspects of the same religion , but overall the
majority keep to the belief that some creator
was behind the universe 's existence. i 've
known muslims who were once christians and vice
versa , i 've known christians who were once
jewish and vice versa , and i 've even known
christians who become hindu. yet , throughout
their transition from one faith to another ,
they 've kept this belief in some form of higher
being. why \?

it usually all has to do with how the child is
brought up. from the time he is born , the
theist is brought up with the notion of the
truth of some kind of scripture the bible ,
the torah , the qur'an , etc. he is told
of this wondrous god who wrote (or inspired)
the scripture , of the prophets talked about in
the scripture , of the miracles performed , etc.
he is also told that to question this (as
children are apt to do) is a sin , a crime
against god , and to lose belief in the scrip
ture 's truth is to damn one 's soul to hell.
thus , by the time he is able to read the
scripture for himself , the belief in its truth
is so ingrained in his mind it all seems a
matter of course.

but it does n't stop there. once the child is able
to read for himself , there is an endeavor to
inculcate the child the right readings of
scripture , to concentrate more on the pleasant
readings , to gloss over the worse ones , and to
explain away the unexplainable with mystery.
circular arguments , self evdent facts and
truths , unreasoning belief , and fear of
hell is the meat of religion the child must eat
of every day. to doubt , of course , means wrath
of some sort , and the child must learn to put
away his brain when the matter concerns god.
all of this has some considerable effect on the
child , so that when he becomes an adult , the
superstitions he 's been taught are nearly
impossible to remove.

all of this leads me to ask whether the theist can
truly be objective when questioning god , hell ,
heaven , the angels , souls , and all of the rest.
can he , for a moment , put aside this notion that
god does exist and look at everything from
a unbiased point of view \? obviously , most
theists can somewhat , especially when presented
with mythical gods (homeric , roman , egyptian ,
etc.). but can they put aside the assumption
of god 's existence and question it impartially \?

stephen

atheist
libertarian
pro individuality
pro responsibility
jr. and all that jazz...



this is ad hominem attack of the most basic kind. none of their
statements matter they believe the way they do because they were
brought up that way. of course there are atheists who have become
theists and theists who have become atheists. rather more of the
latter , which is not surprising given the statistics. it 's hard to
see how one could possibly answer a posting of this sort , since any
answer could immediately be assumed to be just part of the
brainwashing. that is , how can anyone possibly show that they are n't
biased \? clh

from mayne@ds3.scri.fsu.edu (bill mayne)
subject re ancient books
organization supercomputer computations research institute
lines 25

in article apr.13.00.09.02.1993.28445@athos.rutgers.edu miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes
any former atheists converted by argument \?
this is an excellent question and i 'll be anxious to see if there are
any such cases. i doubt it. in the medieval period (esp. 10th cent.
when aquinas flourished) argument was a useful tool because everyone
knew the rules. today , when you ca n't count on people knowing even
the basics of logic or seeing through rhetoric , a good argument is
often indistinguishable from a poor one.

the last sentence is ironic , since so many readers of
soc.religion.christian seem to not be embarrassed by apologists such as
josh mcdowell and c.s. lewis. the above also expresses a rather odd sense
of history. what makes you think the masses in aquinas' day , who were
mostly illiterate , knew any more about rhetoric and logic than most people
today \? if writings from the period seem elevated consider that only the
cream of the crop , so to speak , could read and write. if everyone in
the medieval period knew the rules it was a matter of uncritically
accepting what they were told.

bill mayne

this may be unfair to lewis. the most prominent fallacy attributed
to him is the liar , lunatic , and lord . as quoted by many
christians , this is a logical fallacy. in its original context , it
was not. clh

from gilham@csl.sri.com (fred gilham)
subject re prophetic warning to new york city
organization computer science lab , sri international , menlo park , ca.
lines 16

regarding david wilkerson 's prophecies. while i'm not real sure of
his credibility , i do remember a book he wrote , called a vision or
something like that. he made a prediction that people who bought gold
would be hurt financially. at the time , gold was up to about 800
now it is less than half that. this prediction stuck in my mind
because a lot of people where i worked were buying gold.

the problem is , we tend to remember predictions that come true and
forget ones that did n't (a la jean dixon). does anyone know if there
any of his predictions , perhaps from the book i mentioned , that can
pretty definitely be said to have not come true \?

fred gilham gilham@csl.sri.com
peace is only better than war when it 's not hell too. war being hell
makes sense.
walker percy , the second coming

from mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michael d. walker)
subject re satan kicked out of heaven biblical \?
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 27

easteee@wkuvx1.bitnet writes

hello all ,
i have a question about satan. i was taught a long time ago
that satan was really an angel of god and was kicked out of heaven
because he challenged god 's authority. the problem is , i cannot
find this in the bible. is it in the bible \? if not , where did it
originate \?

wondering ,
eddie

the quick answer revelation 12 7 9

and there was war in heaven. michael and his angels fought against
the dragon and his angels who fought back. but he the dragon was
not strong enough , and they lost their place in heaven. the great
dragon was hurled down that ancient serpent , called the devil and
satan , who leads the whole world astray. he was hurled down to the
earth , and his angels with him.

the earlier part of chapter 12 deals (very symbolically) with why
satan rose up in battle against michael and the good angels in the
first place.

hope this clears it up.
mike walker

from phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization monash university melbourne. australia.
lines 42

in article apr.13.00.08.07.1993.28379@athos.rutgers.edu , aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker) writes

very good and reasonable statements on authority deleted

the atheist position seems to be that there are no authorities. this is a
reasonable assertion in itself , but it leads to a practical difficulty.
if you reject all authority out of hand , you reject all possibility of
every receiving information. thus the atheist position can never possibly
change. it is non falsifiable and therefore unscintific.

this is not true. the athiest 's position is that there is no proof of the
existence of god. as much as some people accept their church , their priests
or straight from their own scriptures as the proof , this does not
satisfy atheists.

atheists do believe in recognisable authorities. if they were as dogmatic as
you claim they are , they would be trying to prove 1 1 2 every time they
got up. what they dispute is that churches , priests , scriptures etc.
represent true authorities and know the truth.

to demand scintific or rational proof of god 's existence , is to deny
god 's existence , since neither science , nor reason , can , in their very
nature , prove anything.

are you asking us to believe blindly \? you are trying to deny that part of
us that makes us ask the question does god exist \? i.e. self awareness and
reason. if we do not use our ability to reason we become as ignorant
as the other animals on this earth. does god want us to be like that \?

you are right that science and reason cannot prove anything. however , if
we do not use them we can only then believe on faith alone. and since
we can only use faith , why is one picture of god (e.g. hinduism) any less
valid than another (e.g. christianity) \?


mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis



don lowe , department of physics , monash university ,
melbourne , victoria , australia , 3168.

from wdburns@mtu.edu (burns)
subject interfaith weddings
organization ccli macintosh lab , michigan tech university
lines 39

hello everyone.

last week i posted a similar question to alt.wedding. now i come in
search of a deeper level answer.

my fiance is lutheran and i am catholic. we plan on getting married in
her church because she is living there now and i plan on moving there
in a month or so. i called my catholic priest to find out what i needed
to do in order for the marriage to be recognized by my church.

needless to say that i have found that there is no hard and fast rule
when it comes to how the catholic law for interfaith weddings is interpreted.
but i'm pretty sure that we can get married without too much problem the
trick lies in the letter of dispensation.

but that is not why i am here....

what i 'd like to know is
what are the main differences between the lutheran and catholic religions \?
my priest mumbled something about how the eucharist was understood...
i have heard that if two religions combine soon , it would be these two.

any help would be appreciated...

thanks so much !

bill

bill burns internet wdburns@mtu.edu mac network system administrator
applelink shadow apple student rep , mtu
first we must band together as friends ,
then mearcilessly crush our enemies into paste.

we 've had enough catholic protestant arguments recently that i'm not
going to accept any renewals. i suggest responses via email , unless
they are clearly non controversial. i would be happy to see positive
summaries of both important catholic and lutheran beliefs. among
other things , they 'd be useful for the faq collection. but i'm not up
for yet another battle. clh

from mnhcc@cunyvm.bitnet (marty helgesen)
subject radio free thulcandra (was dungeons dragons an author 's view
organization city university of new york
lines 18

there was a recent discussion of dungeons and dragons and other role
playing games. since there is a lot of crossover between gamers and
science fiction and fantasy fans , i will mention that i am the editor
and publisher of radio free thulcanra , a christian oriented science
fiction fanzine. it is not a christian magazine with a special
interest in science fiction. it is a science fiction fanzine with a
special interest in christianity. gaming is not a major topic of
discussion but it has come up in some letters. (no , there are no
arguments about whether d d is satanic. people who think it is are
not likely to be reading rft.) anyway , i am now working on the april
issue. i will send a sample copy to any reader of
soc.religion.christian who requests it. it is printed on paper , so
requests should include a snail mail address.

marty helgesen
bitnet mnhcc@cunyvm internet mnhcc@cunyvm.cuny.edu

what if there were no such thing as a hypothetical situation \?

from poram mlsma@att.att.com
subject wbt (was re phone number of wycliffe translators uk)
organization at t
lines 36

in article apr.17.01.11.19.1993.2268@geneva.rutgers.edu mprc@troi.cc.rochester.edu (m. price) writes

i'm concerned about a recent posting about wbt sil. i thought they 'd
pretty much been denounced as a right wing organization involved in
ideological manipulation and cultural interference , including vietnam
and south america. a commission from mexican academia denounced them in
1979 as a covert political and ideological institution used by the
u.s. govt as an instrument of control , regulation , penetration , espionage and
repression.

having met peter kingston (of wbt) some years back , he struck me
as an exemplery and dedicated christian whose main concern was with
translation of the word of god and the welfare of the people
group he was serving.
wbt literature is concerned mainly with providing scripture
in minority languages.

the sort of criticism leveled at an organisation such as this
along the lines of ideological manipulation and cultural
interference is probably no more than christianising and
education in this wbt will stand alongside the early christian
missionaries to parts of africa , or those groups who worked
among native americans a couple hundred years ago.

my concern is that this group may be seen as acceptable and even
praiseworthy by readers of soc.religion.christian. it 's important that
christians do n't immediately accept every christian organization as
automatically above reproach.

mp
i think you need to substantiate these attacks as being a
legitimate criticism of priorities other than spreading the
gospel among underdeveloped people.

barney resson
many shall run to and fro , knowledge shall increase (daniel)

from mussack@austin.ibm.com (chris mussack)
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to mussack@austin.ibm.com
lines 14

in article apr.10.05.32.15.1993.14385@athos.rutgers.edu , dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu
(pixie) writes

do the words question authority mean anything to you \?

i defy any theist to reply.

for all those people who insist i question authority why \?

chris mussack

(this is another example of my biting , raw edged humor that is
neither appreciated nor understood by everyone.)
8 ) messy hair , glasses , winking , smiling , big chin

from bohja@cnsvax.uwec.edu
subject witches and wiccan your opinion
organization university of wisconsin eau claire
lines 19

i am a student at uw eau claire. i am doing a paper an witches and wanted to
get your point of view. i will not use you name unless you specifically tell
me to do so.

please answer this question

as a christian , are you offended by witches and wiccan \? do you feel that tehy
are pagan in the evil sense of the word \?

you time and cooperation is appreciated. thanks , j.

this survey is being conducted in partial fulfillment of the course
requirements for engl 201 , taught by karen welch at the university of
wisconsin eau claire. this course is in compliance with the course
certification requirements of the university institutional review board for the
protection of human subjects.

but is it in compliance with any reasonable method for choosing
samples \? \? \? clh

from mwhaefne@infonode.ingr.com (mark w. haefner)
subject re atheists and hell
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville , al.
lines 27

in article apr.20.03.01.40.1993.3769@geneva.rutgers.edu trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre) writes

i do n't have a problem with being condemned to hell either. the
way i see it , if god wants to punish me for being honest in
my skepticism (that is , for saying he does n't exist) , he
certainly would n't be changing his nature. besides , i would
rather spend an eternity in hell than be beside god in heaven
knowing even one man would spend his eternal life being
scorched for his wrongdoings...


i see some irony here. jesus was willing to go through torture to free
you from the definite promise of hell (based on adam eve 's fall from grace)
but rather than allow him to stand in your place , you would give up
your redemption to stand with those who do not accept his grace.
god would rather have none in hell , which seems to put the burden of
choice on us. of course , this is all fictional anyway since you reject him
also.

my former sociology professor once told us at the beginning
of our term , you all start out with an a...what you do with that during
the course of this term is up to you . in the beginning...adam and eve
were given an a.



mark haefner

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re is ot valid \? \? \? \?
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 31

peir yuan yeh asks

i wonder if the ot is not exactly like jewish history. are they the
same or part of them are the same \? how about torah \? are the first five
books of ot as the same as torah \? \? \? \? \?

yes , yes , and yes. jewish history as recorded in the old testament and
as shown by archaeology are the same. kings , revivals , temples , and all.

the torah , as far as i know , is the five books of moses. then come the
prophets (all the prophets , plus joshua , judges , 1 2 samuel , 1 2 kings)
and the writings (psalms , proverbs , lamentations , ruth , esther , ezra ,
nehemiah , ecclesiates , song of songs , 1 2 chronicles , job).

and the veracity of isaiah , which you quoted to your moslem friend is
quite well known. a complete manuscript exists that dates back to past
200 bc , and is kept in a museum in israel. it was found among the dead
sea scrolls , which greatly enhanced our knowledge of the veracity of the
old testament , as they date back to around the time of christ , whereas
before , the oldest complete manuscript in hebrew was from around 900 ad.

your moslem friend is sorely mistaken , but understandably so. if jesus
was crucified , and atoned for our sins , he must have been god , for only
the death of god could atone for the sins of all humanity. and as
isaiah predicts , the messiah will be called the mighty god. and if he
was god , then he must have rose , for as st. paul wrote , it was not
possible that death could hold him. and if jesus rose from the dead ,
your moslem friend would have little reason to be a moslem. which is
why he denies the authenticity of the old testament.

andy byler

from deon.strydom@f7.n7104.z5.fidonet.org (deon strydom)
subject re prophetic warning to new york city
lines 32

note
reply to a message in soc.religion.christian.

evenson thomas randall wrote in a message to all

which brings me around to asking an open question. is the
bible a closed book of scripture \? is it okay for us to go
around saying god told me this and jesus told me that \?

also interesting to note is that some so called prophecies
are nothing new but rather an inspired translation of
scripture. is it right to call that prophecy \? misleading \?

hi , you might want to read charismatic chaos by john macarthur. in it
he discussed exactly this queation , amongst others. in my own words ,
very simplified , his position is basically that one must decide , what
is the most important experience or scripture \? people tend to say
scripture , without living according to that. their own
feeling prophecy etc tends to be put across without testing in the
light of scripture.

there 's a lot more than this , really worthwhile to read whether you 're
charismatic or not.

groetnis ( cheers)
deon

timed b8

internet deon.strydom@f7.n7104.z5.fidonet.org
via the catalyst bbs in port elizabeth , south africa.
(catpe.alt.za) 27 41 34 1122 hst or 27 41 34 2859 , v32bis hst.

from mandtbacka@finabo.abo.fi (mats andtbacka)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc.
lines 65

in apr.13.00.08.15.1993.28388@athos.rutgers.edu jayne@mmalt.guild.org writes
gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

firstly , i am an atheist. i am not posting here as an immature flame
start , but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.
deleted

we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and we
die.

i am glad that i am not an atheist. it seems tragic that some people
choose a meaningless existence. how terrible to go on living only
because one fears death more than life.

\? huh \? okay , so i'm not eric molas , but even if that is how he
feels about life , i disagree with it.

life , to me , is definitely not meaningless it has precisely the
purpose and meaning i choose to give it. i go on living because i like
living if i needed any further reason , i 'd be free completely free !
to pick any reason that suited me. that freedom can be almost
intoxicating it 's probably the closest i 've ever been to a 'religious'
experience. i'm very glad i am an atheist i would n't be anything
else.

i feel so sorry for eric and
yet any attempts to share my joy in life with him would be considered as
further evidence of the infectious nature of christianity.

not unless , in explaining your own subjective experience , you also
try to convert him or proselytize. merely explaining the effects you
personally experience religion as having on you , is not infectious .
not unless eric is paranoid , that is.

as a christian i am free to be a human person. i think , love , choose ,
and create. i will live forever with god.

whatever floats your goat. you sound happy enough that 's fairly
much all that matters , right \?

christ is not a kind of drug. drugs are a replacement for christ.

erh... pardon , but it strikes me that sentence sounds reversible.

those who have an empty spot in the god shaped hole in their hearts must
do something to ease the pain.

empty spot \? god shaped hole \? i hear such things a lot from
theists never quite did understand what they were talking about.
i have no such 'emptiness' or 'hole'. maybe some others do , i would n't
know but i do n't , and if i did , i 'd seek help about it. does n't sound
like a mentally healthy situation at all , walking around with a 'hole'
in oneself.

thank you , eric for your post. it has helped me to appreciate how much
god has blessed me. i hope that you will someday have a more joy filled
and abundant life.

well , not having written that original post , i do n't know if it
was intended to be interpreted in such a way but , having reread it
carefully , i somewhat doubt it. at least , that 's not how he gets across
to me , your mileage may vary...


disclaimer \? it 's great to be young and insane !

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re being right about messiahs
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 18

desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca (desiree bradley) writes

and , from my meagre knowledge of the bible , it seems that christians have
been hard on the jews of christ 's day for being cautious about accepting
somebody that their religious authorities did n't accept as the messiah.

this is a good point. christ was hardly the only person who claimed to be
the messiah in fact , a number of messiahs were active in the area from the
time of the roman conquest to after the fall of masada.
many of the statements made by the apostles especially their repeated
attempts to give jesus a sword (give him military power) point to the fact that
they did n't realize the true nature of his reign until after the fact. many of
the statements in the bible can be seen as being oriented toward explaining
this new definition of messiah to the jews who were being preached to.

alan terlep ...and the scorpion says , 'it 's
oakland university , rochester , mi in my nature.'
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu

from lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard)
subject re assurance of hell
organization itc uva community access unix internet project
lines 43

in article apr.20.03.01.19.1993.3755@geneva.rutgers.edu rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov writes

i dreamed that the great judgment morning had dawned ,
and the trumpet had blown.
i dreamed that the sinners had gathered for judgment
before the white throne.
oh what weeping and wailing as the lost were told of their fate.
they cried for the rock and the mountains.
they prayed , but their prayers were too late.
the soul that had put off salvation ,
not tonight i 'll get saved by and by.
no time now to think of ....... religion ,
alas , he had found time to die.
and i saw a great white throne.

if i believed in the god of the bible i would be very fearful of making
this statement. does n't it say those who judge will be judged by the
same measure \?

now , some have protest by saying that the fear of hell is not good for
motivation , yet jesus thought it was. paul thought it was. paul said ,
knowing therefore , the terror of the lord , we persuade men.

a god who must motivate through fear is not a god worthy of worship.
if the god jesus spoke of did indeed exist he would not need hell to
convince people to worship him.

today , too much of our evangelism is nothing but soft soap and some of
it is nothing but evangelical salesmanship. we do n't tell people anymore , that
there 's such a thing as sin or that there 's such a place as hell.

it was the myth of hell that made me finally realize that the whole thing
was untrue. if it had n't been for hell i would still be a believer today.
the myth of hell made me realize that if there was a god that he was not
the all knowing and all good god he claimed to be. why should i take such
a being at his word , even if there was evidence for his existance \?


join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .


from marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley)
subject re hearing sinners
organization ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 24

in article apr.21.03.24.19.1993.1271@geneva.rutgers.edu jek@cu.nih.gov writes
on the question , does god hear the prayers of sinners \? we need to
distinguish.
if we say that he never hears the prayers of any who have sinned , we
make pointless all prayers by anyone born less than 19 centuries
ago.
but if we consider the prayers of the impenitent sinner , of someone
who says , lord , i want you to do this for me , but do n't expect me
to change my way of life , that is a different matter.

i have no doubt that god hears everybody 's prayers.
however , he does things his way , i.e. things will happen
only if it is his will.

now if the question really is does god grant everybody 's wishes \?
then you 'll get a brutal shot of reality similar to when you did n't
get that toy you wanted for christmas. you just cannot expect
to get everything you want in this world.



mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris'
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com
the lost los angelino

from stovall@ficus.cs.ucla.edu (steven stovall)
subject re rebuilding the temple (was re anybody out there \? )
organization ucla , computer science department
lines 25

tcsteven@iaserv.b1.ingr.com (todd stevens) writes

chuck petch writes

now it appears that nothing stands in the way of rebuilding and resuming
sacrifices , as the scriptures indicate will happen in the last days.
although the israeli government will give the permission to start , i think
it is the hand of god holding the project until he is ready to let it
happen. brothers and sisters , the time is at hand. our redemption is
drawing near. look up !

how is a scriptural levitical priesthood resumed \? are there any jews who
can legitimately prove their levite bloodline \?

if i am not mistaken , the jewish family names cohen , kahn , etc.
are considered to be legitimate indicators of descent from aaron.
the family names levi , levene , etc. are considered to be legitimate
indicators of descent from levi. the main legal issue is the purification
of the priesthood , which is supposed to involve finding the ashes of
of the red heifer last used for this purpose 2000 years ago.


steven stovall
stovall@exeter.cs.ucla.edu
(310) 825 7307

from sfp@lemur.cit.cornell.edu (sheila patterson)
subject re losing your temper is not a christian trait
organization cornell university cit
lines 10



hooray ! i always suspected that i was human too ) it is the desire to be like
christ that often causes christians to be very critical of themselves and other
christians. we are supposed to grow , mature , endeavour to be christ like but we
are far far far from perfect. build up the body of christ , do n't tear it down ,
and that includes yourself. jesus loves me just the way i am today , tomorrow and
always (thank god ! ).

sheila patterson

from mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server)
subject re so far so good
lines 16

this may be a really dumb one , but i 'll ask it anyways
christians know that they can never live up to the requirements of
god , right \? (i may be wrong , but that is my understanding) but they still
try to do it. does n't it seem like we are spending all of our lives
trying to reach a goal we can never achieve \? i know that we are saved by
faith and not by works , but does that mean that once we are saved we do n't
have to do anything \? i think james tells us that faith without works is
dead (paraphrase). how does this work \?

short reply we can never achieve perfect health , yet we always strive for it.
we do n't seek to do god 's will because we 're forced to , we follow his way
because his way is best. the reason it 's hard is because we are flawed , not
because he 's unreasonable. but we seek to follow his way because we want to
improve ourselves and our lives.

mark

from steve.hayes@f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
subject pantheism environmentalism
lines 51

09 apr 93 , susan harwood kaczmarczik writes to all

we suspect that 's because one party to the (environmental)
dispute thinks the earth is sanctified. it 's clear that much
of the environmentalist energy is derived from what has been
called the religious left , a secular , or even pagan fanaticism
that now worships such gods as nature and gender with a
reverence formerly accorded real religions. (emphasis mine).

shk first of all , secular and pagan are not synonyms. pagan , which is
shk derived from the latin paganus , means of the country. it is , in
shk fact , a cognate with the italian paisano , which means peasant.
shk paganism , among other things , includes a reverence for the planet and
shk all life on the planet stemming from the belief that all life is
shk interconnected. so , rather than be something secular , it is something
shk very sacred.

i would go further , and say that much of the damage to the environment
has been caused by the secular worldview , or by the humanist
worldview , and especially by the secular humanist worldview.

this is not to say that all secular humanists are necessarily avid
destroyers of the environment , and i am sure that there are many who
are concerned about the environment. but at the time of the
renaissance and ref ormation in western europe man became the centre ,
or the focus of culture (hence humanism ). this consciousness was
also secular , in the sense that it was concerned primarily with the
present age , r ather than the age to come. capitalism arose at the
same time , and the power of economics became central in philosophy.
this does n't mean that economics did not exist before , simply that it
began to dominate the conscious cultural values of western european
society and its offshoots. this cultural shift was , in its later
stages , accompanied by industrial revolutions and the values that
justified
them.

there was a fundamental cultural shift in the meaning of economics
from the christian view of man as the economos , the steward , of
creation to the secular idea of man as the slave of economic forces
and powers. there were denominational differences among the new
worshippers of mammon. for some the name of the deity was the free
rein of the market mechanism , while for others it was the
dialectical forces of history . but in both the capitalist west and
the socialist east the environment was sacrificed on the altar of
mammon. the situation was mitigated in the west because thos e who
were concerned about the damage to the environment had more freedom to
oppose what was happening and state their case.

steve

golded 2.40

from aidler@sol.uvic.ca (e alan idler)
subject re mormon temples
organization university of victoria
lines 80

mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server) writes

saw8712@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (steve a. ward) writes

dan@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes
dan 's question about mormon temple rituals deleted for brevity

just thought i would interject this , and i believe you dan when you say
that you do n't mean to offend for us lds temple goers , the temple
ceremonies are very sacred. so much so that anyone who goes there
promises never to divulge them. so how much can you trust someone
who is telling you about the cerermony \?

one thing i do n't understand is why being sacred should make the
temple rituals secret. there are lots of sacred things in
christianity , including the sacred scriptures themselves , but there is
nothing secret about these things.

is it appropriate for the lord not to reveal certain
things before the world (i.e. , publish them widely) \?

these things sacred to himself. he may place any
pre or post conditions he feels are necessary.

moreover , there are precedents in scripture where
knowledge of sacred things is withheld

1. after the transfiguration jesus instructed
peter , james , and john to tell the vision to no
man , until the son of man be risen again from
the dead (matt. 17 9).
if we were living at the time of savior , there
would be no (public) record of this event.

2. a faithful friend of paul experiences a vision
of paradise when he heard unspeakable words ,
which it is not lawful for a man to utter
(2 cor. 12 4).
this person heard something which paul can not
write to the corinthians (and us).

3. there is an incident recorded in the book of
mormon where words uttered by babes were
forbidden that there should not any man write
them (3 nephi 26 16 , the entire text follows
for those of you without access to the bom).

3 nephi 26 16
behold , it came to pass on the morrow that the
multitude gathered themselves together , and they
both saw and heard these children yea , even
babes did open their mouths and utter marvelous
things and the things which they did utter were
forbidden that there should not any man write them.

some lds scholars speculate that these words
which could not be written are the sacred
portions from temple we are to withhold from
the world (but it could be something else).

i
can understand why mormons would limit temple access to only faithful
mormons , but i have never understood the emphasis on shrouding temple
ritual in mystery.

there is much we can discuss about the temple
ordinances. we can discuss regarding baptisms
and other vicarious ordinances for the dead.
we can discuss certain concepts regarding the
endowment ( the ritual ).
however , there are certain elements i can not
discuss with anyone (including other saints)
outside of the temple.
as a portion of the endowment , we receive the
tokens and signs that will permit us access
to heaven. i must keep this knowledge sacred
and respect the conditions under which it is
revealed to me.

a idler

from k053730@hobbes.kzoo.edu (philip g. sells)
subject hebrew grammar texts choose english or german \?
organization kalamazoo college alumni association
lines 28

greetings ,

probably a tired old horse , but... maybe with a slightly different
twist. i wanted to know if there are any good english language texts
for learning ancient hebrew , and how these compare with german
educational texts qualitywise , if anybody has an idea. i ca n't figure
out if i should buy one here for later study or wait until i get back to
the u.s.

something i find interesting about studying theology in germany is the
fact that the students get their ancient language learning out of the
way early i'm not a theology student , but i spend a lot of time with
such folks in their careers. they take the first two years or so to just
do greek and latin and hebrew possibly aramaic , too who knows .
what 's it like at divinity schools or seminaries in the states \? is
there a lot of language instruction done \? i really do n't have a basis
for comparison.

regards , phil

philip sells is anything too hard for the lord \?
k053730@hobbes.kzoo.edu gen. 18 14

for better of worse , we do n't have the tradition of classical
education in the u.s. , so generally if a seminary believes students
should know greek , they have to teach it. it 's common for seminaries
to require at least a semester each of hebrew and greek , though of
course more is required for serious scholarship. clh

from wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (malcusco)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization university of california , san diego
lines 60

in article apr.10.05.32.15.1993.14385@athos.rutgers.edu dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) writes
in article apr.7.01.55.50.1993.22771@athos.rutgers.edu ,

pardon me , a humble atheist , but exactly what is the difference
between holding a revealed truth with blind faith as its basis (i.e.
regardless of any evidence that you may find to the contrary) as an
absolute truth , fully expecting people to believe you and arrogance \?
they sound like one and the same to me.

pixie


p.s. if you do sincerely believe that a god exists , why do you follow
it blindly \?

why do we follow god so blindly \? have you ever asked a
physically blind person why he or she follows a seeing eye dog \?
the answer is quite simple the dog can see , and the blind person
cannot.

i acknowledge , as a christian , that i am blind. i see ,
but i see illusions as well as reality. (watched tv lately \? )
i hear , but i hear lies as well as truth. (listen to your
radio or read a newspaper.) remember , all that tastes well is
not healthy. so , i rely one the one who can see , hear , and
taste everything , and knows what is real , and what is not.
that is god.

of course , you may ask , if i cannot trust my own senses ,
how do i know whether what i see and hear about god is truth or
a lie. that is why we need faith to be saved. we must force
ourselves to believe that god knows the truth , and loves us
enough to share it with us , even when it defies what we think
we know. why would he have created us if he did not love us
enough to help us through this world \?

i also do trust my experiences to some extent. when
i do things that defy the seeming logic of my experience ,
because it is what my father commands me to do , and i see
the results in the long term , i find that he has led me
in the proper direction , even though it did not feel right
at the time. this is where our works as christians are
important as exercises of the body make the body strong ,
excercises of faith make the faith strong.

as for you , no one can convert you. you must
choose to follow god of your own will , if you are ever to
follow him. all we as christians wish to do is share with
you the love we have received from god. if you reject that ,
we have to accept your decision , although we always keep
the offer open to you. if you really want to find out
why we believe what we believe , i can only suggest you try
praying for faith , reading the bible , and asking christians
about their experiences personally. then you may grow to
understand why we believe what we do , in defiance of the
logic of this world.

may the lord bring peace to you ,

malcusco

from tbrent@bank.ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent)
subject re atheists and hell
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 31

in article apr.19.05.14.08.1993.29279@athos.rutgers.edu atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes

i do n't see what the problem is ! to christians , hell is , by definition ,
eternal death exactly what atheists are expecting when they die. there 's no
reason hell has to be especially awful to most people , eternal death is bad
enough.
literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such. personally , i do n't think
that people in hell will be thrust into flame any more than i expect to jesus
with a double edged sword issuing from his mouth i treat both these statements
as metaphorical.

phew ! that takes a load off. i do n't want to live forever. i wish
most christians held this view. you ca n't walk across campus in
spring without being assailed by fire and brimstone preachers. i
really think the metaphor should be limited , at least with respect to
teaching our children. it 's criminal to put these ideas into a young
and trusting mind. besides , why not rely on the positive aspects of
your religion to win their faith \?

tim



timothy j. brent a man will come to know true happiness ,
brent@bank.ecn.purdue.edu only when he accepts that he is but a
small part of an infinite universe.
purdue university spinoza
materials science engineering paraphrased



from luomat@alleg.edu (timothy j. luoma)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to luomat@alleg.edu
organization allegheny college
lines 53

in article apr.9.01.11.16.1993.16937@athos.rutgers.edu
emery@tc.fluke.com (john emery) writes
much of the excellent post deleted for space tjl

) with all the suffering and persecution that it meant to be a believer ,
it
) would be quite probable that at least one of those in the supposed
conspiracy
) would come forward and confess that the whole thing was a big hoax.
yet
) not one did. it seems rather reasonable that the disciples did not
make
) up the resurrection but sincerely believed that jesus had actually
risen
) from the dead especially in light of the sufferings that came upon
those
) who believed.


i was at the jubilee conference this year in pittsburgh pa , and the
speaker there spoke of this as well. he talked about many of the same
things you mentioned in your post , but here he went into a little more
detail. i 'll paraphrase as best i can

suppose you were part of the `christian consipracy' which was going to
tell people that christ had risen. never mind the stoning , the being
burned alive , the possible crucifixion ... let 's just talk about a
scourging. the whip that would be used would have broken pottery , metal ,
bone , and anything else that they could find attached to it. you would be
stood facing a wall , with nothing to protect you.

when the whip hit you the first time , it would tear the flesh off you
with instant incredibly intense pain. you would think to yourself `all
this for a lie \? ' the second hit would drop you to your knees , you would
scream out in agony that your raw back was being torn at again. you would
say to yourself `all this for a lie \? ' and you had 37 more coming.

at the third hit you would scream out that it was all a lie , beg for them
to stop , and tell them that you would swear on your life that it had all
been a lie , if they would only stop....

it is amazing enough that those who believed kept their faith under such
torture.... but for a lie \? there is no one fool enough to do that.... and
no one came forward.

excellent post john , thanks for taking the time.



tj luoma luomat@alleg.edu god be merciful to
i have fought a good fight , me a sinner. st luke
i have finished my course , for me to live is christ , and
i have kept the faith. 2 tim to die is gain philippians 1 21

from rgolder@hoh.mbl.edu (robert golder)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization marine biological laboratory
lines 39

in article apr.13.00.08.04.1993.28376@athos.rutgers.edu ,
mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes

in article apr.12.03.44.17.1993.18833@athos.rutgers.edu
heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes

i realize i'm entering this discussion rather late , but i do
have one question. was n't it a reagan appointee , james watt , a
pentacostal christian (i think) who was the secretary of the interior
who saw no problem with deforestation since we were living in the
last days and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods
anyway \?

i heard the same thing , but without confirmation that he actually said it.
it was just as alarming to us as to you the bible says that nobody knows
when the second coming will take place.


michael a. covington

i do recall watt making a comment to this effect , though it was quite a few
years back and i ca n't cite the specifics. i also recall that cecil andrus , who
was secretary of the interior during the carter administration , responded
to watt 's comments by pointing out the stewardship role that god gave
to man , as recorded in genesis. which makes me wonder who are the
true conservatives \? it seems to me that a conservative should want to
conserve things of value for long term societal benefit. this form of
conservation should logically extend to the physical environment in
which people live , as well as the moral environment in which they relate
to one another and to god.

imho , watt 's stewardship status is not enhanced by the fact that he served
on the board of directors for jim bakker 's organization , during a time in
which bakker committed criminal acts which eventually landed bakker
in federal prison.

bob
rgolder@hoh.mbl.edu
just another baptist...

from cox@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov (sherman cox)
subject re sda doctrinal distinctives
organization nasa msfc
lines 21

healta@saturn.wwc.edu (tammy r healy) writes

in article mar.17.02.04.45.1993.23612@athos.rutgers.edu jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher) writes

there is a book provided by the sda which is entitled the seventh day
adventist church believes , or something like that.

the book is called 27 basic fundamental beliefs or something very close to
that. the number is 27 , not 30. i have a copy at home (i'm away at
school.)

actually the book is called seventh day adventists believe... and there
are 27 basica beliefs. i believe it is printed by the reveiew and
herald publishing association.



competition is the law of the jungle.
cooperation is the law of civilization. eldridge cleaver

sherman cox , ii scox@uahcs2.cs.uah.edu

from stoney@oyster.smcm.edu (stanley toney)
subject re am i going to hell \?
organization university of maryland , college park
lines 45

in article apr.23.02.55.31.1993.3123@geneva.rutgers.edu
tbrent@ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent) writes
i have stated before that i do not consider myself an atheist , but
definitely do not believe in the christian god. the recent discussion
about atheists and hell , combined with a post to another group (to the
effect of 'you will all go to hell') has me interested in the consensus
as to how a god might judge men. as a catholic , i was told that a jew ,
buddhist , etc. might go to heaven , but obviously some people do not
believe this. even more see atheists and pagans (i assume i would be
lumped into this category) to be hellbound. i know you believe only
god can judge , and i do not ask you to , just for your opinions.
excellent question timothy. i hpoe the answers you get will be satisfactory
as we can not understand the mind of god. but to attempt to answer you
clearly. god of the bible has given us humans relativly little about how he
intends to judge mankind. the first test is those who have beleived that jesus
christ is the son of god and that his death and resurrection was sufficent to
serve justice for all the acts we commit that are wrong in the eyes of god ,
the bible calls this sin. for those who die before the end of the world have
already died it is more complicated to explain without lapsing in to cliche.
god must judge people on the baasis of their works in this world. however
there is no plus and minus system for god. he has declared that he can not
tolerate spiritual imperfection , thus he can only based your worthiness to
live with him on the wrong in your life.
good people , yes even christians are going to constantly sin before god , the
christian hoever thanks god that christ has given his life for his sin 's
penalty. the proscribed punishment for sin is death , just as the proscribed
punishment for robbery is time in jail. god then cannot ask for anything but
punishement for those sins. he does not want to condem. the bible says in john
3 17 , that god did not send his son in to the word to condem it but that
through him it might be saved. when i realize that i have sinned , and i do
with painful regularity , i must approach god and ask him to not hold thew sin
against me , i have that right and privlige only because of christ. as for jews
they are promised that they must believe on the messiah who would come , and
dis come in jesus of nazereth. muslims , i fear have been given a lie from the
fater of lies , satan. they need christ as do us all.
for those who do n't have that right , in the view of the bible they stand
olone in their defense. are you going to hell \? i can not answer that for you.
i can only say that perhaps it is eaiser to ask and answer how can i not go to
hell \? that step is much more rewarding.

stan toney stoney@oyster.smcm.edu
my opinions are my own , you may borrow them

p.s. stay in touch and keep asking questions not just to us but to god as
well , he listens too.

from mprc@troi.cc.rochester.edu (m. price)
subject re phone number of wycliffe translators uk
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 14


i'm concerned about a recent posting about wbt sil. i thought they 'd
pretty much been denounced as a right wing organization involved in
ideological manipulation and cultural interference , including vietnam
and south america. a commission from mexican academia denounced them in
1979 as a covert political and ideological institution used by the
u.s. govt as an instrument of control , regulation , penetration , espionage and
repression.
my concern is that this group may be seen as acceptable and even
praiseworthy by readers of soc.religion.christian. it 's important that
christians do n't immediately accept every christian organization as
automatically above reproach.

mp

from gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com (gary chin)
subject national day of prayer , 5 6 93
reply to gchin@ssf.eng.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 20

this is an annual time of prayer organized by the focus on the family
organization. if you have not heard about it on your christian radio
station or at your local church , call them and they may be able to
give you the information.

many cities in the san francisco bay area have local coordinators
organizing the time and the place to meet to pray. in san francisco ,
oakland , berkeley , san jose , people will be meeting at 12 15pm at
each city 's city hall.

last year , i attended at the mountain view city hall. it was a very
quiet and meaningful time of prayer.


gary chin
staff engineer
sun microsystems
mt. view , ca
gchin@eng.sun.com


from tsmith@cs.stanford.edu (todd michael smith)
subject god shaped hole (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 16

in article apr.14.03.07.38.1993.5420@athos.rutgers.edu , johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson) writes

those who have an empty spot in the god shaped hole in their hearts must
do something to ease the pain.

i have heard this claim quite a few times. does anybody here know
who first came up with the god shaped hole business \?


was it pascal , or maybe descartes , who first used this figure of speech \?
i seem to have some vague recollections from reading some of their essays ,
but i certainly could n't say it was one of them for sure.


todd smith
tsmith@cs.stanford.edu

from hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za (steve hayes)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization university of south africa
lines 51

in article apr.11.01.02.46.1993.17799@athos.rutgers.edu mhsu@lonestar.utsa.edu (melinda . hsu ) writes

belief that their faith is total truth. according to them ,
their beliefs come from the bible and the bible is the word of
god and god is truth thus they know the truth. this stance
makes it difficult to discuss other faiths with them and my own
hesitations about christianity because they see no other way.
their way is the 'truth.'

but i see their faith arising from a willful choice to believe
a particular way. that choice is part faith and part reason ,
but it seems to me a choice.

my discussions with some christians remind me of schoolyard
discussions when i was in grade school

a kid would say , all policemen are jerks ! i 'd ask , how do
you know \? because my daddy told me so ! how do you know
you 're daddy is right \? he says he 's always right !

well the argument usually stops right there. in the end ,
are n't we all just kids , groping for the truth \? if so , do we have
the authority to declare all other beliefs besides our own as
false \?

i find this argument very strange , though not unfamiliar.

an analogy someone used a while back can perhaps illustrate it.

say , for example , there are people living on a volcanic island , and a group
of geologists determine that a volcano is imminent. they warn the people on
the island that they are in danger , and should leave. a group of people on
the island is given the task of warning others of the danger.

they believe the danger is real , but others may not.

does that mean that the first group are necessarily arrogant in warning
others of the danger \? does it mean that they are saying that their beliefs
are correct , and all others are false \?

some might indeed react to opposition with arrogance , and behave in an
arrogant manner , but that is a personal idiocyncracy. it does not
necessarily mean that they are all arrogant.



steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department
univ. of south africa , p.o. box 392 , pretoria , 0001 south africa
internet hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za
steve.hayes@p5.f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
stephen.hayes@f20.n7101.z5.fidonet.org

from mwhaefne@infonode.ingr.com (mark w. haefner)
subject re accepting jesus in your heart...
organization intergraph corporation , huntsville , al.
lines 10


religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.
some people use drugs as an escape from reality. christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high.


why would you say especially christianity \?


mark

from bfinnert@chaph.usc.edu (brian finnerty)
subject mary 's assumption
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 34

a few points about mary 's being taken into heaven at the end of her life on
earth

one piece of evidence for mary 's assumption into heaven is the fact
that no christian church ever claimed to be the sight where she was
buried. some christian churches claimed to be located at the final
resting places of peter , mark , and other saints , but no one ever
claimed to possess the body of mary , the greatest of the saints. why \?
because everyone knew that she had been taken up into heaven.

although there is no definitive scriptural proof for the assumption of
mary , some passages seem suggestive , like the passage in revelation
that describes a woman giving birth to a son and later being crowned
in the heavens. of course , the woman in this passage has other
interpretations she can also be taken a symbol for the church.

the assumption of mary makes sense because of her relationship to
christ. jesus , perfect god and perfect man , fulfilled the
requirements of the law perfectly. under the law god gave to us , we
are to honor our mother and father , and christ 's act of taking his
mother into heaven is part of his fulfillment of that law. also , he
took his flesh from her , so it seems appropriate that he decide not to
allow her flesh to rot in the grave.

one last point an ex catholic attempted to explain catholic doctrine
on the assumption by asserting it is connected to a belief that mary
did not die. this is not a correct summary of what catholics believe.
the dogma of the assumption was carefully phrased to avoid saying
whether mary did or did not die. in fact , the consensus among catholic
theologians seems to be that mary in fact did die. this would make
sense christ died , and his mother , who waited at the foot of the
cross , would want to share in his death.

brian finnerty

from shd2001@andy.bgsu.edu (sherlette dixon)
subject christianity atheism an update
organization bgsu
lines 32

first , i would like to thank all who sent me their opinions on the matter
at hand. all advice was taken to heart , if not directly used. my friend
found out about the matter quite accidently. after reading some of my
mail , i quit from the mail reader went about my business. i must have
trashed my mail improperly , because he got on the same terminal the next
day saw my old messages. he thought they were responses to a post he
placed in alt.atheism earlier that week , so he read some of them before
realizing that they were for me. i got a message from him the next day he
apologized for reading my mail said that he did not want to appear to be
a snoop. he said that he would be willing to talk to me about his views
did n't mind doing so , especially with a friend. so we did. i neither
changed his mind nor did he change mine , as that was not the point. now he
knows where i'm coming from now i know where he 's coming from. and all
that i can do is pray for him , as i 've always done.

i believe the reason that he i click instead of bash heads is because
i see christianity as a tool for revolution , not a tool for maintaining
the status quo. to be quite blunt , i have more of a reason to reject god
than he does just by the fact that i am an african american female.
christianity religion have been used as tools to separate my people from
the true knowledge of our history the wealth of our contributions to the
world society. the kitchen of heaven was all we had to look forward to
during the slave days , this mentality second class status still exists
today. i , too , have rejected
an aspect of christianity that of the estabished church. too much
hypocricy exists behind the walls of god 's house beginning with the
images of a white jesus to that of the members praise god on sunday
raise hell beginning monday. god willing , i will find a church home where
i can feel comfortable at home , but i do n't see it happening anytime
soon.

sherlette

from conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt)
subject goodbye , but not forever
organization applied research laboratories , university of texas at austin
lines 46

praise god ! i'm writing everyone to inform you that i have been
accepted to the doctor of psychology program at fuller theological
seminary in pasadena , ca. i 've been working long and hard to try to
get in there and have said many hours of prayer. i'm very excited for
this opportunity , but also very nervous about it.

i 'd appreciate the prayers of the readers of this group for my preparation
for school this summer and for my career as a graduate student. i 'd also
appreciate any information any of the readers of this group might have
about fuller , pasadena , or california in general , like good places to
have fun , good churches to check out , or anything else that might be
good for me to know. also , if anyone knows of any foundations that
might have funding or scholarship money available , please let me know !
of course , if you wish to make a personal contribution..... )

the contract for my current job is over at the end of april. i 'll be
taking a couple classes at ut this summer and then i 'll be moving to
pasadena. hopefully , i 'll be able to get net.access next fall , although
fuller does n't have it itself.

i 've enjoyed the interesting discussions and i commend everyone for their
earnest search to please god. thanks to our moderator for providing
such a wonderful service and in doing a great job of running this news
group.

may god bless you all. vaya con dios , mi amigas y amigos.

paul



paul conditt internet conditt@titan.tsd.arlut.utexas.edu
applied research phone (512) 835 3422 fax (512) 835 3416 3259
laboratories fedex 10000 burnet road , austin , texas 78758 4423
university of texas postal p.o. box 8029 , austin , texas 78713 8029
austin , texas the most wonderful place in texas to live


ttttttttttttttt
ttt ttt ttt
ttt
ttttttttttttt texas tech lady raiders
tt ttt tt 1992 93 swc champions
ttt 1992 93 ncaa national champions
ttt
ttttttt

from salaris@niblick.ecn.purdue.edu (rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 28

in article apr.22.00.57.03.1993.2118@geneva.rutgers.edu , jprzybyl@skidmore.edu (jennifer przybylinski) writes
hey...

i may be wrong , but was n't jeff fenholt part of black sabbath \? he 's a
major brother in christ now. he totally changed his life around , and
he and his wife go on tours singing , witnessing , and spreading the
gospel for christ. i may be wrong about black sabbath , but i know he
was in a similar band if it was n't that particular group...


jeff fenholt claims to have once been a roadie for black sabbath.
he was never ever a musician in the band. he was in st. louis several
months back. the poster i saw at the christian bookstore i frequent
really turned me off. it was addressed to all homosexuals , prostitutes ,
drug addicts , alcoholics , and headbangers... or something like that.

well , if i showed up with my long hair and black leather jacket i
would have felt a little pre judged. as a orthodox christian , and
a headbanger i was slightly insulted at being lumped together with
drug addicts and alcoholics. oh yes , i suppose since i drink a good
german beer now and then that makes me an alcoholic. not !



steven c. salaris we 're...a lot more dangerous than 2 live crew
salaris@carcs1.wustl.edu and their stupid use of foul language because
we have ideas. we have a philosophy.
geoff tate queensryche

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization kulikauskas home
lines 29

gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

firstly , i am an atheist. i am not posting here as an immature flame
start , but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.
deleted

we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and we
die.

i am glad that i am not an atheist. it seems tragic that some people
choose a meaningless existence. how terrible to go on living only
because one fears death more than life. i feel so sorry for eric and
yet any attempts to share my joy in life with him would be considered as
further evidence of the infectious nature of christianity.

as a christian i am free to be a human person. i think , love , choose ,
and create. i will live forever with god.

christ is not a kind of drug. drugs are a replacement for christ.
those who have an empty spot in the god shaped hole in their hearts must
do something to ease the pain. this is why the most effective
substance abuse recovery programs involve meeting peoples' spiritual
needs.

thank you , eric for your post. it has helped me to appreciate how much
god has blessed me. i hope that you will someday have a more joy filled
and abundant life.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr)
subject re prophetic warning to new york city
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 65

in article apr.9.01.10.38.1993.16892@athos.rutgers.edu evensont@spot.colorado.edu (evenson thomas randall) writes

which brings me around to asking an open question. is the bible a closed
book of scripture \? is it okay for us to go around saying god told
me this and jesus told me that \? would n't that imply that god is still
pouring out new revelation to us \? i know that some people will feel
that is okay , and some will not. the concept of a closed canon would
certainly cast a shadow on contemporary prophets. on the other hand ,
an open canon seems to be indicated sometimes.

there are a lot of people running around saying god told me this and
god told me that these days. some people really have heard god , and others
heard their glands. mario murrillo mentioned this in a sermon once. he
said someone told him , the lord gave me a song. he said that it was
the worst song he had ever heard.

i know why he gave you that song , murillo said , he did n't want it anymore.

but god does still speak to his people today , and the idea is contrary to the
idea of a closed cannon. ireneaus wrote about all the gifts of the spirit
in the church of his day (2nd and 3rd century) and he was one of the first
to put forth a new testament cannon , which was almost identical to the one
we have today. he believed in a closed cannon.

many prophets prophesied prophecies which were not recorded in the scriptures.
for example , one prophet in kings , whose name starts with an m who
prophecied that the king would lose a battle. that is the only prophecy
he gave recorded in scripture , and we no that he had given other prophecies
because the king complained before he heard the prophecy , he never prophesies
anything good about me. yet only one little paragraph of all of his
lifetime of prophecies are recorded in scripture. there are numerous examples.
barnabas was a prophet , acts says , before he was even sent out as an
apostle. yet his writings are not recorded in scripture. only two of
agabus prophecies are mentioned in scripture. he was already a prophet
before he gave them.

so prophecy may be genuine and from god , but that does not make it
scripture.

also interesting to note is that some so called prophecies are nothing new
but rather an inspired translation of scripture. is it right to call
that prophecy \? misleading \? would n't that be more having to do with
knowledge \?

i do n't know about translations of scripture , but i am familiar with
prophecies that give applications for scripture. there are also
similar examples in the bible. several times peter interprets prophecies
in a seemingly prophetic way , for example , and his bishoprick let another
take concerning judas office.

a clearer example can be found in matthew 24. jesus is prophesying about
what will happen before his return and he quotes a passage out of joel
about the sun being darkened and the moon turning to blood. so scriptural
prophecy can be used in later prophecy.

sometimes this sort of thing can cross over into being a word of knowledge ,
but gifts of the spirit seem to overlap. words of knowledge and wisdom
can overlap. the word of knowledge and prophecy can overlap.
interpretation of tounges is very similar to prophecy. healings are often
considered miracles. so sometimes the distinction between gifts is a
bit hazy. imho , it does n't usually matter that much if we are able to
label a phenomenon , as long as we recognize them as the work of the
spirit , and use them according to his leading.

link hudson.

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject legitimate bawdy humor was re sex education it 's a joke !
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 28

in article apr.8.01.01.06.1993.28740@athos.rutgers.edu lubosh.hanuska@anu.edu.au (ljh) writes

well , my son , the best advice i can give you is this eat a lot of
carrots !
oh , do you really think that will work \? ! \? and should it be before or
after intercourse \?
instead , my son , instead !
...
disclaimer as a single catholic i did n't have any business to post this
kind of joke to this group , so if you found it inappropriate ...

but what was wrong with it \? it wo n't tempt anyone to any kind of sin , as
far as i can tell. it does n't belittle anyone. it does not substitute
offensiveness for humor (it 's genuinely funny).

we should n't assume that all jokes that mention sexuality are dirty
merely because so many are.

and we should never mistake prudery for spirituality. it can be the direct
opposite a symptom of the lack of a healthy perspective on god 's
creation.



michael a. covington internet mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
artificial intelligence programs phone 706 542 0358
the university of georgia fax 706 542 0349
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from shredder@telerama.pgh.pa.us (ed sayre)
subject orthodox list
organization telerama public access internet , pittsburgh , pa
lines 7

i recently had to move and forgot to update my address to the orthodox
mailing list. can anyone e mail me the address for changes and what
exactly i have to put in caps , etc \? (please send the original
subscription address also). thanks ahead of time ! ed.

ed shredder sayre internet shredder@telerama.pgh.pa.us
unemployment studies major

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject john 3 16 paraphrased
lines 25

at the end of a recent (mon 19 apr 1993) post , alastair thomson
offers the following paraphrase of john 3 16

god loved the world so much , that he gave us his son ,
to die in our place , so that we may have eternal life.

the to die in our place bothers me , since it inserts into the
verse a doctrine not found in the original. moreover , i suspect that
the poster intends to affirm , not merely substitution , but forensic
(or penal) substitution. i maintain that the scriptures in speaking
of the atonement teach a doctrine of substitution , but not one of
forensic substitution.

those interested in pursuing the matter are invited to send for my
essays on genesis , either 4 thru 7 (on this question) or 1 through 7
(with lead in). the n'th essay can be obtained by sending to
listserv@asuacad.bitnet or to listserv@asuvm.inre.asu.edu the
message
get gen0n ruff

yours ,
james kiefer

any theologian worth his salt can put anything he wants to say in
the form of a commentary on the book of genesis walter kaufman.

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary , the catechist)
subject re atheists and hell
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 54

we look for the resurrection of the dead , and the
life of the world to come. nicene constantinopolitan creed.

i always took the 'resurrection' in this statement to mean the
resurrection of the soul , but i guess resurrection does strictly mean
the raising of the physical body. i have some questions on this point

the next time you go to church , you can check the better creed , that is ,
the apostles' creed. it says the resurrection of the body. should
have learned that on the first go around. but what 's a body without
a little bit a 'soul \?

1. i always thought that christians believe the descent into hell was
pretty much immediate , and that there are people burning in hell right
now. where will my soul
(which , by the way , i do n't believe in) exist until that time \?

at the risk of offending everybody , i will interject the 13th century
point of view. christ descended immediately into the bosom of abraham
to set captives captive. he preached to the saved for three days before
drawing them with him back to this earth. i'm no expert on this part ,
but matthew (27 52 53) says about the death of jesus tombs were opened ,
and the bodies of many saints who had fallen asleep were raised. and
coming forth from the tombs after his resurrection , they entered the
holy city and appeared to many. (nab) regarding the hell of the
damned , of which you speak , christ did not see it (ps 16 10 , acts 2 27) ,
although it saw him (cf. is 45 2).

concerning the abodes of the dead , i do n't want to subject my brethren
to further anguish , so i will direct you to contact me through e mail
if you are genuinely concerned.

2. will the new body i will have be created out of the same atoms
that my body now is made of , or will it be built from scratch \?

your new body might be something like adam 's before his fateful encounter
with the just one (acts 7 52 , cr trans. vulgate) filled with infused
knowledge , absent of concupiscence , and immortal. it would probably be
a little glorified , too.

3. since i will have a physical body , i assume it will need a physical
place to exist in where is this hell \? in the center of the earth \?
do you think we could find it if we dig \?

i would n't recommend it. it 's really hot down at the center of the earth !
you know , the normal geothermal gradient , and all that.

regards.


boundary , the catechist

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , vulgata latina)

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization florida state university
lines 21

i find it interesting that cls never answered any of the questions posed.
then he goes on the make statements which make me shudder. he has
established a two tiered god. one set of rules for the jews (his people)
and another set for the saved gentiles (his people). why would god
discriminate \? does the jew who accepts jesus now have to live under the
gentile rules.

god has one set of rules for all his people. paul was never against the
law. in fact he says repeatedly that faith establishes rather that annuls
the law. paul 's point is germane to both jews and greeks. the law can
never be used as an instrument of salvation. and please do not combine
the ceremonial and moral laws in one.

in matt 5 14 19 christ plainly says what he came to do and you say he was
only saying that for the jews 's benefit. your christ must be a
politician , speaking from both sides of his mouth. as paul said , i have
not so learned christ. forget all the theology , just do what jesus says.
your excuses will not hold up in a court of law on earth , far less in
god 's judgement hall.

darius

from mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michael d. walker)
subject re deuterocanonicals , esp. sirach
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 26

wagner@grace.math.uh.edu (david wagner) writes

the deutero canonical books were added much later in the church 's
history. they do not have the same spiritual quality as the
rest of scripture. i do not believe the church that added these
books was guided by the spirit in so doing. and that is where
this sort of discussion ultimately ends.

david h. wagner
a confessional lutheran now thank we all our god


whoah whoah whoah whoah ! ! ! what \? ! \?

that last paragraph just about killed me. the deuterocanonicals have
always been accepted as inspired scripture by the catholic church ,
which has existed much longer than any protestant church out there.
it was martin luther who began hacking up the bible and deciding to
remove certain books not the fact that the catholic church decided
to add some much later that is the reason for the difference between
catholic and protestant bibles.

sorry for the tone but that comment really irked me.
mike walker
mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
(univ. of illinois)

from phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization monash university melbourne. australia.
lines 41

in article apr.13.00.08.47.1993.28427@athos.rutgers.edu , hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za (steve hayes) writes

say , for example , there are people living on a volcanic island , and a group
of geologists determine that a volcano is imminent. they warn the people on
the island that they are in danger , and should leave. a group of people on
the island is given the task of warning others of the danger.

they believe the danger is real , but others may not.

does that mean that the first group are necessarily arrogant in warning
others of the danger \? does it mean that they are saying that their beliefs
are correct , and all others are false \?

but what if the geologists are wrong and these people are warning of a
non existent danger \? analogies can only push an argument so far (on both
sides). both melinda 's and yours assume the premises used to set up your
respective analogies are true and thus the correct conclusion will arise.

the important point to note is the different directions both sides come from.
christians believe they know the truth and thus believe they have the right
(and duty) to tell the truth to all.

christians can get offended if others do not believe (what is self evidently
to them) the truth. non christians do not believe this is the truth and get
offended at them because they (christians) claim to know the truth.

(btw this argument goes for anyone , i am not just bagging christians)

neither side can be really reconciled unless one of the parties changes their
mind. as melinda pointed out , there is no point in arguing along these lines
because both approach from a different premise. a more useful line of
discussion is why people believe in particular faiths.

personally , i do n't mind what anyone believes as long as they allow me mine
and we can all live peacefully.

steve hayes , department of missiology editorial department


don lowe , department of physics , monash university ,
melbourne , victoria , australia , 3168.

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re hell
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 22

quoth the moderator

i have to say that i some qualms about giving you this explanation ,
because it raises additional problems if god is the source of all
existence , then a complete separation from him would make existence
itself impossible. so , does god maintain just enough connection with
those who are rejected to keep them in existence so he can punish
them \?

in a short poem ( god in his mercy made the fixed pains of hell ) ,
c. s. lewis expresses an idea that i'm sure was current among others ,
but i have n't be able to find its source

that even hell is an expression of mercy , because god limits the amount
of separation from him , and hence the amount of agony , that one can
achieve.


michael a. covington internet mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
artificial intelligence programs phone 706 542 0358
the university of georgia fax 706 542 0349
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject environmentalism and paganism
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 12

i would like to see christians devote a bit less effort to bashing
paganism and more to figuring out how to present the gospel to pagans.

christ is the answer the pagans have a lot of the right questions.
unlike materialists , who deny the need for any spirituality.



michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from 18669@bach.udel.edu (steven r hoskins)
subject some questions from a new christian
organization university of delaware
lines 40

hi ,

i am new to this newsgroup , and also fairly new to christianity. i was
raised as a unitarian and have spent the better part of my life as an
agnostic , but recently i have developed the firm conviction that the
christian message is correct and i have accepted jesus into my life. i am
happy , but i realize i am very ignorant about much of the bible and
quite possibly about what christians should hold as true. this i am trying
to rectify (by reading the bible of course) , but it would be helpful
to also read a good interpretation commentary on the bible or other
relevant aspects of the christian faith. one of my questions i would
like to ask is can anyone recommend a good reading list of theological
works intended for a lay person \?

i have another question i would like to ask. i am not yet affiliated
with any one congregation. aside from matters of taste , what criteria
should one use in choosing a church \? i do n't really know the difference
between the various protestant denominations.

thanks for reading my post.

sincerely ,

steve hoskins

aside from a commentary , you might also want to consider an
introduction. these are books intended for use in undergraduate bible
courses. they give historical background , discussion of literary
styles , etc. and generally they have good bibligraphies for further
reading. i typically recommend kee , froehlich and young 's nt
introduction. there are also some good one volume commentaries. they
often have background articles that are helpful. probably the best
recommendation these days would be harper 's bible commentary. (i
think there may be a couple of books with this title. this is a
fairly recent one , like about 1990 , done in cooperation with the
society for biblical criticism.) if you are committed to inerrancy ,
you will probably prefer something more conservative. i do n't read a
lot of conservative books , but a commentary i looked at by donald
guthrie looked rather good. he has a nt introduction , and he 's also
editor of eerdman 's bible commentary. clh

from daveshao@leland.stanford.edu (david shao)
subject divorce
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 72

i deleted much of the following article in order to discuss the
specific issue of whether it is acceptable to divorce.

in article may.7.01.10.03.1993.14583@athos.rutgers.edu crs@carson.u.washington.edu (cliff slaughterbeck) writes

along the way , she was married , happily , to a wonderful and
supportive husband and gave birth to two sons. still , everything was not
perfect for jane , since she could never open up the deepest part of her
soul to her husband. she always found that she could be much closer to
her women friends than to her husband , as good and loing as a husband as
he might be. she struggled very much with this until at the age of 38 , she
decided that she was a lesbian. when she came home to announce this
understanding of herself , her husband told her that he had come to the same
understanding several years before and was waiting for her to come to that
realization in her own time. her children ages 9 and 11 at the time were
also extremely supportive of her. as the youngest put it , that just
means that you love people very much. jane and her husband agreed to
divorce but remain friends and still consider each other as part of the
extended family to this day.

one of the interesting things that jane said in this whole discussion was
homosexuality is not about what goes on in the bedroom. she found that
she was much more able to have a deep , committed relationship with a woman
than a man. sex , in her mind , is only a part of the whole relationship.
the key thing is how one interconnects with other people. she made a
specific point to say that it was not that she had never met a good man ,
since she was married to a wonderful man for a dozen years. (take a few
seconds and honestly ponder that thought and it 's implications ! ! ! )

i have thought about the implications , and it is scary.

we have a whole generation of families broken up because some men have
decided that is is okay to leave their wives and children for the
thrill of a younger , more attractive woman. if we accept that it is
legitimate for jane to have divorced , how can we not accept anyone 's
decision to divorce because he has found someone with whom he can
have a more deep , committed relationship.

marriage is not a state of being , it is a mutual journey in life.
love is not a passive feeling , it must be actively willed.

is it acceptable for an older executive to dump his wife of many
years who stayed home to care for the children because he
ca n't be happy sexually unless he is with a beautiful
young blonde \? the real solution for both in the couple to
make a renewed effort.

hold fast to the faith. has not the lord repeatedly compared his
relation to his people as a faithful and enduring husband \? we
learn something very deep and very mystical when we marry and
remain faithful through times of trial.

my spouse has a brain tumor that has left her partially paralyzed.
if it were to resume growing (it is in remission , thanks be to god ! )
then perhaps the time would come when we could not have sexual
relations. that 's life...the lord would certainly not give me
permission to seek someone else to satisfy my needs.

the idea that it is alright to divorce if a couple grows apart
seems to me to lead to such a monstrous destruction of the meaning
of marriage that i feel we must make every effort to avoid any hint
of compromise. we have become so petty and small minded that
some husbands are threatening to divorce their wives unless the
wives lose weight !

i praise the lord for guiding me to marry my wife. she married me
anyway despite the possibility that i could have a terrible illness.
and it turned out that she was the one with the brain tumor , but
had i known i would n't have cared either. and maybe i 'll be in
a car accident tomorrow and become paralyzed from the neck down.
a married couple should deal with these situations with the help
of the lord , not divorce and run away from them.

from leonard@aix3090b.uky.edu (leonard lauria)
subject re prayer in jesus' name
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 34

munns@cae.wisc.edu (scott munns) writes

i am doing a dormitory bible discussion with my christian roommate and
2 of the non christian guys on my floor. they are very close to
accepting christ , so we have started to disciple them (treat them like
baby believers) and go into more indepth subjects than the parables , etc.
our first discussion was on prayer. eventually , we got around to how
we should pray in jesus' name. then , an excellent question came up , one
that i do n't have a real answer to. the question was , if we need to pray
in jesus' name , what about the people before jesus \? they prayed to god
and he listened then , in spite of their sins. why ca n't it be the same
way now \?

i 'll take a try at this...

from the discussions i have been in , and from how i have interpreted
the bible , i feel that one can pray either way. but remember this ,
before jesus , the people talked to god (no other way) and he talked
back. (audible and dreams , etc.) today we have the bible to know
gods will , and we have his son you died for us. he was given as our
savior , and while we still do things according to gods will , we pray
through his son. in the bible it says that if we are not known to
jesus , we are not known to god. (sorry i do not have the verses
with me) so , if we are to be granted eternal life , we must present
ourselves to jesus first , who will then present us to god.

leonard






this space intentionally left blank.

from rich0043@student.tc.umn.edu (timothy richardson)
subject re seeking christian opinion , all sorts.
organization pygmalion productions
lines 22

subject re seeking christian opinion , all sorts.
from rob steele , rsteele@adam.ll.mit.edu
date 5 may 93 06 52 54 gmt

do you mean that your fellow christians tend to find you wacky \? maybe
they 're right. you might be interested in franky schaeffer 's books
about what philistines american christians are addicted to
mediocrity and more recently sham pearls for real swine .

one day a few years ago franky schaeffer walked into a greek orthodox
church. he is now an orthodox christian. so is his mother and if his
father , fransis schaeffer , had not passed away he too would have come
into the church.
franky , like many americans who have recently found the orthodox church ,
described the experience as finally coming home after a long jouney
through a desert. you should also read the book becoming orthodox by
peter gillquist. it describes the long journey of some 2000 weary
evangelical protestants to the orthodox church. come taste and see how
good the lord is.

timothy richardson
rich0043@student.tc.umn.edu

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject national repentance
reply to jwaugh@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 29

concerning christians praying for coporate forgiveness of national sins ,
michael covington claims the following of c.s. lewis

c. s. lewis made the same point in an essay after world war ii ,
when some christian leaders in britain were urging national repentance
for the horrors (sins \? \? \? ) of world war ii.

michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi


i was surprised when i heard this same kind of remark from a fellow grad.
student i know , especially since he had seminary training. i have read the
same essay and do not find lewis making any such claim. rather , lewis is
condemning the use of such coporate prayer efforts as platforms to make
political jabs at opponents , feigned as confessions of guilt (ie. , lord please
forgive us for allowing insert political issue idea platform to exist in our
country , it is wrong and we ask your forgiveness.). i would be interested in
knowing what part of the essay you feel condemns national repentance (please
quote).

jonathan waugh
graduate research associate , pulmonary medicine div.
the ohio state university
samp , rm 431 , 1583 perry st.
columbus , oh 43210
jwaugh@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

from hedrick@cs.rutgers.edu
subject re doing the work of god \? \? ! ! )
lines 59

desiree bradley (desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca) asked us whether we
should think of the serbs as doing god 's work in bosnia. i 've
refrained from posting , in hope that someone who is more familiar with
the ot than i would answer. but at this point i feel i have to say
something.

many things about this posting bother me. i know of not the slightest
suggestion in the nt that christians should use force to propagate the
gospel , and the idea that we should not be concerned about the death
of moslems violates the heart of the gospel. christ died to break
down these distinctions. in him there is neither jew nor greek , there
is neither slave nor free , there is neither male nor female. if
moslems do not know him , we may preach to them , but we do n't kill
them. furthermore , the attack is between states , not religions.
there are christians being attacked as well. one of the towns under
attack is one of the few places where christians and moslems are
living together peacefully.

the precedents being suggested are from the ot. there are in fact two
different things being alluded to. the first is from the entry into
canaan. for that to be a parallel , we would need for god to have
promised this land through a prophet. and we would need the war to be
a holy war. there were tight constraints on behavior in those
attacks. any violations were likely to cause the israelites to be
defeated. rape would not have been tolerated. while the accounts in
joshua emphasize towns that were totally destroyed , note that it was
possible for a town to make peace with the israelites , and that once
that was done even when deception was involved they were
expected to honor it. in contrast , there have been many violations of
agreement in this incident. i see no evidence that god has granted
bosnia to the serbs as a promised land , and if he had , their behavior
would have disqualified this from being a holy war.

the other ot parallel is from later , when israel was defeated by
assyria and babylonia. the prophets saw this as a judgement on israel
for her sins. someone asks whether we should n't see this as a
judgement on the bosnians for their sins. this sounds like a replay
of the old claim that we should n't have doctors or hospitals because
illness is god 's judgement. yes , even bad things may be used by god
for good. that includes actions of bad people. but that does n't
justify them. if you read the prophets , you find them very clear that
in attacking israel , the assyrians and babylonians were acting as
unintentional agents of god. their intent was to attack god 's
people , and they would be judged for it. the fact that they were
actually carrying out god 's plan did n't excuse their action.
furthermore , we should n't conclude from this that all attacks are
judgements from god. god explicitly interpreted that case , through
his prophets. as far as i know , he did not send any prophets to
bosnia. while i find it hard to see any good in the current fighting ,
i am sure god will eventually make good come out of bad. but that
does n't justify it , and it wo n't save the people who are doing it from
judgement.

i am particularly concerned about the implications of this issue
because of current tensions between the west and moslem oriented
nations. what we do not need is for moslems to conclude that
christians think it 's ok to kill moslems. the implications for the
mid east , and even relations with american moslems , could be quite
serious.

from jjmarvin@pucc.princeton.edu
subject re losing your temper is not a christian trait
organization princeton university
lines 25

in article apr.15.00.58.22.1993.28891@athos.rutgers.edu
ruthless@panix.com (ruth ditucci) writes

one of the tell tale signs fruits that give non christians away is
when their net replies are acrid , angry and sarcastic.

we in the net village do have a laugh or two when professed , born again
christians verbally attack people who might otherwise have been won to
christianity and had originally joined the discussions because they were
spiritually hungry. instead of answering questions with sweetness and
sincerity , these chrisitan net warriors , flame the queries.

although i certainly agree with the basic sentiment that snideness is
unloving and ineffective , i'm a little disturbed by the formulation that
ill temper is not a christian trait. it seems like a false argument to
say that anyone who displays trait x must not be a christian. could
well be a sinning christian , but a christian nonetheless.
anger is human , and christians are
human christians get angry and defensive and react badly just like
everyone else. it 's not perfect righteousness but the effort of seeking
righteousness that marks a dedicated christian. and one of the greatest
gifts of faith to me is that of seeking and accepting forgiveness for
my failures. expecting flawless behavior from self or others is n't
christianity it 's perfectionism.


from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 14

the two historic facts that i think the most important are these

(1) if jesus did n't rise from the dead , then he must have done something
else equally impressive , in order to create the observed amount of impact.

(2) nobody ever displayed the dead body of jesus , even though both the
jewish and the roman authorities would have gained a lot by doing so
(it would have discredited the christians).


michael a. covington internet mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
artificial intelligence programs phone 706 542 0358
the university of georgia fax 706 542 0349
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin)
subject re the arrogance of christians
lines 44

(dean and i write lots and lots about absolute truth and arrogance.)

vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes
i strongly suspect that we are reaching an impasse here , which is why i
deign from commenting much further.

i agree that we 'll probably never agree , and i'm starting to feel
frustrated , and i'm tired of having my conversations with my husband
dominated by this topic (just kidding , )).

i do have to say , though , that participating in this discussion has been
a good learning experience for me. my views on this topic have evolved
and clarified through this , and i suspect that we may not disagree as
much as we think.

i admit that i'm strongly prejudiced against evangelical christianity ,
and i may not always be rational in my reactions to it. i grew up
in ec , and went to an ec college. it was definitely the wrong place
for me , and i react strongly to any implication that ec or conservative
christianity has any sort of stronghold on true christianity. i shudder
when i remember the condescending attitude i had about other christians
who did n't adhere to the ec model.

i have come to see that my real objection to this whole notion of
absolute truth is the actions i have seen it lead to. i have had some
very bad experiences with evangelical christians claiming to know the
truth , and judging me or others based on their belief that they have
the answers. knowing the truth does n't seem to leave a whole lot of
room for others' opinions.

i can accept your belief in absolute truth as long as you do n't try to
use that belief to try to force others to comply with it , and you are
very careful that you do n't hurt others with it. love your neighbor
seems to go totally out the window when one knows the truth and believes
that everyone should be living by that truth. other people have
convictions about the truth every bit as strong and sincere as yours ,
based on careful searching , prayer , and their relationship with god.
do n't dismiss them because god did n't lead them to the same conclusions
as yours.

this is not directed personally at you , dean.

carol alvin
caralv@auto trol.com

from tcsteven@iaserv.b1.ingr.com (todd stevens)
subject rebuilding the temple (was re anybody out there \? )
organization ingr
lines 14

chuck petch writes

now it appears that nothing stands in the way of rebuilding and resuming
sacrifices , as the scriptures indicate will happen in the last days.
although the israeli government will give the permission to start , i think
it is the hand of god holding the project until he is ready to let it
happen. brothers and sisters , the time is at hand. our redemption is
drawing near. look up !

how is a scriptural levitical priesthood resumed \? are there any jews who
can legitimately prove their levite bloodline \?

todd stevens
tcsteven@iaserv.b1.ingr.com

from randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu (robert anderson)
subject when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization univ. texas houston allied health sci
lines 18

i would like to get your opinions on this when exactly does an engaged
couple become married in god 's eyes \? some say that if the two have
publically announced their plans to marry , have made their vows to god , and
are unswervingly committed to one another (i realize this is a subjective
qualifier) they are married joined in god 's sight.

suppose they are unable to get before the altar right at the current time
because of purely logistical reasons beyond their control. what do you
think about this \?

post or e mail me with general responses. if you need clarification as to
what i am asking , please e mail.

thanks and god bless !


robert m. anderson iii
randerso@acad1.sahs.uth.tmc.edu

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 9

in article apr.21.03.24.13.1993.1268@geneva.rutgers.edu , gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary) writes
anecedotal material which ultimately shows that...

but from my experience ,
the modern jew is not known for his proselytism.

a rabbi once told me that theres is a talmudic tradition that someone who
wanted to convert to judaism was to be turned away three times. if they
continue then they were accepted.

from oser@fermi.wustl.edu (scott oser)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization washington university astrophysics
lines 36

in article apr.10.05.33.59.1993.14428@athos.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
the two historic facts that i think the most important are these

(1) if jesus did n't rise from the dead , then he must have done something
else equally impressive , in order to create the observed amount of impact.

(2) nobody ever displayed the dead body of jesus , even though both the
jewish and the roman authorities would have gained a lot by doing so
(it would have discredited the christians).


michael a. covington internet mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
artificial intelligence programs phone 706 542 0358
the university of georgia fax 706 542 0349
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

and the two simplest refutations are these

(1) what impact \? the only record of impact comes from the new testament.
i have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate , and that
the recorded impact actually happened. i find it interesting that no other
contemporary source records an eclipse , an earthquake , a temple curtain
being torn , etc. the earliest written claim we have of jesus' resurrection
is from the pauline epistles , none of which were written sooner than 20 years
after the supposed event.

(2) it seems probable that no one displayed the body of jesus because no
one knew where it was. i personally believe that the most likely
explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples , or by graverobbers).
do n't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one
gospel , and seems like exactly the sort of thing early christians might make
up in order to counter the grave robbing charge. the new testament does
record that jews believed the body had been stolen. if there were really
guards , they could not have effectively made this claim , as they did.

scott o.

from saw8712@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (steve a. ward)
subject re mormon temples
organization boeing computer services
lines 25

mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server) writes

one thing i do n't understand is why being sacred should make the
temple rituals secret.

on of the attributes of being sacred in this case is that they
should not be spoken of in a common manner or trampled under
feet such as the lords name is today. the ceremonies are
performed in the temple because the temple has been set aside
as being as sacred holy uncommon place. we believe that the
ceremonies can only be interpreted correctly when they
are viewed with the right spirit which in this case is in the
temple. so from our point of view , when they are brought
out into the public , they are being trampled under feet ,
because of misinterpretations and mocking , and it is therefore
offensive to us.

please do not assume that because of my use of the words
'we' and 'our' that i'm an official spokesman for the lds
church. i am merely stating what i believe is the general
feeling among us. others feel free to disagree.


steve ward
saw8712@bcstec.ca.boeing.com

from jkellett@netcom.com (joe kellett)
subject re sex education
organization netcom
lines 45

in article apr.8.00.57.31.1993.28227@athos.rutgers.edu jviv@usmi01.midland.chevron.com (john viveiros) writes
it seems i spend a significant amount of my time correcting errors about
the reliability tests for condoms and abstinence. a few years ago i saw
that famous study that showed a 10 failure rate for condoms. the
same study showed a 20 failure rate for abstinence ! ! that is , adult
couples who relied on abstinence to prevent pregnancy got pregnant in
alarming numbers they did n't have the willpower to abstain. and we 're
thinking that this will work with high school kids \? ! \?

i am told that planned parenthood siecus style values free methods , that
teach contraceptive technology and advise kids how to make choices ,
actually increase pregnancy rates. i posted a long article on this a while
back and will be happy to email a copy to any who are interested. the
article included sources to contact for information on research verifying
these statements , and an outstanding source for info on acquiring
abstinence related curricula even in single copy quantities for home use.

the same research produced the results that abstinence related curricula
were found to decrease pregnancy rates in teens. i assume that it is
reasonable to assume that the aids rate will fluctuate with the pregnancy
rate.

the difference is not in contraceptive technology but in the values taught
to the children. the pp siecus curricula taught the kids that they have
legitimate choices , while the abstinence related curricula taught them that
they did not have legitimate choices other than abstinence. it is the
values system that is the strongest determinent of the behavior behavior of
these kids.

despite the better track record of abstinence related curricula , they are
suppressed in favor of curricula that produce an effect contrary to that
desired.

question for further discussion (as they say in the textbooks) why do n't
we teach safe drug use to kids , instead of drug abstinence \? is n't it
because we know that a class in how to use drugs safely if you choose to
use drugs would increase drug use \? why is n't drug abstinence education
barred from schools because it teaches religion \? are n't we abandoning
those children who will use drugs anyway , and need instruction in their safe
use \?



joe kellett
jkellett@netcom.com

from heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath)
subject nature of god (re environmentalism and paganism)
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 26

in article apr.12.03.42.49.1993.18778@athos.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
i would like to see christians devote a bit less effort to bashing
paganism and more to figuring out how to present the gospel to pagans.

christ is the answer the pagans have a lot of the right questions.
unlike materialists , who deny the need for any spirituality.



one of the things i find intersting about pagan beliefs is
their belief in a feminine deity as well as a masculine deity. being
brought up in a christian household , i often wondered if there was god
the father , where was the mother \? everyone i know who has a father
usually as a mother. it just seemed rather unbalanced to me.
fortunately , my own personal theology , which will probably not
fall into line with a lot others , recognized god as a being both
without gender and posessing qualities of both genders , as being both
a masculine and feminine force. it provides a sense of balance i find
sorely lacking in most theologies , a lack which i think is responsible
for a lot of the unbalanced ways in which we see the world and treat
each other.

terrance heath heath@athena.cs.uga.edu

your comfort is my silence ! ! ! ! ! act up ! fight back ! talk back !


from daniels@math.ufl.edu (tv 's big dealer)
subject re variants in the nt text (cont.)
organization whatever
lines 6


i wish to echo what d. andrew kille wrote. i know of no published form
in english of the d type recension of acts . of course , bezae is quite bizarre
in the gospels as well. only d type texts share bezae 's strange readings.
by the way , d stands for codex claromontanus elsewhere.
frank d

from jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu (james sledd)
subject serbian genocide work of god \?
organization social science computing
lines 13

are the serbs doing the work of god \? hmm...

i 've been wondering if anyone would ever ask the question ,

are the governments of the united states and europe not moving
to end the ethnic cleansing by the serbs because the targets are
muslims \?

can does god use those who are not following him to accomplish
tasks for him \? esp those tasks that are punative \?

james sledd
no cute sig.... but i'm working on it.

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject quality of catholic liturgy
organization kulikauskas home
lines 34

jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (john e murray) writes

i would like the opinion of netters on a subject that has been bothering my
wife and me lately liturgy , in particular , catholic liturgy. in the last fe
years it seems that there are more and more ad hoc events during mass. it 's
driving me crazy ! the most grace filled aspect of a liturgical tradition is
that what happens is something we all do together , because we all know how
do it. led by the priest , of course , which makes it a kind of dialogue we
present to god. but the best masses i 've been to were participatory prayers.

on the one hand there are advantages to having the liturgy stay the
same. john has described some of these. on the other hand , some people
seem to start tuning out `the same old words' and pay attention better
when things get changed around. i think innovative priests and liturgy
committees are trying to get our attention and make things more
meaningful for us. it drives me crazy too.

different people have differing preferences and needs in liturgy. my
local parish is innovative. i prefer to go to mass at the next parish
over. sometimes we do n't have the option of attending a mass in the
style which best suits us. john put a smiley on it but to just offer
it up probably is the solution.

a related issue , that it sounds like john does not have to deal with , is
that spouses may have different liturgical tastes. my husband does like
innovative litury. it is a challenge to meet both of our spiritual
needs without just going our separate ways. when you include the factor
of also trying to satisfy our children 's needs , things get pretty
complicated.

one thing to remember is that even the most uncongenial mass is still
mass.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization florida state university
lines 227

someone sent me this faq by e mail and i post my response here.

i'm not enforcing the inclusion limits on this faq because most
of our readers probably have n't seen it. clh

christ warns that anyone who breaks one of the least of these
commandments and teaches otheres to do the same will be called least in
the kingdom of heaven (matt. 5 19. this faq is so full of error that i
must respond to it. i hope that whoever maintains will remove from it the
partisan theology.

brothers and sisters ,

being new to the faith and examining the decalogue closely , i 've noticed the
fourth commandment is pretty specific about keeping the sabbath day. it
states the 7th day( saturday ) is the sabbath while most christian religions
keep( or atleast go to church ) on sunday. what 's up \?

this is a frequently asked question. every time it arises , it causes
months of debate. so let me see if i can answer you directly.
basically it 's because the law was given to moses as part of a
specific covenanent with the jews. most of us are n't jews , so we
are n't part of that covenant. there was an argument early in
christian history about whether the mosaic laws should apply to
gentiles who became christians. you can see the account of this
debate in acts 15. the main question there was circumcision , but
keeping the sabbath would be part of it as well. the apostles
concluded that we need not become jews in order to become christians ,
and therefore that rules such as circumcision did not apply to us.

1. the law was known to man before it was revealed on mount sinai. rom
4 15 notes that where no law is , there is no transgression. not only
did sin exist before sinai (eden) , but the sabbath was kept before it
was revealed on sinai (ex 16).

2. the problem with the first covenant was not the law , but the promise
which undergirded it. god wanted to perform his will in the lives of the
people , but in their ignorance after 400 years of slavery , they promised
what ever he says to do we will do. that is why the new covenant is
based on better promises (heb. 8 6). rather than do away with the law
god promised to put my laws in their minds and write them on their
hearts (heb. 8 10).

3. including the sabbath in the acts 15 is selective inclusion. the
sabbath was more important to the jews than circumcision. if any attempt
had been made to do away with the sabbath the reaction would have been
even more strident than is recorded in acts 15. do not confuse the weekly
sabbath of the decalogue with the ceremonial sabbaths which could occur at
any time of the week and were part of the law (ceremonial) which was
added because of transgression (of the moral law) (gal 3 19).

4. israel stands for god 's people of all time. that is why god grafted
the gentiles in. roma 9 4 says that the adoption , the glory , the
covenants , the giving of the law , the service of god and the promises
belong to israelites. in explanation paul makes it clear that being born
into israel is not enough for they are not all israel , which are of
israel v 6. then in gal 3 19 he says if ye be christ 's , then are ye
abraham 's seed , and heirs according to the promise. all christians are
abraham 's seed , jews , israelites. not physically , for that is not the
criterion , but spiritually. we are joint heirs with jesus based on the
promise god made to all his people the israelites.


while christians agree that the ot laws do not all apply to us ,
because some of them are part of a specific covenanent with the jews ,
we also expect to see some similarity between the things god expected
from the jews and the things he expects from us. after all , it 's the
same god. however there are several ways of dealing with this.

these days the most common approach is to separate the ot commandments
into moral and ceremonial . ceremonial commandments apply only to
the jews. they are part of the specific mosaic covenant. these are
thinsg like the kosher laws and circumcision. moral laws apply to
everyone. most of the 10 commands are part of the moral law , except
for the commandment about the sabbath. i believe most people who take
this approach would say that the specific requirement to worship on
the sabbath is part of the ceremonial law , but a general obligation to
worship regularly is part of the general moral law. thus christians
are free to choose the specific time we worship.

people would probably agree but they are wrong. how can the sabbath
commandment be ceremonial when it is part of a law which predates the
ceremonial laws \? you are not free to choose your time of worship. even
if you were why do you follow a day of worship which has its origins in pagan
sun worship. would you rather give up a day which god blessed ,
sanctified , and hallowed in exchange for one which all church leaders
agree has not biblical foundation (see sabbath admissions in
soc.religion.christian.bible study).

a more radical approach (which is generally connected with john calvin
and the reformed tradition) says that the law as a whole is no longer
binding. instead , we are entirely under grace , and our behavior
should be guided solely by love. portions of the ot law are still
useful as guidance. but they are not properly speaking legally
binding on us. in practice most people who take this position do not
believe it is safe to leave christians without moral guidannce. while
we may no longer be under law , as sinners , it 's not safe for us to go
into situations with no principles to guide us. we 're too good at
self justification for that to be safe. thus christians do have moral
guidance , from things like jesus' teachings , paul 's advice , etc.
these may not be precisely a law , but they serve much the same
function as , and have largely the same content as , the moral law in
the previous analysis. while calvin would deny that we have a fixed
legal responsibility to worship on any specific day , he would say that
given human weakness , the discipline of regular worship is important.

i do not care what calvin or any theologian says. my guide is what god
says. if being not under the law means we do not have to keep the law ,
why is it that the only section of the law we have trouble with is the
sabbath commandment , which is the only one god thought was important
enough to say remember \? if you study the word deeply you will note that
the message is that we are no longer under the condemnation of the law but
freed by the grace of god. if a cop pulls me over for speeding , then in
court i ask for mercy and the judge does not throw the book at me but gives me
grace , do i walk out of the court saying i can now go on speeding , for i
am now under grace \? being under grace i now drive within the speed
limit. paul adds to it in rom. 3 31 di we then make void the law through
faith \? god forbid yea , we establish the law. wherefore the law is
holy , and the commandment holy , and just , and good (rom. 7 12).

in both analyses , the specific day is not an issue. as a matter of
tradition , we worship on sunday as a memorial of christ 's
resurrection. there 's some debate about what acts shows about early
christian worship. the most common analysis is that is shows jewish
christians continuing to go to jewish services on the sabbath , but
that specifically christian service were not necessarily held then.
act 20 7 shows worship on the first day (sunday) , and i cor 16 2 also
implies gatherings on that day.

there are a few groups that continue to believe christians have to
worship on the sabbath (saturday). the best known are the seventh day
adventists and jehovah 's witnesses. they argue that act 20 7 is not a
regular worship service , but a special meeting to see paul off , and
that i cor 16 2 does n't explicitly say it 's a regular worship service.

do you prefer implication to fact \? a careful study of the acts 20 shows
that the meeting was on saturday night and that on sunday morning paul did
not go to a worship service , but set off on a long journey by foot to
assos. in icor 16 there is no way you can equate lay by him in store
with go to a worship service.

it 's clear that this issue was a contested one in paul 's time. see
rom 14 5. paul 's advice is that we should be very careful about
judging each other on issues like this. one person sees a specific
day as mandated by god , while another does not. he who observes that
specific day does it in honor of the lord. he who believes his
worship is free of such restrictions also does it in honor of the
lord. (those who believe that the sabbath is still mandated argue
that paul is not referring to sabbath worship here. note however col
2 16 , which says something similar but briefer. it explicitly
mentions sabbath.)

wrong. these are the sabbath days of the ceremonial law , not the sabbath
day of the moral law.

there are some differences among christians about use of the word
sabbath . originally the term referred to the 7th day , the jewish
day of worship. many christians now use it to refer to sunday , the
day of christian worship. they do this largely so that they can apply
the 4th (or whatever there are a couple of different numbering
schemes) commandment to it. reformed tradition does not do this. it
distinguishes between the sabbath which is the observance mandated
for jews , and the lord 's day which is the free christian worship.
(the only reference i can find to this in the nt is rev 1 10.) there
are also differences about laws regarding this day. many christians
support blue laws , both in secular law and church law , setting aside
that day and causing people to spend it in worship. the more radical
anti legal approach sees such regulations as a return to the jewish
sabbath , which is not appropriate to the free christian worship of the
lord 's day.

why would you prefer to twist and turn , relying on different arguments
which conflict with each other , rather than obey a simple request from a
god who loved you enough to die for you. jesus died because the law could
not be changed. why bother to die in order to meet the demands of a
broken law if all you need to do is change the law. penalties for law
breaking means the law is immutable. that is why it is no sin not to
follow the demands of the ceremonial laws. it will always be a sin to
make false gods , to violate god 's name , to break the sabbath , to steal , to
kill , etc. except it you disagree. but then your opinion has no weight
when placed next to the word of god.

darius

it 's not clear how much more needs to be said other than the faq. i
think paul 's comments on esteeming one day over another (rom 14) is
probably all that needs to be said. i accept that darius is doing
what he does in honor of the lord. i just wish he might equally
accept that those who esteem all days alike are similarly doing
their best to honor the lord.

however i 'd like to be clear that i do not think there 's unambiguous
proof that regular christian worship was on the first day. as i
indicated , there are responses on both of the passages cited.

the difficulty with both of these passages is that they are actually
about something else. they both look like they are talking about
nnregular christian meetings , but neither explicitly says and they
gathered every sunday for worship . we get various pieces of
information , but nothing aimed at answering this question.

act 2 26 describes christians as participating both in jewish temple
worship and in christian communion services in homes. obviously the
temple worship is on the sabbath. acts 13 44 is an example of
christians participating in them. unfortunately it does n't tell us
what day christians met in their houses. acts 20 7 , despite darius'
confusion , is described by acts as occuring on sunday. (i see no
reason to impose modern definitions of when days start , when the
biblical text is clear about what was meant.) the wording implies to
me that this was a normal meeting. it does n't say they gathered to
see paul off , but that when they were gathered for breaking bread ,
paul talked about his upcoming travel. but that 's just not explicit
enough to be really convincing. similarly with 1 cor 16 2. it says
that on the first day they should set aside money for paul 's
collection. now if you want to believe that they gathered specially
to do this , or that they did it in their homes , i ca n't disprove it ,
but the obvious time for a congregation to take an offering would be
when they normally gather for worship , and if they were expected to do
it in their homes there would be no reason to mention a specific day.
so i think the most obvious reading of this is that on the first day
of every week simply means every time they gather for worship.

i think the reason we have only implications and not clear statements
is that the nt authors assumed that their readers knew when christian
worship was.

clh

from nigel.allen@canrem.com (nigel allen)
subject library of congress to host dead sea scroll symposium april 21 22
lines 96


library of congress to host dead sea scroll symposium april 21 22
to national and assignment desks , daybook editor
contact john sullivan , 202 707 9216 , or lucy suddreth , 202 707 9191
both of the library of congress

washington , april 19 a symposium on the dead sea
scrolls will be held at the library of congress on wednesday ,
april 21 , and thursday , april 22. the two day program , cosponsored
by the library and baltimore hebrew university , with additional
support from the project judaica foundation , will be held in the
library 's mumford room , sixth floor , madison building.
seating is limited , and admission to any session of the symposium
must be requested in writing (see note a).
the symposium will be held one week before the public opening of a
major exhibition , scrolls from the dead sea the ancient library of
qumran and modern scholarship , that opens at the library of congress
on april 29. on view will be fragmentary scrolls and archaeological
artifacts excavated at qumran , on loan from the israel antiquities
authority. approximately 50 items from library of congress special
collections will augment these materials. the exhibition , on view in
the madison gallery , through aug. 1 , is made possible by a generous
gift from the project judaica foundation of washington , d.c.
the dead sea scrolls have been the focus of public and scholarly
interest since 1947 , when they were discovered in the desert 13 miles
east of jerusalem. the symposium will explore the origin and meaning
of the scrolls and current scholarship. scholars from diverse
academic backgrounds and religious affiliations , will offer their
disparate views , ensuring a lively discussion.
the symposium schedule includes opening remarks on april 21 , at
2 p.m. , by librarian of congress james h. billington , and by
dr. norma furst , president , baltimore hebrew university. co chairing
the symposium are joseph baumgarten , professor of rabbinic literature
and institutions , baltimore hebrew university and michael grunberger ,
head , hebraic section , library of congress.
geza vermes , professor emeritus of jewish studies , oxford
university , will give the keynote address on the current state of
scroll research , focusing on where we stand today. on the second
day , the closing address will be given by shmaryahu talmon , who will
propose a research agenda , picking up the theme of how the qumran
studies might proceed.
on wednesday , april 21 , other speakers will include

eugene ulrich , professor of hebrew scriptures , university of
notre dame and chief editor , biblical scrolls from qumran , on the
bible at qumran
michael stone , national endowment for the humanities
distinguished visiting professor of religious studies , university of
richmond , on the dead sea scrolls and the pseudepigrapha.
from 5 p.m. to 6 30 p.m. a special preview of the exhibition
will be given to symposium participants and guests.

on thursday , april 22 , beginning at 9 a.m. , speakers will include

magen broshi , curator , shrine of the book , israel museum ,
jerusalem , on qumran the archaeological evidence
p. kyle mccarter , albright professor of biblical and ancient
near eastern studies , the johns hopkins university , on the copper
scroll
lawrence h. schiffman , professor of hebrew and judaic studies ,
new york university , on the dead sea scrolls and the history of
judaism and
james vanderkam , professor of theology , university of notre
dame , on messianism in the scrolls and in early christianity.

the thursday afternoon sessions , at 1 30 p.m. , include

devorah dimant , associate professor of bible and ancient jewish
thought , university of haifa , on qumran manuscripts library of a
jewish community
norman golb , rosenberger professor of jewish history and
civilization , oriental institute , university of chicago , on the
current status of the jerusalem origin of the scrolls
shmaryahu talmon , j.l. magnas professor emeritus of biblical
studies , hebrew university , jerusalem , on the essential 'commune of
the renewed covenant' how should qumran studies proceed \? will close
the symposium.

there will be ample time for question and answer periods at the
end of each session.

also on wednesday , april 21 , at 11 a.m.
the library of congress and the israel antiquities authority
will hold a lecture by esther boyd alkalay , consulting conservator ,
israel antiquities authority , on preserving the dead sea scrolls
in the mumford room , lm 649 , james madison memorial building , the
library of congress , 101 independence ave. , s.e. , washington , d.c.

note a for more information about admission to the symposium ,
please contact , in writing , dr. michael grunberger , head , hebraic
section , african and middle eastern division , library of congress ,
washington , d.c. 20540.
30

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

from kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
subject re certainty and arrogance
lines 112

my last article included this quote

if any substantial number of talk.religion.misc readers read some
wittgenstein , 60 of the postings would disappear. (if they understood
some wittgenstein , 98 would disappear. )) michael l siemon

someone called `boundary' wrote

this quote seems a little arrogant , do n't you think \?

there is a convention called a `smiley' , which looks like this ) .
it is supposed to look like a sideways smiley face , and indicates that the
preceding comment is supposed to be funny.


and , i 'll note that i have participated on talk.religion.misc for over
five years i 'd say mr siemon was not too far off. 8 )



in the meat of his reply , mr boundary serves up an excellent example of what
i meant by there is no way out of the loop . i wrote that human brains are
infested with sin , and can be trusted only in limited circumstances.

in reply , mr boundary wrote

i would beg to differ with you here. the properly formed conscience
can be trusted virtually all the time.

which just moves the problem back one level how do you tell if your
conscience is properly formed \?

the only way to tell is to presuppose that you are capable of judging the
formed ness of your own conscience. in other words , you can only be sure
that your conscience is `properly formed' if you assume that your evaluation
can be trusted. assuming your conclusions saves you a lot of time , i 'll
grant , but it 's not a valid way of reasoning.

unless you are infallible , your judgements about your own thinking cannot be
certain. therefore , it is not possible to be certain your conscience is
`properly formed'. (whatever that is supposed to mean.)


mr boundary then gives another paradigm example of the problem

now you have hit on the purpose of the church. it is by necessity the
infallible interpreter of divine revelation. without the church ,
christianity would be nothing more than a bunch of little divisive sects.

the church is `by necessity' the infallible interpreter of divine revelation \?
how do you know \? presumably , you believe this because of some argument or
another how do you know that the argument contains no mistakes \?

you write

therefore , although our minds are finite and susceptible to error , our
competence in arriving at inductive insights gives confidence in our
ability to distinguish what is true from what is not true , even in areas
not subject to the experimental method.

but there is a huge difference between `confidence in our ability to
distinguish what is true from what is not true' and `infallible'. i am
confident about a lot of things , but absolute certainty is a very long way
from `confident'.

this discussion is about the arrogance of claiming to be absolutely certain
(really , go check the subject line). saying you are absolutely certain is
significantly different than saying you are confident. when you say that
you are confident , that invites people to ask why.

except in very limited circumstances , when you say that you are absolutely
certain , it invites people to dismiss you as someone who does not have any
idea of his own fallibility.


i have yet to meet anyone who believed in a knowably infallible source of
truth who would admit the possibility of errors in his reasoning. all of
them every last one has claimed that he was himself infallible.
the result has been to convince me that they had no idea what was going on.


darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu

this particular discussion may not be entirely relevant to the
original criticism. i get the feeling that the original poster
regarded as arrogant the very idea that there are right and wrong
answers in religion , and that the difference can have eternal
consequences. when i say that i think there is a hell and that he is
at least in significant danger of ending up there , i will admit that
as you say the reasoning processes i used to reach this are
fallible. thus at least in principle i could be wrong. but these
basic facts are clearly enough taught in the bible that i think it 's
unlikely that i'm misinterpreting it. (in order to get this level of
confidence , i 've tried to frame my statement sufficiently carefully as
to sidestep a number of the more controversial issues. i have n't , for
example said that all non christians will definitely end up in hell ,
and i have n't attempted to describe hell in any detail.) i have a
feeling that my view is going to be regarded as arrogant and
intolerant even though i acknowledge that i'm fallible and so there 's
some chance i'm wrong.

do n't get me wrong i think there are a lot of genuinely arrogant
christians , and often criticism of us is justified. but in at least
some cases i think the criticisms constitute blaming the messenger.
if the universe is set up so that there are eternal consequences for
certain decisions , it 's not my fault i'm just telling it the way i
think it is. you may think god is immoral for setting things up that
way. it 's one of the critiques of christianity that i find it most
difficult to respond to. but it 's not arrogance for me to tell what
i think is the truth.

clh

from brownli@ohsu.edu@ohsu.edu (liane brown)
subject doctrine of god
organization oregon health sciences university
lines 111

this is being posted as a general outline for your personal study of this
doctrine


the doctrine of god


i. the persons of the godhead
of all of the doctrines of scripture , this is the most
important. the bible is pre eminently a revelation of god.
therefore , our first objective in studying the bible should
be to know god.
i believe that the bible teaches that there are three
persons in the godhead (trinity) god , the father god the
son the lord jesus christ and god , the holy spirit. i
believe that they are individual persons who are one in
nature , meaning that they are identical in nature , each
possessing the same divine attributes. they are also
equally worthy of our worship , our trust , and our obedience.
cf. matt.28 19 , 2 cor.13 14 john 14 8 , 9 , 16 , 17.

ii. the attributes , or characteristics , of the godhead.
a. god 's nature is revealed in the name he has taken for
himself jehovah. he is the living god , eternal , and
unchanging. he is without beginning , and without
ending. cf. isa.42 8.
b. god is a spirit. cf. john 4 24.
c. god is love. cf. 1 john 4 8 , 16.
as such , he is gracious , merciful , good , faithful ,
patient , and full of lovingkindness. cf. psa 89 1 , 2
psa 103 8 nahum 1 7.
d. but god is also holy and righteous. he is absolutely
without sin in his nature , and so is incapable of
sinning in though , word , or action. cf. ex. 15 11 isa.
6 3.
e. god is omnipresent (everywhere present at the same time
in the completeness of his person) , omniscient (all
knowing , knowing all things the end from the beginning ,
infinitely wise) , omnipotent (almighty , sovereign , with
unlimited power over all creation).
god is infinite in his presence , wisdom , and power. it
is my conviction that the work of the lord in our day
has become very man centered , and that the people in our
churches know very little about god. i believe that the
lord 's work needs to be god centered , and that the
people of god need to understand that god is sovereign
in all things in the affairs of nations , in the lives
of all people , and in the carrying out of his purposes
regarding salvation.

iii. the works of the godhead.
a. in creation
all three persons of the godhead were active in
creating , and all three are active in sustaining
creation , and in ordering the course of human affairs
(for nations as well as individual people) to the end
of time. cf. gen. 1 1 , 2 john 1 1 3 col. 1 16 17
heb. 1 3.
b. in salvation
in order to understand salvation i believe that it is
absolutely necessary to begin with god , not with man.
all three persons of the godhead have been , and are ,
active in salvation.
1. god , the father
salvation originated with god. the members of the
godhead determined in eternity past that there would
be salvation , the conditions under which people
could and would be saved , and even who would be
saved. election to salvation is recognized in
scripture as the work of god , the father. cf. eph
1 3 4 2 thess 2 13 14.
2. christ , the son of god
the lord jesus christ , through his birth by the
virgin mary , came to the earth to accomplish two
important works
a. he came as the final and complete revelation of
god , the father. cf. col 1 15 heb 1 1 3.
b. he came to provide salvation for all whom the
father had chosen. he did this by his death on
the cross , by his bodily resurrection , and by
his present intercessory work in heaven. the
work of salvation will be completed for us when
the lord returns. cf. rom 5 8 10 1 cor 15 3
4 heb 7 25 , 1 john 3 2.
3. the holy spirit
as the author of scripture , the theme of which is
christ and his redemptive work , the holy spirit is
carrying out the redemptive plan of god in the
following ways
a. he convicts of sin. cf. john 16 7 11
b. he regenerates (known in the bible as the new
birth). cf. john 3 5 8.
c. he indwells each believer to fulfill the work
of sanctification. cf. john 14 16 17.
d. he seals every believer in christ , thus making
salvation secure. cf. eph 1 13 14.
e. he baptizes every believer into the body of
christ. cf. cor. 12 13
f. he teaches every believer the truth of
scripture. cf. john 14 26.
g. he bestows spiritual gifts on the people of
god for ministry. (cf. 1 cor 12
h. he restrains sin. cf gal 5 16 26.
i. he empowers for living and for service.
cf. acts 1 8



liane brown
(internet) brownli@ohsu.edu
portland oregon

from ss6349@csc.albany.edu (steven h. schimmrich)
subject looking for christians in urbana , illinois...
distribution usa
organization department of geological sciences , suny at albany
lines 12


i apologize if this post is n't entirely appropriate for the newsgroup.

i would like to correspond with any christians attending the university
of illinois at urbana champaign. i will be transfering there in august to
complete my ph.d. and i thought it would be nice to correspond with people
before i moved out.


steven h. schimmrich department of geological sciences non semper
ss6349@csc.albany.edu state university of new york at albany ea sunt quae
ss6349@albnyvms.bitnet albany , new york 12222 (518) 442 4466 videntur.

from vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization case western reserve univ. cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 72

in article apr.13.00.08.35.1993.28412@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes
in article apr.10.05.32.29.1993.14388@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
...

are all truths also absolutes \?
is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes) \?

if the answer to either of these questions is no , then perhaps you can
explain to me how you determine which parts of scripture are truths , and
which truths are absolutes.

the answer to both questions is yes.

perhaps we have different definitions of absolute then. to me ,
an absolute is something that is constant across time , culture ,
situations , etc. true in every instance possible. do you agree
with this definition \? i think you do

similarly , all truth is absolute. indeed , a non absolute truth is a
contradiction in terms. when is something absolute \? when it is always
true. obviously , if a truth is not always true then we have a
contradiction in terms.

yes , i do agree with your definition. my use of the term always is
rather deceptive , i admit.

a simple example

in the new testament (sorry i do n't have a bible at work , and ca n't
provide a reference) , women are instructed to be silent and cover
their heads in church. now , this is scripture. by your definition ,
this is truth and therefore absolute.

hold it. i said that all of scripture is true. however , discerning
exactly what jesus , paul and company were trying to say is not always so
easy. i do n't believe that paul was trying to say that all women should
behave that way. rather , he was trying to say that under the circumstances
at the time , the women he was speaking to would best avoid volubility and
cover their heads. this has to do with maintaining a proper witness toward
others. remember that any number of relativistic statements can be derived
from absolutes. for instance , it is absolutely right for christians to
strive for peace. however , this does not rule out trying to maintain world
peace by resorting to violence on occasion. (yes , my opinion.)

evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture
to be absolute truth. (and there are plenty of other examples.)
can you reconcile this \?

sure. the bible preaches absolute truths. however , exactly what those
truths are is sometimes a matter of confusion. as i said , the bible does
preach absolute truths. sometimes those fundamental principles are crystal
clear (at least to evangelicals). sometimes they are not so clear to
everyone (e.g. should baptism be by full immersion or not , etc). that is
largely because sometimes , it is not explicitly spelled out whether the writers
are speaking to a particular culture or to christianity as a whole. this is
where scholarship and the study of biblical contexts comes in.

it 's very difficult to see how you can claim something which is based
on your own interpretation is absolute.

god revealed his truths to the world , through his word. it is utterly
unavoidable , however , that some people whill come up with alternate
interpretations. practically anything can be misinterpreted , especially
when it comes to matters of right and wrong. care to deny that \?



virgilio dean velasco jr , department of electrical eng'g and applied physics
cwru graduate student , roboticist in training and q wannabee
bullwinkle , that man 's intimidating a referee ! my boss is a
not very well. he does n't look like one at all ! jewish carpenter.

from eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com (geno )
subject re christianity and repeated lives
reply to eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 13


...there is nothing in christianity that precludes the idea of
repeated lives on earth.

there is a paragraph in the new testament which in my opinion , clearly makes
a positive inference to reincarnation. i do n't remember which one it is off of
the top of my head , but it basically goes like this jesus is talking with the
apostles and they ask him why the pharisees say that before the messiah can come ,
elijah must first come. jesus replies that elijah has come , but they did not
recognize him. it then says that the apostles perceived that he was refering to
john the baptist. this seems to me to clearly imply reincarnation. can anyone
offer a reasonable alternative interpretation \? i would be very interested to
hear it.

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re salvation by deeds
organization indiana university
lines 3

another guess to your salvation riddle would be saved .

joe fisher

from cmgrawbu@eos.ncsu.edu (christopher m grawburg)
subject helphlphelphelp
reply to cmgrawbu@eos.ncsu.edu (christopher m grawburg)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 149


this is somewhat long , but pleas read it ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !




boy am i glad you decided to read this. i 've got a problem that
i need as many people 's help from as possible.

before i go in to the details of this , let me go ahead and tell
you that (though it may sound it) this is not one of those boy
meets girl problem...at least not totally like that to me....anyway...

ok , i am a 19 year old sophmore at ncsu. about 10 years ago , my family
and i were vacationing at the coast in a cottage we rented. across the
street , was ths girl who would whistle at me whenever she saw me...
her name in erin. well , we became friends that week at the beach and have
been writing each other for about 10 years....there was a period of about
2 years we lost contact..but that was a while ago.

by the way...erin lives in kansas and me in nc.

ok , last year in one of her letters , she says that she is coming
back to nc to see some of her family who are gonna be there. so i
drove about 4 hours to see her. this is where it begins....i spent
the whole day with erin....one of the best days of my life. even though
we had been writing each other , we still had to get used to being
in person....she has got to be the most incredible woman i ever met.
(she 's one year older than me btw). i mean , no person in the world could
ask for a better person. not only was she incredibly beautiful (not to
mention way out of my league...although i'm not unattractive mind you) , but
she had a great personality and a great sence of humor. her family
is one of those families who goes to church but that is about the
extent of their christianity...you know the kind of people. but she
knows i am a christian.

well , you get the idea of what i think of her. if there is ever such
a thing as love at first sight....i found it. that was last year...i kid
you not when i say that i have thought about her every day since then.

in out letters , erin and i always kid each other about not finding
dates..(which is true for me , but i know it ca n't be for her).
she has had some problems at home , her folks split up and she ended
up leaving school....now we are at the present...

let me give you part of the letter i got from her last week....


okay , now i'm going to try to explain my life to you. i'm not
going to ku anymore because something just is n't right. college
just was n't clicking with me here. greek life is really big here and
that just is n't my way. i was n't taking any classes that truly interested
me i really have no idea of what i want to do with my life. i was
interested in something medical (physical therpy) i love working with
kids , but 'it' just did n't work for me at this university. and my parents
could tell.

so i'm working full time at the bass store bass shoes that is and now
i have a part time job at a local daycare. i work in the infant room
m w f. i 've really enjoyed it so far. it spices up my week a little bit and
it 's great experience.

as of now , i'm not planning on going back to school in the very
near future. the main reason being my indecision on what i want to
study. but i definatley plan on going back within the next couple of
years. where \? i have no idea except for one thing , it wo n't be
to kansas.

right noew i'm discussing a promotion with my boss and district
manager. it looks like i 'll train at the store i work at now for
about 4 6 months as assistant manager and when that 's done , i 'll
basically be given a list of stores (newly or soon to be built) to
chose where i would like to manage. i 've pretty much decided on either
one of the carolinas (hopeully close to the beach) would n't it
be fun to actually see each other more than once every few years \? \?
what do you think abou that \? i would like to know your opinion.

this job would pretty much be temporary. but it is very good pay
and any thye of management experience would look good on an application
or resume. the company is solid and treats it employees very well. good
benefits , bonuses medical plans. plus after 1 year of full time
service , they will reimburse tuition. i do have school money waitng
for me , but this will help , especially since i will probably end up
paying out of state tuition wherever i go.

chris , i really would like to know what you think of my decision. i
respect your opinion. i 've been completely lost for what to do for
soooo long that when the opportunity came along it sounded really
good. i do like my job although i'm about 99.9 sure that i want
to do more with my life than reatil management..but it is something.
i do n't think earning about 20 , 000 a year for a 20 year old female
is too bad.

anyway , onto your career decisions. i 'll solve your problem right now ,
marry me...

you can do your pilot thing i like to be by myself sometimes ! seriously
(or not as seriously) do what will make you the happiest , worry about the
home life later.



ok , well i'm sure you see what has got me so uptight. what do you
think she meant about the marraige thing \? \?

i dream at night about marrying her , and then she mentions it in her
letter ! ! ! i do n't know what to think \? \?

since she wants to move to the carolina 's should i search out a
bass store near here and aske her to come to carolina \? \? \?

i always pick on those people who graduate from high school and
get married....but what does she mean \? \? \?

i 've had a lot of stress lately with exams and also the fact that
i do n't date beacause 1) no time 2) not that much 3) that
most college women are wrapped up in the social scene with the
greeks whic as a christian i ca n't support and here
she says she does n't like the greek thing either ! !

maybe i'm so stunned because there is actually a girl that i am
so attracted to paying some real attention to me.

i mean , what if she did move to nc...what would i do \? \? \? i'm
only 19 and she 20....i'm only a sophmore struggling through
classes..

i have prayed about this over the past year from time to time..
saying , god if she is the right one , let the situation open up..

could this be my sign \? \? \?

i would do anything to get her to nc...here is some moree that makes
it worse..

should i call her \? \? i'm terrible over the phone. i do n't even like
to talk to my friends here for longer than 3 minutes.

i mean , what would a girl as perfect as her want with a very
average guy like me \? \?

i'm really confused....i would really appreciate any help i can get.

thanx

chris

i have a feeling that it might be more appropriate to talk with
chris directly via email. clh

from dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double standard \?
organization florida state university
lines 63

seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson) writes
since the day upon which most christians celebrate the resurrection of jesus
is approaching , i thought i would comment on this

in article mar.29.03.23.31.1993.19711@athos.rutgers.edu dsegard@nyx.cs.du.edu (daniel segard) writes

what is the objection to celebration of easter \? it is celebration of the
resurrection of jesus. i do n't recall a command in scripture for us to
celebrate the resurrection , but it is the sole and only reason that we
are christians how could we not celebrate it \? if it is only the name

not quite correct. biblical teaching expects us to celebrate the
resurrection of christ not once a year but every time someone is baptized.
col. 2 12 buried with him in baptism , wherein also ye are risen with him
through the faith of the operation of god , who hath raised him from the
dead. rom. 6 4 therefore we are buried with him in baptism into death
that like as christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the
father , even so we also should walk in newness of life.
those really want to celebrate the resurrection should by faith walk in
newness of life after baptism. it is not necessary to celebrate a pagan
goddess in the process.

so , as we see from scripture , those who are of israel will observe
the 7th day forever . the gentiles who believe in the messiah of israel
are welcome to observe the 7th day as well , but it is not required of them
since the are adopted into the commonwealth of israel. the gentiles who
are grafted into the commonwealth of israel are only required to observe
the basic commands given to those who came before abram (see also acts
15). no further requirements are placed upon them once they come to faith
in messiah.

so from this i infer that there are different rules for christians of jewish
descent \? what happened to there is neither jew nor greek , slave nor free ,
male nor female , for all are one in christ jesus \? jewish christians messianics
may find certain forms of worship and certain disciplines meaningful because
of their cultural background , but i have a hard time understanding the
justification for applying rules or commandments to those who have been
justified by grace through faith in jesus christ.

paul answered your question in romans 9. in v. 4 he stated that the
adoption , the glory , the covenants , the giving of the law , the service of
god , and the promises were given to the israelites. it is a package deal.
he goes on to identify those who are true israelites. vs 6 8 makes it
plain that the true israelites are not those who are born that way but
those who accept the promise of god. paul continued to emphasize that he
was an israelite in 2 cor. 11 22 , then in gal 3 29 he says that all those
who belong to christ are abraham 's seed , and heirs to all the promises
given to the israelites. the promises come with the law. it is all or
nothing. why is it that you only want to discard one part of the law \?
certainly you would want your husband to be faithful to you. or do you
believe that adultery is no longer forbidden \? same law.

btw please give a reference for your statement that the gentiles are only
required to observe the basis commandmants. could you list those
please. acts 15 deals with circumcision and the law of moses which was
added because of transgression of god 's eternal law (gal 3 19 rom 4 15)


darius a. lecointe i got my ba when i was born again
department of educational research and my ma when i was made anew
florida state university now i'm getting my phd as i become
tel (904) 644 0706 a patient , humble , disciple.
e mail dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu

from brownli@ohsu.edu@ohsu.edu (liane brown)
subject christ , my advocate a poem
organization oregon health sciences university
lines 44


my advocate

i sinned. and straightway , posthaste , satan flew
before the presence of the most high god
and made a railing accusation there.
he said , this soul , this thing of clay and sod ,
has sinned. 'tis true that he has named thy name
but i demand his death , for thou hast said ,
'the soul that sinneth , it shall die.' shall not
thy sentence be fulfilled \? is justice dead \?
send now this wretched sinner to his doom !
what other thing can righteous ruler do \?
thus satan did accuse me day and night
and every word he spoke , o god , was true !

then quickly one rose up from god 's right hand ,
before whose glory angels veiled their eyes
he spoke , each jot and tittle of the law
must be fulfilled the guilty sinner dies !
but wait suppose his guilt were all transferred
to me and that i paid his penalty !
behold my hands , my side , my feet ! one day
i was made sin for him and died that he
might be presented , faultless , at thy throne !
and satan flew away. full well he knew
that he could not prevail against such love ,
for every word my dear lord spoke was true !


by martha snell nicholson


i heard this poem read last night and wanted to share it with other
subscribers of this newsgroup. it 's such a wonderful blessing to see how
secure our salvation is because the lord jesus paid for what he did not owe
because we had a debt which we were not capable to pay.

thanks and praise be to the savior , the lord jesus christ , who is seated at
the right hand of the majesty on high , making intercession for us.


liane brown
(internet) brownli@ohsu.edu

from rsteele@adam.ll.mit.edu (rob steele)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
reply to rob@ll.mit.edu
organization mit lincoln laboratory
lines 17

in article apr.10.05.32.36.1993.14391@athos.rutgers.edu
gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and
we die.

i agree we need sleep etc , but i disagree we are just animals.
that statement is a categorical negative it 's like saying there are
no polkadoted elephants. it may be true but one would have to be
omniscient to know for sure.


rob steele in coming to understand anything
mit lincoln laboratory we are rejecting the facts as they
244 wood st. , m 203 are for us in favour of the facts
lexington , ma 02173 as they are.
617 981 2575 c.s. lewis

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

he who overcomes will inherit all this , and i will be his god and he will
be my son.

revelation 21 7

from u9126619@athmail1.causeway.qub.ac.uk
subject could anyone answer this question \? \? \?
organization free university of berlin , germany
lines 41
cc u9126619@athmail1.causeway.qub.ac.uk


i 've heard it said that the accounts we have of christs life and
ministry in the gospels were actually written many years after the event.
(about 40 years or so). is this correct \? \? if so , why the big time delay \? \?
i know all scripture is inspired of god , so the time of writing is i suppose
un important , but i still ca n't help be curious !


ivan thomas barr

contact me at u9126619@athmail1.causeway.qub.ac.uk

the gospels are n't dated , so we can only guess. luke 's prolog is
about the only thing we have from the author describing his process.
the prolog sounds like luke is from the next generation , and had to do
some investigating. there are traditions passed down verbally that
say a few things about the composition of the gospels. there are
debates about how reliable these traditions are. they certainly do n't
have the status of scripture , yet scholars tend to take some of them
seriously. one suggests that mark was based on peter 's sermons , and
was written to preserve them when peter had died or way about to die.
one tradition about matthew suggests that a collection of jesus words
may have been made earlier than the current gospels.

in the ancient world , it was much more common to rely on verbal
transmission of information. i think many people would have preferred
to hear about jesus directly from someone who had known him , and maybe
even from someone who studied directly under such a person , rather
than from a book. thus i suspect that the gospels are largely from a
period when these people were beginning to die. scholars generally do
think there was some written material earlier , which was probably used
as sources for the existing gospels.

establishing the dates is a complex and technical business. i have to
confess that i'm not sure how much reliance i 'd put on the methods
used. but it 's common to think that mark was written first , around 64
ad. , and that all of the gospels were written by the end of the
century. a few people vary this by a decade or so one way or the
other.

clh

from xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
subject witness proof of christ's resurrection
reply to xx155@yfn.ysu.edu (family magazine sysops)
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 143


immmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
t h e w i t n e s s p r o o f o f

j e s u s c h r i s t ' s r e s u r r e c t i o n

f r o m t h e d e a d
hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

the witness of the lord jesus christ

mark 8 31 and he began to teach them that the son of man must suffer
many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests
and the scribes , and be killed , and after three days rise again.

mark 9 31 for he was teaching his disciples and telling them , the son
of man is to be delivered into the hands of men , and they will
kill him and when he has been killed , he will rise three days
later.

mark 10 34 and they will mock him and spit upon him , and scourge him ,
and kill him , and three days later he will rise again.

mark 12 26 but regarding the fact that the dead rise again , have you
not read in the book of moses , in the passage about the burning
bush , how god spoke to him , saying , 'i am the god of abraham , and
the god of isaac , and the god of jacob' \?

luke 18 33 and after they have scourged him , they will kill him and
the third day he will rise again.

luke 24 46 and he said to them , thus it is written , that the christ
should suffer and rise again from the dead the third day

john 11 25 jesus said to her , i am the resurrection and the life he
who believes in me shall live even if he dies ,

john 20 9 for as yet they did not understand the scripture , that he
must rise again from the dead.

acts 17 3 ...explaining and giving evidence that the christ had to
suffer and rise again from the dead , and saying , this jesus whom
i am proclaiming to you is the christ.

the witness of the apostle paul 1 corinthians 15 1 26

1 now i make known to you , brethren , the gospel which i preached to
you , which also you received , in which also you stand ,

2 by which also you are saved , if you hold fast the word which i
preached to you , unless you believed in vain.

3 for i delivered to you as of first importance what i also received ,
that christ died for our sins according to the scriptures ,

4 and that he was buried , and that he was raised on the third day
according to the scriptures ,

5 and that he appeared to cephas , then to the twelve.

6 after that he appeared to more than five hundred brethren at one
time , most of whom remain until now , but some have fallen asleep

7 then he appeared to james , then to all the apostles

8 and last of all , as it were to one untimely born , he appeared to me
also.

9 for i am the least of the apostles , who am not fit to be called an
apostle , because i persecuted the church of god.

10 but by the grace of god i am what i am , and his grace toward me did
not prove vain but i labored even more than all of them , yet not i ,
but the grace of god with me.

11 whether then it was i or they , so we preach and so you believed.

12 now if christ is preached , that he has been raised from the dead ,
how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead \?

13 but if there is no resurrection of the dead , not even christ has
been raised

14 and if christ has not been raised , then our preaching is vain , your
faith also is vain.

15 moreover we are even found to be false witnesses of god , because we
witnessed against god that he raised christ , whom he did not raise ,
if in fact the dead are not raised.

16 for if the dead are not raised , not even christ has been raised

17 and if christ has not been raised , your faith is worthless you are
still in your sins.

18 then those also who have fallen asleep in christ have perished.

19 if we have hoped in christ in this life only , we are of all men most
to be pitied.

20 but now christ has been raised from the dead , the first fruits of
those who are asleep.

21 for since by a man came death , by a man also came the resurrection
of the dead.

22 for as in adam all die , so also in christ all shall be made alive.

23 but each in his own order christ the first fruits , after that those
who are christ 's at his coming ,

24 then comes the end , when he delivers up the kingdom to the god and
father , when he has abolished all rule and all authority and power.

25 for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.

26 the last enemy that will be abolished is death.


logical proofs of jesus christ's resurrection

1. jesus 's enemies would not have stolen his
body because that would have perpetrated the
resurrection the very opposite of what they
desired.

2. jesus' disciples could not have stolen his
body because pontius pilate established guards
to stand watch over the tomb lest his body be
stolen.

3. sadly (and ironically) , many of jesus' disciples
did not believe in the resurrection until jesus
had risen from the dead.

4. in nearly 20 centuries , no body has ever been
produced to refute jesus' assertion that he
would indeed rise from the dead.

5. the probability of being able to perpetrate such
a hoax successfully upon the entire world for
nearly 20 centuries is astronomically negative !


from todd@nickel.laurentian.ca
subject re homosexuality issues in christiani
organization laurentian university
lines 27

any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should

ck
out
romans 1 27
i corinthians 6 9
i timothy 1 10
jude 1 7
ii peter 2 6 9
gen. 19
lev 18 22
(to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality)
in christ 's love ,
bryan whitsell

i was waiting for this. i think your question should be rephrased. the many
verses of the bible which condem homosexuality (by our beliefs) have been
shoved down the throats of homosexuals for a long time by (well meaning \? )
christians. the question is how do they interpret these verses. any discussion
of any issue (this or any other issue) requires a proof of your case as well
as a disproof of the opposing view. we are already familiar with those verses
and many have proven to themselves that these condem homosexual behaviour. we
must now establish reasons for not believing this to be true based on the
interpretation of these scriptures given by someone who has come to grips with
them.

todd...

from whitsebd@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (bryan whitsell)
subject re accepting jesus in your heart...
reply to whitsebd@nextwork.rose hulman.edu
organization computer science department at rose hulman
lines 7

i have been told that i seem to be very smug in my post. i appoligize
if anyone felt this way. i did not at all desire to come across in
that way. i was trying to express that i did n't understand his logic
and that i wished him the best in his life.

in christ 's love ,
bryan whitsell

from halat@panther.bears (jim halat)
subject re prophetic warning to new york city
reply to halat@panther.bears (jim halat)
lines 8

i just started reading the group. i was wondering if someone
could re post exactly what the prophetic warning to nyc was.

thanks
jh

i suggest sending it to him via email with a cc to me. i 'll hold
it in my files in case someone else needs it. clh

from alastair@farli.otago.ac.nz (alastair thomson)
subject does 'just justifiable war' exist \?
organization university of otago
lines 107

hi there netters ,
i have a question i would very much like to see some discussion on
is there such a thing as a 'justifible' war \?

what i would love to see it some basis from scripture for either all war
is wrong , or some war is justifiable .

to get things started i would like to outline why i am asking the
question. in my high school days i had been quite involved in the the new
zealand cadet forces (this is a bit like rotc from what i understand of
it , but with a lot more emphasis on fun than military career training).
through this i became extremely enamoured of flying , have become involved
in the sport of gliding , and have a great interest in military aviation
hardware as the very best a 'real' flyer could ask for. my favourite
computer games are the accurate simulations of military aircraft , both
past and present.

i became a christian about 10 years ago , and at the time rejected all
military activity as immoral. for me , all war was in complete opposition
to god 's commandments to love one another , especially one 's enemies.

during the war in iraq , i found myself with great excitement listening to
the reports of the effectiveness of the the attacks using the aviation
technology i so admire the f117a 'stealh' bomber , the f14 , f15 and f16
strike aircraft , etc. after the war concluded i began to really enjoy
simulations based around this conflict great to go and bomb saddam 's
bio weapons plants in an f117a on my computer , or shoot down some of his
mig 's in an f16. the simulation of the death of people was a wonderful
game. i imagine the real pilots view the real thing in much the same way.
one only has to look at the language used to see that the personal impact
of war is ignored a building containing people , or an aircraft flown by a
pilot is simply a 'target'. dead civilians are 'collateral damage'. these
euphanisms are a way of removing the reality of war from the people whose
support are necessary for the continued waging of war one only has to
look at vietnam to see how important public opinion is.

now we see troops sponsored by the united nations entering somalia , and
the prospect of military intervention in the muslim croat serb conflict in
the former yugoslavia. my revulsion in particular to the siege of
sarajevo , and in the last few days of (sorry 'bout spelling) sebrenitsa ,
has caused me to rethink where i stand on 'justifiable' war.

i will list several wars in the last 50 years i can look at each , and say
yes this may have been justifible , this may not. these are simply my gut
reactions to each in many cases with the benefit of the impartiality
history brings. let me go through a few and state some of my reasons for
my reaction i am not a historian , so excuse any historical blunders , i
am working from popular history as it is known in new zealand.

1. the second world war
murder of jews hitler had to be stopped.
massive civilian casualties on both sides
dresden , hiroshima nagasaki
probably justifiable.

2. korean war
political expansionism by north korea , basically
communism vs. capitalism.
probably not justifiable.

3. vietnam
as above , worsened by us involvement.

4. vietnamese invasion of cambodia.
genocide by khmer rouge.
probably justifiable.

5. iraq (desert storm)
political expansionism , threat to world oil supply
other factors such as genocide.
not sure , but probably justifiable

6. a future involvement in bosnia
genocide so called 'ethnic cleansing'
emotive much tv coverage of atrocities and civilian casualties.
probably justifiable

7. possible future use of nuclear weapons tactical or strategic ,
somewhere in the world by the us in response to someone else e.g. libya
or israel.
my feelings in this are simple
nuclear war weapons are abhorrent
i love the new zealand government 's stand on banning all nuclear
armed or powered warships from nz port.
never justifiable.

these are my own views , i have looked at scripture , and i am confused. i
would appreciate others view , particularly those based on scripture. i
do n't want a naaahh , yer wrong i think answers 8 ).

thanks for your help.



alastair thomson , phone 64 3 479 8347
chief programmer , fax 64 3 479 8529
the black albatross porject ,
university of otago ,
department of computer science , e mail alastair@farli.otago.ac.nz
p.o. box 56 athomson@otago.ac.nz
dunedin nextmail welcome
new zealand

god loved the world so much , that he gave us his son , to die in
our place , so that we may have eternal life john 3 16 , paraphrase



from pmoloney@maths.tcd.ie (paul moloney)
subject re record burning...
organization somewhere in the twentieth century
lines 23

rgolder@hoh.mbl.edu (robert golder) writes

the movie version
of the last temptation of christ was so awful that practically no one
would have seen it , or been influenced by its message , had not
conservatives loudly protested its distribution. they unwittingly
created a larger market for the movie.

in many places , christians were sucessful in their attempts
to get the films banned , or at least given a very restrictive
showing.

i have no problem with christians burning their own pieces of
art (though i find it a tragic waste). i do however have a
problem with their attempts to censor what i may or may not
view.

p.

moorcockpratchettdenislearydelasoulu2iainmbanksneworderheathersbatmanpjorourke
clive p a u l m o l o n e y come , let us retract the foreskin of misconception
james trinity college dublin and apply the wire brush of enlightenment geoffm
brownbladerunnersugarcubeselectronicblaylockpowersspikeleekatebushhamcornpizza

from mandtbacka@finabo.abo.fi (mats andtbacka)
subject re if there were no hell
organization unorganized usenet postings uninc.
lines 26

in may.5.02.51.25.1993.28737@athos.rutgers.edu shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com writes

here 's a question that some friends and i were debating last night.
q if you knew beyond all doubt that hell did not exist and that
unbelievers simply remained dead , would you remain a christian \?

(reasoning pertinent to believing xians deleted for space)

it strikes me , for no apparent reason , that this is reversible.
i.e. , if i had proof that there existed a hell , in which i would be
eternally punished for not believing in life , would that make me a xian \?
(pardon my language) bloody hell no !

...of course , being merely a reversal of your thinking , this
does n't add anything new to the debate , but...

several friends disagreed , arguing the fear of hell was necessary
to motivate people to christianity. to me that fatally undercuts the
message that god is love.

a point very well taken , imnsho.


successful terrorism is called revolution , and is admired by history.
unsuccessful terrorism is just lowly , cowardly terrorism.
phil trodwell on alt.atheism

from sun075 ! gerry.palo@uunet.uu.net (gerry palo)
subject re athiests and hell
lines 110

in article apr.30.03.10.22.1993.10056@geneva.rutgers.edu rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov writes
in article apr.29.04.19.17.1993.9069@geneva.rutgers.edu
sun075 ! gerry.palo@uunet.uu.net (gerry palo) writes

note that in this , perhaps the oldest of the creeds , there is no mention
of the danger of hell for non believers. likewise there is no mention
of the salvation of the believers' soul and its destiny in heaven after
death. there is only the resurrection of the body (and it does not say
when or how).

you do n't go far enough back. if we believe in god and that he did create the
heavens and the earth and he did create adam and eve and that they walked in
the garden and history flowed from there , if we can agree with that , then would
you agree that the further back you go the closer you get to people who had a
stronger memory of who god was and what he said and commanded \?

between adam and eve and golgotha the whole process of the fall of man
occurred. this involved a gradual dimming of consciousness of the spiritual
world. this is discernable in the world outlooks of different peoples through
history. the greek , for example , could say , better a beggar in the land
of the living than a king in the land of the dead. (iliad , i think).

the question of what happens to human beings who died before christ is
an ever present one with christians. i am not ready to conscign adam
or abraham , or even cain to eternal damnation. yet they all died in their
sins , in the christian sense. the same can be said of the whole of gentile
humanity , and also of the unrepentant malefactor on the cross next to
him. i do not limit the power of christ to save even him , through whom
satan would mock his deed of salvation at the very moment of its fulfillment.

in my studies
of the ancient mystery reliegions , i have run across many poems or rituals or
what nots with the interpretation that those who are of god will be with him
via the promised seed but those who rebel will suffer eternal life in dieing.
it was a standard belief back then.

it is possible to experience eternity in a passing moment. the
relationship of eternity to duration is not simply one of indefinitely
extended conditions of greenwich mean time. it is possible to imagine
an eternity of agony or bliss or even many of them in the
spiritual world during the time between earthly death and a new birth.

it was also a standard belief among many peoples that even the righteous
were lost. this again is the result of the loss of the paradisal consciousness
that fled from us after the fall , with our ever increasing involvement with
the sense world.

it would be interesting to share in the results of your studies of ancient
people 's ideas of life after death.

today we think we know so much and that
if we could go back in time we could sure teach those people a thing or two.
but i think that as this age has grown older that it is we who opperate from a
mist , not those of the older ages.


mankind fell into mist and darkness , and at the turning point of
time a new light entered into the world. the light still grows , and
we are developing the eyes with which to see by it. much new
revelation and growth in under standing lies before us. our new
vision and understanding is still very feeble , but it contains
something new that will grow in time to embrace that which is old and
much more as well.

(at this point i should acknowledge openly my debt to the work of rudolf
steiner , founder of anthroposophy , for many insights that have led me to my
views on this subject).

i have said it before , i 'd love to post on this but the vulcan hammer would
fall. the history to purgatory can be shown from the druids in england to the
greeks who pilaged it from the egyptians who ultimately got it from the
babylonian mysteries. and yes , the eastern religions also show many
similarities. i mean , its black and white. the writings and the archeological
finds plainly show its origin and the whys and wherefores of this doctine.

the way you refer to it as doctrine puts a modern intellectual coloring
on it. i think it was much less abstract and much more real and spiritually
concrete , a teaching that struck much closer to home than our doctrines or
teachings today can be received.

i am not so ready to attribute widespread notions in antiquity to
simple dispersion from an original source. even if they were passed
on , the question is , to what extent did they reflect real perception
and experience \? the similarity in the midst of great variety of
expression of the different people 's ideas of the time immediately
after death testifies to the presence of an underlying reality. in
any case , we study geometry not by reading old manuscripts of euclid ,
but by contemplating the principles themselves.

on the other hand , there is one notion firmly embedded in christianity
that originated most definitely in a pagan source. the idea that the
human being consists essentially of soul only , and that the soul is
created at birth , was consciously adopted from aristotle , whose ideas
dominated christian thought for fifteen hundred years and still does
today. he was at once the father of modern thought and at the same
time lived during that darkened time when the perception of our
eternal spiritual being had grown dim.

maybe at sometime in the future

indeed. i should also clarify that i do not deny that eternal
irrevocable damnation is a real possibility. but the narrow range in
which we conceive of the decisive moment , i.e. after the end of a
single earthly life , is not in my mind sufficient to embrace the
reality , and i think that is why the early creeds were couched in
terms that did not try to spell it out.

rex

gerry (73237.2006@compuserve.com)

from parkin@eng.sun.com (michael parkin)
subject re being right about messiahs
reply to parkin@eng.sun.com
organization sun microsystems inc. , mountain view , ca
lines 71

in article 2262@geneva.rutgers.edu , desiree bradley@mindlink.bc.ca (desiree bradley) writes
i must have missed the postings about waco , david koresh , and the second
coming. how does one tell if a second coming is the real thing , unless the
person claiming to be it is obviously insane \?

first by his fruits. the messiah comes to build the kingdom of heaven
on the earth. he also comes to first reveal the root cause of
original sin (fallen nature) and then provide a means to cut the
connection to that original sin. he also wants to create world peace
based on godism. the messiah 's teachings will build on the foundation
of the bible but provide profound new insights into the nature of god ,
the fall of man , the purpose of creation , and god 's providence of
restoration. it will also provide a foundation for the unity of all
the world 's religions.

many christians expect jesus to come on literal clouds , so they may
miss him when he returns. just as the jewish people missed jesus 2000
years ago. they are still waiting for his first coming. the jewish
people of that age expected elijah to come first. jesus said that
john the baptist was elijah. but john the baptist denied that he was
elijah. (how did this reflect on jesus \? ) later in prison john even
questioned who jesus was is he the one who is to come or do we look
for another . (see book of matthew)


i'm not saying that david koresh is the second coming of christ. how could
somebody who breaks his word be the second coming \? koresh did promise that
he would come out of his compound if only he was allowed to give a radio
broadcast. he did n't. still it seems to me that he did fool some people.

david koresh did n't even come close. the problem is that people like
this make it difficult for people to believe and trust in the real
messiah when he does show up.


and , from my meagre knowledge of the bible , it seems that christians have
been hard on the jews of christ 's day for being cautious about accepting
somebody that their religious authorities did n't accept as the messiah.

so i was surprised that nobody had discussed the difficulty of wanting to be
early to recognize the second coming while , at the same time , not wanting to
be credulously believing just anybody who claims to be god.

very good point and perhaps the most important point of all for
christians how to recognize the second coming \?

the messiah should not claim to be god. what sets a messiah apart is
that he is born without original sin. he is not born perfect but
achieves perfection after a period of growth. adam and eve were born
sinless but they fell , and this tragedy meant that it would take god
thousands of years to create the kingdom of heaven on the earth as god
originally intended. god 's restoration providence is still not
complete. the messiah is the true son of god , one with god , god 's
representative on the earth , but not god himself. there is only one
god.

mark 13 21 and then if any one says to you , 'look , here is the christ ! '
or 'look , there he is ! ' do not believe it.
...
mark 13 26 and then they will see the son of man coming in clouds with
great power and glory.

my understanding of jesus' answer is that , unlike his first coming ,
which was veiled , the second coming will be quite unmistakeable.

by the way , from koresh 's public statement it 's not so clear to me
that he is claiming to be christ.

who else in this world is claiming to be the messiah. maybe he 's already here.

mike

from maridai@comm.mot.com (marida ignacio)
subject refusing divine peace and alive prayer \? (was re question about mary)
organization trunking fixed
lines 147

it 's like refusing 'god 's kingdom come'.

in one of jesus' revelation in this century , ...same thing as in
the old days. people refuse to believe my messengers. even when
i was alive here on earth , they refuse me. what more when i am just
talking through somebody else \? (paraphrased).

with all the knowledge believers accumulated , he would think that
we would be 'enlightened' enough to detect which ones are
'authentic and divine' as opposed to 'evil or man made'.

these signs , these miracles , are you afraid that they are not from god \?
that these are the signs we should not open our hearts and mind to for thinking
they are evil \?
well , is faith in god evil \?
is true peace evil \? is true love that is divine and pure evil \?
why ca n't someone accept that god can do what he wants in fulfillment of his
generous love and jesus' never ending forgiveness to those who turn back to
him for salvation \?
why are we refusing god 's messenger of this truth \? the mother to all who are
in christ \?
what brings us these
fears of being shamed by what others will think or say about us \?
which , in contrary , could be pleasing to god \?
fears of being humbled \?
fears of being judged as wrong (wrt mainstream standard of what is right) \?
why ca n't we tolerate non believers' mockery or ridicule of us for the
sake of peace , love and obedience to god \? the humbling lessons left to us
by martyrs and saints \?
we 'd rather engage in never ending bickering and disproof of each other 's
opinion looking at each other 's mistakes for the sake of arguments ,
instead of having communion in one body with christ.
what makes us go blind to the truth that god is all powerful and that he can
not be binded by what people wrote and have written about him in all ages \?
why is our faith in god limited \? by all the words and literature we muster \?
what prevents us from going beyond being saved and extend god 's rich love
to others who are not \?

why are our eyes not wide open to see that he continuously sees our faith , hope
and love which glorify him and so he gives us indications of his
acknowledgements with signs miracles (ordinary common or divinely inspired)
everywhere \? is n't that like an atheist agnostic 's view that all these
are just ordinary here on earth and not caused by anything supernatural \?

why then does the holy mother comes back to remind us
we must really accept that prayer changes the course of things and that
with prayers even wars can be prevented .
but then she continues
you often have an egotistic attitude. dear children , in these days you
have prayed very much , but your hands have remained empty .
why hesitate in proclaiming what needs to be done
prayer , conversion , peace , penance , fasting , the holy mass , living life
as what the gospel brings. \?
why not do so \? how \? to the world \?
to this , the mother says
start in your family. be a good example. live the word.
why worry if it is going to be of good use to many \?
our holy mother says
the fruits , leave them to the lord , do not worry about anything or
anyone but entrust yourself to the lord.

although the holy mother does not insist because
you are free i bow before the freedom which god gives you.
but she follows this with
you are surprised because i say to you decide for god and yet , see how
you have lived this day.
why does she constantly conveys
take this life toward god in the way as to experience the lord himself
in your behavior and not only when you pray or one time when we
decide that we are saved , or talk write about god , etc.
the holy mother warns
satan (the serpent) is always trying to dissuade you to turn you away from
my peace plan and prayer. (rev 12 17 , the dragon became angry with the woman
and went off to wage war against the rest of her offsprings , those who keep
god 's commandments , and bear witness to jesus.)

do you have fear or hate for god 's current messenger of true peace , love and
our motherly protector from the anti christ \?
the one who is being apprehensive of communism , wars , famine and other evils
that the serpent brings upon us \?
this obedient and blessed new eve \?
the mother who warns us so we can be prepared and be strong against satan \?
have n't there been renewed faith , hope , love , peace and obedience wherever
this messenger has shared her blessings and graces that god has given her
in good purpose \?
why do we choose to be blind \?
why fear the truth that god has been giving us a chance and sharing christ 's
ever forgetting forgiveness to us through the obedient mother \?
the mother who has been consecrated the task to reverse the disobedient
harm and example done by the ancient eve.
she has been preparing the new eden with her immaculate heart.
the new eden as sanctuary (the womb) for the next coming and judgement of the
righteous by our lord , jesus christ when the lamb marries his bride.
should n't we give her a hand in her exhaustive job of preparing us for the
second coming of her son as she has been conceived without sin to bear
the son of god in her womb \?
why fear true peace , love and renewed faith and obedience to god that mary
faithfully brings to god 's children \? she has been protecting the flock
(the rest of the offsprings) from the greedy dragon so as to present more
righteous members for her son 's coming.
not all apparitions and miracles that resulted from them are worthy
of belief. with prayer and guidance from the holy spirit and , of course ,
approval of our church authorities , we should be aware of the true and
divinely inspired ones specifically , the ones which aligns with the
scripture.


also , our lady reminds us of recommendation of silence in our prayers
if you speak unceasingly in your prayers , how will you be able to hear
god \? allow him room to answer you , to speak to you.

she encourages us (with motherly nurturing) to continue in exuberant
faith , hope and love to jesus , constantly. not with mere emotions ,
but with deep , constant obedience to jesus , her beloved son and
acknowledgement of our need to have him as part of our lives.

let 's not wait to the last minute to renew our faith and the life
that god wants us to live when there wo n't be enough time or when
it will be late.

nowadays , mary says ,
pray , pray , pray for peace...reconciliation , my children.
have peace within yourself first before you can promote peace to
others. for without peace , you can not fully accept my son.


and you think she 's just an ordinary lady. not to me. she 's
our good mother messenger from god and she is so nice enough to
share god 's kingdom to us through her son and experience it.

with mary , we are assured that the lamb always succeeds.


note all enclosed in quotes are from latest news of medjugorje
number 10 , june , 1991 by fr. rene' laurentin.



o , new mother of eden , most pure
preparing the sanctuary for true christians
cleansing us with peace for god 's kingdom come
bring us to your loving , protective and obedient church
that we may belong in one body to your son , jesus christ , our lord
and not go astray from his perfect completeness
pray that we ourselves pray with the holy spirit guiding us
so that we may help you in strength to conquer the enemies of your son
while you prepare us for him with your immaculate heart.

from ide ! twelker@uunet.uu.net (steve twelker)
subject esotericism
organization interactive development environmenmts , sf
lines 11

i'm compiling a bibliography on religious perspectives on esotericism ,
hermeticism , gnosticism , mysticism , occultism , alchemy and magic , and
am interested in sources that others have found particularly interesting
and insightful. i'm especially interested in medieval works , such as
the chemical wedding of christian rosenkreutz and arthurian legends.

please feel free , too , to send personal opinions on any of the above ,
pro or con or anywhere in between. thanks much.

stephen twelker
twelker@ide.com

from dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization hell
lines 35

in article apr.7.01.55.50.1993.22771@athos.rutgers.edu ,
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) wrote


we affirm the absolutes of scripture , not because we are arrogant
moralists , but because we believe in god who is truth , who has revealed his
truth in his word , and therefore we hold as precious the strategic importance
of those absolutes.


pardon me , a humble atheist , but exactly what is the difference
between holding a revealed truth with blind faith as its basis (i.e.
regardless of any evidence that you may find to the contrary) as an
absolute truth , fully expecting people to believe you and arrogance \?

they sound like one and the same to me.

and nearly every time i meet a christian (or for that matter , any
other theist) who tries to convert me , i find this proven over and over
again.

i see no wisdom whatsoever in your words


unfaithfully yours ,

pixie


p.s. if you do sincerely believe that a god exists , why do you follow
it blindly \?

do the words question authority mean anything to you \?

i defy any theist to reply.

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re proof of resurection
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 51

in article apr.23.02.56.33.1993.3165@geneva.rutgers.edu , andrew@srsune.shlrc.mq.edu.au (andrew mcveigh) writes

the bible 's message is that we are to love all people , and
that all people are redeemable. it preaches a message of
repentance , and of giving. unfortunately , all people have
deceitful hearts , and are capable of turning this message
around and contorting it in sometimes unbelievable ways.
this is also a fundamental christian doctrine.

andrew ,

how i wish this were true , and how i long for the day in which it will
be true. but alas , it is not true of history. the bible does not have a
message it has messages. and some of those are messages of repentance and
giving , to turn the other cheek , and do unto the least of these. but some
of the messages are the complete opposite. like the isrealites order to
wipe out other tribes including women and children down to cattle , and
punished severely when they were less than complete about the job. like
jews who are said to have cried out in matthew , his blood be upon our heads
and our childrens heads a verse quoted in every pogrom from the crusades to
the holocaust. have these been misunderstood \? i think not. they have only
been understood too clearly. it is essential that christians grasp firmly
the good the bible teaches , the meek carpenter from nazareth is a potent
symbol for how we should be , his teachings we must take to heart , but we
cannot ignore the other material in the bible which is not to our liking and
say those who live by that have misread it. to say that is only to chose a
point of interpretation and declare it normative. such can be done with the
same legitmacy by anyone. instead we must let the text critique the text.
understanding that there is both good and bad in our sacred corpus , we test
all things and hold fast to that which is good.


p.s. i believe that a line of questioning like you presented
is , strangely enough , compatible with becoming a christian.
certainly christianity encourages one to question the behaviour
of the world , and especially christians. i praise god for
jesus christ , and the fact that we can doubt our beliefs
and still come back to god and be forgiven , time and time
again.


at the risk of sounding heretical (well ok , more heretical) i do n't think
that doubt is something which requires forgiveness , it is something which
requires introspection and reflection. if that is a sin , then there can
be no salvation , for doubt is an inescapble part of being human. consider
job. his friends had no doubt. whereas job had no doubt in himself but
doubted the wisdom and justice of god. when god finally did appear he
rebuked the friends and had job make sacrifices for them. to be a christian
it to always have doubt , or not to have honesty.

randy

from healta@saturn.wwc.edu (tammy r healy)
subject re branch davidians info
organization walla walla college
lines 40

in article mar.18.02.31.54.1993.25350@athos.rutgers.edu clitton@opie.bgsu.edu writes
from clitton@opie.bgsu.edu
subject branch davidians info
date 18 mar 93 07 31 55 gmt
i am looking for any information on the branch davidians. send info to chad
litton , acs dept. bgsu , bowling green oh 43403. or e mail to
clitton@andy.bgsu.edu thanks in advance.

i do n't claim to be an expert on the branch davidians , but i might know more
than most.

the branch davidian group (led by koresh) is actually one of two off shoots
of a group known as the shephard 's rod. the shephard 's rod (now
defunct as far as i know)broke off from the sda church in the 30 's.

the shephard 's rod broke away from the sda church because they felt that the
sda church was becoming weak and falling into apostacy. they felt that they
were the remnant spoken about in revelation.

about the koresh group , koresh gained control of it in 1987 or 1988. once
in control , he made himself the center of it. he proclaimed himself as
christ.

koresh himself came from an sda background. he was excommunicated as a young
adult by the local congregation for trying to exert too much control over
the youth in the church. after this , he joined the branch davidians.

they were are a survivalist cult. this is why they had the stockpile of
weapons , food , a bomb shelter , etc. they had no intent of raiding the us
government or anything. they were preparing for armaggedon and were
putting themselves in a self defense position.

in my opinion , if the atf and the fbi had left well enough alone , we wouldn'
t have the blood of 20 children crying out from the ashes in waco.

if you want to know about the shephard 's rod , you might want to visit the
local sda church and talk to some of the older people. they could give you
some insight into where koresh got his theology.

tammy

from johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson)
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to johnsd2@rpi.edu
organization not sun microsystems
lines 148

in article 1328@geneva.rutgers.edu , gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary) writes
dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) writes
deletia sig
p.s. if you do sincerely believe that a god exists , why do you follow
it blindly \?
do the words question authority mean anything to you \?
i defy any theist to reply.


deletia formalities

i probably should let this pass , it 's not worth the time , and it 's not
really intended for me. but i could n't resist. a personal weakness of mine.
jerkius kneeus. tragically incurable.

the foundation for faith in god is reason , without which the existence
of god could not be proven. that his existence can be proven by reason
is indisputable (cf. my short treatise , traditional proofs for the
existence of god , and summa theologica).

not so i can prove that the existance of god is disputable
by showing that people dispute it this is easy i dispute that
god exists. simple.

i missed your traditional proofs treatise , but the proofs i remember
from the summa theologic (the 5 ways i think it was) were rather poor
stuff. the ontological argument is about a billion times better , imho.

i would think you 'd want non traditional proofs , considering the general
failure of the traditional proofs at least the ones i know of.
(i am thinking of the ontological argument , the cosmological argument and
the teleological argument. those are the ones traditional enough to
have funny names , anyway.)

now , given that god exists , and that his existence can be proven by reason ,
i assert that his commands must be followed blindly , although in our fallen
condition we must always have some measure of doubt about our faith. why \?

this is the real question. so to discuss it , i 'll assume god exists.
otherwise , there is no heavenly authority to babble about.

because god is the first cause of all things , the first mover of matter ,
the independent thing that requires nothing else for its existence , the
measure of all that is perfect , and the essential being who gives order
to the universe (logos).

please show this is the case. i am familiar with the first cause
argument , and i 'll accept (for the sake of argument) that there
is a first cause , even though i find some of its premices
questionable. the rest you 'll have to show. this includes
that the first cause is god.

i next assert that god is all good.

got it. i deny that god is all good. so there.

if this is so , then that which is
contrary to the will of god is evil i.e. , the absence of the good. and ,
since god can never contradict himself , then by his promise of a savior
as early as the protoevangelium of genesis 3 5 , god instructs that because
a human (adam) was first responsible for man 's alienation from the source
of all good , a man would be required to act to restore the friendship.
thus god became incarnate in the person of the messiah.

this is n't self consistent if humans must renew the relationship ,
then god (incarnate or not) ca n't do it. well , unless you think god is
human. granted , god made himself 'human' , but this is nonetheless cheating
the intent of the statement is clearly that man has to fix the problem
he caused. god fixing it even by indirect means contradicts this.

now this messiah claimed that he is the truth (john 14 6). if this claim
is true , then we are bound by reason to follow him , who is truth incarnate.

why \?

also , why assume said claim is true anyway \?

if i claim to be truth , are you bound by reason to follow me \?

you next seem to have a problem with authority. have you tried the united
states marine corps yet \? i can tell you first hand that it is an excellent
instructor in authority.

)

undoubtably. do you mean to imply we should all obey the commands of the
marines without question \? you seem to imply this about god , and
that the marines are similar in this respect.. if this is not what
you are trying to say , they please explain what it is you are saying ,
as i have missed it.

if you have not yet had the privilege , i will
reply that the authority which is truth incarnate may never be questioned ,
and thus must be followed blindly.

why \? why not question it \? even if it is truth , we cannot know this
certainly , so why is it so irrational to question \? perhaps we will
thus discover that we were wrong.

you assert that god is truth and we ca n't question truth. but
i assert that god is not truth and anyway we can question truth.
how is it my assertion is less good than yours \?

one may not deny the truth.

oh \?

i hereby deny 1 1 2.

i hope you 'll agree 1 1 2 is the truth.

granted , i look pretty damn silly saying something like that ,
but i needed something we 'd both agree was clearly true.

now , you 'll notice no stormtroopers have marched in to drag
me off to the gulag. no heaven lighting bolts either. no mysterious
net outages. i seem to be permited to say such things , absurd or not.

for
example , when the proverbial apple fell on isaac newton 's head , he could
have denied that it happened , but he did not. the laws of physics must
be obeyed whether a human likes them or not. they are true.

they are certainly not true. at least , the ones newton derived are
not true , and are indeed wildly inaccurate at high speeds or small
distances. we do not have a set of laws of physics that always
works in all cases. if we did , physics would be over already.

science is all about questioning this sort of truth. if we did n't ,
we 'd still follow aristotle. i 'd generalize this a little more
if you want to learn anything new , you must question the things
you know (tm). because you can always be wrong.

therefore , the authority which is truth may not be denied.

even presupposing that truth may not be denied , and may
not be questioned , and that god is truth , it only follows
that god may not be denied or questioned. not that he must
be obeyed !

we could unquestioningly disobey him. how annoying of us.
but you have not connected denial with disobedience.


dan no nickname johnson
and god said jeeze , this is dull ... and it was dull. genesis 0 0

these opinions probably show what i know.

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re serbian genocide work of god \?
lines 89

note i am not the original poster , i am just answering because i
think this is important.

in article may.5.02.50.17.1993.28624@athos.rutgers.edu db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler) writes
revdak@netcom.com writes
evil result of human sinfulness , rather than the will of god
in a certain sense yes. but in the sense that god allows evil to
happen , when obviously (he being god) he could have not had it happen ,
does in a certain sense mean that he wills it to happen. god does not
condone evil , but instead uses it for good , as you say , however , what
god desires , must be seperated from what actually happens. for example ,
god desires that all should be saved (1 timothy 2.4) , however , it is
quite obvious that nowhere near all are saved. was god 's will thwarted \?
no , because his will cannot be escaped , for even when it appears that
it is your will doing something , it is actually the will of god which by
his grace has disposed us to do as he wishes. so we come to the age old
question , why does evil occur \? to which we must answer that god allows
evil to occur , though he does not condone it , so that his ultimate plan
may be brought to sucess. personally , i suggest reading the parts of
the summa theologica of st. thomas that deal with the knowledge of god
to get a good grasp on this whole idea.

whoo. i'm going to have to be very careful with my language here. i
think god is voluntarily giving up his omniscience in this world so
that we can decide on our own where we go free will. in this sense
god allows evil to occur , and in this sense can be held responsible
as my chaplain says. however , his will is , of course , that all be
saved. he 's not going to save us by himself we have to take a
step in his direction before he will save us. read that last sentence
carefully i'm not saying we save ourselves. i'm saying we have to
accept our salvation. i do not believe in predestination it would
appear from what you say further down that you do.

stuff deleted
i am not saying that anyone deserves punishment more than someone else.
i am simply pointing out that god could be using the serbians and
croatians as instruments of his punishment , as he did with the
israelites against the cannanites.

ok i have trouble with that , but i guess that 's one of those things
that ca n't be resolved by argument. i accept your interpretation.

more deleted
the issue is not questioning why god has made the world in the way god
so chooses , it is whether i am discerning the world in the way god
intends it. the debate is about whether we should not oppose the serbians
in their ethnic cleansing because they might be doing the will of god.

and i said christians should not be participants in such wars and
slaughters. that does not mitigate the fact that god allows this evil to
continue , for he is patient and willing that none should perish , so he
waits for those whom he has foreknown to turn to him from their evil.

this is what indicates to me that you may believe in predestination.
am i correct \? i do not believe in predestination i believe we all
choose whether or not we will accept god 's gift of salvation to us.
again , fundamental difference which ca n't really be resolved.

yet more deleted
i am not saying that the evil befalling the bosnians is justified by
their guilt. i am saying that it is possible that god is punishing them
in this way. in no way is this evil justified , bu that does not mean
that god cannot use evil to further his purposes. i am not accusing the
bosnians , though they may very well be guilty of great sins , but that is
up to god to judge. we are all defendants when the time comes for our
judgement by god. let us all sincerely hope and pray that we will have
jesus christ as our advocate at that judgement.

yes , it is up to god to judge. but he will only mete out that
punishment at the last judgement. as for now , evil can be done by
human beings that is not god 's will and the best we can do is see
taht some good comes out of it somehow. the thing that most worries
me about the it is the will of god argument is that this will
convince people that we should not stop the rape and killing when i
think that it is most christ like to do just that. if jesus stopped
the stoning of an adulterous woman (perhaps this is not a good
parallel , but i'm going to go with it anyway) , why should we not stop
the murder and violation of people who may (or may not) be more
innocent \?

andy byler

vera

i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes
i am your religion ! the strong name of the noye@midway.uchicago.edu
i own you ! trinity.... no disclaimer what
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim \?


from weaver@chdasic.sps.mot.com (dave weaver)
subject some questions from a new christian
lines 18

in a previous article , 18669@bach.udel.edu (steven r hoskins) writes

one of my questions i would
like to ask is can anyone recommend a good reading list of theological
works intended for a lay person \?


i would recommend essential truthes of the christian faith by rc sproul.
it is copywrited 1992 from tyndale house publishers. sproul offers concise
explanations , in simple language , of around 100 different christian
doctrines , grouped by subject. i think it would be particularly good for
newer christians (and older christians suffering spiritual malnutrition) ,
as it gives a biblically sound basic treatment of the issues , avoiding
long in depth analysis that can wait until after you know the basics.


dave weaver he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to
weaver@chdasic.sps.mot.com gain what he cannot lose. jim elliot (1949)

from jek@cu.nih.gov
subject god , morality , and massacres
lines 258

a listmember (d andrew killie , i think) wrote , in response to the
suggestion that genocide may sometimes be the will of god

any god who works that way is indescribably evil ,
and unworthy of my worship or faith.

nobuya higgy higashiyama replied (as , in substance , did others)

where is your source of moral standards by which you judge god 's
behavior \?

it is often argued that we have no standing by which to judge god 's
actions. who is the clay to talk back to the potter \? but we find a
contrary view in scripture. when god proposes to destroy the city of
sodom (genesis 18) , abraham says

suppose that there are some good men in the city.
will you destroy the righteous along with the wicked \?
far be it from you , lord , to do such a thing !
shall not the judge of all the earth do right \?

i am told that the hebrew is actually a bit stronger than this , and
can perhaps be better rendered (dynamic equivalence) as

shame on you , lord , if you do such a thing !

there are those who say that the definition of good is whatever
god happens to want. but if that is so , then the statement that god
is good has no meaning. it simply says that god does what he wants.
that being the case , no one can either love or obey god because he
is good. the only motive left for obeying him is that he is
powerful. just as it makes sense to obey a dictator , even when he
tells you to round up all jews and exterminate them , because if you
defy him you might end up in the gas chamber yourself , so it makes
sense to obey god , because he has the power to punish you if you
do n't. this ethical theory i take to be in radical contradiction to
genesis 18 and to christianity in general.

any theory that makes our moral judgements worthless makes any
further discussion of morality (or of the goodness of god)
meaningless. however , it does not follow that our moral judgements
are always infallible in particular cases , still less our judgements
in particular cases about the course of action most likely to
achieve a good result.

when i read the scriptural accounts of the actions of god in
history , those actions often seem to me very different from what i
might expect of a god who loves us and desires what is best for us.
moreover , leaving the scriptures aside , and considering the natural
world , i find that nature is often very different from what i might
expect if it were the work of a benevolent deity. (origen said
those who believe that the author of nature is also the author of
the scriptures must expect to find in the scriptures the same sort
of difficulties that they find in nature. )

now , that some such difficulties should exist is not in itself an
argument against the existence , power , wisdom , and goodness of god.
on the contrary , their absence would be such an argument. suppose
that i am watching bobby fisher play chess , and suppose that every
time he makes a move , i find myself nodding and saying good move !
just what i was expecting him to do. same move i would have made if
i were playing. that would be a sign that fisher is no better a
chess player than myself. given that he is better , i expect that at
least some of his moves will have me thinking , now , what do suppose
induced him to do that \? or even , boy , that was a real slip he 's
just thrown the game away ! similarly , if god understands the
workings of the universe better than i do , it is to be expected that
sometimes it will look to me as if he has made a mistake.

one difference between fisher at the chessboard and god at the
controls of the universe is that i can see the end of the chess
game. if fisher wins , i revise my earlier inference that it was
carelessness that made him lose his queen 23 moves earlier.
however , if he loses , and particularly if i can see that there was a
time when he had an opportunity for a checkmate in two moves and did
not take it , then i know that he is not as good a player as i had
thought.

with god , on the other hand , i shall not in this life see the total
result of some of his actions. therefore , my grounds for judging
that i have seen a bad move on his part must always be far shakier
than my grounds for making a similar judgement about fisher.



in the book of genesis , we read that joseph 's ten older brothers ,
who (with good reason) found him insufferable , conspired to sell
him into slavery in egypt. there he eventually became viceroy , and
when there was a famine in canaan , he was able to provide for his
family. when his brothers nervously apologized , he told them do
not worry. you meant to do me evil , but god turned it into good.

i once heard a rabbi speak on this text. he said

the history of the jews is largely a history of events
that look like catastrophes that threaten the continued
survival of the religion , or the people , or both. but ,
amazingly , those events turn out to be the saving of the jews
and of judaism.
the sale of joseph by his brothers looked like the breakup
of the family. but in fact , it ended with a reconciliation of
the quarrel between them. the famine that drove the family out
of canaan looked like a misfortune for them. but in fact , if
they had stayed in canaan , they would almost certainly have
intermarried with the canaanites and been assimilated into
their culture. their oppression by the egyptians a few
generations after their arrival in egypt again looked like a
disaster. but god used it to bring them out of egypt , and into
the promised land.
here the people built a temple , and regularly offered
sacrifices. but the babylonians captured jerusalem and judea ,
destroyed temple and city and countryside , and deported most of
the people to babylon. you might have thought that that would
be the end of the people and the religion. but it was not.
living in canaan , the people had been under constant danger of
assimilation. again and again , they had turned from the
worship of the lord to the worship of the canaanite fertility
cults , with their ritual prostitution and ritual human
sacrifice. the babylonian captivity put a stop to that. never
again did the jews show any interest in polytheism or idolatry.
neither the worship of the canaanites mor that of the
babylonians ever again had a foothold among them.
nor is that all. judaism had been in danger of becoming
simply a system of sacrifices and temple observances. the only
prescribed acts of worship consisted of coming to jerusalem
every so often and offering a sacrifice. during the captivity ,
with the temple gone , the jews invented the synagogue , a place
of meeting for reading and study and discussion of the
scriptures. they came to realize clearly , what they were in
danger of forgetting while they continued to live in judea ,
that god is not simply a local or tribal deity , not just the
controller of the land of canaan , or the patron of the jewish
people , but the creator of the world , and the ruler and judge
of all humans everywhere.
time passed , and the babylonian empire was replaced by
that of the persians , and then that of the greeks , or rather
the macedonians. the ruler , antiochus epiphanes , was determined
to stamp out judaism , and to this end he made the reading and
the study of the torah punishable by death. again , one might
think that this would be the end of judaism. but it was not.
the people met for worship , and instead of reading the torah
portion appointed for the day , they would read some passage
from the prophets that had a similar theme , and then discuss
that. before this time , the torah , the so called five books of
moses (genesis , exodus , leviticus , numbers , and deuteronomy)
were the only books read and studied in the synagogue. if it
had not been for antiochus , the books of the prophets would
probably have been forgotten altogether. his hatred for judaism
saved them.

other examples here omitted for brevity 's sake.

some of you may remember that julie andrews first became
famous as eliza doolittle in the stage production of my fair
lady. when warner brothers undertook to make a movie of it ,
everyone expected that julie , who had been so magnificent on
stage , would play the same role in the movie. instead , the
studio decided to go with an established screen star , and cast
audrey hepburn. julie andrews was naturally crushed. but she
later realized that if she had played the screen role , she
would have been type cast for life as an elize doolittle type.
it would have been a disaster for her. as it was , walt disney
offered her the role of mary poppins , and she won an oscar for
it. at the presentation , she stood there , smiling , and looking
at walt disney , she said , and now , my special thanks to the
man who made all this possible jack warner ! it was the most
memorable line of the evening.
in a similar spirit , we jews might thank the men who in
the providence of god have preserved judaism , and kept it alive
to this day , beginning with joseph 's brothers , and continuing
with two pharaohs , with nebuchadnezzar , with antiochus
epiphanes....

after the formal meeting had broken up , one woman came up to him
privately and said , you were talking about the holocaust , were n't
you \? he answered , if that is an example that came to your mind ,
then you are right , i was talking about it to you. but i would not
talk about it to everyone , for not everyone can bear it. i assume
that he meant that , without the holocaust , there would have been no
state of israel.

someone hearing the rabbi 's lecture might leap to the conclusion
that god is dependent on the wickedness of men to accomplish his
purposes or at least that the rabbi thought so. he might then go
on to suppose that the wickedness is in fact god 's doing that he
stirred up joseph 's brothers to a murderous hate against him , and
that when the israelites were in egypt , god hardened pharaoh 's
heart , so that he oppressed the people , and would not let them go.
and this raises questions about how an action can be considered
wicked and at the same time be considered something that god has
brought about.

i suggest another way of looking at it. consider a sculptor who has
a log of wood from which he proposes to carve a statue. but the log ,
instead of having a smooth even grain throughout , has a large knot
that spoils the appearance of the surface. the sculptor considers
the wood for a while , and then carves a statue that features the
knot , that makes that particular interruption in the grain and color
of the wood correspond to some feature of the statue , so that
observers will say how fortunate the sculptor was in finding a
piece of wood with a knot like that in just the right place. its
presence is the crowning touch , the thing that makes the statue a
great work of art. in reality , the knot , far from being what the sculptor was
looking for , was a challenge to his skill. if the wood had not
contained that flaw , he would still have made a great work of art ,
but a different one. so , if joseph 's brothers had not sold him , god
would still have brought about his purposes for the jewish people ,
but he would have done so in another manner. if judas had not
betrayed jesus , if caiaphas and his fellow leaders had not rejected
jesus , but had rather acknowledged him as the annointed of god , if
pilate had followed his conscience rather than his fears and had set
jesus free , it might appear that there would have been no
crucifixion , and therefore no redemption , and therefore no
salvation. not so. god did not need judas' sin to redeem us. if
judas had done right , then god in christ would still have reconciled
the world to himself. we do not know how , just as we do not know
how michelangelo would have painted the sistine chapel if its
interior had instead been shaped like grand central station , and
just as we do not know how bobby fisher would have won his fourth
game agianst spassky if spassky had refused the exchange of bishops
and had attacked fisher 's knight instead (do n't bother to look up
the game in question i am making up this example , but the point is
none the less valid).

thus , we may say both (1) that god used , say , the cowardice of
pilate to accomplish his purposes , and (2) that the said cowardice
was not god 's doing , and that pilate would not have thwarted god 's
plans by behaving justly and courageously.

what , then , are we to make of the place where god says to moses , i
will harden pharaoh 's heart , so that he will not let the people go \?
some christians have taken this to mean that pharaoh was a puppet
with god pulling the strings , and that his stubbornness and cruelty
were not his own work , but the work of god in him. i suppose rather
that what god was telling moses was something like this if you see
that pharaoh is not willing to let the people go , do not be
discouraged , or suppose that the situation is out of my control. my
purposes will not be thwarted. if pharaoh chooses to hear you and
let the people go , well and good. if he does not , i will fit his
resistance into my plans , and fit it so perfectly that future
historians and theologians will suppose that i would have been
thrown for a loss if pharaoh had obeyed me.

to return to the question that started this all off. is it possible
that the serbs , in slaughtering the moslems of bosnia , are
instruments of god 's will \?
first point. what they are doing is wrong , just as what
joseph 's brothers did was wrong , just as what judas did was wrong.
they intend it for evil. if god somehow brings good out of it , that
does not make them any less subject to just condemnation and
punishment.
second point. of course , god will bring good out of it. but not
the same good that he would have brought if the serbians had
refrained from the sins of robbery and rape and murder. nor does the
good he purposes excuse us from the duty of doing what is right.

yours ,
james kiefer

from coffey@cptc2.neep.wisc.edu (robert l. coffey)
subject re questions...
organization univ. of wisconsin , madison. , neep department
lines 35

4. who exactly is the lord \? god or jesus christ \?

john 1 1 says (nkjv the little green gideon someone forced on me one day)
in the beginning was the word , and the word was with god , and the word was
god. the word refers to jesus christ so from this john declares that god
and jesus are one. therefore , the lord refers to both. also , david in the
psalms refers to both god in heaven and the coming messiah as his lord. once
again this refers to god and jesus.

5. what is the definition of a truly religious person \? should he she not
swear curse \? does it say anything about this in the bible \?

some of the most truly religious people i 've known have not been christians
and some of the greatest christians i 've known have been truly irreligious.
however , to answer your question
the bible speaks of this in many places , a previous post to james is a good
one. another is psalm 15
lord , who may abide in your tabernacle \? who may dwell in your holy hill \? he
who walks uprightly , and works righteousness , and speaks the truth in his heart
he who does not backbite with his tongue , nor does evil to his neighbor , nor
does he take up a reproach against his friend i whose eyes a vile person is
despised , but he honors those who fear the lord he who swears to his own hurt
and does not change he who does not put out money at usury , nor does he take
a bribe aginst the innocent. he who does these things shall never be moved.


rob coffey indeed the safest road to
coffey@cptc1.neep.wisc.edu hell is the gradual one the
(if you send mail to cptc2 gentle slope , soft underfoot ,
i 'll never read it) without sudden turnings ,
without milestones , without
signposts. screwtape

the day techwood meets the wrecking ball the world shall rejoice.
but i 'll have lost a former home.

from revc@garg.campbell.ca.us (bob van cleef)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization the land of garg
lines 48

from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)


many catholics will decide to side with the pope. there is some
soundness in this , because the papacy is infallible , so eventually
some pope will straighten all this out. but , on the other hand ,
there is also unsoundness in this , in that , in the short term , the
popes may indeed be wrong , and such catholics are doing nothing to
help the situation by obeying them where they 're wrong. in fact , if
the situation is grave enough , they sin in obeying him. at the very
least , they 're wasting a great opportunity , because they are failing
to love christ in a heroic way at the very time that he needs this
badly.

joe

your logic excapes me.

if the papacy is infallible , and this is a matter of faith , then the
pope cannot be wrong ! if , on the other hand , this is not a matter
of faith , but a matter of church law , then we should still obey as the
pope is the legal head of the church.

in other words , given the doctrine of infallibility , we have no choice
but to obey.

bob



bob van cleef peace 0 be revc@garg.campbell.ca.us
the land of garg bbs unto you bbs (408) 378 5108



you might want to look at the faq on infallibility. the doctrine on
infallibility does not say that the pope is always right. all
catholic theologians acknowledge that there have been a number of
occasions when the pope was wrong. there appear to be two aspects to
infallibility. one is a general concept that in the long run the
church is protected from serious error. however this does not mean
that it 's impossible for it to take wrong turns at one time or
another. the more specific concept of papal infallibility is that in
very specific circumstances a papal statement can be known to be
infallible. however a relatively small fraction of statements meet
those criteria. this does not absolve catholics from the duty to obey
even ordinary teachings of the pope. however only a few teachings
are made in a way that is explicitly infallible. clh

from jenk@microsoft.com (jen kilmer)
subject re sex education
organization microsoft corporation
lines 27

in article apr.7.23.20.08.1993.14209@athos.rutgers.edu mprc@troi.cc.rochester.edu (m. price) writes
in apr.5.23.31.32.1993.23904@athos.rutgers.edu jenk@microsoft.com (jen kilmer) writes

method expected actual
failure rate failure rate
abstinence 0 0


these figures do n't seem to take account of rape. or is a woman who
is raped considered not to have been abstaining \?

i no longer have the textbook , but abstinence was defined as something
like no contact between the penis and the vagina , vulva , or area
immediately surrounding the vulva , and no transfer of semen to the
vagina , vulva , or area surrounding the vulva .

that is , abstinence was n't discussed as sex outside of marriage is
morally wrong but as keep the sperm away from the ovum and conception
is impossible. the moral question i recall the teacher asking was ,
is it okay to create a child if you are n't able to be a good parent
yet \?

jen



include stdisclaimer jenk@microsoft.com msdos testing

from ata@hfsi.hfsi.com ( john ata)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to news@opl.com
organization hfsi
lines 40

in article apr.21.03.26.15.1993.1349@geneva.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes

the basic problem with your argument is your total and complete reliance on
the biblical text. luke 's account is highly suspect (i would refer you to
the hermeneia commentary on acts). moreover luke 's account is written at
least 90 years after the fact. in the meantime everyone he mentions has died
and attempts to find actual written sources behind the text have come up
with only the we section of the later portion of acts as firmly established.
moreover , pauls account of some of the events in acts (as recorded in
galatians) fail to establish the acts accounts.

even if there was no independent proof that luke 's account was
valid , i find it strange that you would take the negation of it as
truth without any direct historical evidence (at least that you 've
mentioned) to back it up. the assertion was made , unequivocally
that no christian ever sufferred for their faith by believing in
the resurrection. luke 's account suggests otherwise , and in the
absence of direct eyewitnesses who can claim that luke is mistaken ,
then i suggest that this unequivocal assertion is suspect.

randy



john g. ata technical consultant internet ata@hfsi.com
hfs , inc. va20 uucp uunet ! hfsi ! ata
7900 westpark drive ms 601 voice (703) 827 6810
mclean , va 22102 fax (703) 827 3729

i think the original claim may have been somewhat more limited than
this. it was an answer to the claim that the witnesses could n't
be lying because they were willign to suffer for their beliefs.
thus it 's not necessary to show that no christian ever suffered
for believing in the resurrection. rather the issue is whether
those who witnessed it did.

i do agree that the posting you 're responding to shows that there
can be liberal as well as conservative dogmatism.

clh

from nichael@bbn.com (nichael cramer)
subject re some questions from a new christian
reply to ncramer@bbn.com
organization bbn , interzone office
lines 49

ofm responds to a query about reference works

aside from a commentary , you might also want to consider an
introduction. these are books intended for use in undergraduate bible
courses. they give historical background , discussion of literary
styles , etc. and generally they have good bibligraphies for further
reading. i typically recommend kee , froehlich and young 's nt
introduction...

two other intros to consider

the introduction by ku mmel is a translation of a strandard nt text.
the references are slightly dated and the style is somewhat dense , but
the book contains a wealth of information.

perrin and duling 's intro is also very good. it 's somewhat more
modern than ku mmel 's but not quite so densely packed. also the
authors tend to go through the books of the nt in the historical order
of composition this gives a very useful perspective on the
development of the nt.

... there are also some good one volume commentaries. ... probably the
best recommendation these days would be harper 's bible commentary.

a slight dissent i think the harper 's is ok but not great. one
particular problem i have is that it tends to be pretty skimpy on
bibliographic material. my feeling is that it is ok for quick
look ups , but not real useful for study in depth (e.g. i keep a copy
in my office at work).

... (i think there may be a couple of books with this title...

so far as i know there is the only one book with this exact title
(james l mays , general editor , harper and row , 1988) although i think
i recall a (older) series under the name harper commentaries . also
there 's a separate harper 's bible dictionary (most of my comments on
the hc also apply to the hbd.)

my favorite one volume commentary is the new jerome biblical
commentary . the njbc is rather catholic in focus and somewhat biased
towards the nt. (the reader can decide for her or himself whether
these are pluses or minuses.) in any case the scholarship is by and
large excellent.

note the njbc is a completely reworked , updated version of the
jerome biblical commentary , copies of which can still be found on
sale.

nichael

from steve.hayes@f22.n7101.z5.fidonet.org
subject sin
lines 10

09 apr 93 , jill anne daley writes to all

jad what exactly is a definition of sin and what are some examples. how does
jad a person know when they are committing sin \?

to answer briefly sin is falling short of the glory of god (romans 3 23)

steve

golded 2.40

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re revelations
organization indiana university
lines 34

he does n't contradict himself. the church is to last for all time.
however , there are those who use the church to bolster themselves. this
is evident in many letters. for instance , paul talks about the
super apostles to the corinthians (2 corinthians 11 12) , he mentions
how people will be led away by miracles , signs , and wonders (2
thessalonians 2 9 12) , he tells timothy that it is clear that some will
abandon the faith and teach lies (1 timothy 4 1 3) and that some will
search for teachers to suit what they want to hear (2 timothy 4 3 4).
such passages go throughout the letters and jesus does warn about them
(matthew 24 4 14). but look at the promise in this last part. verse
14 and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world
as a testimony to all nations , and then the end will come. even today ,
there are false teachings. i can name two which i am well familiar
with the non need of baptism and the praying of jesus into your life
for salvation . both are taught. both are dead wrong. they have been
taken out of context from some verses , interpreted from others , and just
plain made up. the only way jesus taught is given in luke 9 23 26 and
luke 14 25 33. he then commands baptism in matthew 28 18 20. the
church jesus founded , though , is alive and well. it 's not being
persecuted as much as back then (the laws wo n't allow it yet) , but it is
being persecuted.

joe fisher


peace ,
lou


lou nunez (e mail lnunez@vaxa.stevens tech.edu)
ps 42(43) 4 ps 90(91) 5 6 dn 3 52 90 ml 1 11
ad altare dei ad deum qui laetificat juventutem meam
1cor 4 15 mt 16 13 19 1cor 13 1 13 luke 10 25 37


from johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson)
subject re intolerance eternal life etc
reply to johnsd2@rpi.edu
organization not sun microsystems
lines 186

i apologize if this article is slightly confusing , and late. the origonal
draft did n't make it through the moderators quote screens. so i did
violence to it , but if you remember the article i am responding
to it should still make sence.

in article 1850@geneva.rutgers.edu , jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu (james sledd) writes
hi xian netters , god bless you

what , no hello for heathan netters \?

i feel all left out now. (

deletia table of content , intro , homosexuality


incredibly chopped up post

deletia incorrect attributions

uh , you have your attributions wrong , you were responding
to my article , so dan johnson should be the 1st one.

in article 28388@athos.rutgers.edu , jayne@mmalt.guild.org
(jayne kulikauskas) writes

deletia no free gifts speil nuked by moderator fiat.

i find that i am dissatisfied with the little purposes that we can
manufacture for ourselves. little in the cosmic sense.

ah , in the cosmic sence.. but who lives in the cosmic sence \?
not me ! cosmicly , we do n't even exist for all practical purposes.
i can hardly use the cosmic sence of stuff as a guide to life.
it would just say do n't bother.

luckily for mortals , there are many sences of scale you can talk
about. in a human sence , you can have big purposes.

even the
greatest of the great pharos are long gone , the pyramids historical
oddities being worn down by the wind , eventually to be turned into dust.

but the influence of aristotle , confucious , alexander , ceasar and
countless others is still with us , although their works have perished.

but they have changed to course of history , and while humanity exists ,
their deeds cannot be said to have come to nothing , even if they
are utterly forgotten.

mankind itself will one day perish.

one day , surely. (well , unless you believe in the second coming , which
i do not)

but in that time we can make a difference.

without some interconnectedness
that transcends the physical , without god , it is all pointless in the
end.

in the end. but it must be the end until then , there is all the
point you can muster. and when that end comes , there will be nobody
to ask , gee , i do n't think james sledd 's deeds are gonna make
much of a difference , ulitmately , ya know \? .

but they will have already have made a difference , great or small ,
before the end.

why must your ends be eternal to be worthwhile \?

most people are able to live with that , and for them little
purposes (success , money , power , effecting change , helping others)
suffice.

little is in the eye of the beholder , of course.

i suppose they never think about the cosmic scale , or are at
least able to put it out of their minds.

i do n't doubt it. but i have thought about the cosmic scale. and
it does not seem to mean much to us , here , today.

to me , it is comforting to know that reality is an illusion.

i would not find this comforting. but perhaps it is merely my
definitions. here 's what i think the relevant terms are

reality that which is real.
illusion that which is not real , but seems to be.
real objectively existing

for reality to be an illusion would mean , then

that which is real is not real , but seems to be.

or

that which objectively exists , does not objectively exist , but
does seem to objectively exist.

from which we can conclude , that unless you want to get a
contradiction , that no things objectively exist.

but i have a problem with this because i would like to say
that i objectively exist , if nothing else. cogito ergo sum
and all that.

perhaps you do not mean all that , but rather mean
objective reality is unreachable by humans.

which is not so bad , and so far as i know is true.

that the
true reality underneath the the physical is spirit.

have on. if reality is an illusion , is n't true reality an illusion
too \? and if true reality is spirit , doens't that make spirit an illusion
as well \?

if i am not distinctly confused , this is getting positively buddhist.

that this world is a school of sorts , where we learn
and grow , and our souls mature.

that is one hell of a statement , although perhaps true.

do you mean to imply that it was intended to be so \? if so ,
please show that this is true. if not , please explain how this
can give a purpose to anything.

that gives a purpose to my little purposes ,

how does it do that \?

would n't the world school w intent idea make the world a preparation for
some greater purpose , rather than a purpose in itself.

and takes some of the pressure off.

what pressure \?

it 's not so necessary to make this life a success in human terms
if you 're really just here to learn.

it is not necessary to be a success in human terms , unless your
goals either include doing so or require doing so before they
themselves can be achived.

indeed , many people have set goals for themselves that
do not include success in human terms as i understand it. check
out yer buddhist monk type guy. out for nirvana , which is not
at all the same thing.

it 's more important to progress ,
grow , persist , to learn to love yourself and others and to express your
love , especially when it 's dificult to do so. honest effort is rewarded
by god , he knows our limitations.

why is learning to love a goal \? what happens if you fail in this
goal \? to you \? to god \? to the mysterious purpose \?


deletia question about immortailty and my answer deleted because it was
mostly quote.

two serious questions invitations to discussion
1. what is the nature of eternal life \?
2. how can we as mortals locked into space time conceive of it \?

possible answer for 2 the best we can do is metaphor analogy
question 2a what is the best metaphor \?

i 'll have a crack at that.

(1) the nature of eternal life is neatly described by its name it is
the concept of life without death , life without end.

(2) no. we can put together word to describe it , but we cannot imagine it.

(2a) no metaphor is adequate next to eternity if it were we could not
understand it either. (or so i suspect)

dan johnson
and god said jeeze , this is dull ... and it was dull. genesis 0 0

these opinions probably show what i know.

from dsegard@nyx.cs.du.edu (daniel segard)
subject re easter what 's in a name \? (was re new testament double stan
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 98


seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson) asks
what is the objection to celebration of easter \?

the objection naturally is in the way in which you phrase it.
easter (or eashtar or ishtar or ishtarti or other spellings) is the pagan
whore goddess of fertility. therefore , your question to me is what is
the objection to celebration of the pagan whore goddess \? when phrased
that way i suspect (or at least i would hope) that it becomes immeadiately
apparent what my objection to celebrating her would be.

it is celebration of the resurrection of jesus.

no , you are thinking perhaps of ressurection sunday i think.
(though i'm not too crazy about the word sunday , but i certainly like
this phrasing much better than envoking the name of the whore goddess.)
for that matter , stay biblical and call it omar rasheet (the feast of
first fruits). torah commands that this be observed on the day following
the sabbath of passover week. (sunday by any other name in modern
parlance.) why is there so much objection to observing the resurrection
on the 1st day of the week on which it actually occured \? why jump it all
over the calendar the way easter does \? why not just go with the sunday
following passover the way the bible has it \? why seek after unbiblical
methods \?

i do n't recall a command in scripture for us to celebrate
the resurrection , but it is the sole and only reason that
we are christians how could we not celebrate it \?

so what does this question have to do with easter (the whore
goddess) \? i am all for celebrating the resurrection. just keep that
whore out of the discussion.

if it is only the name which is a problem , i suggest that if
we are too concerned about etymology , there are a lot of
words we are going to have to drop. (as an aside , some
terminally pc people here in ottawa want dictionaries to be
altered so that there are no negative definitions associated
with the word black , so as not to offend people of colour.

yes , i have heard of your newspapers speaking of the need to repave
streets with afro canadiantop . grin (i still think blacktop sounds
better though.)

as a short person , i hope they will also remove the definition
curt or surly associated with my physical description.)

fine by me. and while we are at it , the left handed people are
both sinister and gauche so we probably will have some objections from
that quarter as well.

in quebec french , the word for the celebration of the
resurrection is pa ques this is etymologically related
to pesach (passover) and the pascal lamb. so is the
french canadian (mostly roman catholic) celebration better
because it uses the right name \?

yes , that sounds much better to me. is there anyone out there would
thinks that phrasing sounds worse \?

so from this i infer that there are different rules for
christians of jewish descent \? what happened to there is
neither jew nor greek , slave nor free , male nor female , for
all are one in christ jesus \?

read the letter to philemon. now tell me , was philemon 's slave
returned to him \? were there different rules upon the slave than upon
philemon \? how about male and female \? are there different rules that
apply to them as well \? or if there is no more male and female can adam
and steve get married to each other in your congregation \? yes , there are
differences in form and function. but the way we come to salvation in
messiah remains the same no matter what our position in life.



i am in general not in favor of continuing this discussion , as it
seems repetitive , but this particular point is one that i believe is
new the objection is not to having a holiday but to its name.

i 'd like to suggest that people think very carefully about this
argument. words often change their meaning over time. the days of
the week are of course originally based on pagan gods. some
christians prefer to refer to first day , second day , etc. however
the majority of christians have not been persuaded. the question
seems to be whether it makes any difference what the dictionary shows
as the derivation of a word , if what people mean by it and think when
they use it is different.

indeed i 'd like to suggest that postings like this could themselves be
dangerous. suppose people in general use easter to mean the
celebration of christ 's resurrection. postings trying to convince
them that they really mean a celebration in honor of some godess run
the risk of creating exactly the situation that they claim to oppose.
they are doing their best to create a linkage in people 's minds
between their celebration and the pagan goddess. it 's not clear that
this is a healthy thing.

clh

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 46

by028@cleveland.freenet.edu (gary v. cavano) writes

...does anybody out there see the current emphasis on the
environment being turned (unintentionally , of course) into
pantheism \?

i 've debated this quite a bit , and while i think a legitimate
concern for the planet is a great thing , i can easily see it
being perverted into something dangerous.

many pagans are involved in environmentalism this is only natural , since
respect for the earth is a fundamental tenet of all pagan denominations. this
does n't mean that environmentalism is wrong , any more than supporting peace in
the middle east is wrong because jews and muslims also work for it.

nonetheless , paganism is certainly on the rise , and we as christians should
address this and look at what draws people from paganism to christianity. like
it or not , pagan religions are addressing needs that christianity should be ,
and is n't.
i believe that paganism has hit upon some major truths that christianity has
forgotten. this does n't mean that paganism is right , but it does mean that we
have something to learn from the pagan movement.
first , paganism respects the feminine. christianity has a long history of
oppressing women , and many (if not most) male christians are still unable to
live in a non sexist manner. the idea that god is sexless , or that christ
could have been a women and still accomplished his mission , is met with a great
deal of resistance. this insistance on a male dominated theology (and the
male dominated society that goes with it) drives away many young women who have
had to put up with sexist attitudes in their churches.
second , paganism respects the physical world. this is an idea with great
ramifications. one of these is environmentalism respect for our surroundings
and our world. another is integration of sexuality. christianity has a long
tradition of calling all sexual feeelings sinful and urging people to suppress
and deny their sexuality. this is too much sex is clearly a part of human
experience and attempting to remove it is simply not a feasible option.
christianity has only begun to develop a workable sexual ethic , and paganism
is an attractive option.
i'm not advocating that christian doctrines (no sex before marriage , etc.)
should be changed just that christians work toward a more moderate ethic of
sexuality. denial of sexuality places as much emphasis on sex as unmoderated
sexuality , and neither one does much to bring us closer to god.

alan terlep incestuous vituperousness
oakland university , rochester , mi
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu melissa eggertsen
rushing in where angels fear to tread.

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 6


but someone will say , you have faith i have deeds.
show me your faith without deeds , and i will show you my faith by what
i do.

james 2 18

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re an agnostic 's question
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 23

perhaps you can tell your friend that you feel pressured by his
continual discussions of this topic surely he does n't feel you
should be pressured into something you feel uncomfortable about
(since christianity should be a choice one should make on one 's own).
please also realize that he is doing this out of friendship he
probably feels you are missing out on something great , and wants to
tell you about it. but since you know where you can learn about
christianity , you can tell him that it is now up to you to make that
choice , and if the choice is no , you should be respected for that.
personally i believe that a christian 's mission is just to be
christ like , showing his her own faith and happiness in that faith ,
and make sure people know they are welcome to talk to you about it. i
do not believe in imposing your beliefs upon others but then again
everyone 's definitions of imposing may differ.

i hope i have made myself clear.... if not , please correct me !
) vera

i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes
i am your religion ! the strong name of the noye@midway.uchicago.edu
i own you ! trinity.... no disclaimer what
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim \?


from mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server)
subject re phone number of wycliffe translators uk
lines 37

i'm concerned about a recent posting about wbt sil. i thought they 'd
pretty much been denounced as a right wing organization involved in
ideological manipulation and cultural interference , including vietnam
and south america. a commission from mexican academia denounced them in
1979 as a covert political and ideological institution used by the
u.s. govt as an instrument of control , regulation , penetration , espionage and
repression.
my concern is that this group may be seen as acceptable and even
praiseworthy by readers of soc.religion.christian. it 's important that
christians do n't immediately accept every christian organization as
automatically above reproach.

mp

good heavens , you mean my good friend wes collins , who took his wife and two
small children into the jungles of guatemala , despite dangers from primitive
conditions and armed guerillas , so that the indigenous people groups their
could have the bible in their native languages the young man who led bible
studies in our church , who daily demonstrated and declared his deep abiding
faith in the lord of love you mean he really was a sneaky imperialistic spy
whose real reason for going was to exploit and oppress the ignorant and
unsuspecting masses \? imagine my surprise ! i never would have thought it of
him.

how was this terrible deceit discovered \? what exactly was the cultural
interference they were caught committing \? attempting to persuade the locals
that their ancestral gods were false gods , and their sacrifices (including
human sacrifices in some cases) were vain \? destroying traditional lifestyles
by introducing steel tools , medical vaccines , and durable clothes \? oh and by
the way , who did the denouncing \?

i am terribly shocked to hear that my friend wes , who seemed so nice , was
really such a deceitful tool of the devil. please provide me with specific
documentation on this charge. there is some risk that i may not believe it
otherwise.

mark

from alvin@spot.colorado.edu (kenneth alvin)
subject re assurance of hell
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 31

in article apr.20.03.01.19.1993.3755@geneva.rutgers.edu rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov writes

2) if you have n't accepted jesus are your savior , you 're taking an awful
chance. as i say to the jehovah witnesses (who no longer frequent my door) , if
you are right and i am wrong , then i will have lived a good life and will die
and cease to exist , but if i am right and you are wrong , then you will die and
suffer eternal damnation. i do n't mean to make fun at this point , but its like
dirty harry said , you 've got to ask yourself , 'do i feel lucky \? ' well do
you \? a man 's got to know his limitations. do n't be one of the whosoever
wont 's.

this is a ridiculous argument for being a christian. so then , you might
consider switching from christianity to another religion if you were
offered an even more frightening description of another hell \? how many
christians do think there are who view it strictly as an insurance policy \?
not many i know they believe in a message of love and compassion for
others. a faith based on fear of hell sounds like a dysfunctional
relationship with god. like a child who cringes in fear of a parent 's
physical violence.

many religions have concrete views of heaven and hell , with various
threats and persuasions regarding who will go where. competition over
who can envison the worst hell can hardly nurture the idea of loving
your neighbor as yourself.

rex


comments , criticism welcome...
ken
alvin@ucsu.colorado.edu

from gene.gross@lambada.oit.unc.edu (gene gross)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service
lines 60

in article apr.15.00.58.18.1993.28885@athos.rutgers.edu oser@fermi.wustl.edu (scott oser) writes

and the two simplest refutations are these

(1) what impact \? the only record of impact comes from the new testament.
i have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate , and that
the recorded impact actually happened. i find it interesting that no other
contemporary source records an eclipse , an earthquake , a temple curtain
being torn , etc. the earliest written claim we have of jesus' resurrection
is from the pauline epistles , none of which were written sooner than 20 years
after the supposed event.

first , off i 'd say that the impact if right before your eyes ! 8 ) that we are
even discussing this is a major impact in and of itself. further , the early
church bears testimony to the impact.

(2) it seems probable that no one displayed the body of jesus because no
one knew where it was. i personally believe that the most likely
explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples , or by graverobbers).
do n't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one
gospel , and seems like exactly the sort of thing early christians might make
up in order to counter the grave robbing charge. the new testament does
record that jews believed the body had been stolen. if there were really
guards , they could not have effectively made this claim , as they did.

of course they knew where it was. do n't forget that jesus was seen by both
the jews and the romans as a troublemaker. pilate was no fool and did n't
need the additional headaches of some fishermen stealing jesus' body to
make it appear he had arisen. since jesus was buried in the grave of a
man well know to the sanhedrin , to say that they did n't know where he was
buried begs the question.

now , you say that you think that the disciples stole the body. but think on
this a moment. would you die to maintain something you knew to be a
deliberate lie ! \? if not , then why do you think the disciples would ! \? now , i'm
not talking about dying for something you firmly believe to be the truth ,
but unbeknown to you , it is a lie. many have done this. no , i'm talking about
dying , by beheading , stoning , crucifixion , etc. , for something you know to
be a lie ! thus , you position with regards to the disciples stealing the
body seems rather lightweight to me.

as for graverobbers , why risk the severe penalties for grave robbing over
the body of jesus \? he was n't buried with great riches. so , again , this is
an argument that can be discounted.

that leaves you back on square one. what happened to the body ! \?

ihl , gene


the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service.
internet launchpad.unc.edu or 152.2.22.80

again , let me comment that the most plausible non christian scenario ,
and the one typically suggested by sceptics who are knowledgeable
about the nt , is that the resurrection was a subjective event , and the
empty tomb stories are a result of accounts growing in the telling.
clh

from qtm2w@virginia.edu (quinn t. mccord)
subject seven castaways w. gilligan seven deadly sins
organization university of virginia
lines 7

gilligan sloth
skipper anger
thurston howell iii greed
lovey howell gluttony
ginger lust
professor pride
mary ann envy

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re monophysites and mike walker
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 20

nabil ayoub writes

as a final note , the oriental orthodox and eastren orthodox did sign a
common statement of christology , in which the heresey of monophysitism
was condemned. so the coptic orthodox church does not believe in
monophysitism.

sorry !

what does the coptic church believe about the will and energy of christ \?
were there one or were there two (i.e. human and divine) wills and
energies in him.

also , what is the objection ot the copts with the pope of rome (i.e. why
is there a coptic catholic church) \? do you reject the supreme
jurisdiction of the 263rd sucessor of st. peter (who blessed st. john
mark , bishop of alexandria was translator for) and his predecessors \? or
his infallibility \? or what other things perhaps \?

andy byler

from mmh@dcs.qmw.ac.uk (matthew huntbach)
subject re proof of resurection
organization computer science dept , qmw , university of london , uk.
lines 22

in article apr.21.03.26.18.1993.1352@geneva.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes
following christ. from captialist who have polluted the enviorment in strict
obedience to the gensis command to subdue the earth , to nazi 's who have
justly punished the jews for the killing christ

it is funny how this one little quote from genesis is treated
by certain anti christians as if christians have been given a
firm command to destroy the earth. you could prove almost
anything by taking little quotes out of context from the bible
it 's a big book , you know. i doubt you could find a single
case of a anti ecological action taking place specifically
because teh perpetrator was motivated by a christian belief.

as for the nazis , they were motivated by german nationalism ,
not by christianity. in fact they despised christianity as a
weak pacifist religion , and were much more keen on pagan
glorification of strength and warfare. they killed the jews
because they were not germans , not because they were
christ killers they were just as keen on killing the other
non german ethnic minority , the romanies or gypsies.

matthew huntbach

from rsteele@adam.ll.mit.edu (rob steele)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
reply to rob@ll.mit.edu
organization mit lincoln laboratory
lines 19

in article apr.13.00.08.22.1993.28397@athos.rutgers.edu
trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre) writes

well , then , buddhism , confucianism , taoism , hinduism , judaism ,
zoerasterism , shintoism , and islam should fit this bit of logic
quite nicely... ) all have depth , all have enduring values ,
thus all must be true...

yep. there 's truth in all those religions , even in science.
christianity does n't claim to know it all. it does claim certain
things are true though that contradict other religions' truth claims.
so they ca n't all be true.


rob steele in coming to understand anything
mit lincoln laboratory we are rejecting the facts as they
244 wood st. , m 203 are for us in favour of the facts
lexington , ma 02173 as they are.
617 981 2575 c.s. lewis

from topcat ! tom@tredysvr.tredydev.unisys.com (tom albrecht)
subject re revelations
organization applied presuppositionalism , ltd.
lines 25

phil.launchbury@almac.co.uk (phil launchbury) writes

the apostate church of revelation most likely refers to the 1st century
jews who rejected their messiah and had him crucified. john refers to them

i'm afraid not. it refers to the church that christ founded. many , many
times he warns that the church will fall away into heresy as do the
apostles. for an example look at the parables in matthew 13 31 33. they
refer to 'the kingdom of heaven' (the church) and the process of how
they will be corrupted.

sorry , but i think this interpretation of the matthew 13 parables is
nonsense. i.e. ,

'yeast' always stands for sin corruption heresy. for example 'beware
of the yeast of the pharisees'. ...

matthew 16 12 explains that by leaven of the pharisees jesus was simply
referring to their teaching not sin corruption heresy.

jesus gaves his apostles the keys of the kingdom and said that
the gates of hell would not prevail against his church.


tom albrecht

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject re can sin block our prayers \?
organization kulikauskas home
lines 27

mike@boulder.snsc.unr.edu (mike mccormick) writes

not honoring our wives can cause our prayers to be hindered

you husbands likewise , live with your wives in
an understanding way , as with a weaker vessel ,
since she is a woman and grant her honor as
a fellow heir of the grace of life , so that your
prayers may not be hindered. i peter 3 7

one interpretation i 've heard of this verse is that it refers to the sin
of physically abusing one 's wife. the husband is usually physically
stronger than his wife but is not permitted to use this to dominate her.
he must honor her as his sister in christ. this would therefore be an
example of a specific sin that blocks prayer.

this verse also makes me think of the kind of husband who decides what
is god 's will for his family without consulting his wife. god reveals
his will to both the husband and the wife. there needs to be some
degree of mutuality in decision making. even those whose understanding
of the bible leads to a belief in an authoritarian headship of the
husband need to incorporate this in order to have a functional family.
one way to look at it is that god speaks to the wife through the husband
and to the husband through the wife.


jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from norris@athena.mit.edu (richard a chonak)
subject re tuff to be a christian \?
reply to norris@mit.edu
organization l'organisation , c'est moi
lines 15

in article apr.17.01.10.58.1993.2246@geneva.rutgers.edu , mdbs@ms.uky.edu (no name) writes

parting question
would you have become a christian if you had not
been indoctrinated by your parents \? you probably never learned about
any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
you are brain washed.

you write as if no one ever became a christian except people from
christian families. this is not true , as quite a few people on this
group can attest (including me).


richard aquinas chonak , norris@mit.edu , usenet addict , intp
seeking job change sys mgr vax , sis , cobol , dtr progr unix , c , x

from morgan@socs.uts.edu.au
subject re technology
reply to morgan@socs.uts.edu.au
organization university of technology sydney
lines 39

in article apr.2.02.36.53.1993.22906@athos.rutgers.edu cathye@cs.uq.oz.au writes
i am fairly new to this group.
i was wondering about people 's opinions on
ethical uses of the net , and of technology in general.

the classic references in this area are jacques ellul for a
liberal evangelical perspective and os guiness for a straight
evangelical view. if you want to look at non christian sources
try alvin toffler as the perennial optimist. his views while
blatently non christian explore where technology may be going.

for example , there are some chain letters going
around which claim to have been written by a christian missionary , but
which present a misleading image of the christian religion.

this is regardless of technology. be careful to separate the issues of
related to speed and dispersion of technology (how far the letter
went and how quickly it got there) and the message being passed in the
technology (something that seems to be totally wrong.)

how can we help to make best use of computer technology \?

when lecturing in this area i challenge my (non christan atheistic) class
about the impact technology has on life , quality of life and the rights
that they consider important. depending on how you work out your
faith will determine your response to the use of technology. for example
friends of mine are considering ivf due to a life threatening situation the
wife is going through when it is over they will have the baby. (god
willing). in this case the technology is available and my friends have to
decide what to do. in all cases though you must decide if the technology
is against god 's revealed word.

regards
david

david morgan university of technology sydney morgan@socs.uts.edu.au
po box 123 broadway nsw 2007 ph 61 2 330 1864
15 73 broadway sydney fax 61 2 330 1807 . .
i paid good money to get my opinions you get them for free v

from halsall@murray.fordham.edu (paul halsall)
subject weirdness of early christians
reply to halsall@murray.fordham.edu
organization j. random misconfigured site
lines 76


i am a good catholic boy. a convert no less , attracted by the
rational tradition aquinas et al and the emotional authenticity
in comp. with the faddishness of anglicanism to roman catholicism. i
never had much time for the pope or any other heirarchs but i did , and
do , believe in the sacremental system. i always felt quite happy to
look down my nose at those such as john emery a few posts back who
had to engage in circuitous textual arguments to prove their faith , entirely
oblivious to the fact that a dozen other faiths can do the same with
miracles too , and that since their arguments depend on the belief in the
bible as god 's sole revelation , it was not very good logic to argue
that the bible proved god. no , i was happy to accept the church as god 's
revelation. it was the church after all that existed before the bible , the
church that choose under grace of course the canon of scripture. protestant
ludicrosity , i thought , was shown by protestants breathtaking acceptance
of luther 's right to reject a dozen or so books he disliked.
but recently i read peter brown 's body and society . it is very
well researched , and well written. but is raises some very upsetting
questions. the early christians were weird even more so than today 's
carzy fundies. they had odd views on sex , odder views on the body ,
totally ludicrous views about demons , and distinctly uncharitable
views about other human beings.
now the question is this were the first christians just as
weird , but we 've got used to them , or did the pristine fall of the
church happen within one generation. it certainly did'nt have to
wait until the triumph of the church under constantine. if so ,
wha does this say about god 's promise to always support the church.
it 's no use throwing the usual protestant pieties about the church
not being an organization at me. it 's a community or it is nothing ,
and it was the early communities that were weird. the institional
church was a model of sanity by comparison.
i would be interested in serious catholic and orthodox responses to
this entirely serious issue. i'm not sure it is an issue for protestants
with their soul alone with jesus approach , but for we who see the
ecclesia as a koinoia over time and space , the weird early
christians are a problem.

this is an exaggeration of the protestant view. many protestants
have a strong appreciation for the role of the church. the soul
alone with god is certainly important for protestants , but it 's by no
means the whole story.

i have read the sort of history you talk about. as you point out ,
protestants do n't have quite the same problem you do , because we
believe that the church had a fall at some point. however protestant
mythology typically places the fall around the time of constantine (or
more likely , regard it as happening in a sort of cumulative fashion ,
starting from constantine but getting worse as the pope accumulated
power during the medieval period.) the consequences of having it
earlier are somewhat worrisome even to us. most protestants accept
the theological results of the early ecumenical councils , including
such items as the trinity and incarnation. indeed in the works of
reformers such as luther and calvin , you 'll find church fathers such
as augustine quoted all the time. i think you 'll find many
protestants resistant to the idea that the early church as a whole was
wierd . (there is an additional problem for protestants that i do n't
much want to talk about in this context , since it 's been looked at
recently that 's the question of whether one can really think of
augustine and other fathers as being proto protestants. their views
on mary , the authority of the pope , etc , are not entirely congenial to
protestant thought.)

one thing that somewhat worries me is a question of methodology.
there are certainly plenty of wierd people in the early church. what
concerns me is that they may be overrepresented in what we see. we
see every christian who courted martyrdom. but i think there 's good
reason to believe that most ordinary christians were more prudent than
that. we see the heroic virgins. but i think there 's good reason to
think that many christians were happily married. i ca n't help
suspecting that the early church had the same range of wierdos and
sane people that we do now. i think there 's also a certain level of
revisionism active in history at the moment. i do n't mean that
they 're manufacturing things out of whole cloth. but do n't you think
there might be a tendency to emphasize the novel \?

clh

from will@futon.webo.dg.com (will taber)
subject re question about virgin mary
lines 31

ddavis@cass.ma02.bull.com (dave davis) writes

much deletion. he is trying to explain the immaculate conception
and the assumption of mary.

'original sin' is the only reason (fallen) humanity
dies. adam and eve would not have died had they
not fallen.

if this is true than why in the genesis story is god concerned that
adam and eve might also eat from the tree of life and live forever and
be like gods \? eating of the tree of life would not take away the
effects of eating of the tree of knowledge. is there any reason to
assume that they had already eaten of the tree of life and so had
already attained to eternal life \? if so , what basis is there for
saying that this was taken away from them \? to me the wages of sin are
a spiritual death , not necessarily a physical death. i
can attest to the truth of this interpretation from my own experience.
i suspect that many others could attest to this as well.

peace
will


william taber will taber@dg.com any opinions expressed
data general corp. will@futon.webo.dg.com are mine alone and may
westboro , mass. 01580 change without notice.

when all your dreams are laid to rest , you can get what 's second best ,
but it 's hard to get enough. david wilcox


from topcat ! tom@tredysvr.tredydev.unisys.com (tom albrecht)
subject re old vs. new testament
organization applied presuppositionalism , ltd.
lines 39

rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov writes

we can jillustrate this by pointing to the way god administers his judgment.
in the ot , sins were not forgiven , but rather covered up. in the age of the
church not only are sins forgiven (taken away) , but the power of sin is put to
death. ...

my , this distinction seems quite arbitrary.

blessed is the man whose iniquities are forgiven , whose sin is covered.
(ps. 32 1).

and quoted by the apostle paul

even as david also describeth the blessedness of the man , unto whom god
imputeth righteousness without works ,
saying , blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven , and whose sins
are covered.
blessed is the man to whom the lord will not impute sin. (rom. 4 6 8)

the biblical perspective seems to be that foregiveness and covering are
parallel equivalent concepts in both testaments. the dispensational
distinction is unwarranted.

during the millenium , we read that sins are dealt with immediately
under the present (ie that christ is present on earth) rulership of christ.

i'm sure rex has scripture to back this up. you 're suggesting jesus is
going to travel around dealing with individual violations of his law for
millions perhaps billions of people. such activity for moses the lawgiver
was considered unwise (cf. ex. 18 13ff). it makes for interesting
speculation , though.

i 'll leave comments on the so called bema seat vs. throne judgments to
someone else. this also seems like more unnecessary divisions ala
dispensationalism.


tom albrecht

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject atheists and hell
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 26


hello ,

i have seen two common threads running through postings by atheists on the
newsgroup , and i think that they can be used to explain each other.
unfortunately i do n't have direct quotes handy...

1) atheists believe that when they die , they die forever.

2) a god who would condemn those who fail to believe in him to eternal death
is unfair.

i do n't see what the problem is ! to christians , hell is , by definition ,
eternal death exactly what atheists are expecting when they die. there 's no
reason hell has to be especially awful to most people , eternal death is bad
enough.
literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such. personally , i do n't think
that people in hell will be thrust into flame any more than i expect to jesus
with a double edged sword issuing from his mouth i treat both these statements
as metaphorical.

alan terlep ...and the scorpion says , 'it 's
oakland university , rochester , mi in my nature.'
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu
rushing in where angels fear to tread. jody

from mprc@troi.cc.rochester.edu (m. price)
subject re phone number of wycliffe translators uk
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 38

in apr.20.03.02.03.1993.3788@geneva.rutgers.edu mserv@mozart.cc.iup.edu (mail server) writes
mark , mp

i'm concerned about a recent posting about wbt sil. i thought they 'd
pretty much been denounced as a right wing organization involved in
ideological manipulation and cultural interference

good heavens , you mean my good friend wes collins , who took his wife and two
small children into the jungles of guatemala , despite dangers from primitive
conditions and armed guerillas , so that the indigenous people groups their
could have the bible in their native languages the young man who led bible
studies in our church , who daily demonstrated and declared his deep abiding
faith in the lord of love you mean he really was a sneaky imperialistic spy

i am sorry you find these charges amusing , mark. i understand your
frustration though it can be kind of scary to find your assumptions
challenged. some of the specific cultural interference to which i refer
includes linguistic manipulation , for instance , their tzotzil spanish
dictionary removed both spanish and tzotzil words for concepts which are
threatening to the ruling ideology , e.g. , class , conquer , exploitation ,
repression , revolution , and described words which can express
ideological concepts in examples like boss the boss is good. he treats
us well and pays us a good wage. as some of my students would say ,
not !
your tone implies that you are unlikely to believe me indeed , why
should you \? if you are interested enough to do some further research
though , and you sound as if you are , here are some references for you.

stoll , david. fishers of men or founders of empire \? the wycliffe bible
translators in latin america .
sectas y religiosidad en america latina .
los angeles times , dec. 11. 1977.
latin america press , may 19 , 1983.
washington times , june 22 , 1984.

happy hunting.

mp

from johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
reply to johnsd2@rpi.edu
organization not sun microsystems
lines 95

in article 28388@athos.rutgers.edu , jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes
gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

firstly , i am an atheist. i am not posting here as an immature flame
start , but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.
deleted

we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and we
die.

i do n't meant to defend eric molas i find it somewhat annoying when
someone pops up on alt.atheism to tell us all about his (usually
atheistic) beliefs , so i can certainly see how christians might be
annoyed but i 'd like to point out a few things.

i am glad that i am not an atheist. it seems tragic that some people
choose a meaningless existence.

no meaning from god is not the same as no meaning . from my (atheistic)
point of view , if you want meaning in your life , you get to go and
get some or make some.

no free gifts of meaning. (i never quite understood how any
god can just give your life meaning , actually. if he
says you exists to do or be x , that gives you a purpose
if you care to accept it , but is that the same thing \? but
i digress...)

how terrible to go on living only
because one fears death more than life.

this would truely be a miserably existance , which i doubt eric
endures. life can be enjoyable , so you can live it because you like
it , or purposefull , so you can live it to get something done. one should
endeavour to make it so , if it is not. otherwise it would be as you say.
terrible.

i feel so sorry for eric and
yet any attempts to share my joy in life with him would be considered as
further evidence of the infectious nature of christianity.

probably true. remeber he almost certainly sees that particular joy as
an illusion , and does not want it. so maybe it is n't so bad \?

as a christian i am free to be a human person. i think , love , choose ,
and create.

as an atheist , i am free to be a human person. i think , love , choose ,
and create.

i will live forever with god.

ah , now here we begin to diverge. i will not live forever
with anyone.

(i do n't think you will either , but you are welcome to your
opinion on the matter.)

christ is not a kind of drug.

i tend to agree with you.

it 's my opinion that (unlike drugs) religions are normal
parts of human societies.

i think they have outlived their usefullness , but they
are evidently quite ordinary , normal things that have n't
proved lethal to humanity yet.

drugs are a replacement for christ.
those who have an empty spot in the god shaped hole in their hearts must
do something to ease the pain.

i have heard this claim quite a few times. does anybody here know
who first came up with the god shaped hole business \?

this is why the most effective
substance abuse recovery programs involve meeting peoples' spiritual
needs.

you might want to provide some evidence next time you make a claim
like this.

thank you , eric for your post. it has helped me to appreciate how much
god has blessed me. i hope that you will someday have a more joy filled
and abundant life.

i do n't know eric , but i do not think it is wise to assume he has a less
joy filled and abundant life because he holds certain beliefs.


dan johnson
and god said jeeze , this is dull ... and it was dull. genesis 0 0

these opinions probably show what i know.

from mussack@austin.ibm.com (christopher mussack)
subject re sin
organization ibm austin
lines 29

in article apr.8.00.59.20.1993.28493@athos.rutgers.edu , jadaley@cwis.unomaha.edu (jill anne daley) writes
what exactly is a definition of sin and what are some examples. how does a
person know when they are committing sin \?


anything that does not bring me closer to god is a sin.
(if you think this is too strict , just consider how ambiguous it is.)

this implies that staying the same is a sin. a christian should
never be satisfied. it does not imply that
having fun is a sin. it does not imply that sleeping is a sin.
it does imply that i sin every day.

a perhaps simpler definition
anything that is counter to the two great commandments
love god , love your neighbor , is a sin.
anything i do that is not from love is a sin.

the same action can be a sin sometimes and not a sin sometimes.

i could yell at my kids as discipline , all the time loving them ,
considering only to teach them proper behavior , or i could yell at my
kids out of anger or selfishness.

i could post an excellent article because i am interested in sharing
my opinions and getting feedback and learning , or i could post an
article because i want everyone to realize how wise i am.

chris mussack

from noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes)
subject re why do people become atheists \?
reply to noye@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 92

in article may.7.01.09.59.1993.14571@athos.rutgers.edu mayne@nu.cs.fsu.edu writes
in article may.5.02.50.42.1993.28665@athos.rutgers.edu fil.sapienza@med.umich.edu (fil sapienza) writes
why are atheists atheists believes it could be the result of
brokenness

this is condescending at best and a slightly disquised ad hominem
attack. this attitude on the part of many theists , especially the
vocal ones , is one reason for the hostility you sense. how do you
like it when atheists say that people turn to religion out of
immature emotionalism \?

i agree if you are going to find out anything from people who do n't
share your beliefs , do not attack them or condescend to them and hope
to get a neutral picture of them. come to them with an open mind.

i do n't believe that atheists are generally any more broken
than anybody else. any cause and effect is likely to be the
other way. there is an emotional price to pay for being different ,
hearing one 's beliefs (or lack thereof) condemned , and one 's
motives and character attacked.

well , you do believe in something , as i see it , even if it is a sort
of anti belief (no negative connotation meant i mean simply that
you believe that god does not exist). christians can also feel that
sense of difference , however , when they are associated with those
weird televangelists who always talk about satan . if you 'll excuse
the cliched sound of this , everyone has to deal with his her
differences from other people. i can understand how being an atheist
could be hard for you being a christian is sometimes hard for me.

i became an atheist when i got old enough to reason because there
was just no good reason to believe the religion i had been taught.
this was very painful because of the pressure i was placed under by
my family and friends. i wanted to fit in , believe , and be accepted.
i tried , but finally the cognitive dissonance was just too great.

you should not have to repress how you feel you should be able to
discuss it without fear. i think there are admirable things to learn
from any belief , which can enrich your own by asking myself the
questions that atheists may ask me , i can learn the answers and become
stronger in my faith. if my faith ca n't support knowing the answers
to those questions , it is weak and untrue.

i have sympathy for gays growing up in repressive environments and
having to hide and sometimes at first try to deny a part of themselves
because i 've been there. only in my case it was my rationality instead
of sexuality which i was forced to try to repress.

in some way the pressures were different , of course , because you
chose your beliefs or are you saying that they were not your
choice , but born of necessity \? please , no flames about whether or
not gay people choose their lifestyle that 's elsewhere in this
newsgroup

i must say that i
was n't hurt by my experiences in church any more than some of my friends
who did n't become atheists. i was just hurt differently.

i'm not sure i understand this sentence could you explain \?

moderator points out that many most atheists are n't hostile , they
just cease believiing in xiantiy religion

true. consider also that people like pat robertson and many of the
christian extremists in soc.religion.christianity naturally evoke
hostility by their attacks on anyone who disagrees and their attempts
to force their views on others. you are known by the company you keep.
christians trying to preach in alt.atheism should not be surprised by
hostility.

ouch , yes. part of being a christian is accepting everyone with an
open heart including people of our own camp with whom we
completely disagree. by the same token , i believe that accusation and
suspicion are not the best way to reach out to those not of our faith ,
nor is it effective to try to browbeat people into accepting our
religion. i have a different idea of mission be what i am , a
christian who is happy in her faith , and if others see that and want
to know about either the happiness or the religion , i 'll share what i
know without pressure and let them make their own decisions. at some
point you just have to agree to disagree acceptance of diversity ,
not uniformity , is the way to sow peace....

bill mayne

vera noyes


i am your clock ! i bind unto myself today vera noyes
i am your religion ! the strong name of the noye@midway.uchicago.edu
i own you ! trinity.... no disclaimer what
lard st. patrick 's breastplate is there to disclaim \?


from news@cbnewsk.att.com
subject re what was the immaculate conception
organization at t bell labs
lines 30

in article may.3.05.01.26.1993.9898@athos.rutgers.edu todd@nickel.laurentian.ca writes
your roommate is correct. the immaculate conception refers to
the conception of mary in her mother 's womb.

okay , now that we 've defined the immaculate conception doctrine would it
be possible for those more knowledgeable in the area to give the biblically
or other support for it. i 've attempted to come to terms with it previously
(in an attempt to understand it for learning purposes) and have n't been able
to grasp the reasoning.

it was a gift from god. i think basically the reasoning was that the
tradition in the church held that mary was also without sin as was jesus.
as the tenets of faith developed , particularly with augustine , sin was
more and more equated with sex , and thus mary was assumed to be a virgin
for life (since she never sinned , and since she was the spouse of god , etc.)
since we also had this notion of original sin , ie. that man is born with
a predisposition to sin , and since mary did not have this predisposition
because she did not ever sin , she did n't have original sin. when science
discovered the process of conception , the next step was to assume that
mary was conceived without original sin , the immaculate conception.

mary at that time appeared to a girl named bernadette at lourdes. she
refered to herself as the immaculate conception. since a nine year old
would have no way of knowing about the doctrine , the apparition was deemed
to be true and it sealed the case for the doctrine.

rcs hold that all revelation comes from two equally important sources , that
being sacred scripture and holy tradition. in this case , mostly tradition.

joe moore

from morgan@socs.uts.edu.au
subject re prophetic warning to new york city
reply to morgan@socs.uts.edu.au
organization university of technology sydney
lines 49

in article apr.9.01.10.38.1993.16892@athos.rutgers.edu evensont@spot.colorado.edu (evenson thomas randall) writes
in article apr.7.01.56.20.1993.22789@athos.rutgers.edu reid@cs.uiuc.edu (jon reid) writes
deon.strydom@f7.n7104.z5.fidonet.org (deon strydom) writes

which brings me around to asking an open question. is the bible a closed
book of scripture \? is it okay for us to go around saying god told
me this and jesus told me that \? would n't that imply that god is still
pouring out new revelation to us \? i know that some people will feel
that is okay , and some will not. the concept of a closed canon would
certainly cast a shadow on contemporary prophets. on the other hand ,
an open canon seems to be indicated sometimes.


let 's get back to basics. canon (from the latin) means a rule. if
we say that a rule is open then its a rule made to be broken.
there is an issue also of measurement against a rule. thus the words
that are spoken need to be compared against the rule canon but not
added to the canon.

is new revelation necessary \? topical , current , personal revelation
i 'd say is necessary. new revelation for all people for all times
is not necessary as we have that in scripture.

you also seem to confuse canon with scripture. scripture may speak of
itself being open ie god speaking today. it would speak that it is
closed in the sense that the canon is unchangeable. (though the concept
of canon is later historically.)

also interesting to note is that some so called prophecies are nothing new
but rather an inspired translation of scripture. is it right to call
that prophecy \? misleading \? would n't that be more having to do with
knowledge \? i know , the gift of knowledge may not be as exciting to
talk about , but should n't we call a horse a horse \?


i agree with the problem of confusion. if prophecy is meant to encourage ,
exhort or correct then is an overlap with scripture. if prophecy is
meant to bring a `word' of the form the man you live with is not your
husband then that is knowledge. yet the exact words their are scripture.
i would expect the difference to be the motive and means for delivery.
the reading of scripture itself can be a powerful force.

regards
david

david morgan university of technology sydney morgan@socs.uts.edu.au
po box 123 broadway nsw 2007 ph 61 2 330 1864
15 73 broadway sydney fax 61 2 330 1807 . .
i paid good money to get my opinions you get them for free v

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re anger
organization indiana university
lines 34

in article apr.17.01.10.44.1993.2232@geneva.rutgers.edu news@cbnewsk.att.com writes
paul conditt writes
insert deletion of paul 's and aaron 's discourse on anger , ref galatians
5 19 20

i do n't know why it is so obvious. we are not speaking of acts of the
flesh. we are just speaking of emotions. emotions are not of themselves
moral or immoral , good or bad. emotions just are. the first step is
not to label his emotion as good or bad or to numb ourselves so that
we hide our true feelings , it is to accept ourselves as we are , as god
accepts us.

oh , but they definitely can be. please look at colossians 3 5 10 and
ephesians 4 25 27. emotions can be controlled and god puts very strong
emphasis on self control , otherwise , why would he have paul write to
timothy so much about making sure to teach self control \?

insert deletion of remainder of paragraph


re think it , aaron. do n't be quick to judge. he has forgiven those with
aids , he has dealt with and taken responsibility for his feelings and made
appropriate choices for action on such feelings. he has not given in to
his anger.

please , re think and re read for yourself , joe. again , the issue is
self control especially over feelings and actions , for our actions stem
from our feelings in many instances. as for god giving in to his anger ,
that comes very soon.


joe moore

joe fisher

from mauaf@csv.warwick.ac.uk (mr p d simmons)
subject why religion and which religion \?
organization computing services , university of warwick , uk
lines 46


my family has never been particularly religious singing christmas
carols is about the limit for them. thus i 've never really believed in god and
heaven , although i do n't actually believe that they do n't exist either
i'm sort of undecided , probably like a lot of people i guess.
lately i 've been thinking about it all a lot more , and i wondered how
religious people can be so convinced that there is a god. i feel as though
i want to believe , but i'm not used to believing things without proof
just as i ca n't believe that there definitely is n't a god , so i ca n't
definitely believe that there is. i wondered if most of you were brought up by
religious families and never believed any different. can anyone help me to
understand how your belief and faith in god can be so strong.

another question that frequently crosses my mind is which religion is
correct \? \? how do you choose a religion , and how do you know that the christian
god exists and the gods of other religions do n't \? \? how do you feel about
people who follow other religions \? \? how about atheists \? \? and people like me
agnostics i suppose. do you respect their religion , and accept their
beliefs as just as valid as your own \? \? is n't there contradiction between
the religions \? \? how can your religion be more valid than any others \? \? do
you have less respect for someone if they 're not religious , or if they follow
a different religion than you would if they were christian \? \?

also , how much of the scriptures are correct \? \? are all events in
the bible really supposed to have happened , or are they just supposed to be
stories with morals showing a true christian how to behave \? \?

i generally follow most of the christian ideas , which i suppose are
fairly universal throughout all religions not killing , stealing , etc , and
'loving my neighbour' for want of a better expression. the only part i find
hard is the actual belief in god.

finally , what is god 's attitude to people like me , who do n't quite
believe in him , but are generally fairly 'good' people. surely not
believing does n't make me a worse person \? \? if not , i find myself wondering why
i so strongly want to really believe , and to find a religion.

sorry if i waffled on a bit i was just writing ideas as they came
into my head. i'm sure i probably repeated myself a bit too.

thanks for the help ,
paul simmons

there 's been enough discussion about evidence for christianity
recently that you may prefer to respond to this via email rather than
as a posting. clh

from drt@athena.mit.edu (david r tucker)
subject re question jesus alone , oneness
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 89

regarding jesus only believers , our moderator writes

there may be some misunderstanding over terms here...

i agree. quite likely , actually.

...i believe jesus
only originally was in the context of baptism. these are folks who
believe that baptism should be done with a formula mentioning only
jesus , rather than father , son , and holy spirit. this may have
doctrinal implications , but as far as i know it does not mean that
these folks deny the existence or divinity of the father. i'm not the
right one to describe this theology , and in fact i think there may be
several , including what would classically be called monophysite or
arian (two rather different views) , as well as some who have beliefs
that are probably consistent with trinitarian standards , but who wo n't
use trinitarian language because they misunderstand it or simply
because it is not biblical. clh

not biblical \? what then can they make of the end of matthew \?

(28 18)and jesus came and said to them , all authority in heaven and on
earth has been given to me. (19)go therefore and make disciples of all
nations , baptizing them in the name of the father and of the son and
of the holy spirit , (20) and teaching them to obey everything that i
have commanded to you. and remember , i am with you always , to the end
of the age. other ancient authorities add amen nrsv

the notes give no sense that this is emended. do other texts
contradict this regarding baptism \? or is a misunderstanding of the
trinity the most likely explanation after all \?

but maybe i simply misunderstand their views. (is anyone else out there
forced to read this group with both a good bible and an unabridged
dictionary \? \? christianity really is an education in itself.)



david r. tucker kg2s drt@athena.mit.edu


arrgggghhhh. when i talked about people who rejected trinitarian
language as unbiblical , i was speaking of trinitarian theology , things
like one essense and three persons . obviously the three fold
baptismal formula is biblical , as you point out. (i normally use the
term three fold in referring to mat. while it is certainly
consistent with belief in the trinity , the trinity is a doctrine whose
full formulation occurred in the 4th and 5th cent 's. it 's unlikely
that mat. had in mind the fully developed trinitarian doctrine.
indeed the three fold baptismal formula is used by some groups that do
not believe in the trinity.) the disagreement over baptismal formulae
occurs because of passages such as acts 2 38 , which command baptism in
the name of jesus. (there are a couple of other passages in acts as
well.) this leaves us with sort of a problem we 're commanded in mat.
to baptize in the name of the father , the son , and the holy spirit ,
and in acts to baptize in the name of jesus.

jesus only groups baptize in the name of jesus. they consider this
consistent with mat 28 18 , because they say that jesus is the name of
the father , the son , and the holy spirit. i'm not the right one to
ask to explain what this means. i will simply say that it does not
appear to be normal trinitarian theology. (it is also an odd way of
dealing with the idiomatic phrase in the name of .)

those who use the three fold formula do n't seem to have a standard
answer to the passages talking about baptizing in the name of jesus.
i suspect that the most common explanation is to say that in the name
of need not be a verbal formula. to say that you baptize in the name
of jesus may simply mean that you are doing baptism under jesus'
authority. in the 1st cent. context , it contrasts christian baptism
with the baptism of john or other jewish baptism. of course there 's a
certain parallelism between these passages. that suggests that we
could just as well say that mat 28 18 does n't require the specific
three fold formula to be used in baptism , but simply characterizes
baptism done by those who follow the father , son , and holy spirit.

one might well suspect that in the early church , more than one
baptismal formula was used. so long as we consider following jesus to
be the same as following the father , son , and holy spirit , no great
damage would be done by such a difference. this does not mean that
i think we should go back to using both formulae. baptism is one of
the few things that almost all christian groups now recognize
mutually , so i do not think doing something to upset that would be in
the interests of the gospel. this is reinforced by the fact that
those groups that actually use in the name of jesus now do seem to
have in mind a difference in doctrine. but as i 've said before , i'm
not the one to explain what their doctrine is.

clh

from aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 106

to what follows , our moderator has already answered the charge of
arrogance more ably that i could have done so , so i will confine
myself to answering the charge of illogic.

in a previous article , eugene.bigelow@ebay.sun.com (geno) says

if i do n't think my belief is right and everyone else 's belief is wrong ,
then i do n't have a belief. this is simply what belief means.

unfortunatly , this seems to be how christians are taught to think when
it comes to their religion.

this is how everyone in the western intellectual tradition is , or was ,
taught to think. it is the fundamental premis a is not not a . if a thing
is true then its converse is necessarilly false. without this basic
asumption theology and science as we know them are alike impossible. we
should distinguish the strong and weak meanings of the word believe ,
however. the weak sense means i am not sure. i believe tom went to
the library. (but he could have gone to the track). the strong sense
means i am so certain that i use it as a basis of thought. i believe
that nature operates according to certain fundamental laws. (despite
the fact that nature appears capricious and unpredictable). christian
belief is of the strong kind. (though christians may well hold beliefs
of the weak kind on any number of theological and ecclesiological
topics.)

some take it to the extreme and say that
their religion is the only one and if you do n't accept their teachings
then you wo n't be saved .

note that these are two separate ideas. most hold the first view , but the
majority do not hold the second. is is again a matter of pure logic that
if christanity is true , then hinduism (for example) must necessarilly be
false , insofar as it contradicts or is incompatible with , christaianity.
(and , as a matter of logic , vice versa.)

it takes quite a bit of arrogance to claim
to know what god thinks wants.

it is arrogant to claim to know what anyone thinks or wants , unless
they have told you. christians believe god has told us what he thinks
and wants.

especially when it 's based upon your
interpretation of a book.

most christians do not base their belief on the bible , but on the living
tradition of the church established by christ and guided constantly
by the holy spirit. the bible is simply the written core of that tradition.

the logic in the above statement is faulty
in that it assumes two people with differing beliefs ca n't both be
correct.

if depends what you mean by differing. if i believe tom is six feet
tall and you believe he weighs 200 pounds , our beliefs differ , but we
may both be right. if i believe tom is six feet tall and you beleive
that he is four foot nine , one of us , at least , must be wrong.

it 's all about perception. no two people are exactly alike.
no two people perceive everything in the same way. i believe that
there is one truth. call it god 's truth , a universal truth , or call it
what you will. i do n't believe god presents this truth. i think it is
just there and it 's up to you to look for and see it , through prayer ,
meditation , inspir ation , dreams or whatever. just because people may
perceive this truth differently , it does n't mean one is wrong and the
other is right.

thus you believe that there is a single truth but that no human being
can find it. you assert that anyone who believe that we can find
absolute truth is mistaken. in short , you believe that anyone who
does not share your belief on this point is wrong. qed.

as an example , take the question , is the glass half
empty or half full \? you can have two different answers which are
contradictory and yet both are correct. so , for your belief to be
true , does not require everyone else 's belief to be wrong.

here i begin to suspect that your real difficulty is not with the
knowability of truth , but simply with language. saying that the glass
is half empty is not a contradiction of the statement that it is half
full it is the same fact expressed in different words. (the whole
point of this phrase is to illustrate the different ways the pessimist
and the optimist express the same fact.)

it is , of course , quite true that different people may express the
same belief in different words. it is also true that they may fail
to understand each other 's words as expressions of the same belief
and may argue bitterly and believe that they are miles apart. great
scisms have occurred in just this way , and much ecumenical work has
been done simply in resolving differences in language which conceal
agreement in belief. this does not mean , in any sense , that all beliefs
are equally valid. since some of the beliefs people hold contradict
some other beliefs that other people hold , after all obfuscations
of language and culture in the expression of those beliefs have
been stripped away , some of the beliefs that some people hold must ,
necessarilly be false , and it is neither arrogant nor illogical
to say so. if i believe x and you believe y we may both be correct ,
but if y is equivalent to not x then one of us is wrong and as long
as we hold our respective beliefs , we must each regard the other
as in error.


mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis


from mike@nx39.mik.uky.edu (mike mattone)
subject re sex education
organization university of kentucky , dept. of math sciences
lines 17

regarding the moral question jen (jenk@microsoft.com) asked is it
okay to create a child if you are n't able to be a good parent \? , i
am reminded of a speech by one of the characters (i ca n't remember
which) in the movie parenthood . i am way to liberal with my
quotation marks tonight...

in this so called (by me) speech , the character is expressing what
a lousy father he had and he made an interesting point. he said
something to the effect of
you have to have a license to drive a car. you have to have a
license to own a dog. you even have to have a license to fish.
but , they 'll anyone have a kid. keep in mind that i am , in no
way , trying to pass this off as a quote. it is probably grossly
distorted but i think you get the point...

mike mattone


from shellgate ! llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization shell oil
lines 109

in article apr.13.00.08.35.1993.28412@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes
in article apr.10.05.32.29.1993.14388@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
...

are all truths also absolutes \?
is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes) \?

the answer to both questions is yes.

perhaps we have different definitions of absolute then. to me ,
an absolute is something that is constant across time , culture ,
situations , etc. true in every instance possible. do you agree
with this definition \? i think you do

similarly , all truth is absolute. indeed , a non absolute truth is a
contradiction in terms. when is something absolute \? when it is always
true. obviously , if a truth is not always true then we have a
contradiction in terms.

i agree with carol here. determining absolutes is , practically speaking , a
waste of time. and we easily forget that relative truth is , in fact relative.

for example , i recently was asking some children the question what temperature
does water boil at \? i got the answer 212 degrees consistently. i asked
if they knew what scale , and was told it 's just 212 degrees. any scale.
that 's what all thermometers say. well , that 's sincere , and may be
true in the experience of the speaker , but it is simply wrong. it is not
an absolute truth. similarly , scripture is full of truth , which we should
nurture and cherish , but trying to determine which parts are absolute truth
and which parts are the manifestations of that in the context of the time
and culture in which the text was penned is missing the point. then religion
easily becomes an intellectual head trip , devoid of the living experience of
the indwelling trinity and becomes dead scholasticism , imo.

example of head covering in church deleted

this was a good example. there may be an absolute truth behind the
writing , but the simplest understanding of the passage is that the
instructions apply to the corinthians , and not necessarily elsewhere.
the instructions may reflect absolute truth in the context of first
century culture and the particular climate at corinth , which was having
a lot of trouble with order. is it absolute truth to me \? no. and i
see no compelling , or even reasonable , reason that it should be.

evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture
to be absolute truth. (and there are plenty of other examples.)
can you reconcile this \?

even the most die hard literalists do not take all of the bible literally.
i 've yet to meet anyone who takes the verse blessed is he who takes your
babies and smashes their heads against the rocks literally. the bible
was not printed or handed to us by god with color codings to tell us
what parts should be interpreted which way.

many people claim that there are no absolutes in the world. such a
statement is terribly self contradictory. let me put it to you this
way. if there are no absolutes , should n't we conclude that the statement ,
there are no absolutes is not absolutely true \? obviously , we have a
contradiction here.

i do n't claim that there are no absolutes. i think there are very
few , though , and determining absolutes is difficult.

i agree. very few. and even if we knew them , personally , we may not be
able to express that in a way that still conveys absolute truth to another.
the presence of absence of absolutes may not make any difference , since i
know i can never fully apprehend an absolute if it walks up and greets me.

there is hardly consensus , even in evangelical
christianity (not to mention the rest of christianity) regarding
biblical interpretation.

so \? people sometimes disagree about what is true. this does not negate
the fact , however , that there are still absolutes in the universe.

i ca n't prove the existence of absolutes. i can only rely upon my experience.
i also trust god 's revelation that we cannot fully comprehend the infinite.
therefore we ca n't comprehend the absolutes. so i do n't need them.
i can never know the essence of god , only the energies by and through which
god is manifested to god 's creation. so the reality can be that there are
absolutes , but it is of no practical importance. it 's like claiming that the
original scriptural autographs were perfect , but copies may not be. swell.
who cares \? it does n't affect me in any practical useful way. i might as
well believe that god has made a lot of electric blue chickens , and that they
live on mars. maybe god did. so what \? is that going to have any effect on
how i deal with my neighbor , or god \? whether or not i go to this or that
cafeteria for lunch \? no.

this attitude leads many non christians to believe that all christians
are arrogant idiots incapable of critical reasoning. christianity is true ,
wonderful and sensible. it appeals to reason , since reason is an inner
reflection of the logos of god. explanations that violate that simply
appear to be insecure authoritarian responses to a complex world.

note i'm not claiming there is no place for authority. that 'd be silly.
there is a world of difference between authoritative and authoritarian.
authoritative is en expression of authority that respects others.
authoritarian is en expression of authority that fails to do that ,
and is generally agressive. good parents (like god) are authoritative.
many christians are simply authoritarian , and , not surprisingly , few
adults respond to this treatment.

larry overacker (llo@shell.com)


lawrence overacker
shell oil company , information center houston , tx (713) 245 2965
llo@shell.com

from fox@graphics.cs.nyu.edu (david fox)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization courant institute of mathematical sciences
lines 17

in article apr.13.00.08.04.1993.28376@athos.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes

in article apr.12.03.44.17.1993.18833@athos.rutgers.edu heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes

i realize i'm entering this discussion rather late , but i do
have one question. was n't it a reagan appointee , james watt , a
pentacostal christian (i think) who was the secretary of the interior
who saw no problem with deforestation since we were living in the
last days and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods
anyway \?

i heard the same thing , but without confirmation that he actually said it.
it was just as alarming to us as to you the bible says that nobody knows
when the second coming will take place.

nor does it say that if you do find out when it will happen you
should rape everything in sight just before.

from kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (dr nancy 's sweetie)
subject certainty and arrogance
organization rowan college of new jersey
lines 114

dean velasco quoted a letter from james m stowell , president of
moody bible institute

the other day , i was at the dry cleaner and the radio was playing.
it caught my attention because a talk show guest was criticizing
evangelical christians , saying we believe in absolutes and think we
are the only ones who know what the absolutes are.

we affirm the absolutes of scripture , not because we are arrogant
moralists , but because we believe in god who is truth , who has revealed
his truth in his word , and therefore we hold as precious the strategic
importance of those absolutes.

there has been a lot of discussion , but so far nobody seems to have hit on
exactly what the criticism of arrogance is aimed at.

the arrogance being attacked is that we think we are the only ones who know
what the absolutes are . in short , many evangelicals claim that they are
infallible on the matter of religious texts.

in particular , the problem is one of epistemology. as a shorthand , you can
think of epistemology as how do you know \? that question , it turns out , is
a very troubling one.

the problem with `absolute certainty' is that , at the bottom , at least some of
the thinking goes on inside your own head. unless you can be certain that
everything which happens in your head is infallible , the reasoning you did to
discover a source of truth is in question.

and that means you do not have absolute justification for your source of
authority which means you do not have absolute certainty.


let 's take the specific example of biblical inerrancy , and a fictional
inerrantist named zeke. (the following arguments applies to the idea of
papal infallibility , too.)

zeke has , we presume , spent some time studying the bible , and history , and
several other topics. he has concluded , based on all these studies (and
possibly some religious experiences) that the bible is a source of absolute
truth.

he may be correct but even if he is , he cannot be certain that he is correct.
his conclusion depends on how well he studied history he may have made
mistakes , and the references he used may have contained mistakes. his
conclusion depends on how well he studied the bible he may have made
mistakes. his conclusion depends on his own reasoning and he may have made
mistakes. (noticing a common thread yet \? 8 )

everything about his study of the world that he did everything that
happened in his own head is limited by his own thinking. no matter what
he does to try and cover his mistakes , he can never be certain of his own
infallibility. as long as any part of the belief is based on his own
reasoning , that belief cannot be considered absolutely certain .

zeke believes that he has found a source of absolute truth but that belief
is only as good as the quality of the search he made for it. unless he can
say that his own reasoning is flawless , his conclusions are in doubt.

any belief that you hold about absolute sources of truth depends in part on
your own thinking there is no way out of the loop. only an infallible
thinker can have absolute certainty in all his beliefs.


this is easy to demonstrate. let 's go back to our shorthand method of doing
epistemology how do you know \? imagine a hypothetical discussion

a the bible is a source of absolute truth.

b how do you know \?

a i studied history and the bible and religious writings and church
teachings and came to this conclusion.

b how do you know you studied history correctly \?

a well , i double checked everything.

b how do you know you double checked correctly \?

a well , i compared my answers with some smart people and we agreed.

b just because some smart guy believes something that does n't mean it is
true. how do you know they studied it correctly \?

a ...

and , as you see , b will eventually get a to the point where he has to say i
ca n't prove that there are no mistakes and as long as you may have made a
mistake , then you cannot be absolutely certain.

there is no way out of the loop.


this is where the arrogance of christians arises many people believe
that their own personal research can give them absolute certainty about the
doctrines of christianity they are implicitly claiming that they are
infallible , and that there is no possibility of mistake.

claiming that you cannot have made a mistake , and that your thinking has led
you to a flawless conclusion , is pretty arrogant.



people who want to see this argument explained in great detail should try to
find the infallibility of the church , by george salmon. he is attacking
the idea that the pope can be knowably infallible (and he does so very well) ,
but the general argument applies equally well to the idea that the bible is
knowably inerrant.


darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
at the core of all well founded belief , lies belief that is unfounded.
ludwig wittgenstein

from cbc5b@virginia.edu (charles campbell)
subject re was jesus black \?
organization university of virginia
lines 21


jesus was born a jew. we have biblical accounts of
both his mother 's ancestry and his father 's , both tracing back
to david. it seems reasonable to assume , therefore , that jesus
was semitic.
as an interesting aside , jesus' being semitic makes him
neither white nor black , and in some sense underscores the
point made earlier that his color was not important , it was his
message , his grace , and his divinity that we should concentrate
on.
finally , i would direct anyone interested in african
involvement in the church to the account of the conversion of
the ethiopian eunuch in acts chapter 9 (i think it 's chapter
9). this is one of the earliest conversions , and the eunuch ,
treasurer to the queen of the ethiopians , was definitely
african. because ethiopia at that time indicated a region
just south of egypt , many also speculate that this man was not
only the first african christian , but the first black christian
as well.
god bless ,
charles campbell

from apodaca@spot.colorado.edu (mu'tafikah)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization university of blaspheme
lines 20

i do n't understand who this post is directed towards who are you
trying to convince \? by its subject i would assume you are directing
the argument towards people who do not believe that christ rose
from the dead , but in your proof , you use the bible exclusively.

the post is therefore immediately useless to anyone who does n't
believe that the bible is an unadulterated truth , and to everyone
else , it is just a reaffirmation of a belief already held. as far
as i know , there is no disagreement between christians over
the resurrection of christ.

so my question is what is the purpose of this post \?

tomas


because no battle is ever won he said. they are not even fought.
the field only reveals to man his own folly and despair , and
victory is an illusion of philosophers and fools.
william faulkner

from ide ! twelker@uunet.uu.net (steve twelker)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization interactive development environmenmts , sf
lines 63

why do we follow god so blindly \? have you ever asked a
physically blind person why he or she follows a seeing eye dog \?
the answer is quite simple the dog can see , and the blind person
cannot.
...
of course , you may ask , if i cannot trust my own senses ,
how do i know whether what i see and hear about god is truth or
a lie. that is why we need faith to be saved. we must force
ourselves to believe that god knows the truth , and loves us
enough to share it with us , even when it defies what we think
we know. why would he have created us if he did not love us
enough to help us through this world \?


seems to me if you learned to differentiate between illusion and
reality on your own you would n't need to rely on doctrines that
need to be updated. my experience of christianity (25 years) is
that most christians seek answers from clergymen who have little
or no direct experience of spiritual matters , and that most of
these questions can be answered by simple introspection. most
people suspect that they cannot trust their senses , but few take
the next step to figure out that they can trust themselves. not to
get too esoteric , but it seems that most religions , christianity
included , are founded by particularly intuitive people who understand
this.

(stuff deleted)

as for you , no one can convert you. you must
choose to follow god of your own will , if you are ever to
follow him. all we as christians wish to do is share with
you the love we have received from god. if you reject that ,
we have to accept your decision , although we always keep
the offer open to you. if you really want to find out
why we believe what we believe , i can only suggest you try
praying for faith , reading the bible , and asking christians
about their experiences personally....

and what if the original poster , pixie , is never converted \?
does it make sense that she (or i , or the majority of humanity
for that matter) would go to hell for eternity , as many
christians believe \? it makes more sense to me that rather
than be converted to a centuries old doctrine that holds no
life for her , that she simply continue to decide for herself
what is best.



you may be right about christians relying on clergy , but i have some
reason to hope you 're not. protestants emphasize conversion ,
experience of the holy spirit , and use of the bible. this is intended
to make sure that christians have religious experience of their own ,
and that they have some basis on which to judge claims of clergy and
other christians. i ca n't speak for catholics and orthodox , but i
believe they also attempt to avoid having members who simply repeat
what they are told. i admit that this is n't always successful we
certainly see young people join our church because at that age parents
expect it. but most of our members do seem quite able and willing to
make judgements for themselves , and have a commitment that comes out
of their own experience. unfortunately , it 's the nature of usenet
that doctrinal disagreements get emphasized , so it looks like we spend
most of our time dealing with doctrine. that 's certainly not my
experience of the way christians really live. clh

from salaris@niblick.ecn.purdue.edu (rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 25

in article apr.20.03.02.07.1993.3791@geneva.rutgers.edu , rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov writes
in looking through my files this weekend , i ran across some lyrics from
various rock groups that have content. here are two from black sabbath 's
master of reality . i 'll say this much for the music of the '60 's and early
'70 's , at least they asked questions of significance. jethro tull is another
to asked and wrote about things that caused one to wonder. rex


it is interesting that you posted those lyrics , because just the
other day i was thinking of doing the same. i like those lyrics ,
since whenever i am approached by judgemental , pharisitical ,
evangelical fundamentalists who throw the bible at me because
i have long hair , wear a black leather jacket , and listen to black
sabbath , i have something to throw back. usually their chins drop
and they come up speechless over those not very satanic lyrics.

it just goes to show that there are more important evils in the
world to battle than rock lyrics...........



steven c. salaris we 're...a lot more dangerous than 2 live crew
salaris@carcs1.wustl.edu and their stupid use of foul language because
we have ideas. we have a philosophy.
geoff tate queensryche

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re question about virgin mary
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 22

d. andrew kille writes

just an observation although the bodily assumption has no basis in
the bible , carl jung declared it to be one of the most important
pronouncements
of the church in recent years , in that it implied the inclusion of the
feminine into the godhead.

which means he has absolutely no idea about what the assumption is.

however greatly we extoll mary , it is quite obvious that she is in no
way god or even part of god or equal to god. the assumption of our
blessed mother , meant that because of her close identification with the
redemptive work of christ , she was assumed (note that she did not
ascend) body and soul into heaven , and is thus one of the few , along
with elijah , enoch , moses (maybe \? \? \? \? ) who are already perfected in
heaven. obviously , the virgin mary is far superior in glorification to
any of the previously mentioned personages.

jung should stick to psychology rather than getting into theology.

andy byler

from conditt@tsd.arlut.utexas.edu (paul conditt)
subject re being right about messiahs
organization applied research laboratories , university of texas at austin
lines 11

the following is my comment on an article by desiree bradley. clh

by the way , from koresh 's public statement it 's not so clear to me
that he is claiming to be christ.

koresh did originally claim to be the christ , but then backed off and
said he was a prophet. the latest news at 8 00 cdt from waco is that
the feds broke through a wall of the compound with a tank. no news
besides that at this time.

paul

from reid@cs.uiuc.edu (jon reid)
subject cell church discussion group
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 15

i am beginning an e mail discussion group about cell churches. if you are
a follower of jesus christ and are

in a cell church , or
in a church that is transitioning to a cell church , or
just interested in learning more about cell churches ,

send me e mail. (i reserve the right to remove anybody from the group who
does not demonstrate a spirit of humility and christlikeness.)



jon reid he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep
reid@cs.uiuc.edu to gain what he cannot lose. jim elliot


from king@ctron.com (john e. king)
subject re eternity of hell (was re hell)
organization cabletron systems inc.
lines 8

db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler) writes

and we also know that it is impossible to destroy the soul.

hmmm. here 's food for thought ...but rather be in fear of him
who can destroy both soul and body in gehenna. math 10 28

jack

from gideon@otago.ac.nz (gideon king)
subject should christians fight \? justifiable war
organization university of otago
lines 144

i posted this a couple of weeks ago , and it does n't seem to have appeared
on the newsgroup , and i have n't had a reply from the moderator. we were
having intermittent problems with our mail at the time. please excuse me
if you have seen this before...

should christians fight \?

last week alastair posted some questions about fighting , and whether there
are such things as justifiable wars . i have started looking into these
things and have jotted down my findings as i go. i have n't answered all
his questions yet , and i know what i have here is on a slightly different
tack , but possibly i 'll be able to get into it more deeply later , and post
some more info soon.

our duty to our neighbour

do good to all men (gal 6 10)
love our neighbour as ourselves (matt 22 39)

act the part of the good samaritan (luke 10) toward any who may be in
trouble. we will therefore render every possible assistance to an injured
man , and therefore should not be part of any organisation which causes
people harm (even medical corps of the army etc).

christians are by faith citizens of the commonwealth of israel
(ephesians 2 11 12) , and also recognise that god rules in the kingdoms of
men , and therefore we should not be taking part in any of the struggles
of those nations which we are not part of due to our faith.

we are to be strangers and pilgrims amongst the nations , so we are just
passing through , and not part of any nation or any national aspirations
(this can also be applied to politics etc , but that 's another story). we
are not supposed to strive or resist evil (even suffer yourselves to
be defrauded ) it is therefore incosistent for us to strive to assist in
preserving a state which christ will destroy when he returns to set up
god 's kingdom.

our duty to the state.

render therefore unto caesar the things which be caesar 's and unto god
the things which be god 's (luke 20 25).
let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. for there is no power
but of god the powers that be are ordained of god. whosoever resisteth
the power , resisteth the ordinance of god (rom 13 1 2).
submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the lord 's sake whether
it be to king as supreme... for so is the will of god that with well doing
ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men (1 pet 2 13 15)

these scriptures make it clear that submission to the powers that be is a
divine command , but it is equally clear from acts 5 19 29 that when any
ordinance of man runs counter to god 's law , we must refuse submission to
it. the reason for this is that we are god 's bond servants and his
service is our life 's task. an example of the type of thing is in col
3 22 23 where bondservants were to work heartily as unto the lord so
also we should work as if our boss was god i.e. pressed down , shaken
together , and running over ... oops a bit of a side track there...

in the contests between the nations , we are on god 's side a side that is
not fighting in the battle , but is testifying to the truth.

when we believe in god and embrace his promises , we become fellow
citizens with the saints and of the household of god , and are no longer
interested in associations of the world. think of this in relation to
unions etc as well. paul tells us to lay aside every weight that we may
run the race that is set before us , and if we are wise , we will discard
any association which would retard our progress thou therefore endure
hardness as a good soldier of jesus christ. no man that warreth entangleth
himself with the affairs of this life , that he may please him who hath
chosen him to be a soldier (2 tim 2 3 4).

one of these entanglements he warns about is be ye not unequally yoked
together with unbelievers . one of the obvious applications of this is
marriage with unbelievers , but it also covers things like business
partnerships and any other position where we may form a close association
with any person or persons not believing the truth about god (in this case
the army). the principle comes from deut 22 10 remember that as well as
them being different animals of different strengths , one was clean and one
unclean under the law. these ideas are strongly stressed in 2 cor 6 13 18
i suggest you read this. the yoking also has another aspect that of
servitude , and jesus says take my yoke upon you , so we are then yoked
with christ and cannot be yoked with unbelievers. we have already seen
that we are bondservants of christ , and paul says become not ye the
bondservants of men (1 cor 7 23 rv).

an example from the old testament the question is asked in 2 chr 19 2
shouldest thou help the ungodly... \? . the situation here is a good
example of what happens when you are yoked together with unbelievers.
jehoshaphat was lucky to escape with his life. here are the facts
1. he had made an affinity with ahab , who had sold himself to work
wickedness before the lord (1 kings 21 25).
2. when asked by ahab to form a military alliance , he had agreed and said
i am as thou art , my people as thy people (1 kings 22 4) an unequal
yoking.
3. he sttod firm in refusing the advice of the false prophets and insisted
on hearing the prophet of the lord (trying to do the right thing) , he
found that he was yoked and therefore could n't break away from the evil
association he had made.

god says to us come out from among them and be ye separate , and touch not
the unclean thing , and i will receive you and ye shall be my sons and
daughters (2 cor 6 17).

this is more or less what i have found out so far i'm still looking into
it , as i do n't think i 've answered all the questions raised by alastair
yet. heres a summary and a few things to think about

the christian in under command. obedience to this command is an essential
factor in his relationship with christ (john 15 10 , 14).

total dedication to this course of action is required (romans 12 1 2).

disobedience compromises the close relationship between christ and his
followers (1 pet 2 7 8).

we are to be separated to god (rom 6 4). this involves a master servant
relationship (rom 6 12 , 16).

no man can serve two masters (matt 6 24 , 13 , 14).

all that is in the 'kosmos' is lust and pride quite opposed to gos (1
john 2 16). christs kingdom is not of this world (i.e. not worldly in
nature) if it was , his servants would fight to deliver him. if christ is
our master and he was not delivered by his servants because his kingdom
was not of this world , then his servants cannot possibly fight for another
master.

strangers and pilgrims have no rights , and we cannot swear allegiance to
anyone but god.

the servant of the lord must not war but be gentle to all (2 tim 2 24)
this does not just apply to war , but also to avoiding strife throughout
our lives. there is a war to be waged , not with man 's weapons (2 cor
10 3 4) , but with god 's armour (eph6 13 20).

i 'll probably post some more when i 've had time to look into things a bit
further.


gideon king phone 64 3 479 8347
university of otago fax 64 3 479 8529
department of computer science e mail gideon@farli.otago.ac.nz
p.o. box 56
dunedin next mail preferred !
new zealand

from chips@astro.ocis.temple.edu (charlie mathew)
subject interdisc. bible research inst.
organization temple university
lines 27



hi !

anyone know anything about the interdisciplinary bible research
institute , operating out of hatfield , pa \?

i'm really interested in their theories on old earth
(as opposed to young earth) and what they believe about evolution.

thanks ,
in the master ,

charley.



seek god and you will find , among other things ,
piercing pleasure.

seek pleasure and you will find boredom , disillusionment
and enslavement.

john white (eros defiled).

note that i do not accept discussions of evolution here , as there
is a dedicated group for that , talk.origins. clh

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 40

in article apr.10.05.31.46.1993.14368@athos.rutgers.edu , luomat@alleg.edu (timothy j. luoma) writes
in article apr.9.01.11.16.1993.16937@athos.rutgers.edu

suppose you were part of the `christian consipracy' which was going to
tell people that christ had risen. never mind the stoning , the being
burned alive , the possible crucifixion ... let 's just talk about a
scourging. the whip that would be used would have broken pottery , metal ,
bone , and anything else that they could find attached to it. you would be
stood facing a wall , with nothing to protect you. ...
scream out in agony that your raw back was being torn at again. you would
say to yourself `all this for a lie \? ' and you had 37 more coming.

at the third hit you would scream out that it was all a lie , beg for them
to stop , and tell them that you would swear on your life that it had all
been a lie , if they would only stop....

no one was ever flogged , beaten , burned , fed to the lions , or killed in any
other way because of a belief in the resurrection sorry to disappoint you.
the idea of resurrection is one which can be found in a host of different
forms in the religions of antiquity. the problem was not the resurrection
which was a mediorce issue for a tiny fragment of the jewish population
(the saducees) but was a non issues for everyone else. the real problem was
that christians were pacifist and preached there was only one god. when the
state operates by a system of divinitation of the emperor monotheism
becomes a capital offense. the jews were able to get exemption from this ,
and were also not evangelistic. christians were far more vocal , and gentile ,
and hence dangerous and were therefore targets of persecution. also since
christians were a relatively powerless group , they made good scapegoats as is
seen by nero 's blaming them for the burning of rome. let 's not cloud the
issues with the resurrection.

randy

i agree with you that christians were not persecuted specifically
because they believed in resurrection. however the beliefs that did
cause trouble were dependent on belief in the resurrection of jesus.
of course the problem with it is that there are alternatives other
than a great conspiracy. the most common theory among non christians
scholars seems to be that the resurrection was a subjective event
in effect , a delusion. clh

from rolfe@junior.dsu.edu (tim rolfe)
subject divine providence vs. murphy 's law
lines 12

romans 8 28 (rsv) we know that in everything god works for good with those
who love him , who are called according to his purpose.

murphy 's law if anything can go wrong , it will.

we are all quite familiar with the amplifications and commentary on
murphy 's law. but how do we harmonize that with romans 8 28 \? for that
matter , how appropriate is humor contradicted by scripture \?

tim rolfe
rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu
rolfe@junior.dsu.edu

from parkin@eng.sun.com (michael parkin)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
reply to parkin@eng.sun.com
organization sun microsystems inc. , mountain view , ca
lines 57

another issue of importance. was the crucification the will of god or
a tragic mistake. i believe it was a tragic mistake. god 's will can
never be accomplished through the disbelief of man. jesus came to
this world to build the kingdom of heaven on the earth. he
desperately wanted the jewish people to accept him as the messiah. if
the crucification was the will of god how could jesus pray that this
cup pass from him. was this out of weakness. never. many men and
women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes.
is jesus less than these. no he is not. he knew the crucification
was not the will of god. god 's will was that the jewish people accept
jesus as the messiah and that the kingdom of heaven be established on
the earth with jesus as it 's head. (just like the jewish people
expected). if this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what
kind of world we would live in today. it would be a very different
world. and that is eactly what god wanted. men and women of that age
could have been saved by following the living messiah while he was on
the earth. jesus could have established a sinless lineage that would
have continued his reign after his ascension to the spiritual world to
live with god. now the kingdom of heaven on the earth will have to
wait for christ 's return. but when he returns will he be recognized
and will he find faith on this earth. is n't it about time for his
return. it 's been almost 2000 years.

mike


in article 28885@athos.rutgers.edu , oser@fermi.wustl.edu (scott oser) writes
in article apr.10.05.33.59.1993.14428@athos.rutgers.edu mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
the two historic facts that i think the most important are these

(1) if jesus did n't rise from the dead , then he must have done something
else equally impressive , in order to create the observed amount of impact.

(2) nobody ever displayed the dead body of jesus , even though both the
jewish and the roman authorities would have gained a lot by doing so
(it would have discredited the christians).

and the two simplest refutations are these

(1) what impact \? the only record of impact comes from the new testament.
i have no guarantee that its books are in the least accurate , and that
the recorded impact actually happened. i find it interesting that no other
contemporary source records an eclipse , an earthquake , a temple curtain
being torn , etc. the earliest written claim we have of jesus' resurrection
is from the pauline epistles , none of which were written sooner than 20 years
after the supposed event.

(2) it seems probable that no one displayed the body of jesus because no
one knew where it was. i personally believe that the most likely
explanation was that the body was stolen (by disciples , or by graverobbers).
do n't bother with the point about the guards ... it only appears in one
gospel , and seems like exactly the sort of thing early christians might make
up in order to counter the grave robbing charge. the new testament does
record that jews believed the body had been stolen. if there were really
guards , they could not have effectively made this claim , as they did.

scott o.

from mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul)
subject re national repentance
organization university of nebraska lincoln
lines 37

mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes

i heard on the radio today about a christian student conference where
christians were called to repent of america 's national sins , such
as sexual promiscuity.

how can i repent of someone else 's sin \? i ca n't.

and when i claim to repent of someone else 's sin , am i not in fact
judging him \? jesus equipped us to judge activities but warned us
not to judge people. judge not that ye be not judged.

strictly speaking , you 're right we ca n't repent for somebody else ,
for what they 've done. i guess i do n't think it 's out of line to talk
about a generalized repentence for our contribution to or participation
in the sins of society , or for our tacit approval (by our silence) of
sinful attitudes or practices....it may be that we 're also just plain
begging for mercy , hoping god will withhold his hand of judgement on
our whole country for the sake of a few , much as abraham sought to do
for the sake of lot. (hmmm , the results there were pretty cautionary...)

a few times lately when i 've observed some either out and out sinful
activity , or just some self destructive activity , i 've gotten a strong
impression that many folks really do n't know any better. christ 's pity
on the crowds as being like sheep without a shepherd rings true to me.
if these folks do n't have a clue , do i bear any responsibility for my
not having communicated a better way \? worse still have i expressed
judgement and disgust at their doings , and thus alienated them from any
positive relationship whereby i might pass along anything positive \?
i know i 've got something to repent about on that score.

anyway , it 's a real interesting question.

paul marxhausen .... ....... ............. ............ ............ ..........
.. . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . grace . . . .
. . . . . . . . happens .

from maridai@comm.mot.com (marida ignacio)
subject re every lent he suffers to save us
organization trunking fixed
lines 59

the story i related is one of the seven apparitions
approved by our church as worthy of belief. it happened
in la salle , france.

the moral lesson of the story is

the lamb of god has been sacrificed and his blood has
been used to cleanse us of our sins every moment as god perceives
worthy of being done in heaven. mary weeps for the lamb and
for the rest of her offsprings. this will continue while we
disobey god or sin against him. mary , as a messenger ,
has been given the task to make us be 'aware' of the evil
serpent (communism , wars , famine , unfaithful , disobedience
to god , etc.) running after the rest of her offsprings.
the children who went astray by disobedience led by the dragon is
brought back by her peace and loving messages , reparations for sins ,
to obey god 's commandments and be more worthy to be in the presence
of the lamb.

as she was conceived without sin to be worthy of bearing the
son of god in her womb , mary has been preparing us , the church ,
the body of christ , for his second coming (making sure we are
protected from the dragon). also , she has been preparing the new
eden , by reversing the deed of the ancient eve. the new eden will be
the sanctuary of the righteous as judged by christ in his
next coming.

i relate the story again
i believe this and mary , in one of her apparitions
in 19th or 20th century , she appeared to these
two children who tends goats and cows (i forgot
the exact place). she was weeping and telling the
children that she is afraid she 's going to lose her
son 's arm . she is mourning too for these
townfolks because it was their fault that there
would be drought in their harvest not much good
food again this year as it was last year.

mary tells the children
most of the townfolks in this place worked whole
week even on sundays when they should be in church
honoring god. these townfolks swears and
uses her son 's name in bad words. that is
why her son 's arm is so heavy in pain.
then she asked them if they pray. the children
said hardly . she asked them to pray every
morning and night. when the children went back
from work they had to tell somebody about this.
when the news was spred and after thorough
investigation of the incident , the townfolks
were converted and faith and obedience to god
were restored in their community.


once again , the lamb succeeds.

marida
...spreading god 's words through actions...
mother teresa

from wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (malcusco)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
organization university of california , san diego
lines 59

in article apr.16.23.18.04.1993.1876@geneva.rutgers.edu rob@ll.mit.edu writes
i think it was lewis who said that in a wedding , it 's the principals
that marry each other the church and the state are present merely as
witnesses.

this is not just lewis it 's a summary of standard catholic
theology. however this does n't mean that the presence of those
witnesses is optional , except in odd situations like the standard
desert island. clh

i originally wrote to the person who asked this question
personally , but decided to post the information i had on the topic.

i spoke to the pastor of my parish (catholic) recently ,
by coincidence , on this subject. his explaination was that
while it is possible for a couple to marry without the presence
of a priest , it is important to have it recognized by the
church as soon as it is possible. because the church
recoginizes itself as a community of believers , members
of the church , to some degree , are to be held accountable
to each other. to be less hypothetical than that mythical
couple on the desert island , there are many places in the
world that do not have priests availible for marriages
on a regular basis. therefore , couples get married without
the priest being present , but get the priest to testify to
their marriage when one comes through the area.

i remember a religion teacher in high school saying
that the marriage ceremony is not for the benefit of the couple
as much as it is for the benefit of the community. thus ,
married couples have some responsibility to the community
to stay married , as divorce sets a bad example for the
community. also , the couple has vowed to become one with
one another the community should be able to rely on that
couple to be as one.

while couples may marry without witnesses , they
may not get anulments without a priest present. an
anulment is simply an admission of the church that what
they had declared a marriage was not , in fact , a marriage
at all , for whatever reason. so do n't start getting married
in the back seat of a station wagon and giving yourselves
anulments a half hour later ! !

i tend to agree with the response back there that
said couples become married as soon as they consumate their
marriage , but i would add that couples should consider their
marriage consumated if they have sex , whether or not they
intended to be married , assuming they were both willing
partners to the sexual act. the couple must be prepared
to raise any children they may have as a result of that
sexual act with the benefit of both parents. sex is a
commitment , i believe , in god 's eyes.

but i'm digressing....

god be with you ,

malcusco

from kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (dr nancy 's sweetie)
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization rowan college of new jersey
lines 122

in an earlier article , i explained that what many people find arrogant about
christians is that some christians profess absolute certianty about their
beliefs and doctrines. that is , many christians insist that they cannot have
made any mistakes when discovering their beliefs , which amounts to saying
that they are infallible.

impicitly claiming to be infallible is pretty arrogant , most of us will
probably agree.

in short , the problem is that no matter how good your sources are , if any
part of your doctrines or beliefs rest on your own thinking and reasoning ,
then those doctrines are suspect. so long as your own brain is involved ,
there is a possibility for error. i summarised the problem by writing there
is no way out of the loop.


someone called `rexlex' has claimed that there is a way out of the loop , but
he did not bother to explain what it was , preferring instead to paraphrase
sartre , ramble about wittgenstein , and say that the conclusion of my argument
leads to relativism.

as i have explained to him before , you cannot reject an argument as false
because you dislike where it leads the facts do not change just because
you dislike them. `rexlex' wrote

i disagree with dr nancy 's sweetie 's conclusion because if it is
taken to fruition it leads to relativism which leads to dispair.

however , as any first year philosophy student can explain , what `rexlex' has
written does not constitute a refutation. all he has said is that he does
not like what i wrote he has done nothing at all to dispute it.



there were two sentences in `rexlex 's post that seemed relevant to the
point at hand

there is such a thing as true truth and it is real , it can be
experienced and it is verifiable.

i do not dispute that some truths can be verified through experience. i
have , for example , direct experience of adding numbers. i do n't claim to
be infallible at it in fact i remember doing sums incorrectly but i
do claim that i have direct experience of reasoning about numbers.

however , once we go past experiencing things and start reasoning about
them , we are on much shakier ground. that was the point of the earlier
article. human brains are infested with sin , and they can only be trusted
in very limited circumstances.


it is only because of god 's own revelation that we can be absolute
about a thing.

but how far does that get you \? once god 's revelation stops , and your own
reasoning begins , possibility for error appears.

for example , let 's suppose that our modern bible translations include a
perfect rendering of jesus words at the last supper , and that jesus said ,
exactly , this is my body.

we 'll presume that what he said was totally without error and absolutely
true. what can we be certain of \? not much.

at the moment he stops speaking , and people start interpreting , the
possibility of error appears. did he mean that literally or not \? we do
not have any record that he elaborated on the words. was he thinking of
tran or con substatiation \? he did n't say. we interpret this passage
using our brains we think and reason and draw conclusions. but we know
that our brains are not perfect our thinking often leads us wrong. (this
is something that most of us have direct experience of. 8 )

why should anyone believe that his reasoning which he knows to be
fallible can lead him to perfect conclusions \?

so , given the assumptions in this example , what we can be certain of is
that jesus said this is my body. beyond that , once we start making up
doctrines and using our brains to reason about what christ revealed , we
get into trouble.

unless you are infallible , there are very few things you can be certain
of. to the extent that doctrines rely on fallible human thinking , they
cannot be certain.



that is the problem of seeming arrogant. the non christians around us know
that human beings make mistakes , just as surely as we know it. they do not
believe we are infallible , any more than we do.

when christians speak as if they believe their own reasoning can never lead
them astray when we implicitly claim that we are infallible the non
christians around us rarely believe that implicit claim. witnessing is
hardly going to work when the person you are talking to believes that you
are either too foolish to recognise your own limits , or intentionally trying
to cover them up.

i think it would be far better to say what things we are certain of and what
things we are only very confident of. for example , we might say that we
know our sin , for recognising sin is something we directly experience. but
other things , whether based on reasoning from scripture or extra biblical
thinking , should not be labled as infallible we should say that we are
very confident of them , and be ready to explain our reasoning.

but , so far as i am aware , none of us is infallible speaking or acting
as if our thinking is flawless is ridiculous.



`rexlex' suggested that people read he is there and he is not silent , by
francis schaeffer. i did n't think very highly of it , but i think that
mr schaeffer is grossly overrated by many evangelical christians. somebody
else might like it , though , so do n't let my opinion stop you from reading it.

if someone is interested in my opinion , i 'd suggest on certainty , by
ludwig wittgenstein.


darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
if any substantial number of talk.religion.misc readers read some
wittgenstein , 60 of the postings would disappear. (if they understood
some wittgenstein , 98 would disappear. )) michael l siemon

from s0612596@let.rug.nl (m.m. zwart)
subject catholic church poland
organization faculteit der letteren , rijksuniversiteit groningen , nl
lines 10

hello ,

i'm writing a paper on the role of the catholic church in poland after 1989.
can anyone tell me more about this , or fill me in on recent books articles(
in english , german or french). most important for me is the role of the
church concerning the abortion law , religious education at schools ,
birth control and the relation church state(government). thanx ,

masja ,
m.m.zwart s0612596@let.rug.nl

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject re certainty and arrogance
organization fnal ad net
lines 110

in article apr.17.01.11.29.1993.2278@geneva.rutgers.edu
kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu (dr nancy 's sweetie) writes

someone called `rexlex' has claimed that there is a way out of the loop , but
he did not bother to explain what it was , preferring instead to paraphrase
sartre , ramble about wittgenstein , and say that the conclusion of my argument
leads to relativism.

i will answer this as i find time.


`rexlex' suggested that people read he is there and he is not silent , by
francis schaeffer. i did n't think very highly of it , but i think that
mr schaeffer is grossly overrated by many evangelical christians. somebody
else might like it , though , so do n't let my opinion stop you from reading it.

if someone is interested in my opinion , i 'd suggest on certainty , by
ludwig wittgenstein.


darren f provine kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
if any substantial number of talk.religion.misc readers read some
wittgenstein , 60 of the postings would disappear. (if they understood
some wittgenstein , 98 would disappear. )) michael l siemon


notice what i said about this book. i called it easy reading. the reason i
dropped philosphy as my major was because i ran into too many pharisaical
simon 's. i do n't know how many walking encyclopedia 's i ran across in
philosphy classes. the problem is n't in knowing sooooo much more than your
average lay person , the problem comes when you become puffed up about it.
schaeffer is just fine for the average lay person. that was who he was
writting to. i suppose that you would have criticised john that his gospel was
to simple. i 've talked with schaeffer one on one. i 've been in lectures with
the man when he was being drilled by philosphy students and prof 's from secular
as well as christian universities. (nd alone would fill both those catagories)
his answers were enough that the prof 's themselves often were taken back and
caused to re think what their question was. i saw this time and time again at
different open forums. so yes , schaeffers books are by in large , well ,
simplistic. it certainly is n't grad level reading. but we must get off our
high horses when it comes to recommended reading. do you seriously think most
people would get through the first chapter of wittgenstein \? i may have more to
say about this secular scientist at another time.

also , one must finally get beyond the doubt caused by insistent
inquisitiveness. one cannot live his life constantly from a cartisian doubt
base.

look , the christian wholeheartedly supports genuine rationality. but we must
add a qualification to give this balance. christianity is second to none in
keeping reason in its place. we never know the value of a thing until we know
its limits. put unlimited value on something and in the end you will exhaust
it of all value !

this is why xianity is thoroughly rational but not the least bit rationalistic.
it also explains the curious fact that it is rationalism , and not christian
faith , which leads to irrationality. if we forget the limits of a thing , we
fly in the face of reality and condem ourselves to learn the simple ironic
lesson of life

more without limits is less less with limits is more.

or as i have so often stated it , freedom without form soon becomes form w o
freedom.

let 's put it another way. the rationality of faith is implacably opposed to
absurdity but has no quarrel with mystery. think about that. it can tell the
difference between the two if you will let it. christianity 's contention with
rationalism is not that it has too much reason in it , but that it has very
little else. when a christian comes to faith his understanding and his trust
go hand in hand , but as he continues in faith his trust may sometimes be called
to go on by itself without his understanding.

this is where the principle of suspended judgment applies. at such time if the
christian faith is to be itself and let god be god , it must suspend judgment
and say , father i do not understand you but i trust you. now do n't read all
your objections of me into that statement. i was n't saying i do not understand
you at all , but i trust you anyway. it means that i do not understand you in
this situation but i do understand why i trust you anyway therefore i can
trust that you understand even though i do not. the former is a mystery
unrelieved by rationality and indistinguishable from absurdity. the latter is
a statement of rationality of faith walking hand in hand with the mystery of
faith. so.... the principle of suspended judgment is not irrational. it is
not a leap of faith but a walk of faith. as believers we cannot always know
why , but we canalways know why we trust god who knows why and this makes all
the difference.

now , there is one obvious snag to all this and this is where i have parted
company with philosophy what is eminently reasonable in theory is a rather bit
more difficult in practice. in practice the pressure of mystery acts on faith
like the insistent whying of a 3 year old. it is n't just that we would like
to know what we do not know but that we feel we must know what we cannot
know. the one produces frustration because curiosity is denied the other
leads to genuine anguish. more specifically the poorer our understanding is in
coming to faith the more necessary it will be to understand everything after
coming to faith. if we do not know why we trust god , then we will always need
to know exactly what god is doing in order to trust him. failing to grasp
that , we may not be able to trust him , for anything we do not understand may
count decisevely against what we are able to trust.

if , on the other hand , we do know why we trust god , we will be able to trust
him in situations where we do not understand what he is doing. (too many xian
leaders teach as if the christian had a window in the back of his head which
allows for understanding at every foot fall) for what god is doing may be
ambiguous , but it will not be inherently contradictory ! it may be mystery to
us , but mystery is only inscrutable what would be insufferable is absurdity.
and that my friend , was the conclusion of nietzche both in theory and in
practice.

rex

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject re assurance of hell
organization fnal ad net
lines 142

in article apr.21.03.26.39.1993.1370@geneva.rutgers.edu
lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard) writes

and many others mailed me. here is a reply to one of the letters. seems to
me that atheist do not like the doctrine of hell !

there 's nothing like a preacher to put fear into an
ignorant man...

if god had n't created hell in the first place , there 'd be no
no need to die and save us. is n't it also a bit paradoxical
to say god died when , in fact , no such thing is remotely
possible. can the infinite die \?

your using 20th century concepts to interprete 1st century writers. of course ,
in your termonology , god could not cease to exist. however , that is not what
death ever means in the scriptures. if you will study the word , you will see
that it signifies separation. death is separation , not ceastation. this is
the reason for the agony of the cross. for the first time in eternity , one
member of the godhead was separated from the other two.

i once met a young lady that was as beautiful as any model that ever lived.
she was as personable as any saint ever imagined. she was to become my
girlfriend for several years. however , having been drafted , we were
separated by distance. to me that was a form of death. later , she decided
that she could n't wait for me to come home and bid me adue. that to me was
death. it was separation from that which had made me whole. death is
separation and eternal death is eternal separation from his fellowship , not
because he chose to send you into outer darkness , but because you chose to go
there.

did you know that jesus talked more
about hell than he did about heaven !

thank you for this info. what respect i had for the man now
has been diminished tenfold. i promise never again to
say how wise or loving this man was...

when i rebelled against my earthly father , he spanked me. i found no wisdom in
that until i had grown older and especially until i had my own children. he
was trying to guide me away from hurt that would enter my life if i continued
on my suicidal course. he did it in love though i interpreted it as harsh and
unloving. if god warns of impending danger , that is love. if choose to let us
do as we please , and then at the end tell us the rules , that would be harsh.
you have a conscience , no matter how calused or fallen it is , that witnesses to
you that a thing is wrong and that there is cause for fear.

being jesus was allegedly god , i doubt he could honestly feel
the pinpricks man dealt him...

this may give light to the error of your understanding. one must have correct
knowledge in order to have correct faith. faith and knowledge are inseparable.
jesus most certainly felt the pinpricks of life. as the scripture say

heb. 4 15 for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our
weaknesses , but one who has been tempted in all things as we are , yet without
sin.

the kenosis passage of phil 2 states that he gave up his godhead attributes
when he took upon himself humanity. it has been a favorite meditation of mine
to think about this. it was to be my phd thesis. the consciousness of
christ. i have talked at length with a great many people about this
interesting study , including clh.

it is my conclussion that as jesus , the 2nd member of the trinity , actually
suffered as we do. he became part of the human race and experienced it as we
do. he grew in knowledge. he chose not to grasp his omniscience , but chose
to be taught. it is my understanding that he was led of the spirit to such
an extent that sometimes it is hard to distinquish between jesus the man and
jesus as god. but in jn 8 where the adulterous women was thrown before him ,
the tenses are quite clear in that the whole situation took him by surprise.
that is , he was not aware that this event was to take place in time. he was
living sequential history as you or i.

maybe some other time we can discuss this , but it is a very lengthy discussion
and one that causes the curcuit breakers of the brain to pop more often than
not.

thanks again for the info. just so you know , some friends and i
are starting a freethinkers organization and i'm going to
use some of the info you provided for an organization intro
duction... )

i was once a member of that club. the free thinker is a glorious ideal. by
contrast , of course , you believe that the believer is the unforunate repository
of everything that is dogmatic , inhibited , reactionary and repressive. i find
such a stance to be as amusing as it is absurd. if the liberal humanist
wishes to criticize a christian or a buddhist or a marxist , that is his right.
but what he must not pretend is that he was led to this solely by his rational
doubt when in fact he was led to it by his faith . he must acknowledge that
while it is rational doubt for him as a free thinker to criticize the
christian , it might equally be a rational doubt for the christian to criticize
him as a humanist. if there is no faith , there can be no dout. there is no
faith which cannot choose to cast doubt on some other faith.

pascal pointed out that sceptical arguments allow the positive to be positive.
few. . .speak dubiously of scepticism. the fact that skeptics are not
skeptical about skepticism is further evidence that to doubt anything we must
believe in something else ! the person who is skeptical toward one faith or
even most faiths , will be the devoted adherent of another. in fact , it is a
measure of his poverty both that he is unaware of it and that he can define
himself only in negative terms , hence the term a theist.

some people claim otherwise and argue vociferously for complete skepticism. in
my campus ministry i ran across this more times than i care to remember.
however , they disproved their own argument with every thought , every word ,
every point of logic that they used. every moment of shared communication
speaks against their total skepticism. their very insistence of trying to make
sense is eloquent testimony to assumptions that are powerful though silent.

that is to say , that complete skepticism is impossible and limited skepticism
is arbitrary. next time you 're in a room of skeptics , yell out look , your fly
is undone ! each person chooses what he is skeptical about and what he
believes without skepticism. to stress this is to belabor the obvious , but it
underlines the point that no one can know exhaustively how he knows what he
knows. pure objectivism is a myth and complete skepticism an impossiblity.
the answer to this impasse lies in a 3rd way of knowing , one which is based on
presuppositions. but if knowledge proceeds on what must be presupposed before
it is proved , the cover is blown on the pretentions of critical doubt , and
critical doubt depends on the idea that human knowledge is totally objective
and neutral. in other words , another myth.

presuppositions my friend. it is impossible to doubt anything unless there is
something we do not doubt our own assumptions presuppostions. even these can
be criticezed only upon the basis of other assumptions. presuppostitons are
our silent partners in thought but their silence must not be mistaken for
absence.

i tell you what if god condemns me for being honest , he is
unworthy of my worship. better to burn in hell than to
serve a tyrant in heaven..

of course that is hardly an original statement. milton coined it but it had
been in use for millenia. it was even used in the first highlander movie.
but again , your presuption is based on a faulty knowledge of the character of
god. you are operating off of a presuppositional premise of humanistic
theology , not what he has revealed of himself through history , through his
prophets , through his word , and lastly , but most of all , thru his son. if you
are to reject god 's annointed savior , then reject him from a correct
understanding of himself.

rex

from marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley)
subject re satanic tounges
organization harris csd , ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 23

in article may.2.09.50.21.1993.11782@geneva.rutgers.edu mmh@dcs.qmw.ac.uk (matthew huntbach) writes
i have seen the claims , but i do n't know if there are any
authenticated cases of people making prolonged speeches in
real languages they do n't know. from my observations , speaking
in tongues in practice has nothing at all do with this.

i have a simple test. i take several people who can speak
only one language (e.g. chinese , russian , german , english).
then i let the gifted one start speaking in toungues .
the audience should understand the gifted one clearly
in their native language. however , the gifted one can
only hear himself speaking in his own language.

works everytime. 8 )
perhaps i would believe the gifted ones more if they were
glorifying god rather than themselves. then perhaps we 'd
witness a real miracle.



mark ashley disclaimer my opinions. not harris'
marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com
the lost los angelino

from sfp@lemur.cit.cornell.edu (sheila patterson)
subject re being right about messiahs
organization cornell university cit
lines 14

jesus is n't god \? when jesus returns some people may miss him \? what version of
the bible do you read mike \?

jesus is god incarnate (in flesh) . jesus said , 'i and the father are one.'
jesus was taken up to heaven after his 40 day post resurrection stint and the
angels who were there assured the apostles that jesus would return the same way
and that everyone will see the coming. that 's why jesus warned that many would
come claiming to be him but that we would know when jesus actually returns.

these are two very large parts of my faith and you definitely hit a nerve )

sheila patterson , cit cr technical support
cornell university
ithaca , ny

from mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michael d. walker)
subject re portland earthquake
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 67

archau@saturn.wwc.edu (austin c archer) writes

i am interested in views about the non event of may 3. seriously , how can a
christian discriminate between messages from god which are to be taken
seriously , and those which are spurious \? is there a useful heuristic which
would help us avoid embracing messages which , by their non fulfillment are
proven to be false , thus causing the name of christ to be placed in
disrepute \? is this a problem at all \?

i believe that a careful understanding of scripture can help us here. it
seems to me that anytime we are proven by events to be mistaken , it points
to a serious failure in understanding god 's will. it should result in a
reevaluation of what we accept as truth.

i must hasten to add that i was always skeptical , even cynical , about
these prophesies as i tend to be concerning all such. but clearly , many
christians put much stock in them. if the church represents christ in the
world , then christians must avoid being made the laughing stock of the
world , lest we dishonor him. further , the more often we cry wolf , the
less seriously we tend to be taken.

any comments \?


good point it is very true that these false predictions are
dangerous we are warned (more than once) in scripture about false prophtets.

however , as is often the case with other issues , one cannot let those
who falsly report such visions as a reason against believing in any of them
(i did not get the impression you were asserting this , by the way...i consider
my response not so much a response to your posting but a response to the topic
as a whole).

example the appearances of mary at fatima , portugal in 1917.

among other things , she predicted the conversion of russia to atheism
(something that happened less than a year later w the bolshevik
revolution). she also predicted the second world war (that is , predicte predicted that it would occur during the papacy of a certain pope , who
was not the current one. it happened just like she said.)

she warned there would be fire in the sky as a warning that the
second world war was about to start. about a week before germany
invaded , weathermen (and women , i suppose) all over europe , from
england to spain to eastern europe , reported the most spectacular
reddish color in the sky ever recorded. to this day some try to
explain it off as the northern lights , and the relation to mary 's
prediction simply coincidence. you all can decide for yourselves.

mary predicted that the atheistic russia would spread her evils all
over the world and persecute religion.

she said many other things as well , too numerous to list here. every
single one has been realized. one can only use the term coincidence
so many times in the same explanation before its use becomes
ridiculous.

so...yes , there are many false prophets and many false reports. there
are true ones , too. we must always remain open to that. fatima was
one example. there is another one , currently occuring the
apparitions that have been taking place at medjurgorje , yugoslavia
(or whatever its called now). mary has been appearing every day for
eleven years now. it 's time the world started listening.

more info available to any who want it.
peace in christ our lord ,
mike walker
mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu

from reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization the claremont graduate school
lines 65

in article apr.21.03.26.15.1993.1349@geneva.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes

the basic problem with your argument is your total and complete reliance on
the biblical text. luke 's account is highly suspect (i would refer you to
the hermeneia commentary on acts). ...

in article apr.23.02.56.43.1993.3174@geneva.rutgers.edu , ata@hfsi.hfsi.com ( john ata) writes

even if there was no independent proof that luke 's account was
valid , i find it strange that you would take the negation of it as
truth without any direct historical evidence (at least that you 've
mentioned) to back it up. the assertion was made , unequivocally
that no christian ever sufferred for their faith by believing in
the resurrection. luke 's account suggests otherwise , and in the
absence of direct eyewitnesses who can claim that luke is mistaken ,
then i suggest that this unequivocal assertion is suspect.


john ,
the problem here is that you have taken one peice of my response , without
bothering to connect it with the other parts. i have repeatedly noted that
one needs to take the problematic historcity of acts and then examine the
work of john dominic crossan and burton mack. once you have taken the time
to examine recent developments in biblical scholarship , i think you will
grasp more clearly what i am saying.



i think the original claim may have been somewhat more limited than
this. it was an answer to the claim that the witnesses could n't
be lying because they were willign to suffer for their beliefs.
thus it 's not necessary to show that no christian ever suffered
for believing in the resurrection. rather the issue is whether
those who witnessed it did.

i do agree that the posting you 're responding to shows that there
can be liberal as well as conservative dogmatism.

clh

certainly this is an issue as i think the situation in waco shows most
clearly. if all that is required is that people are willing to die for a
belief for it to be true , then surely david koresh is the son of god. no ,
the spurrious arguement that the resurrection had to be true for people to be
willing to die must be put to rest. the other problem is that it is so
monologocentric. even if the resurrection was a big deal (which it does n't
seem to have been for either q , thomas , or even john to a certain degree)
there are a lot of other things which the early christians could have been
doing together that would have been worth dying for. it is my belief that
even the idea of a mixed race community , which brought down regional national
boundaries in the name of koinonia could have been enough for people to be
willing to die. radical communties do that (e.g. jonestown , waco , warsaw , etc)
but my original point was that roman persecution (which is the only persecution
we have documented proof of) was not about whether a carpenter came back from
the dead. such a claim was not unique nor particularly abhorent to the roman
or greek mind. my point is that avoidance of military and civic duty (i.e.
emperor worship) would have been much more problematic which has nothing
to do with the resurrection at all. when nero used christians as human
torches to light up his dinner party it was n't because the believe in a
risen savior , it was because they were supposedly involved in incest and
cannablism. the argument that christians were martyred for the resurrection
just cannot stand up to critical examination.

randy


from maridai@comm.mot.com (marida ignacio)
subject re accepting jesus in your heart...
organization trunking fixed
lines 34


whitsebd@nextwork.rose hulman.edu (bryan whitsell) writes

religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.
some people use drugs as an escape from reality. christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high.

your logic is falty. if christianity is a drug , and once we die we
die , then why would you be reluctant to embrase this drug so that
while you are alive you enjoy yourself.


pardon the harshness that follows...

once , i told a cradle christian please do not take advantage of jesus
or anybody for the sake of your own (selfish) realization or search
for true faith religion belonging 'being in' fear of hell vanity etc.
instead of serving yourself , we must be serving him .
until you have comprehended this truth , you are only doing things for your
own egoism.

let us not use jesus , our religion , the bible , anything or
anybody as a means of escape or getting ecstatic or high.
we are god 's children and we must have a true and authentic
relationship with our father with obedience , faith , hope and
love and works (the last as the most important).

beware of our 'materialistic' , 'worldly' and 'selfish' motives.
atheists have this ground against us and i believe they are right about
some who call themselves 'christians'.

marida
...spreading gods words through actions...
mother teresa

from bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no (a 369)
subject question jesus alone , oneness
reply to bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no
organization delab
lines 31

dear fellow netters ,

from time to time a term like 'oneness pentecostals' (or something
similar) has occurred in posts to this group. i also know that there
is a movement called something like 'jesus alone.'

i believe in the trinity and have no plans to change that , but reently
i was made aware that there is at least one person within our church
who holds the view that there is no trinity. in the near future we
will discuss this item , and i feel that i shall ask you , my friends on
this group , for background information.

can anybody tell me the basic reasons for holding a belief that there
is only jesus \? and vice versa the foundations for the trinity \?

i shall appreciate both quotes from the bible and historical
development.

thank you all.

in him ,

bjorn


s mail e mail
bjorn b. larsen bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no
sintef delab
n 7034 trondheim tel 47 7 592682 592600
norway fax 47 7 591039 594302


from davem@bnr.ca (dave mielke)
subject does god love you \?
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada
lines 416

i have come across what i consider to be an excellent tract. it is a
bit lengthy for a posting , but i thought i 'd share it with all of you
anyway. feel free to pass it along to anyone whom you feel might
benefit from what it says. may god richly bless those who read it.



d o e s g o d l o v e y o u \?


q. what kind of question is that \? anyone who can read sees signs ,
tracts , books , and bumper stickers that say , god loves you. is n't
that true \?

a. it is true that god offers his love to the whole world , as we read
in one of the most quoted verses in the bible

for god so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten
son , that whosoever believeth in him should not perish , but
have everlasting life. john 3 16

however , god 's love is qualified. the bible says

the way of the wicked is an abomination unto the lord but he
loveth him that followeth after righteousness. proverbs 15 9

for the lord knoweth the way of the righteous but the way of
the ungodly shall perish. psalm 1 6


q. but i am not wicked. i am a decent , moral person. surely the good
i have done in my life far outweighs whatever bad i have done. how
can these verses apply to me \?

a. by god 's standard of righteousness even the most moral person is
looked upon by god as a desperate sinner on his way to hell. the
bible teaches that no one is good enough in himself to go to heaven.
on the contrary , we are all sinners and we are all guilty before
god.

as it is written , there is none righteous , no , not one there
is none that understandeth , there is none that seeketh after
god. romans 3 10 11

the heart is deceitful above all things , and desperately
wicked who can know it \? jeremiah 17 9


q. if i am such a wicked person in god 's sight , what will god do to me \?

a. the bible teaches that at the end of the world all the wicked will
come under eternal punishment in a place called hell.

for a fire is kindled in mine anger , and shall burn unto the
lowest hell , and shall consume the earth with her increase ,
and set on fire the foundations of the mountains. i will heap
mischiefs upon them i will spend mine arrows upon them. they
shall be burnt with hunger , and devoured with burning heat ,
and with bitter destruction i will also send the teeth of
beasts upon them , with the poison of serpents of the dust.
deuteronomy 32 22 24


q. oh , come on now ! hell is not real , is it \? surely things are not
that bad.

a. indeed , hell is very real , and things are that bad for the individ
ual who does not know the lord jesus christ as savior. the bible
makes many references to hell , indicating that it is both eternal
and consists of perpetual suffering.

and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was
cast into the lake of fire. revelation 20 15

so shall it be at the end of the world the angels shall come
forth , and sever the wicked from among the just , and shall
cast them into the furnace of fire there shall be wailing and
gnashing of teeth. matthew 13 49 50

... when the lord jesus shall be revealed from heaven with
his mighty angels , in flaming fire taking vengeance on them
that know not god , and that obey not the gospel of our lord
jesus christ who shall be punished with everlasting
destruction from the presence of the lord , and from the glory
of his power 2 thessalonians 1 7 9


q. that is terrible ! why would god create a hell \?

a. hell is terrible , and it exists because god created man to be
accountable to god for his actions. god 's perfect justice demands
payment for sin.

for the wages of sin is death romans 6 23

for we must all appear before the judgment seat of christ
that every one may receive the things done in his body ,
according to that he hath done , whether it be good or bad.
2 corinthians 5 10

but i say unto you , that every idle word that men shall speak ,
they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment.
matthew 12 36


q. does that mean that at the end of the world everyone will be brought
to life again to be judged and then to be sent to hell \?

a. indeed it does that is , unless we can find someone to be our
substitute in bearing the punishment of eternal damnation for our
sins. that someone is god himself , who came to earth as jesus
christ to bear the wrath of god for all who believe in him.

all we like sheep have gone astray we have turned every one
to his own way and the lord hath laid on him the iniquity of
us all. isaiah 53 6

but he was wounded for our transgressions , he was bruised for
our iniquities the chastisement of our peace was upon him
and with his stripes we are healed. isaiah 53 5

for i delivered unto you first of all that which i also
received , how that christ died for our sins according to the
scriptures and that he was buried , and that he rose again the
third day according to the scriptures 1 corinthians 15 3 4

for he hath made him to be sin for us , who knew no sin that
we might be made the righteousness of god in him.
2 corinthians 5 21


q. are you saying that if i trust in christ as my substitute , who was
already punished for my sins , then i will not have to worry about
hell anymore \?

a. yes , this is so ! if i have believed in christ as my savior , then it
is as if i have already stood before the judgment throne of god.
christ as my substitute has already paid for my sins.

he that believeth on the son hath everlasting life and he
that believeth not the son shall not see life but the wrath
of god abideth on him. john 3 36


q. but what does it mean to believe on him \? if i agree with all that
the bible says about christ as savior , then am i saved from going to
hell \?

a. believing on christ means a whole lot more than agreeing in our
minds with the truths of the bible. it means that we hang our whole
lives on him. it means that we entrust every part of our lives to
the truths of the bible. it means that we turn away from our sins
and serve christ as our lord.

no man can serve two masters for either he will hate the one ,
and love the other or else he will hold to the one , and
despise the other. ye cannot serve god and mammon.
matthew 6 24

repent ye therefore , and be converted , that your sins may be
blotted out , when the times of refreshing shall come from the
presence of the lord acts 3 19


q. are you saying that there is no other way to escape hell except
through jesus \? what about all the other religions \? will their
followers also go to hell \?

a. yes , indeed. they cannot escape the fact that god holds us account
able for our sins. god demands that we pay for our sins. other
religions cannot provide a substitute to bear the sins of their
followers. christ is the only one who is able to bear our guilt and
save us.

neither is there salvation in any other for there is none
other name under heaven given among men , whereby we must be
saved. acts 4 12

jesus said

i am the way , the truth , and the life no man cometh unto the
father , but by me. john 14 6

if we confess our sins , he is faithful and just to forgive us
our sins , and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1 john 1 9


q. now i am desperate. i do not want to go to hell. what can i do \?

a. you must remember that god is the only one who can help you. you
must throw yourself altogether on the mercies of god. as you see
your hopeless condition as a sinner , cry out to god to save you.

and the publican , standing afar off , would not lift up so much
as his eyes unto heaven , but smote upon his breast , saying ,
god be merciful to me a sinner. luke 18 13

... sirs , what must i do to be saved \? and they said , believe
on the lord jesus christ , and thou shalt be saved , ...
acts 16 30 31


q. but how can i believe on christ if i know so little about him \?

a. wonderfully , god not only saves us through the lord jesus , but he
also gives us the faith to believe on him. you can pray to god that
he will give you faith in jesus christ as your savior.

for by grace are ye saved through faith and that not of
yourselves it is the gift of god ephesians 2 8

god works particularly through the bible to give us that faith. so ,
if you really mean business with god about your salvation , you
should use every opportunity to hear and study the bible , which is
the only word of god.
in this brochure , all verses from the bible are within indented
paragraphs. give heed to them with all your heart.

so then faith cometh by hearing , and hearing by the word of
god. romans 10 17


q. but does this mean that i have to surrender everything to god \?

a. yes. god wants us to come to him in total humility , acknowledging
our sinfulness and our helplessness , trusting totally in him.

the sacrifices of god are a broken spirit a broken and a
contrite heart , o god , thou wilt not despise. psalm 51 17

because we are sinners we love our sins. therefore , we must begin
to pray to god for an intense hatred of our sins. and if we
sincerely desire salvation , we will also begin to turn from our sins
as god strengthens us. we know that our sins are sending us to
hell.

unto you first god , having raised up his son jesus , sent him
to bless you , in turning away every one of you from his
iniquities. acts 3 26


q. does n't the bible teach that i must attend church regularly and be
baptized \? will these save me \?

a. if possible , we should do these things , but they will not save us.
no work of any kind can secure our salvation. salvation is god 's
sovereign gift of grace given according to his mercy and good pleas
ure. salvation is

not of works , lest any man should boast. ephesians 2 9


q. what else will happen at the end of the world \?

a. those who have trusted in jesus as their savior will be transformed
into their glorious eternal bodies and will be with christ forever
more.

for the lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout ,
with the voice of the archangel , and with the trump of god
and the dead in christ shall rise first then we which are
alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds , to meet the lord in the air and so shall we ever be
with the lord. 1 thessalonians 4 16 17


q. what will happen to the earth at that time \?

a. god will destroy the entire universe by fire and create new heavens
and a new earth where christ will reign with his believers forever
more.

but the day of the lord will come as a thief in the night in
the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise , and
the elements shall melt with fervent heat , the earth also and
the works that are therein shall be burned up. ...
nevertheless we , according to his promise , look for new
heavens and a new earth , wherein dwelleth righteousness.
2 peter 3 10 , 13


q. does the bible give us any idea of when the end of the earth will
come \?

a. yes ! the end will come when christ has saved all whom he plans to
save.

and this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the
world for a witness unto all nations and then shall the end
come. matthew 24 14


q. can we know how close to the end of the world we might be \?

a. yes ! god gives much information in the bible concerning the timing
of the history of the world and tells us that while the day of the
lord will come as a thief in the night for the unsaved , it will not
come as a thief for the believers. there is much evidence in the
bible that the end of the world and the return of christ may be
very , very close. all the time clues in the bible point to this.

for when they shall say , peace and safety then sudden
destruction cometh upon them , as travail upon a woman with
child and they shall not escape. 1 thessalonians 5 3

surely the lord god will do nothing , but he revealeth his
secret unto his servants the prophets. amos 3 7


q. but that means judgment day is almost here.

a. yes , it does. god warned ancient nineveh that he was going to
destroy that great city and he gave them forty days warning.

and jonah began to enter into the city a day 's journey , and he
cried , and said , yet forty days , and nineveh shall be
overthrown. jonah 3 4


q. what did the people of nineveh do \?

a. from the king on down they humbled themselves before god , repented
of their sins , and cried to god for mercy.

but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth , and cry
mightily unto god yea , let them turn every one from his evil
way , and from the violence that is in their hands. who can
tell if god will turn and repent , and turn away from his
fierce anger , that we perish not \? jonah 3 8 9


q. did god hear their prayers \?

a. yes. god saved a great many people of nineveh.


q. can i still cry to god for mercy so that i will not come into judg
ment \?

a. yes. there is still time to become saved even though that time has
become very short.

how shall we escape , if we neglect so great salvation which
at the first began to be spoken by the lord , and was confirmed
unto us by them that heard him hebrews 2 3

in god is my salvation and my glory the rock of my strength ,
and my refuge , is in god. trust in him at all times ye
people , pour out your heart before him god is a refuge for
us. psalm 62 7 8




a r e y o u r e a d y t o m e e t g o d \?



a book entitled 1994 \? , written by harold camping , presents biblical
information that we may be very near the end of time. for information
on how to obtain a copy or to receive a free program guide and list of
radio stations on which you can hear our gospel programs , please write
to family radio , oakland , california , 94621 (the united states of amer
ica) , or call 1 800 543 1495.




the foregoing is a copy of the does god love you \? tract printed by ,
and available free of charge from , family radio. a number of minor
changes have been made to its layout to facilitate computer printing
and distribution. the only change to the text itself is the paragraph
which describes the way in which biblical passages appear within the
text. in the original tract they appear in italic lettering they
appear here as indented paragraphs.


i have read mr. camping 's book , compared it with what the bible actual
ly says , find it to be the most credible research with respect to what
the future holds that i have ever come across , and agree with him that
there is just too much data to ignore. while none of us is guaranteed
one more second of life , and while we , therefore , should take these
matters very seriously regardless of when christ will actually return ,
it would appear that our natural tendency to postpone caring about our
eternal destiny until we feel that our death is imminent is even more
senseless now because , in all likelihood , the law of averages with
respect to life expectancy no longer applies. if you wish to obtain a
copy of this book so that you can check out these facts for yourself ,
you may find the following information helpful

title 1994 \?
author harold camping
publisher vantage press
distributor baker and taylor
isbn 0 533 10368 1


i have chosen to share this tract with you because i whole heartedly
agree with everything it declares and feel that now , perhaps more than
ever before , this information must be made known. to paraphrase acts
20 27 , it does not shun to declare unto us all the counsel of god. i
am always willing to discuss the eternal truths of the bible with
anyone who is interested as i believe them to be the only issues of any
real importance since we will spend , comparatively speaking , so little
time on this side of the grave and so much on the other. feel free to
get in touch with me at any time

e mail davem@bnr.ca
office 1 613 765 4671
home 1 613 726 0014

dave mielke
856 grenon avenue
ottawa , ontario , canada
k2b 6g3

from koberg@spot.colorado.edu (allen koberg)
subject re satanic tounges
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 49

in article may.6.00.34.49.1993.15418@geneva.rutgers.edu marka@hcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes
in article may.2.09.50.21.1993.11782@geneva.rutgers.edu mmh@dcs.qmw.ac.uk (matthew huntbach) writes
i have seen the claims , but i do n't know if there are any
authenticated cases of people making prolonged speeches in
real languages they do n't know. from my observations , speaking
in tongues in practice has nothing at all do with this.

i have a simple test. i take several people who can speak
only one language (e.g. chinese , russian , german , english).
then i let the gifted one start speaking in toungues .
the audience should understand the gifted one clearly
in their native language. however , the gifted one can
only hear himself speaking in his own language.


there seem to be many points to the speaking in tongues thing which
are problematic. it 's use as prayer language seems especially troubling
to me. i understand that when you pray in tongues , the spirit is doing
the talking. and when you pray , you pray to god. and the spirit is
god. so , the spirit is talking to himself. which is why i only go
by the pentecost use where it 's an actual language.

moreover , the phrase though i speak with the tongues of men and angels
used by paul in i cor. is misleading out of context. some would then
assume that there is some angelic tongue , and if when they speak , it
is no known language , then it is an angelic tongue.

hmmm...in the old testament story about the tower of babel , we see how
god punished by giving us different language. can we assume then that
if angels have their own language at all , that they have the same one
amongst other angels \? after all , they were not punished in any manner.

so why do these supposed angelic tongues all sound different from one
another \? it 's disturbing to think that some people find ways to
justify jabbering.

but i 'll buy the idea that someone could talk in a language never learned.

trouble is , while such stories abound , any and all attempts at
verification (and we are to test the spirit...) either show that
the witness had no real idea of the circumstances , or that outright
fabrication was involved. the brother puka story in a previous post
seems like a friend of a friend thing. and linguistically , a two
syllable word hardly qualifies as language , inflection or no.

much as many faith healers have trouble proving their victories (since
most ailments cured are just plain unprovable) and modern day
ressurrections have never been validated , so is it true that no
modern day xenoglossolalia has been proved by clergy or lay.

from atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez)
subject re a question that has bee bothering me.
organization national association for the disorganized
lines 29

wquinnan@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (malcusco) writes

my problem with science is that often it allows us to
assume we know what is best for ourselves. god endowed us
with the ability to produce life through sexual relations ,
for example , but he did not make that availible to everyone.
does that mean that if science can over ride god 's decision
through alterations , that god wills for us to have the power
to decide who should and should not be able to have
children \? should men be allowed to have babies , if that
is made possible.

in a word , yes. i do n't believe that physical knowledge has a great deal of
impact on the power of god. in the past , god gave us the ability to create
life through sexual relations. now , he is giving us the ability to create life
through in vitro fertilization. the difference between the two is merely
cosmetic , and even if we gain the ability to create universes we wo n't begin to
approach the glory of god.
the power we are being given is a test , and i am sure that in many cases we
will use our new abilities unwisely. but , people have been using sexuality
unwisely for millenia and i have n't heard an outcry to abolish it yet !
no matter how far we extend our dominion over the physical world , we are n't
impinging on god 's power. it 's only when we attempt to gain control of the
spiritual world , those things that ca n't be approached through science and
logic , that we begin to interfere with god.

alan terlep ...and the scorpion says , 'it 's
oakland university , rochester , mi in my nature.'
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu

from vbv@lor.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization case western reserve univ. cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 28

in article apr.22.00.56.15.1993.2073@geneva.rutgers.edu hayesstw@risc1.unisa.ac.za (steve hayes) writes

a similar analogy might be a medical doctor who believes that a blood
transfusion is necessary to save the life of a child whose parents are
jehovah 's witnesses and so have conscientious objections to blood
transfusion. the doctor 's efforts to persuade them to agree to a blood
transfusion could be perceived to be arrogant in precisely the same way as
christians could be perceived to be arrogant.

the truth or otherwise of the belief that a blood transfusion is necessary
to save the life of the child is irrelevant here. what matters is that the
doctor believes it to be true , and could be seen to be trying to foce his
beliefs on the parents , and this could well be perceived as arrogance.

let me carry that a step further. most doctors would not claim to be
infallible. indeed , they would generally admit that they could conceivably
be wrong , e.g. that in this case , a blood tranfusion might not turn out to
be necessary after all. however , the doctors would have enough confidence
and conviction to claim , out of genuine concern , that is is necessary. as
fallible human beings , they must acknowledge the possibility that they are
wrong. however , they would also say that such doubts are not reasonable ,
and stand by their convictions.


virgilio dean velasco jr , department of electrical eng'g and applied physics
cwru graduate student , roboticist in training and q wannabee
bullwinkle , that man 's intimidating a referee ! my boss is a
not very well. he does n't look like one at all ! jewish carpenter.

from aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
subject re the arrogance of christians
reply to aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 63

in a previous article , phs431d@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au () says

in article apr.13.00.08.07.1993.28379@athos.rutgers.edu , aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker) writes
to demand scintific or rational proof of god 's existence , is to deny
god 's existence , since neither science , nor reason , can , in their very
nature , prove anything.

are you asking us to believe blindly \? you are trying to deny that part of
us that makes us ask the question does god exist \? i.e. self awareness and
reason. if we do not use our ability to reason we become as ignorant
as the other animals on this earth. does god want us to be like that \?

i am asking you to believe in things not visible. i do n't know if this is
believeing blindly or not. i'm not sure how blindness comes into it. i do
not deny reason , indeed i insist upon it , but reason only draws conclusions
from evidence. if you decide in advance that your reason will act only on
the evidence of the five physical senses , then you cut reason off from any
possibility of reaching a conclusion outside the physical sphere (beyond the
rather provocative , if inconclusive , conclusion that the physical sphere
is not self explanatory).

christians claim that they have received a different kind of evidence ,
which they call faith , and which is a gift of god. that is , this evidence
is the evidence of a thing which chooses to reveal or hide itself. the
evidence of the senses cannot tell you is such a ting exists. reasoning
on the evidence of the senses wo n't help either. but christians do reason
of the evidence of faith , and do claim that this evidence is wholly
consistent with the evidence of the other senses , and indeed , that the
evidence of these other senses is part of god 's revelation of himself
to us.

it is not necessarilly the case however that knowledge of a god must come
through this route. there may be other senses than the physical ones
providing evidence of non physical realities. (there may , of course , be
physical realities of a type for which we have no corresponding senses , for
all we know.) these senses , if they exist , may provide valid evidence for
reason to work on. and , as with all senses , these senses may be impaired
in some people , that is , they may be spiritually blind. in this sense ,
belief in god becomes an act of sight , and it is disbelief which is blind.

you are right that science and reason cannot prove anything. however , if
we do not use them we can only then believe on faith alone. and since
we can only use faith , why is one picture of god (e.g. hinduism) any less
valid than another (e.g. christianity) \?

faith , as i have said , is not opposed to reason , it is simply a new source
of evidence on which reason may operate. it is clear that human beings
have many systems for explaining the evidence of the physical senses , and
similarly there are many systems for explaining the evidence provided by
faith. religious believers in general , and christians in particular , use
reason to help sift through the evidence to come to a clearer understanding
of the evidence provided by faith. science claims , with good reason , to be
the most valid system for explaining the physical universe , and christianity
claims , also with good reason , to be the most valid system , possessed of the
best evidence , for explaining gods revelations of himself to man.

if you doubt that christians use reason , read this newsgroup for a while
and you will see rational debate aplenty.


mark baker the task ... is not to cut down jungles , but
aa888@freenet.carleton.ca to irrigate deserts. c. s. lewis


from wjhovi01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu
subject re hebrew grammar texts choose english or german \?
organization university of louisville
lines 37

phil sells writes

probably a tired old horse , but... maybe with a slightly different
twist. i wanted to know if there are any good english language texts
for learning ancient hebrew , and how these compare with german
educational texts qualitywise , if anybody has an idea. i ca n't figure
out if i should buy one here for later study or wait until i get back to
the u.s.

my impression is that for advanced work you will be much better off with
german reference works (lexicons , concordances especially). for a first time
encounter , my personal preference would be to deal with a textbook written in
my native language. but if you know german and are in germany , pick up all the
reference books you think you can handle. (i only know these works by
reputation , since my german is most rusty , but i 'd look at the following books
koehler 's lexicon , mandeldern 's concordance , the jenni westermann theological
dictionary of the ot.)

what 's it like at divinity schools or seminaries in the states \? is
there a lot of language instruction done \? i really do n't have a basis
for comparison.

the amount of language instruction available at us seminaries varies widely ,
mostly depending on the denominational heritage of the school. presbyterian
and reformed seminaries probably place a lot more emphasis on the biblical
languages than others. (of course , any divinity school that has a doctoral
program in biblical studies is going to have extensive language resources ! but
there are quite a few masters degree granting seminaries here at which the
attitude seems to be more , well , if you 're really interested we 'll give you
a semester long course , but we do n't understand why . . . )

the pattern here at the louisville presbyterian seminary is for first year
students to take intensive five week introductory language courses in each
language , followed by semester long exegesis courses. (that is hebrew in
august , ot exegesis in the fall greek in january , nt exegesis in the spring.)
these courses are required for graduation , a third or a half of the students ,
i 'd say , take advanced biblical work that requires language work.

from jprzybyl@skidmore.edu (jennifer przybylinski)
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization skidmore college , saratoga springs ny
lines 14

hey...

i may be wrong , but was n't jeff fenholt part of black sabbath \? he 's a
major brother in christ now. he totally changed his life around , and
he and his wife go on tours singing , witnessing , and spreading the
gospel for christ. i may be wrong about black sabbath , but i know he
was in a similar band if it was n't that particular group...

how great is th love the father has lavished on us , that we should be
called children of god ! and that is what we are ! (1 john 3 1)

grace and peace to all , (i 'll see you all someday ! )
jenny
jprzybyl@scott.skidmore.edu

from hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 36

in article apr.19.05.14.21.1993.29291@athos.rutgers.edu dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe) writes

you cannot show , from scripture , that the weekly sabbath is part of the
ceremonial laws. before you post a text in reply investigate its context.

first of all , ceremonial law is an extrascriptural term. it is sometimes
used as a framework to view scripture. but if you look at collosions ,
without going into it with the assumption that the sabbath cannot be
a ceremonial law , you will see that it does refer to the sabbath.

paul writes in collosions 2 14 17 how that christ nailed the laws that were
against us to his cross , and therefore we should not be judged in what
what food we eat , what we drink , the keeping of new moons and holy days ,
or the keeping of the sabbath.

the word for sabbath in this verse is sabbaton and is used throughout the
new testament to refer to the 7th day. if there is any scripture from
which we get the idea of the ceremonial law , this is one of them , and the
sabbath is listed among the ceremonial laws.

if one goes into this with the fundamental assumption the sabbath cannot
be a ceremonial law then he will have to find some way around it , like
saying that this can only refer to the other sabbath holy days besides the
7th day , because the sabbath cannot be a ceremonial law. but
paul is very careful in his letters to add some kind of parenthetcal
statement if there is anything that can be seen as a liscence to sin
in his writings.

also , why is the sabbath absent from the epistles (except for hebrews 4 , which
talks about the rest that comes through faith \? ) surely it would have
been a big problem for first century christians living in a society
that did not rest on the 7th day. especially slaves. many new converst were
slaves. it would have been difficult for slaves to rest on the sabbath
if it had been mandatory. why is there no mention of this in the epistles \?

link hudson.

from bruce@liv.ac.uk (bruce stephens)
subject re question from an agnostic
organization centre for mathematical software research , univ. liverpool
lines 16

on 2 may 93 13 53 23 gmt , damon@math.okstate.edu (hastings damon tod) said

a christian friend of mine once reasoned that if we were never created , then
we could not exist. therefore we were created , and therefore there exists a
creator.

is this statement considered to be a valid proof by many christians (and
followers of other religions , i suppose) \? rest deleted

some variant is quite popular. this , and other arguments , are
discussed in john leslie mackie 's the miracle of theism arguments
for and against the existence of god . although mackie ultimately
sides with against , his arguments are , i think , quite fair to both
sides. brief discussions can be found in the alt.atheism faqs.

bruce cmsr , university of liverpool

from reid@cs.uiuc.edu (jon reid)
subject re cell church discussion group
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 18

jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher) writes

please , define cell church. i missed it somewhere in the past when this
was brought up before.

in a cell church , the fundamental building block is the cell group a
small group of no more than 15 believers. the small groups are responsible
for the ministry of the church evangelism and discipleship. the emphasis
is on relationships , not on programs , and both the evangelism and the
discipling are relationship based.

this will probably raise more questions than it answered , but that 's it in
a nutshell.


jon reid he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep
reid@cs.uiuc.edu to gain what he cannot lose. jim elliot


from cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk (michael c davis)
subject re wbt (was re phone number of wycliffe translators uk)
organization brunel university , uxbridge , uk
lines 17

poram mlsma@att.att.com wrote
having met peter kingston (of wbt) some years back , he struck me
as an exemplery and dedicated christian whose main concern was with
translation of the word of god and the welfare of the people
group he was serving.
wbt literature is concerned mainly with providing scripture
in minority languages.

yes , in fact peter is now at wycliffe hq in the u.k. , and is a member of my
church. i would fully endorse the above peter is a very godly man , with a
passion for serving christ.

on one occasion he specifically addressed the issue of ``cultural
interference'' in a sermon , presumably from his experience of allegations
directed at wycliffe. (perhaps i could find the tape... \? )

michael davis (cs89mcd@brunel.ac.uk)

from vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization case western reserve univ. cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 31

in article apr.10.05.32.36.1993.14391@athos.rutgers.edu gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

i was raised in a religious atmosphere , and attended 13 years of
religious educational institutions.. i know the bible well. so well
i can recognize many passages from memory.

stuff deleted for brevity

christianity is an infectious cult. the reasons it flourishes are
because 1) it gives people without hope or driven purpose in life
a safety blanked to hide behind. oh wow..all i have to do is
follow this christian moral standard and i get eternal happiness.
for all of you found jeezus , how many of you were on the brink \?

your very starting point is wrong. christianity is not based on following
a moral standard. for it is by grace you have been saved , through faith...
not by works so that no man may boast. (eph. 2 7 8) you say that
you know the bible well , and can recognize (do you mean recite \? ) many
passages from memory. that could very well be so. however , it looks like
there are a few more passages that you should pay attention to. (titus 3 5
and james 2 10 are among them.)

obedience to the moral law is imporant. however , it is supposed to be the
result of turning your life over to christ and becoming a christian. it is
by no means the starting point.


virgilio dean velasco jr , department of electrical eng'g and applied physics
cwru graduate student , roboticist in training and q wannabee
bullwinkle , that man 's intimidating a referee ! my boss is a
not very well. he does n't look like one at all ! jewish carpenter.

from sun075 ! gerry.palo@uunet.uu.net (gerry palo)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
lines 22

gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes

religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.

there is a certain truth to this statement. only i would use the word
medicine instead of drug. with regard to the condition of the human
soul , christianity is first and foremost a healing medicine. it also
strengthens and enables one , as healing takes hold , to grow in new
strength and health to live and be and to do that for which god created
us.

some people use drugs as an escape from reality.

christ 's medicine , rightly allowed to work , brings one nearer to
reality and offers the clarity of understanding and the strength
of spirit with which to meet it in a healthy human way.

christians inject themselves with jesus and live with that high.

(small spelling correction added)

gerry palo (73237.2006@compuserve.com)

from jasons@atlastele.com (jason smith)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization atlas telecom inc.
lines 91

in article apr.13.00.08.22.1993.28397@athos.rutgers.edu trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre) writes
norris@athena.mit.edu writes


the discussion begins why does the universe exist at all \?


must there be a why to this \? i ask because of what you also
assume about god namely , that he just exists , with no why
to his existence. so the question is reversed , why ca n't
we assume the universe just exists as you assume god to
just exist \? why must there be a why to the universe \?

one of the laws of nature , specifying cause and effect seems to dictate
(at least to this layman 's mind) there must be a causal event. no
reasonable alternative exists.

as far as i can tell , the very laws of nature demand a why . that is n't
true of something outside of nature (i.e. , super natural).

...


it may be that one day man not only can create life but can also
create man. now , i do n't see this happening in my lifetime ,
nor do i assert it is probable. but the possibility is there ,
given scientists are working hard at decoding out genetic
code to perhaps help cure disease of a genetic variation.
again , though , must there be why or a divine prupose to
man 's existence \?

i believe the genetic code will be entirely deciphered in our lifetimes ,
but we will not see man convert entirely inert material into self sustaining ,
reproducing life , ever . (i 've never been much of a prophet , though. i
ca n't even picture new york in my mind 8 ). i do n't believe any
technology would be able to produce that necessary spark of life , despite
having all of the parts available. just my opinion.


when you say that man is only an animal , i have to think that you are
presenting an unprovable statement a dogma , if you will. and one
the requires a kind of faith too. by taking such a hard line in
your atheism , you may have stumbled into a religion of your own.

as far as we can tell , man falls into the mammal catagory. now ,

that preposition sort of precludes an absolute , does n't it \? without an
absolute conclusion , what are we left with \? i believe the word faith
works nicely.

if there were something more to the man (say , a soul) , then
we have yet to find evidence of such. but as it is now , man
is a mammal (babies are born live , mother gives milk , we 're
warm blooded , etc.) as other mammals are and is similar in
genetic construction to some of them (in particular , primates).
for more on this check out talk.origins.

but before you write off all christianity as phony and shallow , i hope
you 'll do a little research into its history and varieties , perhaps by
reading paul johnson 's a history of christianity . from your remarks ,
it seems that you have been exposed to certain types of christian
religion and not others. even an atheist should have enough faith in
man to know that a movement of 2000 years has to have some depth , and
be animated by some enduring values.

well , then , buddhism , confucianism , taoism , hinduism , judaism ,
zoerasterism , shintoism , and islam should fit this bit of logic
quite nicely... ) all have depth , all have enduring values ,
thus all must be true...

well then , with an equal scale , and under an equal standard , investigate
them all , and discover where god is ( or whether he is , for the denial of
god is ultimately a statement of faith , non falsifiable as his existence
may be).

for is n't this the purpose of religion to discover , and in discovery , to
know god \?

you do n't mind if a few of us send up a prayer on your behalf during your
research , do you \? after all , if we of christ are deluding ourselves , you
really have nothing to worry about , eh \?

until the king returns ,

jason



jason d. smith
jasons@atlastele.com i'm not young enough to know everything.
1x1

from dmn@kepler.unh.edu (there 's a seeker born every minute.)
subject hell
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 98


atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) wrote

here 's how i talk to non christians who are complaining about hell.

me do you believe you 're going to heaven \?
him i do n't believe in heaven.
me so are you going there \?
him if there was a heaven , i would.
me but since there is n't a heaven , you 're not going there , are you \?
him no.

the point is that heaven is based on faith if you do n't believe in heaven ,
there 's no way you 're going to be in it.

hmmm... people in the americas before the time of christ , children who
die young , etc. \?


of course , the next step is , i do n't believe in hell either , so why will i
be there \? it seems to me that hell is eternal death and seperation from god.


but of course , the popular conception of hell (correct or incorrect) is
something akin to eternal perpetuation of consciousness , at the very least.


most atheists do believe that when they die they will die forever , and never
see god so they do , in fact , believe that they 're going to hell.

i think a good number of atheists believe there is nothing beyond
bodily death , but it is simply an abuse of language to say they believe
they 're going to hell. they believe they 're going to die . understand
that you 've turned hell into a verb. using the same logic , it also follows
that all animals are 'going to hell.' are you sure this is what you want
to say \? (presumably animals do n't have the opportunity to get to heaven ,
but this still does n't change the fact that they 're going to hell (die
a final death))

i do n't claim to know whether or not there is an afterlife of some
sort , but if hell is as you described (final death , and
not eternal perpetuation of consciousness) it will be true that
there will never be a moment when i am aware of my non existence.
(assuming i 'go to hell' and not to heaven) in other words , i 'll
never know i'm dead. hmmm...


hell does n't have to be worse than earth to be hell because it 's eternal ,

ever hear people say of a loved one who was ill , and has died
at least she 's not suffering any more she 's in heaven now. \?

consider the following statement
at least she 's not suffering any more she 's in hell now.

the above statement sounds odd , but according to your definition of hell ,
it would be a true statement. the person in hell would not be suffering.
granted , they would n't be anything (would n't be having any
conscious experience whatsoever).

you say hell (death) is eternal. however , this loses its meaning
to a dead person. and to me , it seems that the threat of some sort
of eternal punishment only makes sense has force if one expects to
be conscious throughout this eternity.

many atheists believe that the thirst for an afterlife is simply the
product of propaganda ( friend , do you want the free gift of e ternal life \?
it 's my understanding that the early jews did not believe in an afterlife.
can anyone back me up on this \? ) combined with the survival instinct all
animals share. the difference is we have consciousness , and once we get the
idea of eternal life drilled into our brains , we then desire a sort of
super survival.


and it 's a lot worse than heaven. that 's the only comparison that matters.

that would depend on what heaven is like. if god is a king , and
an eternity in heaven consists of giving thanks and praise to the king ,
i might opt for hell. i read a lovely account of a missionary trying to
convert eskimos to christianity in the book the illusion of immortality
by corliss lamont. the missionary started to speak about heaven.
are there seals in heaven \? will we be able to go hunting \? asked an
eskimo. the missionary said no. the group of eskimos then said something
to the effect of , well what good is your heaven if there 's no hunting \?
scram. i highly recommend the above book (ioi) to anyone who wants an
account of the other side of the immortality coin (that there is no
immortality).


alan terlep incestuous vituperousness
oakland university , rochester , mi
atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu melissa eggertsen
rushing in where angels fear to tread.


pax ,

dana

from sliew@ee.mu.oz.au (selbyn liew)
subject re an agnostic 's question
organization dept of e e eng , u of m
lines 79

in article apr.17.01.11.16.1993.2265@geneva.rutgers.edu jdt@voodoo.ca.boeing.com (jim tomlinson (jimt ii)) writes

..

goodness that is within the power of each of us. now , the
complication is that one of my best friends has become very
fundamentalist. that would normally be a non issue with me , but he

hello. firstly , what do you exactly mean by fundamentalist \? i will
for the time being assume that what you mean is that your friend believes
that the bible is god 's word to mankind \? i suspect that what happened
to him is what he 'll call being born again \? anyway , was that recent \?
if the answer is yes to all the questions above , it is quite
understandable. however , imo , i'ld rather give advice to your friend !
i think i 've been through something similar to him , and one thing i can
say is that the basic problem is that each of you are now trying to
communicate from different worldviews. why he talks about those things
is because they are now obvious to him. what is obvious to him is
not obvious to you. secondly , why he may be very persuasive is because
from his point of view , he has been on both sides of the fence . this
i mean that before he turned fundamentalist , you two are agreeable
because both of you see things from the same side. if suddenly , as if
a new world of reality has suddenly opened up to him , it is like the
discovery of let 's say a new continent , or a new planet. to him , he 's
got to tell you because he has seen something much more wonderful than
where he was , and what he thinks is much better than where you are now.
you have got to realise that from his point of view , he means well to
you , eventhough he may end up offending you. to him , it is worth that
risk. nevertheless , it is really up to him to respect where you stand
and listen to you as well. at this moment , it may be difficult because
he is either very excited or feel it is too urgent to keep quiet about ,
however , he may not realise that he 's really putting you off.

...

the bible that it is so.' so my question is , how can i convince him
that this is a subject better left undiscussed , so we can preserve
what is (in all areas other than religious beliefs) a great
friendship \? how do i convince him that i am 'beyond saving' so he
wo n't try \? thanks for any advice.

so far , i 've only been trying to explain things from his side. however ,
i do understand how you feel too , because i was n't a christian for a good
part of my life as well. i was quite turned off by christians or
fundamentalists who were really all out and enthusiastic about their
faith. they really scared me , to tell you the truth. unfortunately ,
religious belief is a very personal thing , just as your agnosticism
is also a very personal thing to you. since the christian belief is
inevitably at odds with anything non christian (religious or otherwise) ,
it will be a touchy matter. like all friendships , it will take both
sides to do their part to make it work. in this matter , maybe you can
do your part by telling him nicely that you are not able to dig what he 's
trying to convince you about , that it 's beyond you or not your concern
for now . do n't tell him it 's nonsense , because to him it is reality
and that would be a real insult. he 'll also have to be careful not to
insult where you stand too.

like i said before , i wish i could give your friend some advice too.
i 'll admit that i did similarly to some of my friends when i became a
christian. in some ways , i wish i could have done things a little
differently. however , it was difficult then because i was so excited
and just blabbered away about what i 've found ! to me , it was too good
not to know. to some , i was crazy , and i did n't really care most of
the time what they thought. you will probably think he 's crazy too
but god is very real to him , as real as you are to him. keep that in
mind. and he thinks he can convince you because since god is so real
to him , he does n't see why god ca n't be real to you too.

i do n't know how helpful this is to you. but all the best anyhow
this is quite a challenge for you to face. by the way , personal
conviction nobody is beyond saving except the one we call the
devil and his hosts.

regards ,
selbyn liew

dept. of ee engineering , university of melbourne , victoria 3052 , australia
email sliew@mullian.ee.mu.oz.au ph 61 3 3447976 fax 61 3 3446678


from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject re re does god love you \?
organization fnal ad net
lines 70

in article apr.13.00.08.10.1993.28382@athos.rutgers.edu jayne@mmalt.guild.org
(jayne kulikauskas) writes

i am uncomfortable with the tract in general because there seems to be
an innappropriate emphasis on hell. god deserves our love and worship
because of who he is. i do not like the idea of frightening people into
accepting christ.

and yet , jayne , as we read the gospels and in particular the topics that jesus
himself spoke on , hell figures in a large of the time certainly more than
heaven itself. paul , as we learn in i thess , taught new believers and new
churches eschatology and did not hesitate to teach hell and damnation. rev ,
chapter 20 11 15 is very specific and cannot be allegorized. i think the word
throne is used 45 times in rev and that the unbelieving come to receive the
assignment of the severity of judgement , for in john 3 we read that they are
already judged. rom 3 speaks that every mouth will be shut. there is no
recourse , excuse or defense.

i see evangelism as combining a way of living that shows god 's love with
putting into words and explaining that love. preaching the gospel
without living the gospel is no better than being a noisy gong or a
clanging cymbal.

yes i agree with you. life is often like a pendulum where it swings to
extremes before stopping at moderation. i think we have seen the extreme of
the hell fire brimstone preacher , but also we have seen the other extreme
where hell not talked about at all for fear of offending someones
sensibilities.

i forget who founded the word of life ministries , but i remember him telling a
story. he was in a small town hardware store and some how a man got to the
point of telling him that he did n't believe in satan or hell. he believed
everybody was going to heaven. it was at this point that the man was asked to
pray to god that he would send his children to hell ! of course the man
would n't do it. but the point was made. many people say they do n't believe in
hell but they are not willing to really place their faith in that it does n't
exist. if this man had , he would of prayed the prayer because hell did n't
exist and there would have been no fear in having his prayer answered. and
yet , they walk as if they believe they will never be sent there.

i 'd use a different illustration however. i have to include myself in it.
when i watch , say a basketball (go bulls ! ) game , and i see a blatant foul that
is n't called , oi vey ! . what 's with that ref that he did n't make that call.
it 's unfair. and just so in life , righteousness demands payment. as the
surgeon takes knife in hand to cut the cancer away , so god cuts off that which
is still of the old creation. we must preach the gospel in all its richness
which includes the fact that if you reject the way and the truth and the life ,
then broad is the way to distruction.


here 's a question how many of you are christians because you are
afraid of going to hell \? how many are responding to god 's love \?

i think i would fall in there somewhere. actually it was both. after all ,
repentance is n't only a turning towards , but also a turning away from !
no , again , if jesus used it in his ministry then i can surely see that we
should do it also. in love , of course , but in truth most assuredly.

i have thought about writing something on this topic , but not now and here. i
would say that there are some good reasons for its existence and its
eternality.

1) god is light. yes he is love , but his love has the boundary of holiness.
2) dignity of man. either a man is a robot or he is a responsible creature.
if responsible , then he is also accountable.
3) the awfulness of sin. today we have a poor , poor concept of sin god.
4) christ. he was willing to die and go there himself to offer an avenue to
the whosoever will.

rex

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject re serbian genocide work of god \?
organization freshman , civil engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 57

d. andrew kille writes

are you suggesting that god supports genocide \?
perhaps the germans were punishing jews on god 's behalf \?

any god who works that way is indescribably evil , and unworthy of
my worship or faith.

the bible does tell us that governments are ordained by god (romans 13).
and furthermore , god foreknows everything that would happen. it is
just to difficult for humans to graps with our limited minds , the
inevitablity of the sucess of god 's plan , and this is especially hard to
grasp when we see governemnts doing evil. however , though they are
doing evil (and we should not cooperate with them when they do such) , it
must be understood that what happens is what god wanted so as to lead to
the final sucess of his plan to save as many souls from hell as is
possible. in short , the slaughter in bosnia , though deplorable in the
eyes of god (maybe , then again , they might be getting their just deserts
now rather than later there are plenty of examples of god killing
people for their sins onan in the old testmament for example , and
annias and spahira in the new) is what he willed to happen so that his
plan might be accomplished.
but do n't forget , it is not unbiblical for god to use one nation to
execute his just judgement upon another. the romans were used to
fulfill the chorus of let his blood be upon our hands of the crowd in
jersualem. and chaldea was chastised by babylon , which got israel ,
which was inturn gotten by persia , etc. god does use nations to punish
other nations , as the bible very clearly shows in the old testament.
do n't you remember the words of god recorded in daniel , mene , mene ,
tekel , peres \? babylon had been weighed in the balance scales of god 's
justice , found severly wanting , and was thus given over to the persians
as their due punishment for their rebellion. another exammple is the
extirmination of the cannanites , ordered by god as the task of israel.
the cannanites had been given their chance , found severly wanting , and
the great judge , carried out his just sentence accrodingly. i could go
on with more examples , but i see little need to do so , as my point is
quite clear.
two things need to be remembered at all times. 1) it is not up to us to
question why god has ordered the world as he has. in his divine wisdom ,
he made the world as was best in his eyes , and like paul says in romans
9 , the clay is not one to tlak back to the potter. 2) the message of
jesus christ is as follows repent now , for the kingdom of heaven is at
hand. jesus christ did not allow any time for dilly dallying let
the dead bury the dead , come , follow me. there is not an infinite
amount of time , rather christ is passing by right now , calling people to
follow him and become fishers of men. he does not say , well , alright ,
you can call me back in a week and see if my kingdom fits in with your
plans. he said follow me. his message is not i'm just a sweety pie
who would never hurt a fly , you 've got all the time in the world , and
divine judgement , that 's only a fairy tale. our great god and savior
jesus christ (titus 2.5) is also the just and righteous judge of the
world. and it is not up to the defendants in the trial to be
questioning his entirely just sentences of either chastisement or mercy.

d. andrew byler
does not he who ways the heart perceive sin , and will he not judge
men according to their works \? proverbs 24.12

from j.hale@latrobe.edu.au
subject re can sin block our prayers \?
organization vax cluster , computer centre , la trobe university
lines 35

in article apr.7.23.20.24.1993.14263@athos.rutgers.edu ,
3225200@qucdn.queensu.ca writes
i have heard an interesting notion that sin can block our prayers to god ,
i.e. god will not hear our prayers if we have not confessed our sins. now i am
totally supportive of confessing our sins before god , but i simply do not
believe god will shut us out just because we did not confess. this is kind of
like the idea that suffering is caused by sin , which , as any job reader will
realize , is too simpilistic.
rest deleted

can the father possibly not hear the words of his children.
of course he hears all your prayers.
whether you are a sinner or a saint , no questions.
the real question you should be asking is does sin block our hearing his
answer \? and the answer to that question is a resounding yes.
to paraphrase the gospel many are called but few choose to listen
and so it is with prayer.


in christ ,

james


james hale lincoln school of health sciences
computing unit la trobe university , bundoora , australia

james.hale@latrobe.edu.au

the grace of god rests gently on forgiving eyes ,
and everything they look on speaks of him to the beholder.
he can see no evil , nothing in the world to fear ,
and no one who is different from himself.
text , p 418


from andrew@srsune.shlrc.mq.edu.au (andrew mcveigh)
subject re proof of resurection
organization shlrc , macquarie university
lines 74

in article apr.21.03.26.18.1993.1352@geneva.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes

we also cannot fail to note the intense suffering a devastation which has been
wrecked on our world because of christians who were certain they were
following christ. from captialist who have polluted the enviorment in strict
obedience to the gensis command to subdue the earth , to nazi 's who have
justly
punished the jews for the killing christ (as well as the other progroms) , the
innocent women who were burned alive in accordance with you shall not allow a
witch to live , the moslems who were killed in the crusades , the god fearing
men destroyed by the inquistion. the religious wars in spain , france , england ,
etc. christianity has undoubtedly caused the most suffering and needless loss
of life by individuals whose certainity that they were following the
instructions therein , was unquestionable. there is much to grieve.

randy


very interesting , but i also believe that you have presented a
misleading argument. christianity is not the cause of the massacres
and horrific injustices that you relate , rather they are the fault
of people who misunderstand jesus christ 's message , and modify
it to suit their own beliefs and aims , rather than alter their
ambitions to be more in line with those presented as desirable in
the new testament. with every truthful and good message that
carries authority or implied authority , comes the inevitable
fact that some (many \? ) people will understand it in a distorted
way , with inevitable consequences.

the bible 's message is that we are to love all people , and
that all people are redeemable. it preaches a message of
repentance , and of giving. unfortunately , all people have
deceitful hearts , and are capable of turning this message
around and contorting it in sometimes unbelievable ways.
this is also a fundamental christian doctrine.

one of the problems is that you look at the world through
the eyes of western history. i think that you will find
many , many cases of massacres that were instigated by
people who never claimed they were christian. i am not saying
this to justify the massacres that were , but i am merely
pointing you to a tendency which is present in humans already.

consider the world without christianity. i doubt that we
would have the same freedoms in the countries in which we
live , if it was n't for the peaceful doctrines of jesus christ.
perhaps we would even be confronted by a very harsh religion
(i wo n't name any here , though one comes to mind) which
would not even allow us the freedom of speech to debate such
subjects.

point the blame at inherent human tendencies of thirst for
power , greed and hatred. please do n't point the blame at
a message which preaches fundamental giving and denial , in
love for others.

yours in christ ,

andrew mcveigh


p.s. i believe that a line of questioning like you presented
is , strangely enough , compatible with becoming a christian.
certainly christianity encourages one to question the behaviour
of the world , and especially christians. i praise god for
jesus christ , and the fact that we can doubt our beliefs
and still come back to god and be forgiven , time and time
again.





andrew mcveigh

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 50

in article apr.15.00.57.56.1993.28857@athos.rutgers.edu reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes

i disagree with your claim that jews were not evangelistic (except in
the narrow sense of the word). jewish proselytism was widespread.
there are numerous accounts of jewish proselytism , both in the new
testament and in roman and greek documents of the day.

i am not so sure of jewish proselytism then , but i would like to relate
an account of a recent dinner i had with jews a few months ago.

the dinner was instigated by the aunt of the hostess , whom i had met while
visiting my wife in galveston last october. the dear old aunt (now
deceased) was very proud of her jewish heritage , although not especially
devout. her parents were both murdered in nazi concentration camps in
austria during wwii because they were jewish. while conversing with her
about politics , world affairs and religion , she remarked that it would
be a good idea for me to visit her niece on my return to atlanta.

within two days of returning to atlanta , her niece called to invite
me over for dinner with her husband. i went , not knowing really what to
expect , other than stimulating conversation and fellowship. what i got ,
however , was rather unexpected. the thrust of the evening 's discussion
was to condemn the reagan bush policies prohibiting abortion counseling
in federally funded family planning clinics , prohibiting the sterilization
of minorities on welfare here and in puerto rico , on
the ban on fetal tissue research , and against the mexico city policy ,
which denies u.s. foreign aid to programs overseas that promote abortion.

the crux of their position was to place the blame for the problems of
overpopulation , rampant domestic crime , african starvation , unwed
mothers , etc. , on christianity , rather on the fall of adam. now , this
is not what i had to come to talk about. but every time i tried to
bring up the subject of judaism , they would condemn jews for jesus
and admonish me against converting to judaism , because it involves
too much study and effort. and i did not even raise the prospect , nor
try to convert them to the truth of christ ! there was certainly no
jewish proselytism going on there.

and again , last november i toured a traditional jewish synagogue and was
subjected to a 30 minute harangue against jesus and christianity in
general. i realize that these are two isolated incidents , and that the
best supervisor i ever had at work is jewish , but from my experience ,
the modern jew is not known for his proselytism.



boundary

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , vulgata latina)

from danc@procom.com (daniel cossack)
subject re the truth of the bible
organization procom technology , inc.
lines 44

sodium.asc.slb.com@asc.slb.com (michael a. montgomery) writes

i believe that the god has preserved the bible perfectly in that it
perfectly conveys all of the truth that he intended. this he has done

oh yea \? which version of the bible is the perfectly preserved one \? and
why are there so many translations that are not perfectly preserved \? is
god trying to confuse us \?

minor changes in wording or even accidental omission of passages in some
manuscripts does not change the truth being conveyed , nor would it lead a
serious student into doctrinal error. (note also that god provided many

but that is exactly what happend. there are so many branches of
denominations of christianity and deviations of doctrine portruding
from varying translations of biblical texts by serious students that
are much too numerous to begin to count. if there is a perfect bible ,
then there would be no possible misinterpretation and there would be
no need for anyone here to be debating it. on the other hand , maybe
the bible is perfect , but no one on this planet is perfect enough to
read it correctly , but then there would be no point in god giving us
something we cannot use correctly.

in short , if you attack the credibility and reliability of the bible , you
are on weak ground. furthermore , the only reason that i can see for wanting
to do so is to remove the bible as the final authority , and instead put
that responsibility on men to sift the bible to strain out the nuggets of
truth that it contains (in other words , what they want to believe) , and
ignore the rest. the bible is truth it does not just contain truth.

imho , if you trust your salvation on the reliability of a single book ,
you are on weak ground. remember , in the beginning was the word , and
the word was with god , and the word was god. this word existed before
the bible was written. (note word god). this word that john is
trying to describe cannot be fully described in any written language ,
all languages being imperfect. realization comes only from contemplation
of the word , and is outside the boundaries of language. i use the bible
as a guide , a stepping stone , but in no way is it my final authority.
god alone is the final authority.


daniel cossack danc@procom.com , 71333.2102@compuserve.com
senior software engineer 2181 dupont drive , irvine , ca 92715
procom technology , inc. 1 714 852 1000

from muirm@argon.gas.organpipe.uug.arizona.edu (maxwell c muir)
subject re homosexuality issues in christianity
organization university of arizona , tucson
lines 75

can someone cite biblical references to homosexuality being immoral , other
than leviticus \? so far , when i ask , around here , i get the verses from
leviticus spouted at me , but the whole rest of that book tends to be
ignored by christians (have n't seen any stonings in a long time ).

later ,
max (bob) muir

the list was posted not long ago , as i recall , aside from lev , commonly
cited passages are

the story of sodom. note however that this was a homosexual rape , and
there 's no disagreement that that is wrong. i take an intermediate
position on this note that sodom is referred to elsewhere in the
bible for its sinfulness. it does n't seem to have been known
specifically for homosexuality. rather , i think it was considered a
cesspool of all sins. however from what we know of jewish attitudes ,
homosexuality would have contributed to the horror of the action
described. (it almost seems to have been contrived to combine about
as many forms of evil in one act as possible homosexual rape of
guests , who were actually angels.) but this story is not specifically
about homosexuality.

in the nt , the clear references are all from paul 's letters. in rom
1 , there is a passage that presupposes that homosexuality is an evil.
note that the passage is n't about homosexuality it 's about
idolatry. homosexuality is visited on people as a punishment , or at
least result , of idolatry. there are a number of arguments over this
passage. it does not use the word homosexuality , and it is referring
to people who are by nature heterosexual practicing homosexuality.
so it 's not what i 'd call an explicit teaching against all homosexuality.
but it does seem to support what would be a natural assumption anyway ,
that paul shares the general negative jewish attitude towards
homosexuality.

the other passages occur in lists of sins , in i cor 6 9 , and i tim
1 10. unfortunately it 's not entirely clear what the words used here
mean. there have been suggestions that one has a broader meaning ,
such as wanton , and that another may be specifically male
prostitute . again , we do n't have here a precise teaching about
homosexuality , but it is at least weak supportive evidence that paul
shared the ot 's negative judgement on homosexuality.

jude 1 7 is sometimes cited , however it 's probably not relevant. the
context in jude involves angels. since those who were almost raped in
sodom were angels , it seems likely that strange flesh refers to
intercourse with angels.

as you can see , the nt evidence is such that people 's conclusion is
determined by their approach to the bible. conservatives note that
the passages from paul 's letters imply that he accepted the ot
prohibition. this is enough for them to regard it as having nt
endorsement. liberals note that there 's no specific teaching , and no
clear definition of what is being prohibited or why (is the concern in
rom 1 the connection of homosexuality to pagan worship \? what exactly
do the words in the lists of sins mean \? ). thus some believe it is
legitimate to regard this as a attitude paul took with him from his
background and not a specific teaching of the gospel.

this is an explosive topic , which tends to result in long
dissertations on the exact meaning of various greek words. but it 's
clear to me that that 's mostly irrelevant. what it really comes down
to is whether people are looking to the bible for law or whether they
believe that such as approach is inconsistent with the gospel. this
appears to depend upon one 's reaction to the message of the bible as a
whole , as well as one 's perception of the needs of the church today.
this is a difference of approach at least as serious as the difference
between protestant and catholic in the 16th cent , and one where both
sides believe that the bible is so obviously on their side that they
keep thinking all they have to do is quote a few more passages and the
other side will finally come to their senses. that makes things
very frustrating for a moderator , who realizes that such an optimistic
outcome is not very likely...

clh

from wagner@grace.math.uh.edu (david wagner)
subject re eternity of hell (was re hell)
organization uh dept of math
lines 27

darius darius lecointe dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu writes

darius vic@mmalt.guild.org (vic kulikauskas) writes

darius let me suggest this. maybe those who believe in the eternal
darius hell theory should provide all the biblical evidence they can
darius find for it. stay away from human theories , and only take
darius into account references in the bible.

like most topics , we 've been through this one before , but here is
a good start matthew 25 46

then they will go away to eternal punishment , but the righteous
to eternal life.

i may post more on this subject when i have more time. in any
case , it is clear that the fate of the damned is most unpleasant ,
and to be avoided.

david wagner sola scriptura !
a confessional lutheran

i 'd like to suggest that discussions based on single quotations
are a bad way to proceed. there are passages consistent with
either theory. the sensible way to proceed is to look at them
all , and see if we can come up with a view that encompasses all
of them. clh

from bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no (bjorn b. larsen)
subject re the bible available in every language (was re satanic tounges)
reply to bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no
organization delab
lines 31

in article may.5.02.53.10.1993.28880@athos.rutgers.edu
koberg@spot.colorado.edu (allen koberg) writes

... about tongues ...

the concept of tongues as used at pentecost seems an outdated concept
now. with the bible available in nearly every language , and missionaries
who are out there in all languages , why does the church need tongues \?

i guess there are at least some people who are not able to support
this claim. there are still a lot of languages without the bible , or a
part of the bible. there are still many languages which we are not
able to write , simply because the written version of the language has
not yet been defined !

i guess this is one of the main goals for wycliffe bible translators
to define rules and a grammar for writing the 'rest' of the languages
of this world. i do not see that any of them will have any reason to
become unemployed during the foreseeable future. (provided they get
their neccessary support ! ) and still they are one of the 3 largest
missionary organizations of the world.

bjorn


s mail e mail
bjorn b. larsen bjorn.b.larsen@delab.sintef.no
sintef delab
n 7034 trondheim tel 47 7 592682 592600
norway fax 47 7 591039 594302


from mussack@austin.ibm.com (chris mussack)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... ) soc.religion.christian 16242
reply to mussack@austin.ibm.com
lines 38

in article apr.13.00.08.22.1993.28397@athos.rutgers.edu , trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre) writes
norris@athena.mit.edu writes
for example why does the universe exist at all \?

must there be a why to this \? i ask because of what you also
assume about god namely , that he just exists , with no why
to his existence. so the question is reversed , why ca n't
we assume the universe just exists as you assume god to
just exist \? why must there be a why to the universe \?

whether there is a why or not we have to find it. this is pascal 's( \? ) wager.
if there is no why and we spend our lives searching , then we have merely
wasted our lives , which were meaningless anyway. if there is a why and we
do n't search for it , then we have wasted our potentially meaningful lives.
suppose the universe is 5 billion years old , and suppose it lasts another
5 billion years. suppose i live to be 100. that is nothing , that is so small
that it is scary. so by searching for the why along with my friends here
on earth if nothing else we are n't so scared.

what if you woke up at a party , with no memory , and everyone was discussing
who the host might be \? there might not be a host , you say. i say let 's go
find him , the party 's going to be over sometime , maybe he 'll let us stay.

because we recognize our own mortality we have to find the why .

...
well , then , buddhism , confucianism , taoism , hinduism , judaism ,
zoerasterism , shintoism , and islam should fit this bit of logic
quite nicely... ) all have depth , all have enduring values ,
thus all must be true...

this is a good point. but more of a good point for studying religion
than ignoring it. some christians disagree with me , but it is worthwhile
to study different religions and philosophies and glean the truth from
them. to quote (of course out of context) test everything and keep what is
true.

chris mussack

from storrs@eos.ncsu.edu (jerry storrs)
subject re march for jesus
reply to storrs@eos.ncsu.edu (jerry storrs)
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 16

the only info i have is my area is not having a large march. they are leaving
it up to each congragation. imo this means organizers found it too difficult
to manage or no one feels the need to be involved.

i'm not casting stones , my involvement with the lord does not include the march
this year. maybe he is giving a message by the lack of one \? \? jls


jerry l storrs , systems manager u got 2 b tru ,
dept of chemical engineering u got 2 b livin' what u say u believe
north carolina state university u got 2 b tru ,
raleigh , nc 27695 even when nobody but jesus is watchin u
919 515 6393 ( 3465 fax)
storrs@che.ncsu.edu (preferred) (steven curtis chapman)



from dxf12@po.cwru.edu (douglas fowler)
subject giving spiritual gifts
reply to dxf12@po.cwru.edu (douglas fowler)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 20


i just thought i 'd share a nice experience before my exam today.
i was walking down the streets on our campus , and a beggar came up and asked
me for any spare change i might have. i had a dollar or so that i gave her ,
and not wanting to give away all my money to strangers (i generally give
a dollar as that will buy a little food at mcdonalds or something) i offered
her some spiritual gifts , as i called them , rather than gifts of money.
i talked of how great i felt that god had made such a pretty day , and how
nice it was to give to people she then said she was getting married soon.
she talked about how she and her husband had very little (they may not have
even had a house , for all i know) , but that they felt a very special love in
the lord , an unselfish kind of caring. it warmed my heart to know that 2
people can have so little monetarily , and realize that spiritually they are
indeed very rich. a good lesson for all of us who say we want more , more ,
more what we really need cannot be counted , or sold , or bought.

doug fowler dxf12@po.cwru.edu heaven is a great big hug that lasts forever
and when that one great scorer comes to mark against your name
he writes , not whether you 've won or lost , but how you played the game
grantland rice

from trajan@cwis.unomaha.edu (stephen mcintyre)
subject re atheists and hell
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 52

atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu writes

hello ,

i have seen two common threads running through postings by atheists on
the newsgroup , and i think that they can be used to explain each other.
unfortunately i do n't have direct quotes handy...

1) atheists believe that when they die , they die forever.

true to a point. if you were to ask a buddhist atheist...

2) a god who would condemn those who fail to believe in him to eternal death
is unfair.

i do n't see what the problem is ! to christians , hell is , by definition ,
eternal death exactly what atheists are expecting when they die. there 's no
reason hell has to be especially awful to most people , eternal death is bad
enough.

actually , yes and no , hell is eternal death. actually , the way
i 've had it related to me , it 's more of an eternal damnation ,
where sinners will feel the licking flames of hell. if i
supposedly can feel these flames , i would assume i'm still
alive , but suffering and away from god.

literal interpreters of the bible will have a problem with this view , since
the bible talks about the fires of hell and such. personally , i do n't think
that people in hell will be thrust into flame any more than i expect to jesus
with a double edged sword issuing from his mouth i treat both these state
ments as metaphorical.

i believe jehovah 's witnesses have a similar view , where the body
sleeps for ever...

i do n't have a problem with being condemned to hell either. the
way i see it , if god wants to punish me for being honest in
my skepticism (that is , for saying he does n't exist) , he
certainly would n't be changing his nature. besides , i would
rather spend an eternity in hell than be beside god in heaven
knowing even one man would spend his eternal life being
scorched for his wrongdoings...

stephen

atheist
libertarian
pro individuality
pro responsibility
jr. and all that jazz...



from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

for whoever does the will of my father in heaven is my brother and sister
and mother.

matthew 12 50

from sdittman@liberty.uc.wlu.edu (scott dittman)
subject re some questions from a new christian
organization washington lee university
lines 21

steven r hoskins (18669@bach.udel.edu) wrote
hi ,

i am new to this newsgroup , and also fairly new to christianity.
... i realize i am very ignorant about much of the bible and
quite possibly about what christians should hold as true. this i am trying
to rectify (by reading the bible of course) , but it would be helpful
to also read a good interpretation commentary on the bible or other
relevant aspects of the christian faith. one of my questions i would
like to ask is can anyone recommend a good reading list of theological
works intended for a lay person \?

i 'd recommend mcdowell 's evidence that demands a verdict books (3 i
think) and manfred brauch 's hard sayings of paul . he also may have
done hard sayings of jesus . my focus would be for a new christian to
struggle with his faith and be encouraged by the historical evidence ,
especially one who comes from a background which emphasizes knowable faith.

scott dittman email sdittman@wlu.edu
university registrar talk (703)463 8455 fax (703)463 8024
washington and lee university snail mail lexington virginia 24450

from mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington)
subject re pantheism environmentalism
organization ai programs , university of georgia , athens
lines 18

in article apr.12.03.44.17.1993.18833@athos.rutgers.edu heath@athena.cs.uga.edu (terrance heath) writes

i realize i'm entering this discussion rather late , but i do
have one question. was n't it a reagan appointee , james watt , a
pentacostal christian (i think) who was the secretary of the interior
who saw no problem with deforestation since we were living in the
last days and ours would be the last generation to see the redwoods
anyway \?

i heard the same thing , but without confirmation that he actually said it.
it was just as alarming to us as to you the bible says that nobody knows
when the second coming will take place.


michael a. covington , associate research scientist
artificial intelligence programs mcovingt@ai.uga.edu
the university of georgia phone 706 542 0358
athens , georgia 30602 7415 u.s.a. amateur radio n4tmi

from revdak@netcom.com (d. andrew kille)
subject re serbian genocide work of god \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 22

james sledd (jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu) wrote
are the serbs doing the work of god \? hmm...

i 've been wondering if anyone would ever ask the question ,

are the governments of the united states and europe not moving
to end the ethnic cleansing by the serbs because the targets are
muslims \?

can does god use those who are not following him to accomplish
tasks for him \? esp those tasks that are punative \?

james sledd
no cute sig.... but i'm working on it.

are you suggesting that god supports genocide \?
perhaps the germans were punishing jews on god 's behalf \?

any god who works that way is indescribably evil , and unworthy of
my worship or faith.

revdak@netcom.com

from ab4z@virginia.edu (andi beyer)
subject translations
organization university of virginia
lines 2

which version of the bible do you consider to be the most
accurate translation \?

from holfeltz@lstc2vm.stortek.com
subject re need a book
organization storagetek sw engineering
lines 37

in article apr.14.03.08.18.1993.5458@athos.rutgers.edu
bassili@cs.arizona.edu (amgad z. bassili) writes


i appreciate if anyone can point out some good books about the dead sea
scrolls of qumran. thanks in advance.

please reply by e mail at bassili@cs.arizona.edu

ok boys girls , hang on here we go !

christ 's eternal gospel robinson robinson
the dead sea scrolls the nt ws lasor
james the just in habakkuk pesher rh eisenman
maccabees ... quamran rh eisenman
dead sea scrolls uncovered eisenman wise
dead sea scrolls deception baigent leigh
jesus riddle of dead sea scrolls b thiering
jesus scroll d joyce

happy reading welcome aboard


a poor wayfaring stranger some say , a strange one in a strange land ,


disclaimer not my employer 's opinion probably
not your 's either and
only mine , when authorized !

try roger holfeltz@stortek.com


note that this list covers quite a variety of views. as such it 's
probably a good one. but if you want to read just one book , beware
that a couple of the books on that list represent views that are ,
shall we say , unusual. clh

from vic@mmalt.guild.org (vic kulikauskas)
subject eternity of hell (was re hell)
organization kulikauskas home
lines 11

our moderator writes

i'm inclined to read descriptions such as the lake of fire as
indicating annihilation. however that 's a minority view.
...
it 's my personal view , but the only denominations i know of that hold
it officially are the jw 's and sda 's.

i ca n't find the reference right now , but did n't c.s.lewis speculate
somewhere that hell might be the state of once having been a human
soul \?

from (phil bowermaster)
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization u s west advanced technologies
lines 36

in article apr.10.05.32.15.1993.14385@athos.rutgers.edu ,
dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) wrote

in article apr.7.01.55.50.1993.22771@athos.rutgers.edu ,
vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) wrote


we affirm the absolutes of scripture , not because we are arrogant
moralists , but because we believe in god who is truth , who has revealed his
truth in his word , and therefore we hold as precious the strategic importance
of those absolutes.


pardon me , a humble atheist , but exactly what is the difference
between holding a revealed truth with blind faith as its basis (i.e.
regardless of any evidence that you may find to the contrary) as an
absolute truth , fully expecting people to believe you and arrogance \?

if you would bother to check in any good dictioanry or thesaurus , i think
you will find that arrogance has to do with an offensive exhibition of
presumed or real superiority (a paraphrase from my own webster 's).
arrognace is about pride and haughtiness. a person can believe in absolute
truth , even blindly (whatever that means) without being obnoxious about it.
just as a person can be a humble , authority questioning ,
defying any theist to reply athiest and be quite arrogant. arrogance is not
about what you believe , it is about how you relate to what you believe and
how you present it to others. if your overwhelming experience of christians
has been that they are arrogant , i apologozing both for myself and on the
behalf of those who have offfended you. but my own experience , at least in
forums like usenet where you see a good mix of people , is that arrogant
christians and athiests seems to occur in about equal numbers.

phil

hey , we 're talking about the phone company , here. the phone company does n't
have opinions on this kind of stuff. this is all me.

from khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan)
subject re doing the work of god \? \? ! ! )
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi
lines 33

hedrick@cs.rutgers.edu writes

down these distinctions. in him there is neither jew nor greek , there
is neither slave nor free , there is neither male nor female. if
moslems do not know him , we may preach to them , but we do n't kill


as a muslim (spelled sometimes as moslem) i must say that muslims strong
ly believe in jesus. refered in islamic text as eesau(as)

jesus j esu s esu (pronounced eee saw)

yah we knew him well. ideally , this war should not even be. and even in
a time of war , our goal is peace. we should try to refrain from viloating
the peace of others as then if we do violate , we will not have peace in
ourselves. i do n't like this war eaither , it is a conflict of territory.
croats , muslims , and serbs lived together before in peace. the rallying
point is 'race'. and im sure that there is a general out there who would n't
mind being a president.


mohammad r. khan khan0095@nova.gmi.edu
after july '93 , please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu

from a christian perspective , moslem ideas about jesus look rather
seriously erroneous. i 've generally tried to avoid discussions of
islam in this group , since soc.religion.islam is the right place for
that. thus i do n't much want to go into detail. i will simply note
that moslems reject most of what christians regard as the most
essential facts about jesus. so at least from a christian perspective
moslems do n't know jesus. again , this is no justification for
christians to hate moslems or to kill them. i agree with you that
this war should never be. clh

from fraseraj@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (andrew j fraser)
subject religious wars
organization glasgow university computing science dept.
lines 33

i do n't know if this is the sort of thing you guys like
to discuss. i guess it falls into the area of apologetics.

this is a question that seems to pop up now and again in
conversations with non christians. it usually appears in
the following sort of unqualified statement
well you know that religion has caused more wars than
anything else
it bothers me that i cannot seem to find a satisfactory
response to this. after all if our religion is all about
peace and love why have there been so many religious wars \?
personally i am of the view that religion has often been
used as an excuse to instigate wars often to disguise
national ambitions but i would love to hear what anyone
else has to say about this subject.
thanks in advance
andrew j fraser

(if we 're thinking in terms of history , the crusades ,
northern ireland , yugoslavia( \? ) come immediately to mind)

northern ireland , yugoslavia ( \?



name andrew james fraser e mail fraseraj@dcs.gla.ac.uk
ese 3h student , university of glasgow.
standard disclaimers...

i'm beginning to suspect that the natural condition of humans is
conflict. perhaps we should not ask whether a religion or philosophy
has been involved in any wars since they all have but whether
it has stopped any. clh

from fernandeza@merrimack.edu
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization merrimack college , no. andover , ma , usa
lines 12

in article apr.19.05.11.41.1993.29112@athos.rutgers.edu , aa888@freenet.carleton.ca (mark baker) writes

i am asking you to believe in things not visible. i do n't know if this is
believeing blindly or not. .... if you decide in advance that your reason
will act only on the evidence of the five physical senses , then you cut
reason off from any possibility of reaching a conclusion outside the
physical sphere

someone said
thinking if i could see , i would believe. then someone said

believe and you will see ! !

from jodfishe@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (joseph dale fisher)
subject re eternity of hell (was re hell)
organization indiana university
lines 98

in article apr.13.00.09.04.1993.28448@athos.rutgers.edu dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe) writes
insert deletion of unnecessary quote

why is it that we have this notion that god takes some sort of pleasure
from punishing people \? the purpose of hell is to destroy the devil and
his angels.

first of all , god does not take any sort of pleasure from punishing
people. he will have mercy on whom he will have mercy and compassion on
whom he will have compassion (ex 33 19). however , if he enjoyed
punishing people and sending them to hell , then why would he send jesus
to seek and save that which was lost (luke 19 10) \?


to the earlier poster who tried to support the eternal hell theory with
the fact that the fallen angels were not destroyed , remember the bible
teaches that god has reserved them until the day of judgement. their
judgement is soon to come.

let me suggest this. maybe those who believe in the eternal hell theory
should provide all the biblical evidence they can find for it. stay away
from human theories , and only take into account references in the bible.

you asked for it.

2 peter 2 4 ff talks about how those who are ungodly are punished.
matthew 25 31 46 is also very clear that those who do not righteous in
god 's eyes will be sent to hell for eternity.
2 thessalonians 1 6 10 states that those who cause trouble for the
disciples will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out
from the presence of the lord .
2 thessalonians 2 9 12 talks about those who refuse to love the truth
being condemned.
revelation 21 6 8 talks about the difference between those who overcomes
and those who do not. those who do not , listed in verse 8 , will be in
the fiery lake of burning sulfur .
revelation 14 9 12 gives the indication that those who follow the beast
will be tormented with burning sulfur and there being no rest day or
night for them because of it.
psalm 9 17 the wicked return to the grave , all the nations that
forget god.

i think those should be sufficient to prove the point.

darius

joe fisher

in the following i'm mostly playing devil 's advocate . i'm not
advocating either position. my concern is that people understand that
it 's possible to see these passages in different ways. it 's possible
to see eternal destruction as just that destruction. rev often
uses the term second death . the most obvious understanding of that
would seem to be final extinction. the problem is that the nt speaks
both of eternal punishment and of second death. i.e. it uses terms
that can be understood either way. my concern here is not to convince
you of one view or the other , but to help people understand that
there 's a wide enough variety of images that it 's possible to
understand them either way. as tom albrecht commented , the primary
point is to do our best to keep people out of the eternal fire ,
whatever the details. (to make things more interesting , luke 20 35
implies that the damned do n't get resurrected at all. presumably
they just stay dead. yes i'm aware that it 's possible to
understand this passage in a non literal way.)

2 peter 2 4 ff is talking about angels , and talks about holding them
in hell until the final judgement. this is n't eternal punishement.

matthew 25 31 46 talks about sending the cursed into eternal fire
prepared for the devil and his angels. the fact that the fire is
eternal does n't mean that people will last in its flames forever.
particularly interesting is the comment about the fire having been
prepared for the devil and his angels. rev 20 and 21 talk about the
eternal fire as well. they say that the beast and the false prophet
will be tormented forever in it. when talking about people being
thrown into it (20 13 14) , it is referred to as the second death .
this sounds more like extinction than eternal torment. is is possible
that the fire has different effects on supernatural entities such as
the devil , and humans \?

2 thessalonians 1 6 10 similarly , what is everlasting destruction \?
this is not necessarily eternal torment. this one can clearly be
understood either way , but i think it 's at least possible to think
that everlasting is being used to contrast the kind of destruction
that can occur in this life with the final destruction that occurs in
eternity.

2 thessalonians 2 8 again talks about destruction.
revelation 21 6 8 see comment above
revelation 14 9 12 is probably the best of the quotes. even there ,
it does n't explicitly say that the people suffer forever. it says
that the smoke (and presumably the fire) is eternal , and that
there is no respite from it. but it does n't say that the people
are tormented forever.

psalm 9 17 i do n't see that it says anything relevant to this issue.

clh

from abigail@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca (shawn abigail)
subject re online bible as bible study
organization dept. of computer science , laurentian university , sudbury , on
lines 54

in apr.15.00.58.10.1993.28876@athos.rutgers.edu eng10205@nusunix1.nus.sg (ling siew wee) writes

hello , i am about to embark on a bible study on acts. i have online
bible software with me. i would like to know the the background of the
authors of its various topics articles and about the author of the
people 's new testament. i need to know how realible is the articles in
the online bible software. specifically (for your convenience) i want to
know about the


1. darby translation ( i have never heard of this one)

j.n. darby was one of the founders of the plymouth brethren and an
early supporter of dispensationalism. f.f. bruce highly approved
of his translation. he also translated the bible into several other
languages.

2. young 's literal translation (i have also never heard
of)

this was from the same fellow who did young 's concordance , which was
a standard reference work , similar to strong 's concordance.

3. the realiability of the hebrew greek lexicon

i believe that these just follow standard reference works.

4. the authors (from which denomination etc) of the
articles in the topics modules.

some are by larry pierce ( brethren ) , some are by baptists , and i
think that thompson (of chain reference fame) was presbyterian)

5. the realiability of the treasury of scripture
knowlege ( as i have never heard of too)

another standard reference work that has been around for decades.
a new version was just released and is available through christian
book distributers.

6. who are the commentators , scofield and b.w. johnson
who wrote the scofield reference bible and the people 's new testament respectively

c.i. scofield was the creator of the scofield reference bible. for many
people (but not me) , this is the study bible. the notes are strongly
dispensational.

7. the realiability of the strong numbers.

these are probably the most accurate strong 's numbers available.


shawn abigail
abigail@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca

from gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas)
subject accepting jeesus in your heart...
organization educational computing network
lines 59

firstly , i am an atheist. i am not posting here as an immature flame
start , but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.

the meaning of my existence is a question i ask myself daily. i live
in fear of what will happen when i die.

i bet some of you are licking your lips now , because you think that
i'm a person on the edge of accepting jeezus.

i was raised in a religious atmosphere , and attended 13 years of
religious educational institutions.. i know the bible well. so well
i can recognize many passages from memory.

strong opinions start here...

1) the human being is an animal who has , due to his her advanced
mental facilities , developed religious as a satisfiable solution to
explain the unexplainable. (for example the ancient greeks believed
that apollo drove his chariot across the sky each day was real. due
to the advancement of our technology , we know this to be false.

christianity is an infectious cult. the reasons it flourishes are
because 1) it gives people without hope or driven purpose in life
a safety blanked to hide behind. oh wow..all i have to do is
follow this christian moral standard and i get eternal happiness.
for all of you found jeezus , how many of you were on the brink \?

but i digress... the other reason christianity flourishes is its
infectious nature. a best friend of mine breifly entered a christian
group and within months , they set ministry guidelines for him which
basicaly said this priority 1 spread the word.


we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and we
die.

religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.
some people use drugs as an escape from reality. christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high.

it pities me how many millions of lives have been lost in religious
wars , of which christianity has had no small part.

when christians see a non believer , they say that person is blind
to the truth , but they cannot realize that it is they who live
with this mask of fakeness each day. jesus was just prophet 37696
who happened to have a large influence because at that time the romans
were (circa 69ad) dispersing the jewish population and communities
needed some sort of cohesive element to keep them strong in that time
of dire need.

i must go. these are but a few of my thoughts on christianity.




damien endemyr the unpure knight of doom
so i 've acquired a taste for blood and have adopted a nocturnal
lifestyle. that doesnt mean i'm a vampire.....

from tp0x @cs.cmu.edu (thomas price)
subject re serbian genocide work of god \?
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 17

in article apr.24.01.09.19.1993.4263@geneva.rutgers.edu revdak@netcom.com (d. andrew kille) writes
james sledd (jsledd@ssdc.sas.upenn.edu) wrote
are the serbs doing the work of god \? hmm...


are you suggesting that god supports genocide \?
perhaps the germans were punishing jews on god 's behalf \?

any god who works that way is indescribably evil , and unworthy of
my worship or faith.

you might want to re think your attitude about the holocaust after
reading deuteronomy chapter 28.

tom price tp0x@cs.cmu.edu free will \? what free will \?

plutoniumsurveillanceterroristciaassassinationirancontrawirefraudcryptology

from hudson@athena.cs.uga.edu (paul hudson jr)
subject re revelations
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 29

in article apr.9.01.11.00.1993.16923@athos.rutgers.edu topcat ! tom@tredysvr.tredydev.unisys.com (tom albrecht) writes

now , as to the suggestion that all prophecy tends to be somewhat cyclical ,
can you elaborate \? i'm not exactly sure what you mean. how does the
suggestion relate to isaiah 's prophecy of the birth of christ by a virgin \?
i do n't see any cycles in that prophecy.

maybe cyclical is not the best word. that is one aspect of it. in the
case of the virgin birth prophecy , it applied to the then and there , and
also prophetically to christ. the army that threatened the king would
cease to be a threat in a very short time. yet it also prophecied of
christ.

several prophecies that refered to christ also had application at the
time they were made. out of egypt have i called my son refers both
to israel , and prophetically to christ. why do the heathen rage
was said of david and also of christ.

another example would be the scripture quoted of judas , and his bishoprick
let another take. another example is something that isaiah said of his
disciples which is also applied to christ in hebrews , the children thou
hast given me.

how does the preterist view account for this phenomenon.

link


link hudson.

from nabeel ahmad rana rana@rintintin.colorado.edu
subject rfd soc.religion.islam.ahmadiyya moderated
organization uunet communications
lines 171
reply to rana@rintintin.colorado.edu
nntp posting host rodan.uu.net

dear netters

a new religious newsgroup soc.religion.islam.ahmadiyya was pro
posed on oct 16 , 1992. the discussion about this new proposed
newsgroup went on in various related groups. the proposal , was
supposed to enter a vote during the last week of november 92. due
to a false call for votes , by some opponent , the voting had to be
canceled. i quote here a statement from the moderator of
new.announce.newgroups


the current call for votes (cfv) for an ahmadiyya newsgroup
is being canceled. a new call for votes will be issued within
a few weeks , possibly with a new impartial vote taker. discus
sion on the proposal is still open until the new vote is called...
by lawrence , nov 20 , 1992.


a lot of confusion arose among the netter as to whom to vote.
therefore it was decided to give a cool down period , so that all
confusions are over. it has been over 4 months of that instant
and now we are again attempting to create this newsgroup. a fresh
rfd is hereby being issued. please ! take part in the discussion
under the same title heading and in news.groups or at least
cross post it to news.groups .




request for discussion





name of proposed newsgroup


soc.religion.islam.ahmadiyya


charter


a religious newsgroup , which would mainly discuss the be
liefs , teachings , philosophy and ideologies of all major reli
gions of the world as they exist to foster better religious
knowledge and understanding among followers of all religions as
they share common basis. this newsgroup will be devoted to build
a peaceful mutual understanding of the ahmadiyya branch of
islam , its peacefull beliefs , ideology and philosophy and how it
is different from other branches of islam in fostering world
peace and developing better understanding among religious people.
it may also be used to post important religious events within the
world wide ahmadiyya islamic community in general.


purpose of the group


the following are some of the main purposes this group will
achieve

i) to discuss the common beliefs of all major religions as
they relate to ahmadiyya muslim community.

ii) to discuss the doctrines , origin and teachings of this
puissant spiritual force on earth.

iii) to examine islamic teachings and beliefs in general in
light of the quran and established islamic traditions
of 15 centuries from ahmadiyya perspective.

iv) to discuss the similarities between ahmadi muslims and
people of other religions of the world and discuss how
religious tolerance and respect to other 's faiths can
be brought about to eliminate inter religion rivalries
and hatred among people of religions.

v) to discuss the origin and teachings of all religions in
general and islamic and ahmadiyya muslims in particular
to foster better understanding among ahmadi muslims and
other religious people.

vi) to discuss current world problems and solution to these
problems as offered by religion.

vii) to exchange important news and views about the ahmadiyya
muslim community and other religions.

viii)to add diversity in the religious newsgroups present
on usenet.

ix) to discuss why religious persecution is on the rise in
the world and find solutions to remedy the ever deter
iorating situation in the world in general and in the
islamic world in particular.

x) to discuss the contributions of founders of all reli
gions and their people for humanity , society and world
peace in general and by the international ahmadiyya mus
lim community in particular.


type


the group will be moderated for orderly and free religious dialo
gue. the moderation will not prevent disagreement or dissent to
beliefs , but will mainly be used to prevent derogatory squalid
use of dialect and irrelevant issues. the moderators have been
decided through personal e mail and through a general consensus
among the proponants by discussion in news.groups. the following
moderators have been proposed and agreed upon

moderator nabeel a. rana (rana@rintintin.colorado.edu)
co moderator dr. tahir ijaz (ijaz@ccu.umanitoba.ca)



a brief description about ahmadiyya islam



the ahmadiyya movement in islam , an international organi
sation , was founder in 1989 in qadian , india. the founder of this
sect , hazrat mirza ghulam ahmad (1835 1908) , proclaimed to be the
promised reformer of this age as foretold in almost all the major
religions of the world today (islam , christianity , judiasm , hin
duism). he claimed to be the long awaited second comming of
jesus christ (metaphorically) , the muslim mahdi , and the promised
messiah. he claimed that the prophecies contained in almost all
the great religions of the world about the advent of a messenger
from god have been fulfilled.

the claims hazrat ahmad raised storms of hostility and
extreme oposition from many priestlike people of muslims , chris
tians , jews and hindus of that age. such opposition is often wit
nessed in the history of divine reformers. even today this sect
is being persecuted specially in some of the muslim regimes.
dispite the opposition and persecution , this sect has won many
adherents in 130 countries. it has over 10 million followers , who
come from a diverse ethnic and cultural background.

the sect is devoted to world peace and in bringing about
a better understanding of religion , and the founders of all reli
gions. its mission is to unite mankind into one universal broth
erhood and develop a better understanding of faith. ahmadi
muslims have always been opposed to all kind of violence and spe
cially religious intollerance and fundamentalism.

among its many philanthropic activities , the sect has es
tablished a network of hundreds of schools , hospitals , and clin
ics in many third world countries. these institutions are staffed
by volunteer professional and are fully financed by the sect 's
internal resources.

the ahmadiyya mission is to bring about a universal moral
reform , establish peace and justice , and to unite mankind under
one universal religion.


newsgroup creation


when the call for votes is called , the discussion will
officially end. voting will be held for about three weeks. if
the group gets 2 3rd majority and 100 more yes create votes
than no do n't create votes the group shall be created. any
questions or comments may be included in the discussion or
directly sent to rana@rintintin.colorado.edu

from norris@athena.mit.edu (richard a chonak)
subject atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
reply to norris@mit.edu
organization l'organisation , c'est moi
lines 53

eric ( damien \? ) was presenting his views on christianity i 'll
respond to a few of his points

in article apr.10.05.32.36.1993.14391@athos.rutgers.edu , gsu0033@uxa.ecn.bgu.edu (eric molas) writes
firstly , i am an atheist. i am not posting here as an immature flame
start , but rather to express an opinion to my intended audience.

strong opinions start here...

1) the human being is an animal who has , due to his her advanced
mental facilities , developed religion as a satisfiable solution to
explain the unexplainable. (for example the ancient greeks believed
that apollo drove his chariot across the sky each day was real. due
to the advancement of our technology , we know this to be false.)

this is certainly a valid objection to religion as explanation of
nature.

fortunately for the convenience of us believers , there is a class of
questions that can never be reduced away by natural science. for
example why does the universe exist at all \? after all , the time space
world did n't have to exist. why does anything exist \? and is it
possible for persons (e.g. man) to come into being out of a purely
impersonal cosmos \? these questions which look at the real mysteries of
life the creation of the world and of persons provide a permanent
indicator that the meaning of life in the material world can only be
found outside that world , in its source.


we are just animals. we need sleep , food , and we reproduce. and we
die.

religion (especially christianity) is nothing more than a drug.
some people use drugs as an escape from reality. christians inject
themselves with jeezus and live with that high.

when you say that man is only an animal , i have to think that you are
presenting an unprovable statement a dogma , if you will. and one
the requires a kind of faith too. by taking such a hard line in
your atheism , you may have stumbled into a religion of your own.

but before you write off all christianity as phony and shallow , i hope
you 'll do a little research into its history and varieties , perhaps by
reading paul johnson 's a history of christianity . from your remarks ,
it seems that you have been exposed to certain types of christian
religion and not others. even an atheist should have enough faith in
man to know that a movement of 2000 years has to have some depth , and
be animated by some enduring values.

with best wishes ,

richard aquinas chonak , norris@mit.edu , usenet addict , intp
i have very exclusive and nuanced opinions. license info available on request.

from jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas)
subject weirdness of early christians
organization kulikauskas home
lines 21

halsall@murray.fordham.edu (paul halsall) writes

but recently i read peter brown 's body and society . it is very
well researched , and well written. but is raises some very upsetting
questions. the early christians were weird even more so than today 's
carzy fundies. they had odd views on sex , odder views on the body ,
totally ludicrous views about demons , and distinctly uncharitable
views about other human beings.

if possible (last i heard , it was out of print but they were considering
reprinting) read barbara hambly 's search the seven hills . it is
historical fiction , set in rome at the time of the early church. she
captures the weirdness of the early christians and yet gives glimpses of
the holiness too. some of their odd views make a lot more sense in the
context of the society they lived in. i found it a remarkably positive
view of christianity considering that the author is not a christian
herself. another plus is that each chapter begins with an
original source quote so that it makes a good starting point for serious
research.

jayne kulikauskas jayne@mmalt.guild.org

from db7n @andrew.cmu.edu (d. andrew byler)
subject monophysites and mike walker
lines 45

mike walker

if you are using the standard formula of fully god and fully human ,
that i'm not sure why you object to saying that jesus was human. i
think the usual analysis would be that sin is not part of the basic
definition of humanity. it 's a consequence of the fall. jesus is
human , but not a fallen human. clh

the proper term for what mike expresses is monophysitism. this was a
heresy that was condemned in the council of chalcedon in 451 ad. it
grew up in reaction to nestorianism , which held that the son and jesus
are two different people who happened to be united in the same body
temporarily. monophysitism is held by the copts of egypt and ethipoia
and by the jacobites of syria and the armenian orthodox. it believes
that jesus christ was god (which is correct) , that he was man (which is
correct) , that he was one person (which is correct) , but that he had
only one nature and one will and oen energy (which is heretical , the
orthodox position is that he had two natures and two wills and two
energies , both divine and human , though the wills were in perfect
harmony). that is what mike is trying to get across , that while jesus
came in human form , mike says he did not have a human nature or a human
will. in reality , he had both , though neither made him subject to
original sin.
it is interesting to note that the monothelites were a reaction to this
conflict and attempted to solve the problem by admitting two natures but
not two wills or two energies. it also was condemned , at a late council
in constantinople i believe.

andy byler

these issues get mighty subtle. when you see people saying different
things it 's often hard to tell whether they really mean seriously
different things , or whether they are using different terminology. i
do n't think there 's any question that there is a problem with
nestorius , and i would agree that the saying christ had a human form
without a real human nature or will is heretical. but i 'd like to be
a bit wary about the copts , armenians , etc. recent discussions
suggest that their monophysite position may not be as far from
orthodoxy as many had thought. nestorius was an extreme
representative of one of the two major schools of thought. more
moderate representatives were regarded as orthodox , e.g. theodore of
mopsuestia. my impression is that the modern monophysite groups
inherit the entire tradition , not just nestorius' version , and that
some of them may have a sufficient balanced position to be regarded as
orthodox. clh

from erh0362@tesla.njit.edu
subject mormon beliefs about bastards
organization new jersey institute of technology
lines 14


could anyone enlighten me on how the mormon church views
children born out of wedlock \? in particular i'm interested to know if any
stigma is attached to the children as opposed to the parents. i'm especially
keen to learn if there is or is not any prohibition in the mormon faith on
bastards entering heaven or having their names entered in the big genealogical
book the mormons keep in salt lake city. if this is an issue on which the
official position has changed over time , i'm interested in learning both old
and new beliefs. e mail or posting is fine. all information or pointers are
appreciated.

elliotte rusty harold department of mathematics
elharo@shiva.njit.edu new jersey institute of technology
erh0362@tesla.njit.edu newark , nj 07102

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck)
subject daily verse
lines 6

and the lord 's servant must not quarrel instead , he must be kind to everyone ,
able to teach , not resentful. those who oppose him he must gently instruct , in
the hope that god will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the
truth , and that they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the
devil , who has taken them captive to do his will.
iitimothy 2 24 26

from jkjec@westminster.ac.uk (shazad barlas)
subject iterations of the bible
organization university of westminster
lines 53

hi... i'm not a religious guy so dont take this as some kinda flame (thanx
in advance)

i want to know why there are so many different versions of the bible \? there
is this version of the bible i have read about and on the front page it says
....contains inaccurate data and inconsistencies.

thanx in advance... shaz....

i'm not sure quite what you mean by many different versions.
the primary distinction in versions you see today is in the style
of the translation. it 's pretty unusual to see significant
differences in meaning. there are a few differences in the underlying
text. that 's because before printing , manuscripts were copied by
hand. slight differences resulted. there are enough manuscripts
around that scholars can do a pretty good job of recreating the
original , but there are some uncertainties. fortunately , they are
generally at the level of minor differences in wording. there are
something like 3 or 4 places where whole sentences are involved ,
but with recent discoveries of older manuscripts , i do n't think there 's
much uncertainly about those cases. as far as i know , no christians
believe that the process of copying manuscripts or the process of
translating is free of error. but i also do n't think there 's
enough uncertainty in establishing the text or translating it that
it has much practical effect.

whether the bible contains inaccurate data and inconsistences is a hot
topic of debate here. many christians deny it. some accept it
(though most would say that the inaccuracies involved are on details
that do n't affect the faith). but this has nothing to do with there
being multiple versions. the supposed inconsistences can be found in
all the versions. i'm surprised to find a reference to this on the
title page though. what version are you talking about \? i 've been
referring to major scholarly translations. these are what get
referenced in postings here and elsewhere. there have certainly been
editions that are (to be kind) less widely accepted. this includes
everything from reconstructions that combine parallel accounts into
single narrations , to editions that omit material that the editor
objects to for some reason or the other. the copyright on the bible
has long since expired , so there nothing to stop people from making
editions that do whatever wierd thing they want. however the editions
that are widely used are carefully prepared by groups of scholars from
a variety of backgrounds , with lots of crosschecks. i could imagine
one of the lesser known editions claiming to have fixed up all
inaccurate data and inconsistencies. but if so , it 's not any edition
that 's widely used. the widely used ones leave the text as is.
(weeeeelllllll , almost as is. it 's been alleged that a few
translations have fudged a word or two here and there to minimize
inconsistencies. because translation is not an exact science , there
are always going to be differences in opinion over which word is best ,
i'm afraid.)

clh

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject babylon book offer
organization fnal ad net
lines 20

from time to time i have made reference to a book called the two babylons
which is a book written by alexander hislop (mid 1800 's) about the babylonian
mystery religion and its flight through history. i was unable to put it down
the first time i read it , but others have found it dry. it has numberable
references and illustrations. if you are interested in purchasing your own
copy , you can call moody book store @ (312)329 4352 and order it for 16.99 and
they will ship it to you.
it is a good book just to get the reference titles for your own digs into the
mystery religions. i have found it invaluable for that purpose alone. but for
those who only want to skim the subject , it comes highly recommended.
just a note to my rc brothers and sisters. you may find this to be a
diatribe or you may find it to be a test to the origin and true nature of the
origin of rcism. if you are offended by anything that asks hard questions
about your denomination (as to whether or not it is christian ) then perhaps
you should just passover this offer. to those who are a little more
adventurous , go for it and later , please contact me with you reasons pro or con
on the scholorship of this book. i really would be interested.

adelphoi ev christos ,
rex

from fostma@saturn.wwc.edu (mark gregory foster)
subject re sabbath admissions 5of5
organization walla walla college
lines 60

in article apr.15.00.58.33.1993.28906@athos.rutgers.edu dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius lecointe) writes

faq and darius' response deleted

darius

it 's not clear how much more needs to be said other than the faq. i
think paul 's comments on esteeming one day over another (rom 14) is
probably all that needs to be said. i accept that darius is doing
what he does in honor of the lord. i just wish he might equally
accept that those who esteem all days alike are similarly doing
their best to honor the lord.

i am myself an sda and i am in total agreement with what darius has to say.
i also worship on saturday to honor the lord. your mention of esteeming
all days alike imo has to do with the fast days observed by the jews. but
no matter how you interpret that passage , i do accept your worship on sunday
as being done in honor of the lord , in contrast with what many of my fellow
sda believers may believe. to me , though , the bible overwhelmingly points
to saturday as the day to be kept in honor of creation and of god 's
deliverance of the israelites from egyptian bondage. to those who would
attempt to point out that my observance of saturday is being legalistic ,
this is simply not the case. rather , keeping saturday allows me a full day
to rest and contemplate god 's goodness and grace.


however i 'd like to be clear that i do not think there 's unambiguous
proof that regular christian worship was on the first day. as i
indicated , there are responses on both of the passages cited.

similarly with 1 cor 16 2. it says
that on the first day they should set aside money for paul 's
collection. now if you want to believe that they gathered specially
to do this , or that they did it in their homes , i ca n't disprove it ,
but the obvious time for a congregation to take an offering would be
when they normally gather for worship , and if they were expected to do
it in their homes there would be no reason to mention a specific day.

the idea was introduced to me once that the reason paul wanted the
corinthians to lay aside money for the collection on the first day of the
week was because that was when they received their weekly wages. paul
wanted them to lay aside money for the collection as first priority , before
spending their money on other things. i do not have any proof in front of
me for this though , although it would explain why they would lay aside money
in their homes instead of a meeting.

so i think the most obvious reading of this is that on the first day
of every week simply means every time they gather for worship.

i think the reason we have only implications and not clear statements
is that the nt authors assumed that their readers knew when christian
worship was.

it would seem to me that you assume that the christians in the nt regularly
worshipped on the first day. i assume that the christians in the nt
regularly worshipped on the seventh day. but i agree with you that we only
have implications because the authors did assume the reader knew when worhip
was.

mark

from petch@gvg47.gvg.tek.com (chuck petch)
subject daily verse
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 4

above all , love each other deeply , because love covers over a multitude of
sins.

ipeter 4 8

from fraseraj@dcs.glasgow.ac.uk (andrew j fraser)
subject re god shaped hole (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization glasgow university computing science dept.
lines 14

several people were involved in trying to figure out who first used
the phrase god shaped hole . clh

there is a god shaped vacuum in all of us (or something to that effect) is
generally attributed to blaise pascal.
what i want to know is how can you have a god shaped vacuum inside of you if
god is in fact infinite (or omnipresent) \?


name andrew james fraser e mail fraseraj@dcs.gla.ac.uk
ese 3h student , university of glasgow.
standard disclaimers...

do n't you think you 're being a tad too literal with this metaphor \? clh

from rsteele@adam.ll.mit.edu (rob steele)
subject re when are two people married in god 's eyes \?
reply to rob@ll.mit.edu
organization mit lincoln laboratory
lines 15

i think it was lewis who said that in a wedding , it 's the principals
that marry each other the church and the state are present merely as
witnesses.


rob steele in coming to understand anything
mit lincoln laboratory we are rejecting the facts as they
244 wood st. , m 203 are for us in favour of the facts
lexington , ma 02173 as they are.
617 981 2575 c.s. lewis

this is not just lewis it 's a summary of standard catholic
theology. however this does n't mean that the presence of those
witnesses is optional , except in odd situations like the standard
desert island. clh

from kempmp@phoenix.oulu.fi (petri pihko)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization university of oulu , finland
lines 183

first , i thank collectively all people who have given good answers
to my questions. in my follow up to jason smith 's posting , i will
address some issues that have caused misunderstanding

jason smith (jasons@atlastele.com) wrote

in article apr.19.05.13.48.1993.29266@athos.rutgers.edu kempmp@phoenix.oulu.fi (petri pihko) writes

i also concede that i was doubly remiss , as i asserted no reasonable
alternative exists , an entirely subjective statement on my part (and one
that could be invalidated , given time and further discovery by the
scientist). i also understand that a proving a theory does not necessarily
specify that this is how it happened , but proposes a likely description of
the phenomena in question. am i mistaken with this understanding \?

yes , to some degree. there was an excellent discussion in sci.skeptic
on the nature of scientific work two weeks ago , i hope it did not
escape your notice.

the correct word is 'likely'. there is no way to be sure our models and
theories are absolutely correct. theories are backed up by evidence ,
but not proved no theory can be 'true' in a mathematical sense.

however , theories are not mere descriptions or rationalisations of
phenomena. it is extremely important to test whether theories can
predict something new or not yet observed. all successful theories
science has come up with have passed this test , including the big
bang theory of cosmic evolution , the theory of natural selection etc.
it does not mean they must be correct , but they are not mere
'best fits' for the data.

but if you claim that there must be
an answer to how did the universe (our spacetime) emerge from
nothing , science has some good candidates for an answer.

all of which require something we christians readily admit to ``faith''.

well , yes , if you want to believe in them. this is not what science
requires take a good look at the theory and the evidence , see if
the theory has made any successful predictions , and use your reason.
disbelievers are not punished.

the fact that there are several candidates belies that none are conclusive.
with out conclusive evidence , we are left with faith.

this is what puzzles me why do we need to have faith in anything \?
my fellow atheists would call me a weak atheist someone who is
unable to believe , ie , fails to entertain any belief in god.

yes , i know that one ca n't believe without god 's help luther makes
this quite clear in his letter to erasmus. i'm afraid this does not
change my situation.

a couple of paragraphs deleted. summary we ask why does the
universe exist


i think this question should actually be split into two parts , namely

1) why is there existence \? why anything exists \?

and

2) how did the universe emerge from nothing \?

(deletions)

the question why anything exists can be countered by
demanding answer to a question why there is nothing in nothingness ,
or in non existence . actually , both questions turn out to be
devoid of meaning. things that exist do , and things that do n't exist
do n't exist. tautology at its best.

carefully examine the original question , and then the counter question .
the first asks why , while the second is a request for definition.

no , it is not , although it does look like one. this is a true dichotomy ,
either something exists , or nothing exists. if nothing exists , nobody
would ask why. if something exists , it is possible to ask why , but
actually no existing being could give an answer.

imagine , for a moment , that the nobodies in non existence could also
ask why nothing exists \? this is equivalent to my counter question ,
why nothing exists in nothingness .

now , why anything exists is equivalent to why something exists in
somethingness . this is what i meant with my tautology , my apologies
for the poor wording in my previous post.

i might add , the worldview of things that exist do , and things that
do n't...do n't is as grounded in the realm of the non falsifiable ,
as does the theist 's belief in god. it is based on the assumption
that there is not a reason for being , something as ultimately
(un)supportable as the position of there being a reason. its very
foundation exists in the same soil as that of one who claims there is a
reason.

i do indeed think there probably is no reason for being , or existence ,
in general , for reasons i stated above. however , they will still
leave open the question why this , and not that , and this is where
theistic explanations come in.

science cannot give reasons for any particular human being 's existence.

we come to this. either i am , therefore i am. , or i am for a reason.

this is a deep philosophical question is determinism true , or not \?
also , is god deterministic or not \? i tend to think this question has
no meaning in his case.

if i am for a reason , i 've yet failed to see what it would be.
from our perspective , it looks like 'i' exist for truly random
reasons. i just rolled two dice why did i get 6 and 1 \? how can
i believe there is any better reason for my existence \?

if the former is a satisfactory answer , then you are done , for you are
satisfied , and need not a doctor. if the latter , your search is just
beginning.

yes , i am satisfied with this reason , until i find something better.
my 15 years of christianity were of no help in this respect , i have
to admit , but i am patient.

another answer is that god is the source of all existence.
this sounds much better , but i am tempted to ask does god
himself exist , then \? if god is the source of his own existence ,
it can only mean that he has , in terms of human time , always
existed. but this is not the same as the source of all existence.

this does not preclude his existence. it only seeks to identify his
qualities (implying he exists to have qualities , btw).

no , it does n't , but i think an existing god cannot know why he exists ,
for an answer to this question is not knowable. of course , this
should not be any obstacle to belief in his existence.

i also have discovered science is an inadequate tool to answer why . it
appears that m. pihko agrees (as we shall see). but because a tool is
inadequate to answer a question does not preclude the question. asserting
that 'why' is an invalid question does not provide an answer.

it is impossible to know unknowable things. however , the question
why do i exist , in particular is not an invalid question this
is not what i said. but from our perspective , it is impossible to
tell , and i ca n't just believe in any given explanation instead of
another , especially since i found i was deluding myself.

my apologies. i was using why as why did this come to be . why did
pre existence become existence. why did pre spacetime become spacetime.

i think pre existence is an oxymoron. there is no time 'outside' of
this spacetime (except in some other universe) , and from that
perspective , our universe never was. it exists only for those who
are inside it.

but we come to the admission that science fails to answer why \? . because
it ca n't be answered in the realm of modern science , does that make the
question invalid \?

no. the validity of the question has to be discussed separately i think
philosophy is of great help here. what can be known , and what is not
knowable \?

m. pihko does present a good point though. we may need to ask what do i
as an individual christian base my faith on \? will it be shaken by the
production of evidence that shatters our sacred cows or will we seek to
understand if a new discovery truly disagrees with what god said (and
continues to say) in his word \?

this is a very good question. in trying to answer this , and numerous
other questions that bothered me , i finally found nothing to base
my faith on.

i think it would be honest if we all asked ourselves , why do i believe
or why i do n't believe .

petri


. .' ''. petri pihko kem pmp@ mathematics is the truth.
! .' '.' ' ' . pihatie 15 c finou.oulu.fi physics is the rule of
' ' . ' sf 90650 oulu kempmp@ the game.
' . finland phoenix.oulu.fi chemistry is the game.

from maridai@comm.mot.com (marida ignacio)
subject re what was the immaculate conception \?
organization trunking fixed
lines 111

note i am cross posting (actually , emailing) this to
bit.listserv.catholic while main posting goes to
soc.religion.christian.

quotations omitted. this is in response to a question about
the immaculate conception. i explained it , but left justification
up to our catholic readers. clh

there is no direct reference in the holy scripture except for the
mention of mary 's blessedness full of grace in the annunciation by
angel gabriel in luke 1 26 28

and in the 6th month the angel gabriel was sent from god unto
a city of galilee , named nazareth. to a virgin espoused to a
man whose name was joseph , of the house of david and the virgin 's
name was mary. and the angel came unto her and said , hail ,
thou that art highly favoured , the lord is with thee blessed
art thou among women.

now , now , hold that line of thought the lord is with mary
blessed art thou among women while you read on....

in the book , first lady of the world , a popular history of
devotion to mary by peter lappin

the immaculate conception matter is really far more complicated
than the assumption . this arose in 430 ad. it is quite possible
that the feast of mary 's conception under the title the conception
of saint anne , originally commemorated the physical miracle of
a woman beyond the age of child bearing , conceiving a daughter ,
just as elizabeth had conceived john the baptist. a transfer in
emphasis from the physical miracle wrought in anne to the miracle
of grace wrought by god in the soul of mary was logical . mary
is the incorruptible timber out of which was hewn the tabernacle
of christ 's sinless body she is god 's eden , in whom there is
no tree of knowledge , and no serpent that harms. her perfect
beauty and spotlessness find their exemplar in christ , her
purity in that of the father. at the time of the council of ephesus ,
she was hailed as innocent , without blemish , immaculate , inviolate ,
spotless , holy in soul and body , who was blessed as a lily from
among thorns , unlearned in the evil ways of eve .
...
at the end of the thirteenth century , an irish franciscan ,
john duns scotus (1266 1308) , ...god maintained that it was a
greater thing for him to preserve his (the son) mother from all
sin than to use his power to clease her from it later .
...

now let 's go to the discussion of baptism and original sin.
from pocket catholic cathechism by john a. hardon

baptism
concupiscence remains after baptism.
concupiscence or the tendency to sin remains in the baptized
but since it is left to provide trial , it has no power to
injure those who do not consent and who by the grace of
christ jesus , manfully resist (canon 5).

original gifts of adam and eve before their fall
in the light of the foregoing , we see that our first
parents were originally gifted three times over
they had the natural gifts of human beings especially the
power to think and to choose freely.
the had the preternatural gifts of bodily immortality
and of integrity , or the internal power to control desires.
they had the supernatural gifts of sanctifying grace ,
the virtues of faith , hope , and charity and the corresponding
title to enter heaven.
by their disobedience , they lost the supernatural and
preternatural gifts entirely , and were weakened (without
losing) their natural capacity to reason and to choose
freely.

baptism restores the supernatural life lost by adam 's
sin. it does not restore the preternatural gifts
but gifts as a title to a glorified restoration of our
bodies on the last day...

going back to immaculate conception
(i am not sure if this interpretation is in any other
books but it may be another contribution to the 'puzzle')

given the miracle of st. anne bearing a child at a
non childbearing age , and christ was not yet born
and there was no baptism yet on mary 's birth but
still , the angel gabriel 's greetings was
hail mary , full of grace , the lord is with you.
blessed art thou amongst women .

even mary was confused about this greeting.

mary could very well have possessed all of the
treefold original gifts above given to our first
parents (adam and eve before their sin)
hail mary (example of praise given by the angel gabriel)
full of grace (natural , preternatural , supernatural)
the lord is with you (at those times , god would
definitely want to be with those he
has made blessed )
blessed art thou amongst women (that says it all)

at the conception , god made mary full of grace
and blessed as the 'tabernacle' for the coming body
of christ and so ,

immaculate conception of mary is true and mary still
has maintained her immaculate heart.

marida
(p.s. i do hope that others will continue more
light and facts on this matter. thanks.)

from rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu (tim rolfe)
subject re what did lazarus smell like \?
lines 15

in the discussion as to why jesus spoke aloud the lazarus , come out ,
i'm surprised that no one has noticed the verse immediately preceeding.

jn 12 41 father , i thank you for listening to me , though i knew that
you always listen to me. but i have said this for the sake of the
people that are standing around me that they may believe that you have
made my your messenger. (goodspeed translation)

my guess is that the lazarus , come out ! was also for the sake of the
crowd.

tim rolfe
rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu
rolfe@junior.dsu.edu
rolfet@columbia.dsu.edu

from muddmj@wkuvx1.bitnet
subject re the doctrine of original sin
organization western kentucky university , bowling green , ky
lines 27

but , have n't all sinned , and come short of the glory
of god (romans 3 23) \?
those that cite this scripture to claim that even
babes require baptism neglect that sin is not imputed
when there is no law (romans 5 13).

therefore , until someone is capable of comprehending
god 's laws they are not accountable for living them.
they are in the book of life and are not removed until
they can make a conscious decision to disobey god.

a idler

if babies are not supposed to be baptised then why does n't the bible
ever say so. it never comes right and says only people that know
right from wrong or who are taught can be baptised.
what christ did say was

i solemly assure you , no one can enter god 's kingdom without
being born of water and spirit ... do not be surprised that i
tell you you must all be begotten from above.

could this be because everyone is born with original sin \?



mike

from tedr@athena.cs.uga.edu (ted kalivoda)
subject re christianity and repeated lives
organization university of georgia , athens
lines 20

in article may.7.01.09.36.1993.14545@athos.rutgers.edu danc@procom.com (daniel cossack) writes
jek@cu.nih.gov writes
the apostle paul (romans 9 11) points out that god chose jacob
rather than esau... if we admit the possibility that they had lived previous
lives , and that (in accordance with the asiatic idea of karma )

and following romans to 9 13 , as it is written , jacob have i loved ,
but esau have i hated. how could god have loved and hated (in the
past tense) those that are not yet born , neither having done good
or evil \?

woah...the context is about god 's calling out a special people (the jews) to
carry the promise. to read the meaning as literal people is to miss paul 's
entire point. i 'd be glad to send anyone more detailed explanations of this
passage if interested.


ted kalivoda (tedr@athena.cs.uga.edu)
university of georgia , athens
institute of higher ed.

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (randal lee nicholas mandock)
subject re why do people become atheists \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 33

in article may.7.01.09.44.1993.14556@athos.rutgers.edu muirm@argon.gas.organpipe.uug.arizona.edu (maxwell c muir) writes

in all candor , i would be happy to be proven wrong about believing
in atheism . problem is , i will have to be proven wrong.

in mentioning some nonsense about psychology ) and atheism , bob muir asks
the following question.

do i sound broken to you \?

i answer in the affirmative. now this answer might sound a little
intellectually dishonest to bob , but i think i have been accused before
of that heinous crime and am man enough to take it. ! ) what thinking
person has not at one time or other been accused of it \? is it
politically correct for christians to be the only besieged group
permitted the luxury of arrogance \?

now i have a question for bob. why in the world would any self respecting
atheist want to subscribe to a christian news group \? i have a
difficult enough time keeping up with it , and i think i know something
about the subject.

bob reminds me of my roommate. in order to disbelieve atheism , he says
he will need to be proven wrong about it. well , i do n't even waste
my time trying. i tell him that he 'll just have to take my word for it.
in response , he tells me he will say an atheist 's prayer for me.

good luck , bob. and , best regards.


randal lee nicholas mandock
catechist
gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu

from caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin)
subject re the arrogance of christians
lines 72

vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes
in article apr.10.05.32.29.1993.14388@athos.rutgers.edu caralv@caralv.auto trol.com (carol alvin) writes
...

are all truths also absolutes \?
is all of scripture truths (and therefore absolutes) \?

if the answer to either of these questions is no , then perhaps you can
explain to me how you determine which parts of scripture are truths , and
which truths are absolutes.

the answer to both questions is yes.

perhaps we have different definitions of absolute then. to me ,
an absolute is something that is constant across time , culture ,
situations , etc. true in every instance possible. do you agree
with this definition \? i think you do

similarly , all truth is absolute. indeed , a non absolute truth is a
contradiction in terms. when is something absolute \? when it is always
true. obviously , if a truth is not always true then we have a
contradiction in terms.

a simple example

in the new testament (sorry i do n't have a bible at work , and ca n't
provide a reference) , women are instructed to be silent and cover
their heads in church. now , this is scripture. by your definition ,
this is truth and therefore absolute.

do women in your church speak \? do they cover their heads \? if all
scripture is absolute truth , it seems to me that women speaking in and
coming to church with bare heads should be intolerable to evangelicals.
yet , clearly , women do speak in evangelical churches and come with bare
heads. (at least this was the case in the evangelical churches i grew
up in.)

evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture
to be absolute truth. (and there are plenty of other examples.)
can you reconcile this \?

many people claim that there are no absolutes in the world. such a
statement is terribly self contradictory. let me put it to you this
way. if there are no absolutes , should n't we conclude that the statement ,
there are no absolutes is not absolutely true \? obviously , we have a
contradiction here.

i do n't claim that there are no absolutes. i think there are very
few , though , and determining absolutes is difficult.

this is just one of the reasons why christians defy the world by claiming
that there are indeed absolutes in the universe.

there is hardly consensus , even in evangelical
christianity (not to mention the rest of christianity) regarding
biblical interpretation.

so \? people sometimes disagree about what is true. this does not negate
the fact , however , that there are still absolutes in the universe.

but you are claiming that all of scripture is absolute. how can you
determine absolutes derived from scripture when you ca n't agree how
to interpret the scripture \?

it 's very difficult to see how you can claim something which is based
on your own interpretation is absolute. do you deny that your own
background , education , prejudices , etc. come into play when you read the
bible , and determine how to interpret a passsage \? do you deny that
you in fact interpret \?

carol alvin
caralv@auto trol.com

from jhpb@sarto.budd lake.nj.us (joseph h. buehler)
subject re sspx schism \?
organization none
lines 182

here is some material by michael davies on the subject of schism in
general and archishop lefebvre in particular. he wrote it around
1990. the first part of the two part article was on the scandalous
activities of archbishop weakland (in this country) , but i cut all
that. and i pared down the rest to what was relevant.

joe buehler

...

schism and disobedience

according to st. thomas aquinas , schism consists primarily in a
refusal of submission to the pope or communion with the members of the
church united to him. on first sight it would appear that , whatever
the subjective motivation of the archbishop , as discussed above , he
must be in a state of objective schism as he has refused to submit to
the pope on a very grave matter involving his supreme power of
jurisdiction. however , standard catholic textbooks of theology make it
clear that while all schisms involve disobedience not all acts of
disobedience are schismatic. if this were so , as was noted at the
beginning of this article , it would mean that the number of american
bishops who are not schismatic would not reach double figures.

the distinction between disobedience and schism is made very clear in
the article on schism in the very authoritative dictionnaire de
theologie catholique. the article is by father yves congar who is
certainly no friend of archbishop lefebvre. he explains that schism
and disobedience are so similar that they are often confused. father
congar writes that schism involves a refusal to accept the existence
of legitimate authority in the church , for example , luther 's rejection
of the papacy. father congar explains that the refusal to accept a
decision of legitimate authority in a particular instance does not
constitute schism but disobedience. the catholic encyclopedia
explains that for a catholic to be truly schismatic he would have to
intend to sever himself from the church as far as in him lies. it
adds that not every disobedience is schism in order to possess this
character it must include besides the transgression of the command of
the superiors , a denial of their divine right to command. not only
does mgr. lefebvre not deny the divine right of the pope to command ,
but he affirms repeatedly his recognition of the pope 's authority and
his intention of never breaking away from rome. the archbishop made
his attitude clear in the july august 1989 issue of 30 days we pray
for the pope every day. nothing has changed with the consecrations
last june 30. we are not sedevacantists. we recognize in john paul ii
the legitimate pope of the catholic church. we do n't even say that he
is a heretical pope. we only say that his modernist actions favor
heresy.

...

intrinsically schismatic \?

the principal argument used by those claiming that mgr. lefebvre is in
schism is that the consecration of a bishop without a papal mandate is
an intrinsically schismatic act. a bishop who carries out such a
consecration , it is claimed , becomes ipso facto a schismatic. this is
not true. if such a consecration is an intrinsically schismatic act it
would always have involved the penalty of excommunication. in the 1917
code of canon law the offence was punished only by suspension (see
canon 2370 of the 1917 code). pope pius xii had raised the penalty to
excommunication as a response to the establishment of a schismatic
church in china. the consecration of these illicit chinese bishops
differed radically from the consecrations carried out by mgr. lefebvre
as the professed intention was to repudiate the authority of the pope ,
that is , to deny that he has the right to govern the church , and the
illicitly consecrated chinese bishops were given a mandate to exercise
an apostolic mission. neither archbishop lefebvre nor any of the
bishops he has consecrated claim that they have powers of
jurisdiction. they have been consecrated solely for the purpose of
ensuring the survival of the society by carrying out ordinations and
also to perform confirmations. i do not wish to minimize in any way
the gravity of the step take by mgr. lefebvre. the consecration of
bishops without a papal mandate is far more serious matter than the
ordination of priests as it involves a refusal in practice of the
primacy or jurisdiction belonging by divine right to the roman
pontiff. but the archbishop could argue that the crisis afflicting the
church could not be more grave , and that grave measures were needed in
response.

it appears to be taken for granted by most of the archbishop 's critics
that he was excommunicated for the offense of schism , and the vatican
has certainly been guilty of fostering this impression. there is not
so much as a modicum of truth in this allegation. the new code of
canon law includes a section beginning with canon 1364 entitled
penalties for specific offenses (de poenis in singula dicta). the
first part deals with offenses against religion and the unity of the
church (de delictis contra religionem et ecclesiae unitatem). canon
1364 deals with the offense of schism which is , evidently , together
with apostasy and heresy , one of the three fundamental offenses
against the unity of the church.

but the archbishop was not excommunicated under the terms of this
canon or , indeed , under any canon involving an offense against
religion or the unity of the church. the canon cited in his
excommunication comes from the third section of penalties for
specific offenses which is entitled usurpation of ecclesial
functions and offenses in their exercise (de munerum ecclesiasticorum
usurpatione degue delictis iniis exercendis). the canon in question is
canon 1382 , which reads a bishop who consecrates someone bishop and
the person who receives such a consecration from a bishop without a
pontifical mandate incur an automatic (latae sententiae)
excommunication reserved to the holy see.

the scandalous attempts to smear archbishop lefebvre with the offense
of schism are , then , contrary to both truth and charity. a comparable
smear under civil as opposed to ecclesiastical law would certainly
justify legal action for libel involving massive damages. an accurate
parallel would be to state that a man convicted of manslaughter had
been convicted of first degree murder.

i must stress that what i have written here is not the dubious opinion
of laymen unversed in the intricacies of canon law. canon lawyers
without the least shred of sympathy for mgr. lefebvre have repudiated
the charge of schism made against him as totally untenable. father
patrick yaldrini , dean of the faculty of canon law of the institut
catholique in paris noted in the 4 july 1988 issue of valeurs
actuelles that , as i have just explained , mgr. lefebvre was not
excommunicated for schism but for the usurpation of an ecclesiastical
function. he added that it is not the consecration of a bishop which
constitutes schism but the conferral of an apostolic mission upon the
illicitly consecrated bishop. it is this usurpation of the powers of
the sovereign pontiff which proves the intention of establishing a
parallel church.

cardinal rosalio lara , president of the pontifical commission for the
authentic interpretation of canon law , commented on the consecrations
in the 10 july 1988 issue of la repubblica. it would be hard to
imagine a more authoritative opinion. the cardinal wrote

the act of consecrating a bishop (without a papal mandate) is not
in itself a schismatic act. in fact , the code that deals with
offenses is divided into two sections. one deals with offenses
against religion and the unity of the church , and these are
apostasy , schism , and heresy. consecrating a bishop with a
pontifical mandate is , on the contrary , an offense against the
exercise of a specific ministry. for example , in the case of the
consecrations carried out by the vietnamese archbishop ngo dinh
thuc in 1976 and 1983 , although the archbishop was excommunicated
he was not considered to have committed a schismatic act because
there was no intention of a breach with the church.

....

it is not simply unjust but ludicrous to suggest that in consecrating
bishops without a papal mandate archbishop lefebvre had the least
intent of establishing a schismatic church. he is not a schismatic and
will never be a schismatic. the archbishop considers correctly that
the the church is undergoing its worst crisis since the arian heresy ,
and that for the good of the church it was necessary for him to
consecrate the four bishops to ensure the future of his society. canon
law provides for just such a situation , and even if one believes that
the future of the society could have been guaranteed without these
consecrations , the fact that the archbishop believed sincerely that it
could not means , as canon law states clearly , that he has not incurred
excommunication. furthermore , while the vatican allows such prelates
as archbishop weakland to undermine the faith with impunity it cannot
expect catholics to pay the least attention to its sanctions against a
great and orthodox archbishop whose entire life has been devoted to
the service of the church and the salvation of souls.

dr. eric m. de saventhem , president of the international una voce
association , is one of the best informed laymen in the church , and he
knows the archbishop intimately. dr. de saventhem , like myself , has no
greater desire than to see a reconciliation between mgr. lefebvre and
the holy see during the archbishop 's lifetime. a quotation from a
statement by dr. de saventhem which was published in the 15 february
1989 remnant merits careful study

in retrospect , the road leading to the consecrations of 30 june
appears more paved with grave roman (and , unfortunately , also
papal) omissions than with lefebvrist obstinancies. and from the
eyes of an informed public this cannot be hidden by attempting to
present the archbishop 's act of grave disobedience as an offense
against the faith ! it is said today that mgr. lefebvre has an
erroneous concept of tradition. if this were so , cardinal
ratzinger could not , on behalf of the pope , have addressed to the
archbishop the following words in his letter of 28 july 1987
your ardent desire to safeguard tradition by procuring for it
'the means to live and prosper' testifies to your attachment to
the faith of all time... the holy father understands your concern
and shares it.

from revdak@netcom.com (d. andrew kille)
subject re maybe \? \? \? \? \?
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 14

i have some qualms about postings like this. you might want to
engage in a bit more conversation with joel before deluging
someone who does n't expect it with cards. clh

i 'd suggest that more than some qualms are in order. without knowing
anything about the situation , it is impossible to evaluate the
appropriateness of writing. some folks will check , others with more
zeal than time may not.

imho , requests of this nature should be made only for oneself or for someone
who knows and approves of the idea. otherwise , it is intrusive and
disrespectful of the individual.

revdak@netcom.com

from maridai@comm.mot.com (marida ignacio)
subject re every lent he suffers to save us
organization trunking fixed
lines 17

correction

the story i related is one of the seven apparitions
approved by our church as worthy of belief. it happened
in la salle , france.


that should be la salette , france , 1846.
i must admit , geography is not my forte.

...

once again , the lamb succeeds.

marida
...spreading god 's words through actions...
mother teresa

from rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov
subject re hell 2 black sabbath
organization fnal ad net
lines 20

in article apr.21.03.25.03.1993.1292@geneva.rutgers.edu
salaris@niblick.ecn.purdue.edu (rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrabbits) writes

i like those lyrics ,
since whenever i am approached by judgemental , pharisitical ,
evangelical fundamentalists who throw the bible at me because
i have long hair , wear a black leather jacket , and listen to black
sabbath , i have something to throw back....

it just goes to show that there are more important evils in the
world to battle than rock lyrics...........


it just goes to show that not all evangelical fundamentalists are pharisitical !
i wear a black leather jacket , like classic rock , but no longer have the long
locks i once had. however , i too rely upon the bible as a basis for christian
ethics.

a fundamentalistic evangelical ,
rex

from kene@acs.bu.edu (kenneth engel)
subject re atheists and hell
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 18

imagine the worst depth of despair you 've
ever encountered , or the worst physical pain you 've ever experienced.
some people suffer such emotional , physical , and mental anguish
in their lives that their deaths seem to be merciful. but at least
the pain does end in death. what if you lived a hundred such lives ,
at the conclusion of one you were instantly reborn into another \?
what if you lived a million , a billion years in this state \?
what if this kept going forever \?


did this happen to jesus \? i do n't think so , not from what i heard. he lived
one day of suffering and died. if the wages of sin is the above paragraph , then
jesus didn't pay for our sins , did he \?

i 'd be surprised to see the moderator let this one through , but i seriously
want a reasonable explanation for this.

ken

from lbutler@hubcap.clemson.edu (l clator butler jr)
subject re did he really rise \? \? \?
organization clemson university
lines 11

mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (michael covington) writes
(2) nobody ever displayed the dead body of jesus , even though both the
jewish and the roman authorities would have gained a lot by doing so
(it would have discredited the christians).

it is told in the gospels that the pharisees (sp. \? ) and scribes bribed
the roman soldiers to say that the diciples stole his body in the night.
good enough excuse for the jewish and roman objectives (of that day).

clator
lbutler@hubcap.clemson.edu

from aaron@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (scott aaron)
subject re iterations of the bible
reply to aaron@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 24

ofm replies to a question on the multiplicity of translations of the bible ,

as far as i know , no christians
believe that the process of copying manuscripts or the process of
translating is free of error.

unfortunately , this is n't true. on another news group earlier this year ,
someone posted that the king james bible was the divinely inspired version
of the bible in english and was , therefore , inerrant all other english
translations were from satan , trying to deceive the body of christ. a
few years ago , the pastor of a church i was attending showed me a poster
advertising the availability of a certain man to address congregations.
very prominantly on the poster was the fact that the man used only the kjv.
the idea that the kjv is the english bible is more prevalent than many
might think.

scott at brandeis

but god demonstrates his the lord bless you , and keep you
own love for us , in that the lord make his face shine on you ,
while we were yet sinners , and be gracious to you
christ died for us. the lord lift up his countenance on you ,
and give you peace.
romans 5 8 nasb numbers 6 24 26 nasb

from whheydt@pbhya.pacbell.com (wilson heydt)
subject re ancient books
organization pacific bell , san ramon , ca
lines 21

in article apr.9.01.11.35.1993.16957@athos.rutgers.edu , cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (mike cobb) writes
but , since the manuscripts are so close to the actual event , especially as
compared with ancient non christian history , could it help show that we have
accurate copies of the original texts \?

that 's a very weak argument due the lack (with regard to critical
events) of independent supporting texts.

as for the dating of the oldest extant texts of the nt.... how would
you feel about the us civil war in a couple of thousand years if the
only extant text was written about now \? now adjust for a largely
illiterate population , and one in which every copy of a manuscript is
done by hand....

hal


hal heydt
analyst , pacific bell if you think the system is working ,
510 823 5447 ask someone who 's waiting for a prompt.
whheydt@pbhya.pacbell.com

from khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan)
subject re bible unsuitable for new christians
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi
lines 19

news@cbnewsk.att.com writes

true.

also read 2 peter 3 16

peter warns that the scriptures are often hard to understand by those who
are not learned on the subject.

where do insparations miracles fit in \? i was a new reader to the bible
and qu'ran at the same time in my life and i can tell you that i would
have drifted in my faith if those books were not exposed to me.



joe moore

mohammad r. khan khan0095@nova.gmi.edu
after july '93 , please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu

from gt7122b@prism.gatech.edu (boundary)
subject re atheist 's views on christianity (was re accepting jeesus in your heart... )
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 52

in article apr.20.03.03.35.1993.3863@geneva.rutgers.edu jasons@atlastele.com (jason smith) writes
in article apr.19.05.13.48.1993.29266@athos.rutgers.edu kempmp@phoenix.oulu.fi (petri pihko) writes

this is not true. science is a collection of models telling us how ,
not why , something happens. i cannot see any good reason why the why
questions would be bound only to natural things , assuming that the
supernatural domain exists. if supernatural beings exist , it is
as appropriate to ask why they do so as it is to ask why we exist.

i beg to disagree with the assertion that science is a collection of models.
scientific models are a game to play , and are only as good as the
assumptions and measurements (if any) that go into them.

as an example , i remember when nuclear winter was the big hype in
atmospheric science. it was n't long after sagan 's admonitions that
one of our boys was adding another level of reality into his model of
the nuclear winter scenario at erl in boulder. he decided to assume
that the atmosphere is more like a two dimensional thing , than a one
dimensional thing. he also assumed that it rained and that the winds
blow in the real atmosphere. on returning to georgia tech , he showed
a transparency of atmospheric cooling rates according to the year they
were generated by the models. there was an unmistakable correlation
between the age (meaning simplicity of assumptions i.e. , remoteness
from reality) of each model and the degree of cooling. whereas sagan 's
model showed an approximate 40 degree cooling episode , the next model
in sophistication showed about half that , and so on until we got to
our boy 's model , which showed a 1 2 degree drop if the war happened in
the winter and less than a 10 degree drop if it happened in the summer.
he predicted that when we would include the presence of oceans , chemistry ,
the biosphere , and other indicators of reality in the models , we would
probably see even less cooling. thus nuclear winter was reduced to even
less than a nuclear autumn , one might say , to a nuclear fizzle.

to quote from h.s. yoder ,

the postulated models have become accepted as the reality
instead of the lattice of assumptions they are.
authoritarianism dominates the field , and a very critical
analysis of each argument is to be encouraged.... skepticism
of the model approach to earth problems is warranted because
many key parameters have not been included.

this statement surely applies equally well to cosmogony. only when
convincing observational evidence substantiates the modeled results
may one suggest that the model may describe the reality. just thought
i 'd clear that up before things really got out of hand.


boundary

no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra no he
venido a traer la paz , sino la guerra (mateo 10 34 , vulgata latina)

from mhsu@lonestar.utsa.edu (melinda . hsu )
subject re the arrogance of christians
organization university of texas at san antonio
lines 26

they believe the danger is real , but others may not.

does that mean that the first group are necessarily arrogant in warning
others of the danger \? does it mean that they are saying that their beliefs
are correct , and all others are false \?

some might indeed react to opposition with arrogance , and behave in an
arrogant manner , but that is a personal idiocyncracy. it does not
necessarily mean that they are all arrogant.

no the members of the first group are not necessarily
arrogant. but when i ask them if they are absolutely certain
that the volcano will erupt , i expect them to say so no ,
but i 've chosen to believe some knowledgable people who have
determined that the volcano will erupt , rather than , yes , i am
absolutely certain. when it comes to religious discussions ,
arrogance or at best naivete is reflected in the latter type of
statement.

louis j. kim o ph 512 522 5556
southwest research institute , ' fax 512 522 3042
post office drawer 28510 lkim@swri.edu
san antonio , tx 78228 0510 76450.2231@compuserve.com




from mussack@austin.ibm.com (christopher mussack)
subject re questioning authority
lines 60

despite my trendy , liberal , feminist tendencies and the fact
that i basically agree with what you are saying i will rebut

(dr nancy 's sweetie) writes
(chris mussack) writes
for all those people who insist i question authority why \?
...
authorities sometimes tell people to do evil things. people who just
follow orders have tortured and killed others in very large numbers ,
and protest their innocence afterwards.

the basic question here is how do i know what i am supposed to do \?
this is true in every situation that comes up. some people do not
think about it at all and merely follow their impulses. i claim
that is just as dangerous as following authority . i could site
sexually transmitted diseases , drug abuse , all manner of criminal
activity , the savings and loan scandal , car accidents , eggs thrown
at my house , all are examples of people not following authority .
i could easily argue that in the evil examples you gave the
problem was a leader not following his authority and doing what
he wanted. of course , where is the top of the chain \? therein lies
our search.

when your authority starts telling you to do things , you should ask
questions. except for situations of pressing need ( i said shut the
hatch because the submarine is filling with water ! ) , any reasonable
authority should be able to give at least some justification that you
can understand.

i do n't think it 's as simple as you are claiming. pressing need is
ambiguous. should i recycle or not \?

realize that i have four kids who , despite being very precocious
of course , are very tiring with their constant lack of understanding
the tremendous knowledge i wish to impart to them.

just be sure to listen when authority answers.

ahh ! an ironic ending.

the irony i was implying in my initial pithy retort to the bumper
sticker cliche question authority was that i was questioning
the authority of the person telling me to question authority.
it seems there is a certain segment of society that finds meaning
only in being different , only in rebelling , forsaking everything
for the sake of freedom. i question their integrity and fortitude.
there is another freedom that comes from doing a task correctly.
different people are at different levels of development in different
areas. part of the challenge of life is to find the right authorities
to follow , we ca n't know everything about everything. often
when learning a new skill or subject i will follow the teacher ,
perhaps blindly. only when i have learned enough to ask appropriate
questions should i question him , only when i have developed
my skills enough should i challenge him. once again , how do i know
when i get to those stages \?

if you have to be told to question authority , perhaps you should n't.

chris mussack
(a good comedian should never have to explain his jokes.)

from armstrng@cs.dal.ca (stan armstrong)
subject immaterial afterlife (was is hell real)
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 21

in article c4zaym.m9u@spss.com goer@midway.uchicago.edu writes

i thought everyone who died simply went to sheol. the notion of going to
heaven is a christianization based on those parts of the nt that speak of
an immaterial afterlife.

richard l. goerwitz goer midway@uchicago.bitnet
goer@midway.uchicago.edu rutgers ! oddjob ! ellis ! goer

where in the bible is there any teaching about an immaterial afterlife \?
i was always taught that both the o.t. jews and the n.t. christians would
have found the notion incomprehensible as do i.

do n't we christians believe in the resurrection of the body \?

or do you mean by material simply the stuff made of the 100 elements
that we know and love too much \?


stan armstrong. religious studies dept , saint mary 's university , halifax , n.s.
armstrong@husky1.stmarys.ca att ! clyde ! watmath ! water ! dalcs ! armstrng

from jkellett@netcom.com (joe kellett)
subject re sex education
organization netcom
lines 20

in article apr.20.03.01.57.1993.3782@geneva.rutgers.edu bruce@liv.ac.uk (bruce stephens) writes
i 'd be fascinated to see such evidence , please send me your article !
on the negative side however , i suspect that any such simplistic link
abstinence education decreased pregnancy ,
contraceptive education increased pregnancy
is false. the us , which i 'd guess has one of the largest proportion of
non liberal sex education in the western world also has one of the highest
teenage pregnancy rates. (please correct me if my guess is wrong.)

i 've sent the article. in terms of the group discussion , i wanted to point
out that non liberal education (head in the sand) is not the same as
abstinence education .

we had non liberal education regarding drugs when i was a kid in the 60 's ,
which did n't do us a lot of good. but abstinence education regarding
drugs has proven effective , i think.


joe kellett
jkellett@netcom.com

from daniels@math.ufl.edu (tv 's big dealer)
subject prayer in jesus' name
organization me
lines 5


hmm...makes you wonder whether prayer in jesus' name means
saying jesus' name or whether we 're simply to do all things with the
attitude that we belong to jesus.
frank d.

from johnsd2@rpi.edu (dan johnson)
subject re accepting jeesus in your heart...
reply to johnsd2@rpi.edu
organization not sun microsystems
lines 45

in article 29201@athos.rutgers.edu , seanna@bnr.ca (seanna (s.m.) watson) writes
in article apr.14.03.07.38.1993.5420@athos.rutgers.edu johnsd2@rpi.edu writes
in article 28388@athos.rutgers.edu , jayne@mmalt.guild.org (jayne kulikauskas) writes

this is why the most effective
substance abuse recovery programs involve meeting peoples' spiritual
needs.

you might want to provide some evidence next time you make a claim
like this.

in 12 step programs (like alcoholics anonymous) , one of the steps
involves acknowleding a higher power . aa and other 12 step abuse
recovery programs are acknowledged as being among the most effective.

deletia and so on

i seem to have been rather unclear.

what i was asking is this

please show me that the most effective substance absure recovery
programs involve meetinsg peoples' spiritual needs , rather than
merely attempting to fill peoples' spiritual needs as percieved
by the people , a.a , s.r.c. regulars , or snoopy. this will probably
involve defining spritual needs (is it not that clear) and
showing that such things exist and how they can be filled.

annother tack you might take is to say that fulfilling spiritual
needs means acknowledging a higher power of some sort , then
show that systems that do require this , work better than otherwise
identical systems that do not. a correlation here would help you ,
but as you point out this might just be demonstrating swapping
one crutch for annother. (however , i do feel that religion is
usually a better crutch than alchohol , as it is not usually
poisonous ! ) )

i hope with that clarification , my question will be answerable. i actually
did know about the 12 step program , its the question of what it does ,
rather than what it tries to do , that makes a difference to me.

dan johnson
and god said jeeze , this is dull ... and it was dull. genesis 0 0

these opinions probably show what i know.
