from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary more on failed governments
organization failed libertarian opportunities , inc.
lines 24
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 18apr199314034390@venus.tamu.edu gmw0622@venus.tamu.edu (mr. grinch) writes
in article 1993apr18.172531.10946@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented. now why do you suppose
that never seems to occur \? ...


i fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. constant
combat is n't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing. also ,
they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable
society anyway.

and the reason that the soviet union could n't achieve the ideal of pure
communism was the hostility of surrounding capitalist nations...uh huh.
somehow , this all sounds familiar. once again , utopian dreams are
confronted by the real world...


mr. grinch

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re roe v. wade
distribution na
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 56

in article lsm2fjinnlnf@exodus.eng.sun.com , chased@rbbb.eng.sun.com (david chase) writes
in article 15230@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
i remain pro choice , but when pro choicers compare abortion in a
clinic to a religious ritual in a church , you have to start wondering
a bit if the pro life criticism of abortion as modern human sacrifice
does n't have a grain of truth to it.

in article ls8ruoinn54b@exodus.eng.sun.com , chased@rbbb.eng.sun.com (david chase) writes

ah , clayton , so i see that you have found someone new to bash. tell
me , how many pro choicers have compared abortion in a clinic to a
religious ritual in a church \? i 'll bet that you 've seen overwhelming
support for this opinion in some newsgroup or another.

in article 15313@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
no , but i 've seen the comparison drawn by pro choicers in ca.politics.
it is worrisome to me. but not to you \?

1. i 've been reading ca.politics for a while now , and i do n't recall
seeing such a comparison.

you do n't read my postings very carefully i'm not surprised. it
was pretty shocking , and is part of why my sympathy (though not
agreement) with the pro lifers is increasing.

2. a handful of lunatic opinions expressed in ca.politics does not
make me think that the opinion is widely held.

when did i say that it was \?

clayton , i wish i knew what made you tick. your math sucks , and you
take single instances of fringe opinions and proclaim the existence of
a pernicious trend. there 's about a quarter billion people living in
this country some small number of them are almost guaranteed to
hold opinions that you (and i) find positively repellent. as long as
the small number is truly a small number , and as long as they 're not
my neighbor (highly likely) , i'm not worried about it.

when they hold high public office , you should worry.

by the way , when you cite experts , remember that carl sagan and paul
ehrlich sp \? are experts , too. if i 've never heard of your experts ,
i 'll consider the source (you , a man who is clearly unable to master
elementary statistics and uses of statistical inference) and ignore
them.

david chase

you mean , i do n't come to the conclusions that your emotional
state requires.




clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject pat robertson says ...
keywords homosexuality
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 25


in response to a report by cbn news correspondent ken lormond about a
meeting between slick willie and homosexual activists

lormond but clinton will not be attending a rally by homosexuals in
washington later this month. he will instead be out of town , on a
retreat with senate democrats.

robertson yeah , he 'd better retreat. laughter , followed by
sustained applause

later , in a report by correspondent deborah whitsen on the fizzling
boycott instigated by homosexuals against colorado

whitsen colorado ski resorts have seen record crowds this year
despite a call by homosexual activists for boycott of the state ...
there have been record snowfalls in the mountains this year , and the
skiers have been coming in droves ...

robertson and god said , let it snow ... more sustained applause

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re formal rebuttal to the presumption of jurisdiction
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 13

in article 1993apr5.045612.14229@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes

... you 're not breathing clean air provided by government
regulations , ...

if this does n't beat all i ever heard ! the above certainly says a
mouthful about the mindset of ted frank , and also of statists
everywhere.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

from radford@cs.toronto.edu (radford neal)
subject re government mandated energy conservation is unnecessary and wastful , study finds
organization department of computer science , university of toronto
lines 24

in article c51vzu.i1r@newsserver.technet.sg ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes

government mandated energy conservation is unnecessary and wastful ,
study finds

while i agree with much of this post , one point seems mis directed...

when standards of living , population densities , and industrial
structures are controlled for , the united states is no less energy
efficient than japan and more energy efficient than many of the group
of seven nations.

and when controlled for usage of oil , gas , etc. energy efficiency in
all countries turns out to be identical )

to take population density as an example , one way to reduce energy
used in transportation is surely to concentrate the population in
dense urban areas (though this might , of course , have other
disadvantages , possibly even relating to energy use). the fact that
japan is forced to do this by the nature of the country , while the us
is not , does not mean that people in the us would be unable to do this
if given sufficient motive to conserve energy.

radford neal

from dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be)
subject re bill conklin 's letter to a.j.
article i.d. oregon.5apr199315510067
distribution world
organization university of oregon
lines 46
nntp posting host oregon.uoregon.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr5.040414.14939@colorado.edu ,
ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes...
again , the main point.

no human being not yet born can be bound to any contract.

wrong. it 's possible to inherit a debt.

further , no third party can be bound to any contract that
they are not a party to.

see above.

the constitution for the united states is just such a contract.
no third party can be bound to it. further , no human who is not specifically
mentioned in article 6 and has not taken an oath or made an affirmation
to uphold said const can be bound to uphold or obey it.

the constitution is not a contract. it is a statute. please ,
mr. teel , or anyone , show me one case where the u.s.
constitution , or any state constitution , is considered a
contract.

the const is designed to limit the powers of government , not to
bind the people.

it is also designed to delineate the powers of the u.s.
government.

this argument will be presented in great detail in the next post.

i ca n't wait.

daniel reitman

how not to write a deed

one case involved the construction of a conveyance to grantees jointly , as
tenants in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the
survivor thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the
said parties hereto , equally , jointly , as tenants in common , with equal rights
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the survivor thereof
at the death of the other.

the court held that the survivorship provision indicated an intent to create a
joint tenancy. germain v. delaine , 294 ala. 443 , 318 so.2d 681 (1975).

from wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr)
subject re debating special hate crimes laws
organization northeastern law , class of '93
lines 61
nntp posting host nw12 326 1.mit.edu
in reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu


in article 1993apr4.235546.6450@midway.uchicago.edu ,
thf2@midway.uchicago.edu said

this sort of separate treatment by the law has no place in an
equal society the solution to the fact that some classes are more
vulnerable to attack or discrimination is to do what has always
been done in response to imbalances in criminal activity and
citizen protection to allocate law enforcement resources to
more efficiently and effectively deal with the problems , not to
rewrite the law itself. wdstarr

so how do you feel about increased penalties for killing a policeman \?
a federal employee \? or to use both scalia 's and stevens 's example ,
increased penalties for threatening the president \? (i'm assuming
that , like all good people , you oppose the marital exemption for rape ,
so i wo n't bring that up.)

in order of your questions , i oppose it , i oppose it , i oppose it and
(huh \? wha \? where did that topic come from and what 's it got to do
with the discussion at hand \? )

when i was discussing the concept of different criminal laws for crimes
against different classes of people (and yes , i do consider laws which
allow mandate enhanced penalties following conviction based upon the
convict 's attitudes towards the class membership of the victim to fit
into that category) , the category of classes i had in mind was that of
the standard civil rights discussion classes based upon race , gender ,
ethnicity , religion , sexual orientation , etc. having you ask about
classes based upon one 's profession rather than one 's personal
characteristics caught me off guard , and i had to think out the question
from scratch.

what i finally decided was that the law should not recognize such
classes because to do so would be to formally and officially declare
some people to be of more worth than others , and that would be anathema
to the underlying american concept of equal treatment under the law.

last year , when a federal crime bill was under consideration which would
have expanded the federal death penalty to an additional fifty plus
crimes , including the murder of various federal officers hitherto not
protected by that aura of deterrence , critics pointed out the
absurdity of having laws which made the death penalty available for the
murder of a federal postal inspector but not for ther murder of a
civilian teacher , when the latter arguably provided a much more
valueable service and therefore would be the greater loss to society.
this was an emotionally compelling argument , but even the proponents of
that viewpoint appeared to tacitly assume that the state should judge
some lives as being more valuable than others on the basis of their
contribution to society. i view that doctrine as being both (a)
personally repugnant and (b) repugnant to the equal protection clause of
the 14th amendment.

accordingly , i believe that there should be no laws which give any
profession based class of people special protection (via the mechanism
of supplying stronger statutory deterrence of crimes against members of
that class) , not even police officers , federal officers or high ranking
members of the executive branch of the federal government.

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu


from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject clinton caves in reduces jobs bill
organization acme products
lines 11

clinton has backed off from the 16 billion jobs bill.

word is he 's paring it down to the core jobless benefits , money for
creating full time jobs (ie , no summer jobs money).

chalk one up for holding the line on spending.

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from pcollac@pyrnova.mis.pyramid.com (paul collacchi)
subject re supply side economic policy (was re david stockman )
reply to pcollac@pyrnova.mis.pyramid.com (paul collacchi)
distribution na
organization pyramid technologies , mt. view , california.
lines 43

in article ufk gqu00wbke7cx5v@andrew.cmu.edu , ashish @andrew.cmu.edu
(ashish arora) writes
excerpts from netnews.sci.econ 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po..
by not a boomer@desire.wrig
...

the deficits declined from 84 9 , reaching a low of 2.9 of gnp before
the tax and spending hike of 1990 reversed the trend.

brett
is this true \? some more details would be appreciated.

cheers

actually not. brett himself has actually posted the data previously.
what declined from 84 to 89 , as i remember it , was percent
increase in deficit growth , i.e. the rate of growth of the deficit
(2nd derivative of total deficit with respect of to time) decreased.
brett apparently has numbed himself into thinking that the deficit
declined. if you keep spending more than you earn , the deficit keeps
growing. if you keep borrowing at a lesser rate than you borrowed
previously , the deficit increases. you only decrease deficits when your
income exceeds spending and you use the difference to pay off debts.

figgie 's book paints the real data , pictorially , in gory detail. each
president , essentially ran up twice as much total debt , in half the time.
reagan congress was simply awful. bush congress was unbelievable.

as a really rigorous aside to this thread.....

during pledge night the other night on the public channel , there was an
economist who gave an hour or so presentation. his data was predictive
and based largely on population data. i do n't know his name , but his
arguments were brilliant. he confirmed , with data , what many of us know
with common sense the boom of the 80 's has nothing to do with government
policy , particularly supply side policy , since taxes do not cause
economic activities. people cause economic activity. more can be
explained by watching population waves roll through the years and
create cycles. he has made models and predictions for years well into
the middle of next century. it will be neat to see how accurate he
is.

paul collacchi

from elliott@optilink.com (paul elliott)
subject re a loathesome subject
summary why the quote marks , roy \?
organization dsc optilink access products
lines 33

in article c4y3dd.l1n@panix.com roy@panix.com (roy radow) writes
anyone with any degree of sensitivity or awareness has to be
concerned about the horrendous amount of child abuse that
exists in this country. ...

the critical factor here is whether the sexual activity is forced ...

when a child is forced there is often damage , on the other hand ,
consensual relationships are often found to be positive experiences
for all concerned. ...

roy radow roy@panix.com ...rutgers ! cmcl2 ! panix ! roy
north american man boy love association for a packet containing a sample

why all the quote marks , roy \? i can see that they might be appropriate where
there is a legitimate concern that the words are being distorted by context ,
or that they have been appropriated newspeak style , but , reading your comments above ,
one might be excused if they assumed that you were claiming that child abuse ,
forced sexual activity , and damage caused by this is non existant or
greatly overblown.

positive experiences , indeed !

paul elliott
(member in good standing of the optilink mafia)




paul elliott dsc optilink petaluma , ca usa
uunet , pyramid , tekbspa ! optilink ! elliott or elliott@optilink.com
i used to think i was indecisive , but now i'm not so sure.


from erics@netcom.com (eric smith)
subject re lincoln slavery (was re top ten tricks...)
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 53

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

judy@technology.com (judy mcmillin) writes

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

can you provide some evidence that the slave states regarded slaves as
not humans \? they were outside our society and similar phrases that
basically meant that they did n't have to recognized as having the same
rights as a free person , but they were never considered not human to
my knowledge.

is n't the fact that slaves were purchased as opposed to
hired enough evidence that they were not thought as humans \?
did n't the bill of rights provide basic freedoms to humans
that were not available to slaves \?

not necessarily. distinctions were made between citizens and
persons throughout the u.s. and various state constitutions.
for example , free blacks had some rights of citizens , but not all
the rights of citizens. i'm curious if there was an additional
level of distinction made by the slave states to rationalize their
treatment of slaves , or if they just ignored the theoretical
problems of slave ownership.

the bill of rights , as far as i can see , does not once refer to citizens ,
but it makes several references to people . for example , article iv
the right of the people to be secure in their persons , houses , papers ,
and effects , against unreasonable searches and seizures , shall not be
violated article v no person shall be held to answer for a capital ,
or otherwise infamous crime , unless on a presentment or indictment by
a grand jury ... nor shall any person ... be deprived of life , liberty ,
or property , without due process of law article viii excessive bail
shall not be required , nor excessive fines imposed , nor cruel and unusual
punishments inflicted .

now i 've never heard that constitutional rights apply only to citizens
are n't they meant to apply equally to all persons living in the u.s. \?
whether slaves were considered not human i do n't know , but it seems
that a case could be made that they were n't treated as people as defined
in the bill of rights. and since the nation is nominally based on the
declaration of independence which states that all men are created equal ,
that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights ,
that among these are life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness ,
it would also seem that slaves would not follow under this definition
of humanity.


eric smith
erics@netcom.com
erics@infoserv.com
ci 70262 , 3610


from rolandi@hssc.scarolina.edu (walter rolandi)
subject re will italy be the next domino to fall \?
organization usc department of computer science
lines 13

hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen) writes


a good two party system will bring italy efficient , accountable government.

yeah , just like we have here in the us.




walter g. rolandi
usenet rolandi@andy.hssc.scarolina.edu
internet rolandi@hsscls.hssc.scarolina.edu

organization city university of new york
from f36si@cunyvm.bitnet
subject model united nations
lines 3

just observed at the national model united nations here in nyc.
just one word on it awsome.
peace , matt

from fpa1@ra.msstate.edu (fletcher p adams)
subject pork ( c 17 c 5 was (re abolish selective service )
oanization mississippi state university
nntp posting host ra.msstate.edu
organization mississippi state university
lines 30

muellerm@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (marc mueller) writes
fpa1@trumpet.cc.msstate.edu (fletcher p adams) writes

eliminate the c 17 transport.

wrong. we need its capability. sure it has its problems , ........

if you read aviation week , the c 5 line can be reopened and the c 5s
would be delivered a year earlier and cost a billion less for the
program. politically , though , the c 17 is popular pork.

i do read av week and do n't remember this. could you supply the date
of the magazine \? as for c 17 vs. c 5 , the c 17 ca n't carry as much
but has more capability ( read can land at smaller airfields of which
there are more of ) than the c 5. now is the c 17 pork \? it depends
on whether your job relies on it or not. ) in california right now ,
i would say that it is not pork since due to peace dividend so many
people are out of work.

the question is whether les aspin and clinton will be able to face down
a pork happy congress.

marc mueller

huh \? should n't that read the question is whether a social pork happy
les aspin and clinton will be able to face down a jobs pork happy
congress.

fpa


from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject re the state of justice
organization acme products
lines 46

in article 1qksa4inni7m@shelley.u.washington.edu , tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) writes
demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact , not
from the fire.

thoughts \?

how can a witness tell that someone in a burning truck is dead rather than
unconscious \?

their testimony would be a contradiction of the plaintiff 's charge (and
witness) that the occupant moved after the impact , indicating he was alive and
trying to get out (and provoking all sorts of sympathetic 'gross , burned alive'
reactions).

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

what kind of witnesses \? if we are talking about witnesses who were at
the accident , or were otherwise directly involved (e.g. , paramedics ,
emergency room doctors , etc.) , then they should have been used at the
first trial. you do n't get a new trial because you screwed up and
forgot to call all of your witnesses.

they are two witnesses who did n't come forth until after the first
trial. while it would be tough luck for gm if they new about these witnesses
beforehand , imo this constitutes new evidence .

if we are talking about new expert witnesses who will offer new
interpretations of the data , note that the loser can always find
such witnesses. if this were grounds for a new trial , then the loser
could always get a new trial , and keep doing so until the loser
becomes a winner (and then the other side would come up with new
expert witnesses).

no , i support rulings that deny new trials on those grounds.

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 46

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.


is n't is funny how someone who seems to know nothing about homosexuality
uses a very flawed (imho) source of information to pass jusgement on all
homosexual and bisexual men.

only the most comprehensive survey on sexuality in 50 years.

it would seem more logical to say that since
the heterosexual group of men is larger then the chances of promiscuity
larger as well. in my opinion , orientation has nothing to do with it.


chance and size have nothing in common on the multimillion number scale we are
talking about.


men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male. i have had sex three
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin.

so... whose promiscuous \?


nobody said that you were. chill.

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals. just because
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world....

well said.

statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default hetero...


actually , the kinsley report in 1947(or 48 \? ) used a high percentage of
prisoners so...........


ryan

from goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
nntp posting host dzoo.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma
lines 22

in article 1993apr14.122758.11467@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jlinder@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jeffrey s linder) writes
in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.c
om (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.

immunizations for children in this country are already free if you care to
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the irresponible parents
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done.

in case you have n't noticed , clintonites are pushing a universal health
care access program. access here means that folks who do not give
a damn about immunizing their children will have health care services
delivered to their doorsteps.




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's.


from erics@netcom.com (eric smith)
subject re hilter and homosexuals
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 106

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

ericsc4x1k9.apz@netcom.com , erics@netcom.com (eric smith) writes

gsmith@lauren.iwr.uni heidelberg.de (gene w. smith) writes

are you saying that

(1) people voted for hitler , and he became reich chancellor , in good
part because he used bully boys to attack communists ,

hitler did not become become reich chancellor because people voted for
him. i'm not sure if you meant to imply that or not , but i just thought
i 'd bring that up.

hitler became chancellor because people voted for his political
party. that 's not a huge difference in a parliamentary system.

your statement is a common misconception , but it just is n't true. in the
german weimar system , the chancellor was not necessarily the leader of the
largest reichstag party the chancellor was appointed by the president and
generally was the leader of a coalition of parties who could form an effective
majority in the reichstag. beyond that , the implication that hitler rose to
the chancellorship because a majority of germans wanted nazi rule is false
as well. before president hindenburg appointed hitler chancellor in january
1933 , the german people did not show a particular desire to be led either by
hitler or by the nazi party. these are the results of the march 1932 election
for president , the closest hitler ever came to direct election hindenburg
49.6 , hitler 30.1 , thaelmann 13.2 , duesterberg 6.8 . in the runoff election
in april the results were hindenburg 53 , hitler 36.8 , thaelmann 10.2 .
so we can see that hitler personally was supported by only about a third of
german voters.

similarly , the nazi party never received more than 37 of the vote in
reichstag elections. that occurred in july 1932. in the november 1932 election
the nazis lost two million votes and 34 seats , down from 230 to 196 out of
the 608 in the reichstag. comparitively , the socialists had 121 and the
communists 100. the communists had gained 11 seats , and the german national
party , which had supported the previous government , had picked up a million
of the nazis' lost votes to gain 15 seats (up to 52). i think the other large
party was the catholic center party (i do n't know how many seats they had but
i think they were declining) , and there were numerous other small parties.
thus the nazi vote was on the decline at the time hitler was appointed
chancellor.

what brought hitler to power was not the demand of the german people for
hitler or the nazis to run things , but the inability of the other parties to
put their differences behind them in favor of forming an effective government
for the country. germany did not have an enduring democratic tradition , and
their parliamentary system lacked effective center parties that favored the
interests of the majority of the population. instead what they had was a
number of small parties who were unable to put aside their own specific
objectives in order to combine against the nazis , who were out to end the
democratic process. in fact , part of the problem was that some of the other
parties with substantial representation , like the communists , were also
out to end the democratic process , but with different results in mind , and
generally did n't mind seeing parliamentary democracy go under.

germany had already had a non nazi chancellor with a majority coalition
for five months while the nazis had been the largest reichstag party , and
there certainly was no danger of a revolution in favor of the nazis.
if anything the nazis were starting to get desperate because they had failed
to get enough support to make hitler president and their popular vote had
begun to decline.

hitler was not hindenburg 's first choice to be chancellor , not even his
second choice. first , von papen had been chancellor since june 1932. after
the november election when the nazis lost seats , hindenburg first prevailed
on von papen to remain as chancellor. but there were intrigues behind his back
and support for him was lacking. so then hindenburg turned to von schleicher ,
who became chancellor for two months. eventually he too was unable to hold
together a working coalition of parties to oppose the nazis , who refused to
participate in any government that was not led by a nazi chancellor. some of
the nazi leadership , particularly gregor strasser who was the 2 man in the
party at the time , wanted to participate in a coalition government. but others ,
knowing the party 's support was waning , figured that their best hope to gain
power lay in undermining the democratic process. nevertheless , the country
was governed for seven months by chancellors who were not nazis , even though
the nazis were the largest reichstag party. the failure of these men to
achieve a working coalition was due to the inability of their coalition
parties to work together.

here 's how william shirer puts it in the rise and fall of the third reich

the cardinal error of the germans who opposed nazism was their
failure to unite against it. at the crest of their popular strength ,
in july 1932 , the national socialists had attained but 37 percent of
the vote. but the 63 percent of the german people who expressed their
opposition to hitler were much too divided and shortsighted to combine
against a common danger which they must have known would overwhelm
them unless they united , however temporarily , to stamp it out.

true , the german people supported hitler after he became chancellor. but
that does n't change the fact that there was not overwhelming support for him
before he was in power. the german people were not crying out for hitler to
take over , no matter how bad economic conditions were. the leftist parties
(socialists communists) probably had more support in total than the nazis.
hitler used the fact that others were passively or actively willing to see
the government paralyzed as a means to taking it over.


eric smith
erics@netcom.com
erics@infoserv.com
ci 70262 , 3610


from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
article i.d. optilink.15213
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 20

in article 7166@pdxgate.uucp , a0cb@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (chris bertholf) writes
mcartwr@auvm.american.edu (martina cartwright) writes
the official and legal term for rape is the crime of forcing a female
to submit to sexual intercourse.

please , supply me with some references. i was not aware that all states
had the word female in the rape statutes. i am sure others are surprised
as well. i know thats how it works in practice (nice n fair , not ! ! ) , but
was unaware that it was in the statutes as applying to females only ,
uniformly throughout the u.s.

chris

there may be some confusion here. the uniform crime reports program
run by the fbi defines rape as a female victim only crime even
though some states have the laws de sexed. i suspect that this causes
male victims of rape to be left out of the ucr data.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 44

in article c5iak2.5zh@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy) writes
in article 15377@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
but what came out ,
in much lower profile reporting , was that the victim was a
prostitute , and the man had not paid her hence the false
accusation.

there was no evidence the woman in question was a prostitute , the
defense merely alledged that she was. even clayton knows the
difference. err , perhaps clayton does n't know the difference.

evidence given for her prostitute status , besides the admittedly
questionable claim of the man on trial included

1. prior employment in a number of massage parlors , with women who
claimed that she worked as a prostitute

2. walking around a truck stop at 4 00 am wearing a lace miniskirt ,
a halter top , and no underwear of any sort

3. not having a purse or other i.d. with her.

not enough to convict her , but enough to create reasonable doubt
whether a rape actually took place , or theft of services.

are you just ignorant , or lying again \?

the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the
marines were engaged in self defense.

no , the judge found that the prosecution did not carry out the burder
on proof. a small clipping from clarinews , under fair use guidelines

new hanover district court judge jacqueline morris goodson ruled in
the benchtrial that the state failed to carry its burden in proving the
marines acted to cause injury.

the accounts on the evening news indicated that they claimed self
defense , and the judge agreed that they were so operating.

greg hennessy , university of virginia

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
nntp posting host eddie.jpl.nasa.gov
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca
lines 12

in article c50fnh.cvo@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
with a tip of the hat to david letterman for making the top ten format
so popular

top ten reasons that conservatives do n't want to aid russia

looking around who \? where \?
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia. many other
conservatives do as well.

julie
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else

from s0xjg@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher)
subject re so why does clayton cramer fixate on molesting children
organization exnet systems ltd public access news , london , uk
lines 32

in article 93093.073457ripbc@cunyvm.bitnet ripbc@cunyvm.bitnet writes
from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)

2. the homosexuals have gotten a law passed in california that
makes it illegal to discriminate against a person in employment
based on their sexual orientation and not defined sexual
orientation. pedophilia is a sexual orientation.







got him ! cramer is now claiming that pedophilia is a sexual orientation
rather than a chronicly homosexual condition. this changes the whole
argument in as much that is pedophilia is a sexual orientation all
of its own peds cannot be called homosexual. peds are peds who
may have a preference as to the sex of the child they molest (though
most do not have a preference) but that is a subset of their basic
ped nature.

cramer has as much as admitted that peds and gay men are different
orientations. all we need now is to get him to admit that
the apparent similarities he keeps on about are just optical illusions.

xavier

xavier gallagher play
cheap part time dark overlord by s0xjg@exnet.co.uk
world wide uucp of the universe email
feeds e mail advanced dungeons dragons

from tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re why is tax evasion not considered unpatriotic \?
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 7
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu

ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes
there is a deeper reason. taxes , by their very nature , are un american.
one need only look at the birth and history of the us to see this fact.

so that 's why the 13 newly independent states all had tax systems...

tim smith

from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject kyle k. on rodney king
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
distribution usa
lines 12

in article c5lp0y.fdk@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \?

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important.

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 84

in article 9304151442.aa05233@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes

purile babble deleted

well , some form of guaranteed health care is n't a bad idea , but ,
yah , i'm a bit worried of a gubnint run hmo myself. i 'd much
rather have something like canada has and i 'll belt anyone
who tells me to move to canada ) , but since people will yell
and scream no ! ! ! not one like canada has ! ! ! , we 're
probably all screwed.

bromeister predicted

1 , 000 per middle class taxpayer in new taxes

a national sales tax


impressive.

let the great chuckmeister make a couple predictions , if you
will

1. the sun will rise tomorrow.
2. rush will bash clinton on his next show.
3. i will turn out to be clinton 's love child.

chances are , i 'll get at least one of those right , if i'm lucky.
i may even get two.

now , for more aammmaaaazzzzzziinnnnggggg predictions !

i) the nst will be raised from 3 to 5 by 1996.
ooops. they already did it.

okay , then. the nst will be raised from 5 to 7 by 1996.


ca n't argue with you there. once the gubnint has its hands in yer
pocket , they just ca n't help but feel around a bit....


ii) unemployment will rise !


oh , no sh \? ! you mean , our weakened economy will collapse in
the face of all this gubnint tax and spending , and everyone will
be in the handout line \? you 're a genius ! !


iii) tax revenues will decline. deficit will increase !
we 'll get another deficit reduction package by 1997 !
everyone will dance and sing !


deficit reduction. spending cuts via fee increases \?


to paraphrase hilary clinton i will not raise taxes on
the middle class to pay for my programs

to paraphrase bill clinton i will not raise taxes on
the middle class to pay for my programs

no , any first year polisci major will tell you that the prez
never raises taxes. congress does it.

all those who voted the clinton ticket get to wear this new
label.....


sucka !

made in usa


hook , line , and sinker ! chuckle

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

slick willy 's already got his hand in my pocket. i'm just afraid
of what he might grab hold of.

from cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook)
subject re why is tax evasion not considered unpatriotic \?
organization winco
lines 32

in article c4vy56.c0t@newsserver.technet.sg ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes
in article 1993mar31.185128.5668@pmafire.inel.gov cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook) writes
in article 1pasrg ife@s1.gov lip@s1.gov (loren i. petrich) writes

the title is self explanatory isaac asimov once pointed out
that curious fact.

well , since tax evasion is illegal , one generally would not bother to
consider whether it was unpatriotic or not. how often does one think
of murder as being unpatriotic \?

perhaps a more appropriate question would be why is tax avoidance not
considered unpatriotic \? . the answer to this is simple. tax avoidance
is simply defined as paying the minimum tax you are legally obligated to
pay.

there is a deeper reason. taxes , by their very nature , are un american.
one need only look at the birth and history of the us to see this fact.

was n't the beef with the english over taxation without representation ,
not taxation itself \?

from my admittedly dim recollection of us history , most of the problems
we americans have had with taxes have been with unfair unjust taxation
schemes , not with taxes themselves. it 's pretty hard to run a government
without any means of support.


...dale cook any town having more churches than bars has a serious
social problem. edward abbey
the opinions are mine only (i.e. , they are not my employer 's)


from stephen@orchid.ucsc.edu ()
subject re the evidence
organization santa cruz
lines 59
nntp posting host orchid.ucsc.edu

in article 15177@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article 113567@bu.edu , kane@buast7.bu.edu (hot young star) writes
in article cjkc4mcwp.8ox@netcom.com cjk@netcom.com writes
if homosexuals did keep themselves in the privacy of their own home , this
would n't be a problem. however , there are various 'cliques' (sp \? ) that
do n't. they want to present the argument that it is just as moral and
right as heterosexuality.

you know , i'm offended by newspapers publicly announcing weddings.
heterosexuals should keep their nutpials out of the public eyes. they
should be banned from wearing wedding rings. from having legal recognition
of marriage.

anything that 's public and sexual do n't mix.

the difference , of course , is that we are right , and you are wrong.
if you are a minority that wants freedom , it helps to not be
obnoxious about it. it does not surprise me that as groups like

translation you minorities stay in predesignated areas. we the majority
are 'right' , anything you do is 'wrong' , since might makes right , and
the majority always rules.

queer nation become increasingly belligerent in their public
demonstrations , that violence against homosexuals rises. anything
that reminds the crazies who like to beat up homosexuals of their
presence is going to aggravate things.


oh crime prevention at its best. well let 's extrapolate this , maybe if
you did n't display all of your private property , then those nasty theifs
would n't go after it. and do n't carry any money , that way those muggers
wo n't bother you.


and you still do n't realize that either way it is , says that homosexuals
are very dangerous to children.


so tell me what 's immoral about homosexuality \?

the promiscuity and fetishism that characterizes it. the sexual
predatory component that glorifies the pursuit of candy ass and
hairless cocks in the words of le jojo , the typical homosexual.

oh i did not know that le jojo is a typical homosexual.

stop making statements about something you know nothing about , that is
gay people. you make your sweeping generalizations with no grounding
in reality.


what i hope is not true that you are a typical heterosexual. anyone want
to comment on this \?

and if you are typical then i can start extrapolating a lot of interesting
conjectures about heterosexuals.



from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization isc bunker ramo , an olivetti company
lines 38
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 1993apr17.145045.12449@tijc02.uucp pjs269@tijc02.uucp (paul schmidt) writes
steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr15.013651.11353@tijc02.uucp pjs269@tijc02.uucp (paul schmidt) writes

it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams.

...society would collapse if most people were evil most of the time.
david bergland
agreed.

if people are basically evil , the last thing you 'd want is a big
government staffed by those evil folks exercising control over you.
david bergland
agreed.

freedom seems to have unleashed the creative energies of the people and
leads to ever higher levels of income and social progress. u.n. report

agreed.

the argument is not between those who want limited government and those
who want unlimited government. it is between those who believe
government regulation in a capitalist economy serves worthwhile ends and
those who believe such regulation is neither desirable on empirical
grounds nor justifiable on ideological grounds.

good summary... selling your labor or goods so that you can eat
and buy a house is essential so that you can excercise your
personal freedoms.

paul schmidt advocates for self government , davy crockett chapter president

and this demonstrates , i assume , that you 're a liberal. ).

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

organization city university of new york
from f36si@cunyvm.bitnet
subject re karadzic on bosnia peace plan
lines 2

what does anyone think that judge wopner would do if karadzic was
on trial before him \? (nevah happen , but just a thought...)

from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject re kyle k. on rodney king
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
distribution usa
lines 31

in article c5peay.m15@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes
in article c5lp0y.fdk@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \?

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important.

black is a descriptive adjective that describes mr. king. from many
of the newspaper , radio , and tv news reports i have seen , this adjective
is commonly in front of his name. i have never seen anyone complain about
the use of this adjective when used in a benign manner. i did not say that
mr. king was a no good black ! i do not know mr. king and would not make this
ascertian without some evidence to this effect. i used it purely as a
descriptive adjective in the same manner than many ( most ) news people have
used it in the past.

no one is questioning whether mr. king is black. the question arises
whether king 's race should make police officers afraid as hell. your
statement seems to imply that cops should have a different standard for
large black guys than for just large guys in general.

that two posts later you do n't understand why anyone pointed out your use
of the adjective is almost as informative as your original use.

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 17

in article c5la55.bwq@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu
(greg hennessy) writes
clayton cramer writes
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population.

did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing
to admit to being a member sexual minority (homosexuality) are more
willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority (highly
promiscious) \?


oh yeah , and men just haaaaate to brag about how many woman they 've had.

ryan

from as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 33

in 1993apr16.200354.8045@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes


1) so what \?

so there are less gays , then the gays claim.

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners....


i was wondering why i was n't getting laid.

your bad english \? (see quote above.)


actually , i bet you more gay bi men are as not as promiscuous as gay men ,
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and
with social pressures , probably would at least try.

you 'd lose that wager , if the supporting argument were part of it.

did you know that is is a fact that homosexuality was comparatively high in
hitler 's storm troopers (sa) before he came to power. i wonder if they got to
put the triangles on themselves......

did you know that hitler himself was a devout christian \? and heterosexual \?

drywid

bi andrew d. simchik schnopia !
as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu treewater

words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes

from riggs@descartes.etl.army.mil (bill riggs)
subject losers (was re stop putting down white het males.)
keywords racism , sexism , mysogyny
organization lnk corporation , riverdale , md
lines 152
nntp posting host descartes.tec.army.mil

in article 1993apr2.180839.14305@galileo.cc.rochester.edu as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia) writes
in 1993apr2.064804.29008@jato.jpl.nasa.gov michael@neuron6.jpl.nasa.gov (michael rivero) writes


i do n't know what you as a white male did. i do know what white males ,
as a class , have done.

they 've invented the light bulb , the automobile , the airplane , printing with
movable type , photography , computers , the electric guitar. anasthesia , rocket
powered space flight , the computer , electricity , the telephone , tv , motion
pictures , penecillin(sp) , telescopes , nylon , and the x ray machine.

two glaring errors here. first , white males do n't do anything as a class.
individual white males invented those things , which means nothing to white
males as a whole. second , you neglected to mention charles manson , hitler ,
mccarthy , jack the ripper , ted bundy , and a whole slew of individuals who
have done horrible , evil things. if white males can take the credit for
our fellow white males' boons , we must also take the blame for our
fellows' blights. i claim we deserve neither credit nor blame for these
things.


we are told , by u.s. congresswoman barbara jordan , that we are biologically
incapable of compassion.

she 's full of shit.

we are told by susan brownmiller that we 're all rapists and that 's all
we are.

she 's full of shit.

we 're told by catherine comins that a false rape charge is actually good
for us.

she 's full of shit.

we are told by the feminist lawyers that we are not to be trusted with
children.

they 're full of shit.

we are told , by newsweek magazine , that we are poor sports if we complain.

newsweek is full of shit.

the point , ladies and gents \? michael is not entirely correct in his theory
that because members of our race and gender made great advances , the race
and gender as a whole deserve more respect than they receive. white males
do deserve to be treated better than they are being treated , but not for
that reason. and the male bashers he quoted are repugnant hate mongers , no
better than the chauvinists they despise. so no one 's right , as usual.

white males need to wake up and realize that they 're being unfair , yes. but
everyone else needs to wake up and realize that being unfair right back is
disgusting , racist and sexist.

why ca n't we learn to treat everyone fairly , without generalizing \? what
stupidity gene makes this so difficult \? i 'd like to buy the world a
clue...


the word that is missing in this whole discourse is not the b
word , or the h word , or even the n or w words. it is the l word
loser ! !

that 's right. when we boil all the crap out of this argument , it
is all about winning and losing , and nothing else. let me explain.

remember the eighties \? no excuses. nobody who can handle a mail
buffer can claim they are too young to remember ronald reagan yet.
the eighties were about how america learned to win once again . then
(would n't you know) , we won so well that there was nothing left to win.
no cold war to endure. no nuclear holocaust. no more worlds to conquer
(we forgot about outer space long ago). the kind of overwhelming , no
holds barred success that killed alexander the great. yes , there were a
few little problems along the way stock market meltdown here , an
s l bailout there , a few revolts and crazy middle eastern dictators to
contend with , but as tacitus would tell ya' , the god augustus never had
it so good.

in the meantime , there is guilt for winning , maybe a fear that one
does n't deserve one 's bounty or success. so there is a kinder and gentler
type of politician these days , bill clinton , affirmative action , and lots of
discourse about people who do n't get it . for those of us in the winning
business , this kind of talk is mildly irritating , but there is still no
suggestion of losing.

but what do we find now \? to put it mildy , the stereotype of our
white male non winner is woody hayes in the rose bowl , punching out
photojournalists when those california fruits and nuts steal another one
with a hail mary pass in the fourth quarter. (the whole idea behind 'three
yards and a cloud of dust' is to wear your opponent down until he collapses
in the final period) but woody just used his fists uzzies seem to be the
weapon of choice these days.

who is d fens , anyway \? the answer is as plain as the horn rims on
your face. the guy is michael douglas , posing as a loser. this
is known as controversial casting. but that baggy short sleeved white shirt
sure does look natural on mike does n't it. gordon gekko will never look the
same. (though woody always dressed that way.) did we really expect gekko to
take it easy and enjoy that kind of wardrobe , without putting up a fuss \?

what we are starting to lose sight of is , that bashing d fens is
the same game as bashing that poor african american slug that clint eastwood
used to blow away all the time. as that arch wasp (male gender) george c. scott
declaimed , americans traditionally love to win. they love a winner , and will
not tolerate a loser. and so on.

the political implications are simple. if , as many socialists and
democrats do , you consider society a finite pie to a apportioned in some
equitable way , then you have to worry about who is a winner and who is a
loser to tell whose side you are on. that could be black women today , asian
homosexuals tommorrow , and yes indeed , white men some yet to be determined
day when the balance of the pie has finally swung against that (39 )
minority.

or you can just blow the whole thing off and say as do most
conservatives and all the libertarians and act is if you did n't care
who 's winning and who 's losing. in some cases , you might say something
about make sure the game is fair (equality of opportunity , not of condition).
in the latter case , you might be able to identify yourself as a
neoconservative or a neoliberal depending on how much you want to limit
the pot.

either way you go , the way of the winner is no longer the way to be
popular at least after you graduate from high school (but you 'll still
be popular at high school reunions). but it beats being a nerd , as i
would imagine michael douglas would now agree , and in the long run , it
is the only way to go. (even in hollywood , which treats losers worse than any
other place in america except for new york and washington , d.c. and even in
columbus , ohio , which produced alex keaton , but no champion football teams in
the eighties and the first quarter of the nineties) i 'd like to
see more winners in this society , regardless of race , gender , religious
preference , and sexual orientation. maybe we should even let a few more of
them be white men ! ! (we should definitely let the buckeyes win the rose bowl
someday)



bill r.



the only proposals in the senate that i my opinions do not represent
have seen fit to mention are particularly those of my employer or
praiseworthy or particularly scandalous ones. any government agency.
it seems to me that the historian 's foremost bill riggs
duty is to ensure that virtue is remembered ,
and to deter evil words and deeds with the
fear of posterity 's damnation.
tacitus , annals iii. 65

from bob@hobbes.dtcc.edu (bob rahe)
subject re top ten comments overheard in the secret service lounge
organization delaware technical community college
lines 18
nntp posting host hobbes.dtcc.edu

in article c52cli.g09@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes

in article 1phgakinn9pb@apache.dtcc.edu , bob@hobbes.dtcc.edu (bob rahe) writes


in the uk there is a tradition of old retired colnels who bore the dinner
guests rigid with their descriptions of old campagns. ed is clearly one
of this type of people who fails to see when a joke is spent.

you are hereby authorized not to laugh. by special dispensation of
her hillariness. this offer void where prohibited by law , consumer must
pay applicable sales tax.....


bob rahe , delaware tech comm college aids , drugs , abortion
internet bob@hobbes.dtcc.edu do n't liberals just kill you \?
ci 72406 , 525 genie bob.rahe save whales and kill babies \?


from new liberation news service nlns@igc.apc.org
subject nlns fascism with a friendly face
nf id n cdp 1483600108 000 9540
nf from cdp.uucp ! nlns apr 14 20 42 00 1993
lines 164


from new liberation news service nlns
subject nlns fascism with a friendly face

written 8 33 pm apr 14 , 1993 by nlns@igc.apc.org in igc nlns.news
nlns packet 3.11 4 14 93

fascism with a friendly face does rush limbaugh remind you of
anyone \?
daevid bornhuetter machen , the madison edge

the main difference between adolf hitler and rush limbaugh is that
hitler was original and showed initiative.
mort sahl on the tom snyder radio show , abc radio network ,
october 27 , 1992.

(nlns) believe it or not , i was planning this comparative review of
mein kampf and limbaugh 's transcribed rant , the way things ought to
be before sahl issued his comparative review. as usual , sahl 's was
independent and sharp as a scalpel.
my effort can only dream of comparing favorably to mort 's. at
least it has a fairly popular orginating premise everyone i 'd mention the
idea to thought it was either divinely inspired or at least past due for
delivery.
those reactions are based on parallels that should be obvious to the
most peripheral observer of the acts of those false prophets. both are
noted for their galvanizing oratorical skills , which they both used with
passion to generate a political cult of massive numerical proportions (in
fact , limbaugh claims to have an audience of just over 12 million , almost
identical to the number of votes cast for hitler in the april 1932 german
election). both used a myopic social perspective to build the cult , and
enthusiastically amputated facts from the record to fabricate their
ideological quilt.
the last point is glaringly documented by passages in the opening
pages of both books. hitler 's example is when , on page 5 , he claims the
german nationalist terrorist leo schlageter (he bombed part of a railway
line between dusseldorf and duisburg , being caught in the act , in 1923)
was betrayed to france by a representative of his government when
there has never been any factual foundation for such a statement.
in fact , the governments of both the reich and prussia , as well as
the vatican , actively intervened to save him from execution , and almost
succeeded. limbaugh follows suit by making the hysterically sarcastic
claim in his introduction that in a school or during a commencement
ceremony or many other public places... god is unconstitutional. of
course , it 's not god but the official imposition of particular concepts of
god against an individual 's will that 's unconstitutional. but limbaugh is
too gleeful in his talent for distortion to want you to know that.
of course , one would assume that , by comparing the two books ,
my main point would be that the way things ought to be is the modern
american mein kampf. not really. at the time of the first german version
of mein kampf , hitler was just four months out of prison (june , 1925) ,
and trying to reorganize the nazis. he used the book to build his dozen
million followers. limbaugh , on the other hand , came up with his book
after building his dozen million. twelve million went a longer way in
weimar germany that it does in the republicrat united states.
thus , the more accurate parallels would be that limbaugh 's daily
three hour radio show is the american mein kampf , the primary
propoganda tool used to pump up the angry volume and that the way
things ought to be is actually the american triumph of the will , a
translation of the same fascist message into a different medium. also , the
printed word was the more important medium in weimar germany , since
radio was still being thought of by impoverished germans as a medium of
luxury in 1925. today , on the other hand , americans are more likely to
spend a few seconds to tune a radio dial at no monetary charge than drop
22 for 304 pages of transcripts of the same words.
but , as mort sahl also observed on the radio the other night , some
cloutmeister of the radical right wants limbaugh to be a focal point of
their propoganda. (and remember , sahl is an al haig conservative these
days.)
mort might not know exactly who rush 's equivalent of rodolf
hess is (the book itself suggests ed mclaughlin , the former president of
abc radio and now limbaugh 's partner in efm media , the radio
program 's production company). but mort himself is a veteran of the talk
show , having hosted them in new york , washington and los angeles. he
knows what evil lurks in the hearts of major market media men. he knows
that limbaugh could not have collected his audience had not the
opportunity been placed on a silver platter and handed to him. limbaugh
earns his money just as honestly as al capone did it 's almost worthy of a
rico indictment.
on questions of social issues , there is an overabundance of
material in the limbaugh book that seems to echo hitler 's venom. for
example

on their own qualifications to control society
hitler out of the host of sometimes millions of people , who
individually more or less clearly and distinctly guess the truth , partly
perhaps understand it , one man author 's emphasis must step forward in
order to form , with apodeictic force , out of the wavering world of
imagination of the great masses , granite principles , and to take up the fight
for their sole correctness , until out of the playing waves of a free world of
thought a brazen rock of uniform combination of form and will arises
(page 577).
limbaugh who needs the media when they 've got me \? ... the
show is devoted exclusively to what i think ... the phrase with half my
brain tied behind my back to make it even denotes the egress of mental
aptitude i require to engage and demolish liberals and others who disagree
with me ... it might take four or five years , but i'm convinced the media
will slowly and reluctantly come around to my way of thinking , kicking
and screaming all the way. (pages 266 , 21 , 299 and 273 , respectively.)

on religion as the basis of a nation
hitler in this world human culture and civilization are
inseperably bound up with the existence of the aryan. his dying off or his
decline would again lower upon this earth the dark veils of a time without
culture ... he who dares to lay hand upon the highest image of the lord
sins against the benevolent creator of this miracle and helps in the
expulsion from paradise. (page 581.)
limbaugh america was founded as a judeo christian country ...
but our intellectual and political elites are often either hostile or
ambivalent toward religion ... people for whom belief in god is at best a
charming superstition have managed to ban prayer from the public schools
for the last thirty years. is it only a coincidence that the quality of
american education has declined ever since \? (pages 274 5.)

on popular culture as a reason for social collapse
hitler the fight against the poisoning of the soul has to set in ...
one has only to look at the menus of our movie houses , vaudevilles and
theatres and one can hardly deny that this is not the right kind of food ...
theatre , art , literature , movies , the press , billposters and window displays
must be cleaned of the symptoms of a rotting world and put into the
service of a moral idea of state and culture. (pages 346 and 348.)
limbaugh today , hollywood is in trouble. the reason is that
hollywood has forgotten who its audience is ... they make fun of people
who believe in god. they ridicule the traditional family , heterosexuality
and monagamy. they disparage american heroes. (page 254.)

on the news meida
hitler the activity of the so called liberal press was the work of
gravediggers for the german people and the german reich. one can pass
by in silence the marxist papers of lies ... it 's task is only to break the
people 's folkish and national spine , in order to make it ripe for the yoke of
slavery of international capital and its masters , the jews. (page 331.)
limbaugh elements of the media have jumped on the
bandwagon of leftist causes. the cynical journalist of the past has been
replaced in many cases by an enthusiastic cheerleader for causes ... during
the gulf war , cnn correspondent bernard shaw said cnn is a global
network. we ca n't take sides. cant take sides \? ! ... if they do n't
realize that their freedom lies in the united states of america and that
therefore they should defend this nation , they are hopelessly misguided
and , may i suggest , flirting with megalomania. (pages 270 and 268.)



to continue these comparative excerpts is certainly possible , but
ultimately too depressing to take in one reading.
after putting these books down , there is one undeniable fact that
haunts me. in the 1920s , adolf hitler fed depressed and frightened
germans the opiate of hatred of those around them in turn , it allowed
germans to hand their collective national power to the nazis. in the 1990s ,
rush limbaugh is doing the very same thing distributing hatred to
depressed and frightened americans in turn , it is helping the american
radical right to maintain its power base as the 12 year nightmare of the
reagan bush era comes to an end , hoping to rebuild it into their hopes for
the fascist states of america.
and if limbaugh is not as repellant a hitler , it is only because the
radical right utilizes limbaugh as its own gateway opiate. one can only
wonder what the ultimate drug is they plan to hook america on.

the madison edge can be reached at po box 845 , madison , wi 53701
0845 (608) 255 4460.

30



from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re re fillibuster
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
lines 132

in article c5jpl7.5cz@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

in article 1993apr12.002302.5262@martha.utcc.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes

come to that under the original plan there was n't meant to be anything
much for the federal government to do except keep the british out.

that 's also untrue , but at least we 're wandering a little closer
toward reality. that the articles of confederation fell apart is enough
proof it was there for just a tad bit more.

well yes and no. the federalist papers are propaganda and it is therefore
difficult to determine precisely what maddison etc were up to from them.

there are a couple of ways to look at them. one is , we want
you to support this constitution , so we 'll say anything that we think
will appeal to you , or the more straightforward , this is why we think
what we 've suggested in this constitution is a good idea.

you clearly consider the former to be the primary situation.

they
certainly emphasised a limited role for the federal government but this
was not necessarily their true position.

well , i know hamilton was a dyed in the wool monarchist , and
probably the authoritarian extreme to jefferson 's democratic impules.
but what would you suggest as a means of determining their opinions
on the government if we do n't consider what they wrote about the
government \?

and is writing in support of something automatically propoganda
to the point we must assume it is untrue or that they are saying what
they do n't believe \?

and like the house of lords which it is copied from it was given pretty
wide powers. unfortunately they started to use them and thus the gridlock
set in.

i was n't aware the house of lords had wide powers. i was under the
impression is was pretty powerless compared to the house of commons , and
certainly did n't have almost equal their powers. (the senate is restricted
only that it may not introduce bills relating to raising revenue.)

the senate was less powerful than the house of lords in the period in
question.

if the senate was less powerful than the house of lords , than
we 'd almost have to state that the house of representatives was also.
(in fact , they both were , because the british government had much
greater power than did the american system).

my reading of the constitution and other writings gives me absolutely
no reason to believe the senate was n't intended to make use of their
law making powers. in fact , grid lock appears to have been designed
into the system , with the senate being a more deliberative body to act
as a check on the more often elected house.

the system is meant to be slow to react , the problem is that it ended up
a bit too slow.

i disagree. the system is not too slow , it was simply designed to
handle less than it has demanded that it handle. as somebody in washington
put it (whose name i forget) , congress has become everybody 's city
council.

congress is more than capable of quick action , and has more than
enough power and time on its hands , if it confined itself to what its
original jurisidiction was and allowed more local autonomy.

it is not a case of the system of government they created failing ,
but that it is operating under a set of conditions they specifically
wanted to avoid. namely , a concentration of power. it would seem
then that the proper thing to do is not to reduce the power of either
house in some attempt to grease the wheels. all you 'll get then is
a system which moves quicker to do stupid things. it would make more
sense to make more decisions at a local level.

on what basis do you suggest that the senate was supposed to be
some sort of rubber stamp for the house \? you 'll note that while the
president 's veto may be over ridden , the house ca n't do anything about
a veto by the senate.

the preside n't veto was meant to be entirely separate. until bush abused it
in a quite extraordinary manner it was used more in accord with the intent
of being a check on unreasonable legislation.

please explain to me how bush abused the veto in an extraordinary
manner.

the veto was clearly regarded
as a completely last gasp measure its use was meant to be restricted to
preventing the legislature interfering with the actions of the executive.

i fail to see where any restrictions , implied or otherwise , were
placed on the veto. it could just as easily have been read as a means
to put a check on democratically popular but unwise (in the executive 's
opinion) policies.

there is no limit in the constitution to the president 's veto power
regarding what a bill is for. previous presidents have used the veto
for any number of reasons , most usually having something to do with their
agenda. i am really curious how you single bush out as the president
who abused vetos.

the senate is not meant to be exactly a rubber stamp body , it is meant as
a check on unrestrained legislation. that is the extra measure built into
the constitution in favour of the status quo , 60 of the representatives
of the states is not a reasonable restriction.

why is it not a reasonable restriction \? because 51 senators
is the magic holy number upon which laws must be based \? if 41 senators
feel safe enough with their state constituencies to stand up and
fillibuster is n't that enough to indicate there 's a sufficient question
as to whether a law is a good idea or not to re evaluate it \?

why one earth should 51 be sufficient to enact a law which
covers 250 million people in very , very diverse places and living
in radically different conditions \? why should n't a super majority
be required \?

any system in which the simple majority is given absolute power
to ignore the minority then the minority will be ignored. i do not
see this as a positive thing. and for all that i'm sure the republicans
are looking for pork as much as the democrats , they 've got some legitimate
objections to the legislation in question.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject re clinton caves in reduces jobs bill
summary too good to be true , evidently.
organization acme products
lines 18

in article 1993apr16.131615.8661@desire.wright.edu , demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
clinton has backed off from the 16 billion jobs bill.

word is he 's paring it down to the core jobless benefits , money for
creating full time jobs (ie , no summer jobs money).

chalk one up for holding the line on spending.

it seems radio reports were overly optimistic. all clinton wants to
cut is 2.5 billion for community block grants , keeping in summer jobs.

hmmm , well , looks like we need to keep up the pressure on our
congresspersons.

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from margoli@watson.ibm.com (larry margolis)
subject re i thought commercial advertising was not allowed
distribution na
news software ibm os 2 pm rn (nr 2) v0.17i by o. vishnepolsky and r. rogers
lines 35
reply to margoli@watson.ibm.com (larry margolis)
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host netslip63.watson.ibm.com
organization the village waterbed

in c50sma.3gk@voder.nsc.com matt@galaxy.nsc.com (matt freivald x8043) writes
in article 164871 in talk.politics.misc , margoli@watson.ibm.com
(larry margolis) writes

i would suggest that legal precedent defines a human being (i.e. , a person
whose rights are protected by the constitution and the law) as someone with
a functioning brain.

no , if you want to use legal precedent , you should take a look at the
model penal code , on which many states base their criminal code

my apologies if i was unclear i was not trying to start a statutory
debate , since there are many (in some cases conflicting) statutes on
the books. i was merely suggesting a paradigm that might make sense
for a pro choicer imho.

and i was pointing out that legal precedent defines a human being as
referring only to the born , so your suggestion was incorrect.

if at some point an unborn child is a human being , the parents clearly
have the same responsibilities toward her as any other parents have toward
their children.

and no parent can be forced to supply bodily resources toward their children ,
even if necessary to save the child 's life.

there is a confusion here between action and inaction a parent does not have
to run out in front of a bus to save their child 's life either , but a parent
is required to feed his children.

there is a confusion here about what bodily resources constitutes. blood
transfusions and organ donations involve bodily resources your examples
do not.

larry margolis , margoli@yktvmv (bitnet) , margoli@watson.ibm.com (internet)

from rja@mahogany126.cray.com (russ anderson)
subject re the state of justice
originator rja@mahogany126
lines 36
nntp posting host mahogany126
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins !


in article 1993apr15.143320.8618@desire.wright.edu , demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact , not
from the fire.

thoughts \?

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

welcome to the conservative judiciary.

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

i think scalia 's point was that you get one chance. if new information
comes out later , tough. if the conviced want justice , they have to hope
the governor is feeling charitable.

there 's a guy on death row in texas that was denied a new trial , dispite
evidence of his inocents.

and what about members of the previous jury parading through the talk
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against gm \? should n't that be enough for
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial \?

whatever happened to jurors having to be objective \?

it got swept away in the reagan revolution...


russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993
ex twins' jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs (world series mvp ! )

from garrett@ingres.com
subject re losers (was re stop putting down white het males.)
summary just my .02
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords racism , sexism , mysogyny
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 107

in article 1939@tecsun1.tec.army.mil , riggs@descartes.etl.army.mil (bill riggs) writes...
in article 1993apr2.180839.14305@galileo.cc.rochester.edu as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia) writes
in 1993apr2.064804.29008@jato.jpl.nasa.gov michael@neuron6.jpl.nasa.gov (michael rivero) writes
i do n't know what you as a white male did. i do know what white males ,
as a class , have done.
they 've invented the light bulb , the automobile , the airplane , printing with
movable type , photography , computers , the electric guitar. anasthesia , rocket
powered space flight , the computer , electricity , the telephone , tv , motion
pictures , penecillin(sp) , telescopes , nylon , and the x ray machine.

two glaring errors here. first , white males do n't do anything as a class.
individual white males invented those things , which means nothing to white
males as a whole. second , you neglected to mention charles manson , hitler ,
mccarthy , jack the ripper , ted bundy , and a whole slew of individuals who
have done horrible , evil things. if white males can take the credit for
our fellow white males' boons , we must also take the blame for our
fellows' blights. i claim we deserve neither credit nor blame for these
things.

white males need to wake up and realize that they 're being unfair , yes. but
everyone else needs to wake up and realize that being unfair right back is
disgusting , racist and sexist.
why ca n't we learn to treat everyone fairly , without generalizing \? what
stupidity gene makes this so difficult \? i 'd like to buy the world a
clue...

the word that is missing in this whole discourse is not the b
word , or the h word , or even the n or w words. it is the l word
loser ! !

that 's right. when we boil all the crap out of this argument , it
is all about winning and losing , and nothing else. let me explain.
in the meantime , there is guilt for winning , maybe a fear that one
does n't deserve one 's bounty or success. so there is a kinder and gentler
type of politician these days , bill clinton , affirmative action , and lots of
discourse about people who do n't get it . for those of us in the winning
business , this kind of talk is mildly irritating , but there is still no
suggestion of losing.
who is d fens , anyway \? the answer is as plain as the horn rims on
your face. the guy is michael douglas , posing as a loser. this
is known as controversial casting. but that baggy short sleeved white shirt
sure does look natural on mike does n't it. gordon gekko will never look the
same. (though woody always dressed that way.) did we really expect gekko to
take it easy and enjoy that kind of wardrobe , without putting up a fuss \?
what we are starting to lose sight of is , that bashing d fens is
the same game as bashing that poor african american slug that clint eastwood
used to blow away all the time. as that arch wasp (male gender) george c. scott
declaimed , americans traditionally love to win. they love a winner , and will
not tolerate a loser. and so on.

since we are talking in theory and opinion , then i 'll put in my .02.
first , a rebuttle. personally , i love under dogs. unlike
bandwagon jumpers , i abandon teams when they start winning. people that
cheer for winners just because they are winners are insecure people who are
afraid to be associated with something negative.

the political implications are simple. if , as many socialists and
democrats do , you consider society a finite pie to a apportioned in some
equitable way , then you have to worry about who is a winner and who is a
loser to tell whose side you are on. that could be black women today , asian
homosexuals tommorrow , and yes indeed , white men some yet to be determined
day when the balance of the pie has finally swung against that (39 )
minority.

on this one point , i agree. the reason that people bash wasp 's is
because they have been on top for a long time. whoever is on top is
going to oppress whoever is below them so that they can stay on top.
if hannibal had pushed on to rome after his victory at cannae we might
all be bashing the blacks for oppressing us peacefull white people
for all these centuries. i seriously doubt that if the blacks had
conquered the world that they would have treated their colonies any
better worse than the whites did.
the white race did some unspeakable things to the other races of
the world. but they only did what any other conquering race would have done
(ie. khan). the real question is , should we carry over that blame to the
present generation who did n't participate in the crimes \? would it do
any good \? has it done bosnia any good \? they are fighting wars that stopped
hundreds , even thousands , of years ago.
my opinion is , if there are inequities now , then let 's change
them. but do n't blame me for what my ancestors did. it would n't settle
anything anyway.

either way you go , the way of the winner is no longer the way to be
popular at least after you graduate from high school (but you 'll still
be popular at high school reunions). but it beats being a nerd , as i
would imagine michael douglas would now agree , and in the long run , it
is the only way to go.

that 's where you are dead wrong. you do n't join up on a side just because
they are winning. that makes you spineless. winning , in high school and
after high school , is still the best way to be popular , but it does n't make
you right. all the best causes in history were loosing causes (with only
a couple exceptions). winning only makes a difference to other people , not
to yourself. and what good is the opinions of other people if they only care
how you appear (ie. a winner).

if you ca n't beat them , fight them every inch of the way.

bill r.


at that moment the bottom fell out of authur 's mind. garrett johnson
his eyes turned inside out. his feet began to leak out garrett@ingres.com
of the top of his head. the room folded flat around him ,
spun around , shifted out of existence and left him sliding
into his own naval. douglas adams


from garrett@ingres.com (the sky already fell. now what \? )
subject bush 's wi (was clinton 's wiretapping initiative
summary bush's wiretapping initiative
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 29

in article 9304161803.aa23713@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com , blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes...
if you look through this newsgroup , you should be
able to find clinton 's proposed wiretapping initiative
for our computer networks and telephone systems.

this 'initiative has been up before congress for at least
the past 6 months , in the guise of the fbi wiretapping
bill.

i guess your strength is n't in math. clinton has n't been president for
6 months. in other words , it 's bush's wiretapping initiative.

i strongly urge you to begin considering your future.
i strongly urge you to get your application for a passport
in the mail soon.

i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you
have overseas , into protected bank accounts , while
you are still able.

have you \?



who said anything about panicking \? snapped authur. garrett johnson
this is still just culture shock. you wait till i 've garrett@ingres.com
settled into the situation and found my bearings.
then i 'll start panicking ! douglas adams


from libwca@emory.edu (bill anderson)
subject re abolish selective service
organization emory university , atlanta , ga
lines 29
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3

william@fractl.tn.cornell.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.215747.17331@m5.harvard.edu , borden@head cfa.harvard.edu (dave borden) writes
the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.


dave borden
borden@m5.harvard.edu


you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice somthing
for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you \? to bad.
what is immoral is people like you and the current president who do n't
have any idea why this country still exists after 200 years.

this country still exists after 200 years
because the
people have to be forced by the government to
fight in foreign wars \?
i do n't think so...

bill
.

from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re the tories could win the lottery ...clinton gst \?
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 41

phill hallam baker (hallam@zeus02.desy.de) writes
gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes
cmk@world.std.com (charles m kozierok) writes
gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes

secondly , any canadian who has worked and participates in the
insurance (it 's a negative option , you have to explicitly decline
it) knows that the premium is deducted separately ...

yes , and some americans actually have a problem with having more
of their money taken from them to pay for others' health care...

but note again , the canadian and german health insurance is
voluntary

not true. i am required to have insurance by law. the method of
collection effectively makes it a tax.

could it be because you 're british , phill , and living in germany \?
while the ec working rules are more liberal than what we have in
the 1989 us canada fta , there 's probably a law about that (having
health insurance coverage is a condition of my being down here ,
for example).

you have mentioned this once before , yet both the ny times profile on
the german sickness funds (late jan.) and pamphlets that my girlfriend
gives to her language students from the german consulate both say that
it is voluntary (okay , there were quotation marks ( ) and that only
90 of the population is covered by the sickness funds (analogous to
our provincial health insurances , but not divided by province state).

another guy in health care policy says that the turkish guest workers
are n't covered ... he 's written to me a couple of times (he 's not a
post er). i 'll ask him ...

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re sick and tired (was re bill conklin (et al) 's letter)
article i.d. shelley.1pqiubinnmht
distribution na
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 19
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu

in article 1993apr4.054843.22307@mks.com richw@mks.com (rich wales) writes
why ca n't you just cite us a case in which joe schmoe , a regular
employee earning regular wages from a regular company , refuses to pay
his income tax , gets hauled into court , is convicted of wilful tax eva
sion , and then has his conviction overturned by the us supreme court
with a landmark 7 2 majority ruling that income tax is indeed totally
voluntary \? what , you say \? no such case exists \? hmmm , i wonder why
not why have n't you \?

unless i 've got my notes mixed up , 939 f.2d 499 comes close to this.
regular guy. blue collar worker at a regular company. hauled into
court. convicted. appeals to 7th circuit. makes all the right
arguments (his brief is cited by mr. teel as an example of a
winning brief). shot down , 3 zip by the 7th circuit. appeals to
the supreme court. and...

...certiorari denied. defendant goes to jail. oh well.

tim smith

from gal2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (jacob galley)
subject clinton 's sister , shalala
reply to gal2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 22


last night i heard something about bill clinton 's sister being
involved in a marijuana bust , and the news being suppressed. i also
heard something about her being an ex con . this source is not
reliable , though. (it was a collage booklet advertising a local band.)

can anyone on the net verify this or provide more details \? i'm
surprised i have n't seen anything about this in this newsgroup.

also , does anyone know what happened to the charges that shalala was a
regular pot smoker when she was in college \? this ghastly accusation
was reported on cnn streamline news the day she was nominated , then i
never heard anything about it again.

it 's almost enough to make me want to start an act up type campaign
to invade the privacy of closet smokers ! (if only this type of
publicity did n't violate people 's rights. . . .)

jake.

what 's so interdisciplinary about studying lower levels of thought process \?
jacob galley gal2@midway.uchicago.edu

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re lincoln slavery (re top ten tricks you can play on the american voter)
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 27

in article cb.93apr5130728@tamarack13.timbuk , cb@tamarack13.timbuk (chris brewster) writes
craig depken writes

the fact that the south had a number of slave owners is true , but
relatively small numbers (around 1200) had more than a few hundred slaves.
(i have to get references that i do not have here for
exact numbers.)

if it has any bearing on this discussion , i saw a figure for the total
number of slave owners as 300 , 000. does anyone have a figure for how
many slaves there were \? how many farmers without slaves \?

chris brewster e mail address cb@cray.com

in 1860

region total population free blacks slaves
u.s. 32 , 227 , 616 487 , 070 1.5 3 , 953 , 818 12.3
confederacy 9 , 103 , 332 132 , 760 1.5 3 , 521 , 110 38.7
union slave states 3 , 212 , 041 128 , 158 4.0 432 , 586 13.5
all union states 23 , 124 , 284 354 , 310 1.5 432 , 708 1.9
union free states 19 , 912 , 243 226 , 152 1.1 122 0.0



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from schwarze@starbase1.caltech.edu (erich schwarz)
subject re top ten reasons hillary and chealsea do n't like men in uniform
organization caltech , div. of biology
lines 20
distribution world
nntp posting host anise.bio.caltech.edu

in article c4vxvk.bxr@newsserver.technet.sg , ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed
ipser) wrote
top ten reasons hillary and chealsea do n't like men in uniform

...

6. they keep saluting and stuff. its embarassing.

...
copyright (c) edward a. ipser , jr. , 1993



ed

before you ridicule the intelligence of other people , learn to spell.
your typographical errors are , indeed , embarassing to those of us who
read alt.politics.libertarian for its allegedly superior ideas and writing.

erich schwarz schwarze@starbase1.caltech.edu

from cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization winco
lines 41

in article c5ij7h.l95@news.iastate.edu jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1993apr15.021021.7538@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article c5huh1.241@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
think about it should n't all drugs then be legalized , it would lower
the cost and definitely make them safer to use.

yes.

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine
legality.

why not \?

where do they get these people \? ! i really do n't want to waste time in
here to do battle about the legalization of drugs. if you really want to , we
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is !

you asked a question , and now you do n't want people to answer \? i believe
a legitimate question was asked. why should n't cost and safety be used
(at least in part) to determine legality \?

i 'd like to see you prove that drug legalization is an idiotic idea.
seems to me the evidence from great britain is pretty convincing that
drug legalization is a good idea. even such a noted conservative as
william f. buckley supports it.

my point was that it is pretty stupid to justify legalizing something just
because it will be safer and cheaper.

a few more ideas to hold to these criterion prostitution the killing of all
funny farm patients , aids victims , elderly , unemployed , prisioners , etc.
this would surely make my taxes decrease.

your examples (except for prostitution) fail miserably to meet both criteria
(safer and cheaper). obviously , killing people is not safe . as for
prostitution , why should n't it be legal \?

...dale cook any town having more churches than bars has a serious
social problem. edward abbey
the opinions are mine only (i.e. , they are not my employer 's)


from borden@head cfa.harvard.edu (dave borden)
subject abolish selective service
organization smithsonian astrophysical observatory , cambridge , ma , usa
lines 12

the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.


dave borden
borden@m5.harvard.edu

from thester@nyx.cs.du.edu (uncle fester)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 23

in article apr.17.06.54.41.1993.15825@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulu
.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes

join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .

call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .

the above smacks of antihispanic bigotry.

really \? what if it said lentil eating or legume eating ,
what then \?
and i suppose accept 10 is anti octal bigotry \?
geez , how pc can you get ! \?

uncle fester


what god wants god wants gigolos
god gets god wants giraffes
god help us all god wants politics
thester@nyx.cs.du.edu god wants a good laugh

from jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 25

in article stevethc5js6f.fn5@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) writes
boy , it looks like the wod is working really good to stop people from
being screwed up in the head , given that example !

(issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal
drugs and who is not screwed up have to pay for this idiot 's problems \? he 's
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the wod , on the other hand , is an
immediate threat to my life and livelyhood. tell me why i should sacrafice
this to that ! ).

hello , is there anybody in there \? you think you have to pay for this idiot 's
problem now , who 's going to pay for the ballooning number of addicts and
all of the associated problems with them. i do n't even want to think about
it with hillary in the white house and an administration that feels our
pain .

no harm but to himself \? what about when he drives his school bus full
of kids into a train. when he gets stoned and drives up on a sidewalk
and kills 5 people. when he lives off me on welfare for the rest of his
life.

the problem with the wod is that it has no bite. sending the slimy
bastards to the chair for selling drugs to kids , now there 's some bit.


from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re pro abortion feminist leader endorses trashing of free speech rights
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 9

do the words chilling effect stimulate impulses within that
small collection of neurons you call a brain \?

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

slick willy 's already got his hand in my pocket. i'm just afraid
of what he might grab hold of.

from rja@mahogany126.cray.com (russ anderson)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
originator rja@mahogany126
lines 33
nntp posting host mahogany126
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins !


in article 15378@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

actually , what the study shows is that 2 percent of the men surveyed
said they engaged in homosexual sex and 1 percent said they
considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

the point being that what people say and what they acutally do
may be different.

it is interesting that this clip from the newspaper did not
mention that difference. maybe it is conservative media bias. )

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.



russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993
ex twins' jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs (world series mvp ! )

from chloupek@ohstpy.mps.ohio state.edu
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
organization the ohio state university , department of physics
lines 48

in article 1993apr14.152634.16128@pony.ingres.com , jab@ingres.com (jeff bowles) writes
tfarrell@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (thomas farrell) writes
questions like what kind of sexual perversions do you participate in \?
and you think he made a good case \? \? \? \? \? the arresting officer said the
bastards told him they did it on purpose and hoped the victim would die ,
and you think the defense made a good case \? \? \? \? \? no wonder we 're losing !
we 're aparently not trying to win !

the clip i saw was even worse than that. the defense attorney was asking
something like what have you done to serve your country , as compared to
these fine upstanding examples of patriotism \?

i did n't see the response i do n't think it was shown on tv. i wish the
response had been i vote. i pay taxes. i pay my salary. i support the bill
of rights , unlike you , counselor.

in my dreams (

now , the real question is , could this be a federal civil rights case , since
the state case was a sham \? (sound like a well known los angeles trial \? ) probably
not fags and dykes are n't protected (for being fags and dykes) under civil
rights laws.


i would doubt any civil rights case would be in order for the point that you
mentioned. even if it were possible , i think it is a bad idea since it smacks
real strongly of double jeopardy. a civil case for damages is fine since that
is a trial that would proceed regardless of the first. i think a bad precedent
has already been set in the king trial in l.a. and something like this would
make it worse. regardless of how bad anybody feels about this decision , it
must stand that charges of assault were not not proven against the three
marines and that 's how it should stand.

frank (who is still mad , but now somewhat sane)




frank r. chloupek
chloupek@ohstpy.mps.ohio state.edu
department of physics the ohio state university
(not just any ohio state university)

there is only one hard and fast rule about the place to have a party
somebody else 's place.
p.j. o'rourke



from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re hilter and homosexuals
article i.d. optilink.15225
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 21

in article ericsc4x1k9.apz@netcom.com , erics@netcom.com (eric smith) writes
gsmith@lauren.iwr.uni heidelberg.de (gene w. smith) writes

are you saying that

(1) people voted for hitler , and he became reich chancellor , in good
part because he used bully boys to attack communists ,

hitler did not become become reich chancellor because people voted for
him. i'm not sure if you meant to imply that or not , but i just thought
i 'd bring that up.

eric smith

hitler became chancellor because people voted for his political
party. that 's not a huge difference in a parliamentary system.



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
reply to rcollins@encore.com
organization encore computer corporation
nntp posting host sysgem1.encore.com
lines 62

steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
let me try to drag this discussion back to the original issues. as
i 've noted before , i'm not necessarily disputing the benefits of
eliminating anti competitive legislation with regard to auto dealers ,
barbers , etc. one need not , however , swallow the entire libertarian
agenda to accomplish this end. just because one grants the benefits of
allowing anyone who wishes to cut hair to sell his her services without
regulation does not mean that the same unregulated barbers should be
free to bleed people as a medical service without government intervention.
(as some many libertarians would argue.)

on a case by case basis , the cost benefit ratio of government regulation
is obviously worthwhile. the libertarian agenda , however , does not call
for this assessment. it assumes that the costs of regulation (of any
kind) always outweigh its benefits. this approach avoids all sorts of
difficult analysis , but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic ,
to say the least.

i have no objection to an analysis of medical care , education ,
national defense or local police that suggests a free market can provide
a more effective , efficient means of accomplishing social objectives
than is provided through statist approaches. with some notable
exceptions , however , i do not see such nitty gritty , worthwhile
analysis being carried out by self professed libertarians.

excellently put !

even as a libertarian , i have to admit government does do some things i
like. there is a beautiful performing arts complex in ft. lauderdale
that was partially built with tax dollars (i do n't know how much was
private and how much was stolen , i mean public) but it is beautiful and
i enjoy it. (keep in mind , though , most of the people in the city will
never attend a single performance there , so they might feel differently
about having to help pay for it.)

however , i have to disagree about it being desireable or efficient to
give government intervention power on a case by case basis. in fact ,
we have a lot better luck maintaining our freedom of speech precisely
because it is not decided on a case by case basis as much as other
issues. judges decide whether political speech is allowed on the
sidewalk in front of the post office. they do not try to decide just
whether pro nazi , pro choice , pro life , or pro tax political speech
should be allowed on the sidewalk in front of the post office. you can
imagine the result if right to free speech was decided by the majority
on a case by case basis.

not so with economic issues. government does tell taxi drivers exactly
what they can charge , but not the bus lines or the lawyers.

just as it is not desireable to decide rights of free speech on a
case by case basis , we should not decide rights to free enterprise on a
case by case basis.

there is hope that a government can be restricted from interferring with
free enterprise. but there is no hope , in my opinion , of having a
government that interferes with free enterprise in an efficient
manner i call it political market failure.

thus , if you value freedom and the abundance it produces , you have to
swallow the whole libertarian agenda.

roger collins

from nickn@eskimo.com (nick nussbaum)
subject re debating special hate crimes laws (was how many homosexuals...)
organization eskimo north (206) 367 3837 eskimo.com
lines 68

in article 1pmrakinnpun@senator bedfellow.mit.edu wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr) writes

if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault
and battery. why must we add gay bashing to the list \? is n't this a
sort of double jeopardy \? or am i just being a fascist again \?
douglas meier

assuming the questions are not rhetorical , the answers are

() to deter an epidemic of gay bashing that has not been deterred by
assault laws.
() no , it is not double jeopardy. a single act may lead to multiple
charges and multiple crimes.
() yes.

let 's leave aside the personal insult potential that doug created by
asking his last question and just concentrate on the legal political
debate... last point first yes , a single act may lead to multiple ,
independent charges. however , as a side note , i think that the
prohibition on double jeopardy mandates that the suspect be tried on all
those charges at the same time , in the same trial. (unless , of course ,
the government can pull the separate sovereignties crock that they 're
using on those four lapd cops who arrested rodney king , i.e. trying a
person who 's already been acquitted in state court on federal charges
arising from the same act... i think that this is double jeopardy but
apparently the courts do n't agree with me.)

note that the laws that do n't agree with you were passed to protect
a class of people who could n't get justice from the state courts
specifically civil rights workers in missisippi in the 60 's. the
federal protection of individual rights supersedes the non feasance
of the state. something similar has long been traditional ( well
he 's queer so i beat him up...) for gays



you pays your money and you takes your pick... me , i lean strongly
towards the against argument. i know that having the law treat
everyone as equals , regardless of realities , will not in and of itself
lead to true equality , and in fact may lead , at times , towards greater
inequality. nonetheless , i believe that true equality is at least
possible when the laws treat people as being equal , while true
equality is , by definition , impossible when the laws themselves
mandate unequal treatment of classes of people by the state.

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu

as anatole france said the law in its impartial majesty forbids the
rich as well as the poor from sleeping under bridges.

equality of law can be construed in any number of ways. for example
the fact that all property thefts , regardless of value , are not
punished equally is an inequality which protects those who have
a lot of money from having it stolen. you could easily define
equality to regard the property in terms of it 's significance
for the owner. this would a form of equality that would be skewed
toward poorer people.

in fact , most anti gay bashing laws are constructed to offer equal
protection. they make it an offense to damage people based on a
motivation of hatred for sexual orientation. thus the law in its
impartial majesty protects hets as well as gays from being bashed.
i'm sure that 's a great relief to douglas meier.




nick nussbaum nickn@eskimo.com po 4738 seattle , wa 98104

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 43

in article 1993apr16.121720.13017@hemlock.cray.com rja@mahogany126.cray.com (
russ anderson) writes

in article 15378@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

actually , what the study shows is that 2 percent of the men surveyed
said they engaged in homosexual sex and 1 percent said they
considered themselves exclusively homosexual.


yes , and of course the kinsey report taken 50 years ago in much more liberal
times regarding homosexuality.........

the point being that what people say and what they acutally do
may be different.

it is interesting that this clip from the newspaper did not
mention that difference. maybe it is conservative media bias. )


or smart enough to realize that that argument would have to apply to every
survey regarding homosexuality. therefore , they would look stupid. (actually ,
idid see bryant gumble bring that point up. hee , hee).



the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.


ryan

from mikeq@freddy.cna.tek.com (mike quigley)
subject re bill targets pension funds for liberation
organization tektronix , inc. , redmond , or.
lines 6

excerpts from insight magazine , march 15 , 1993


paranoia part deleted.

is n't insight magazine published by the mooneys \?

from woody@cco.caltech.edu (william edward woody)
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 93
nntp posting host alumni.caltech.edu

in article 1ql7tuinn8j8@minerva.cis.yale.edu chaudhary amar@yale.edu (amar chaudhary) writes

6. hey , i think the beaded curtains add a lovely 60 's esque touch !

aaaaaaaaaaaa ! run ! run for your lives !


5. look , canada , europe , and japan manage to provide health care for their
citizens (and , yes , basic health is a human right which people are
entitled to). if these nations are n't capitalist enough for you , then
i guess we 've found something better than capitalism ! there is nothing
sacred about the capitalist system , and if something , be it socialism
or anything else , works better , then i say let capitalism die.

then why are they in the process of systematically dismantling some of
their socialistic health care systems through privitization of key components \?

4. make love , not war !

if i hold a gun to your wife , would you respond the same way \? i do n't
think so. while the age of aquarius may have hit the white house , the
age of peace love and harmony has n't hit in south central la nor has it
hit in former yugoslavia. and as long as there are people in the world
who would rather see me dead than thrive , i want the protection of a
police force who will keep the peace so i can make love without being
shot.

3. contrary to popular belief , it is possible to be a male and a feminist
at the same time. to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity
to a majority of the population is just plain wrong , and trying to force
them into some sort of tradition role is even worse. women certainly
have as much to offer this world as men , and the day that gender
discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the revolutions of
the past few centuries seem like reform bills. i look forward to it.

the ultimate statement for equal rights (something many of the feminazis
have forgotten) is i do not care if you are either a man or a woman ,
i do not care if you are black or white , i do not care if you are gay
or straight. once you can honistly say i do not care about color ,
race , or gender or sexual preference , then we will truly be on the
right track.

keep shoving differences in my face and then expect us all to get along \?
get real ! so long as you try to make me care if you are black , female ,
or whatever , i am going to continue to balk. it 's natural human behaviour.

but the moment employers searching for employees , banks looking to lend
money , and theclinton administration looking for appointees can honistly
say i do not care about your color , race , gender , or sexual preferences
i instend instead to treat you as a human being , crap like last year 's
riots will continue to happen.

1. hey man , acadamia rules ! !

barf.

you mean the same economic theorists who say things like for the sake
of convenience in mathematical modeling we will first assume there is
no wealth creation now get a crack at implementing their phd thesis in
real life \?

go back to your textbooks on macroeconomic theory. look in the first chapter
of that book , introducing the field of macroeconomic theory. right there
in chapter 1 , section 1 , is a statement like the following

as it is difficult to predict and model wealth creation ,
especially in an economy where wealth creation is inherently
the province of individuals who create new inventions and
discover new ideas , we will assume for the rest of this
book that there is no wealth creation.

we do not assume the lack of weath creation in the real world ,
however the mathematical modeling of such an inherently
unpredictable subject is impossible. even though we assume
no wealth creation , we do believe that for most mathematical
economic modeling such an assumption is reasonably valid
as it allows us to make predictions which then can be tested.

so the guys who are running the store for clinton and company are now
assuming that wealth creation does not exists. they are (borrowing an
idea from the hitchhiker 's guide) too advanced to think of these simple
things.

to be honist , i would rather have an engineer with years of experience
building bridges design the next bridge , rather than a theoretical
physicists with a freshly minted phd and no experience do the same job.

bill woody

normally i do n't post (or even read most of the postings) in this newsgroup.
if you would like to reply to this message and want me to see the reply ,
then i guess you will just have to reply directly to me.


from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject the defamation league
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 235
distribution world
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com


the following was posted and no doubt retyped by yigal ahrens and considering
the importance of the issue and the almost total blackout except in
california , i am reposting to other appropriates groups.



from la times , friday , april 9 , 1993. p. a1.

evidence of adl spy operation seized by police

by richard c. paddock , times staff writer

san francisco police on thursday served search warrants on the
anti defamation league here and in los angeles , seizing evidence of a
nationwide intelligence network accused of keeping files on more than
950 political groups , newspapers and labor unions and as many as
12 , 000 people.

describing the spy operation in great detail , san francisco
authorities simultaneously released voluminous documents telling how
operatives of the anti defamation league searched through trash and
infiltrated organizations to gather intelligence on arab american ,
right wing and what they called pinko organizations.

representatives of the anti defamation league , a well known
organization in the u.s. jewish community dedicated to fighting
anti semitism , declined detailed comment thursday but denied breaking
any laws.

police allege that the organization maintains undercover operatives to
gather political intelligence in at least seven cities , including los
angeles and san francisco.

groups that were the focus of the spy operation span the political
spectrum , including such groups as the ku klux klan , the white aryan
resistance , operation rescue , greenpeace , the national assn. for the
advancement of colored people , the united farm workers and the jewish
defense league. also on the list were mills college , the board of
directors of san francisco public television station kqed and the san
francisco bay guardian newspaper.

people who were subjects of the spy operation included former
republican rep. pete mccloskey , jailed political extremist lyndon h.
larouche and los angeles times foreign correspondent scott kraft , who
is based in south africa.

authorities said much of the material collected by the groups was
confidential information obtained illegally from law enforcement
agencies. they also alleged that data on some individuals and
organizations was sold separately to the south african government.

in addition to allegations of obtaining confidential information from
police , the anti defamation league could face a total of 48 felony
counts for not properly reporting the employment of its chief west
coast spy , roy bullock , according to the affidavit filed to justify
the search warrant.

the anti defamation league disguised payments to bullock for more than
25 years by funneling 550 a week to beverly hills attorney bruce i.
hochman , who then paid bullock , according to the documents released in
san francisco. hochman , a former president of the jewish federation
council of greater los angeles and one of the state 's leading tax
attorneys , will be out of the city until late next week and could not
be reached for comment , his office said.

until 1990 , hochman , a former u.s. prosecutor , also was a member of a
panel appointed by then sen. pete wilson to secretly make initial
recommendations on new federal judges in california. hochman is a
former regional president of the anti defamation league.

the league , which initially cooperated with police , has denied
repeatedly that its intelligence gathering operation broke any laws.
league officials will not confirm or deny whether bullock was an
employee and have said they simply traded information with police
departments about people who might be involved in hate crimes.

but in an affidavit filed to obtain warrants for thursday 's searches ,
san francisco police alleged that adl employees were apparently less
than truthful in providing information during an earlier search
conducted without a warrant.

david lehrer , executive director of the los angeles adl office , said
the organization has not violated the law. there is nothing
nefarious about how we operate or what we have done , he said. our
record speaks for itself.

the police affidavit contends that lehrer had sole control of a secret
fund used to pay for fact finding operations. lehrer , according to
the documents , signed checks from the account under the name l.
patterson.

an adl official said the account was used to pay for subscriptions to
a wide variety of extremist publications that might balk at sending
them directly to the anti defamation league.

bullock , 58 , who has been collecting intelligence for the adl for
nearly 40 years , defended his efforts during a lengthy interview with
san francisco police. he said that he gathered names from many
sources and entered them into his computer under headings such as
skins and pinkos , but that did not necessarily mean that they were
under surveillance.

i might never see or call up on 99 of them again , bullock said.
and it does n't mean anything that they 're in the files. it 's not a
threat to anyone 's civil rights that a name appears in my files under ,
say , 'pinko.'

in recent years , bullock worked closely with san francisco police
officer tom gerard , who fled to the phillippines last fall after he
was questioned by the fbi in the case.

a former cia employee , gerard supplied bullock with criminal records
and department of motor vehicles information such as home addresses ,
vehicle registration , physical characteristics and drivers license
photographs.

using files gathered for the anti defamation league , gerard and
bullock also provided information to the south african government ,
receiving 16 , 000 over four years , the documents show.

the file on times staff writer kraft , which was apparently sold to the
south african government , provides some insight into the hit and miss
nature of the spy operation.

the file notes that kraft 's articles appear frequently in the times
and are well researched and written , but little else about the file
is accurate. the brief entry confuses the times' kraft with another
scott kraft and provides the south african government with the wrong
kraft 's physical description , photograph and other personal
information.

nevertheless , the documents provide illuminating details of how
bullock for decades infiltrated all manner of organizations , from
skinheads to left wing radicals , searching regularly through the trash
of target groups. using anti defamation league funds , he also ran his
own paid informants under code names such as scott and scumbag.

he worked closely with police officers up and down the coast ,
exchanged information with the fbi and worked with federal agencies ,
including the bureau of alcohol , tobacco and firearms.

it was bullock 's work as a paid informant for the fbi while spying
on behalf of the anti defamation league and the south african
government that proved his undoing. the fbi learned that he was an
agent of a foreign government and began investigating , leading to the
probe of the anti defamation league 's intelligence network. the
anti defamation league employed undercover operatives to gather
information in los angeles , san francisco , new york , washington ,
chicago , st. louis and atlanta , according to the affidavit and
investigators. joining san francisco police in searching league
offices and a los angeles bank were investigators from the office of
san francisco dist. atty. arlo smith and the state franchise tax
board. the los angeles police department , which earlier refused to
cooperate with the investigation , was informed of the searches in los
angeles but not invited to participate. investigators suspect that
some confidential information in the anti defamation league files may
have come from los angeles police officers.



from los angeles times , saturday , april 10 , 1993. p. a23.

adl vows to cooperate with spy investigation

by richard c. paddock , times staff writer.

san francisco the anti defamation league defended its record as a
civil rights group friday and said it will cooperate with authorities
who are investigating whether the organization collected confidential
police information on citizens and groups.

but san francisco dist. atty. arlo smith said that anti defamation
league employees involved in intelligence gathering could face many
felony counts of receiving confidential files , eavesdropping , tax
violations and conspiracy.

police have accused the anti defamation league of not being truthful
about its spying operations , which collected information on more than
12 , 000 individuals and 950 political groups across the political
spectrum.

hundreds of pages of documents released by prosecutors thursday show
that the adl maintained a nationwide intelligence network and kept
files on political figures.

even so , smith suggested that if the anti defamation league shut down
its spy operation , prosecutors would take that into account when
deciding what charges to file.

in a statement released in washington , national director abraham h.
foxman described the adl as a jewish defense agency which has fought
to protect all minorities from bigotry and discrimination for 80
years.

foxman said the organization is regarded as a credible source on
extremist groups and has a tradition of routinely providing
information to police , journalists , academics , government officials
and the public. it has never been the policy of the adl to obtain
information illegally , he said.

like other journalists , in order to protect the confidentiality and
physical safety of its sources , adl will not comment on the nature or
identity of any source of information , foxman said.

the anti defamation league refused to acknowledge that one of its
longtime employees , roy bullock , was anything more than a private
individual who is alleged to be an adl 'informant.'

among the documents released by prosecutors were detailed statements
showing how the adl funneled weekly payments to bullock through
beverly hills attorney bruce i. hochman.

roy would penetrate organizations and needed this arrangement to be
distanced from adl , hochman told a san francisco police investigator.
hochman could not be reached friday at his home or office for comment.

despite the anti defamation league 's assertion that it will cooperate
with authorities , san francisco police said the group did not turn
over all pertinent documents during a voluntary search of the group 's
offices in los angeles and san francisco last fall.

a second round of searches thursday , this time with search warrants ,
produced a vast quantity of records , primarily dealing with financial
transactions , smith said. further searches may be necessary and it
will be at least a month before any charges are filed , he said.

the investigation , of course , will go wherever the facts lead us ,
the district attorney said.

yigal arens
usc isi tv made me do it !
arens@isi.edu
js


from kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot)
subject drug use up at younger age
organization oklahoma state university , computer science , stillwater
keywords youths drugs lsd inhalants
lines 62


the article that follows was taken from the wednesday , april 14 ,
1993 issue of usa today ( drug use up at younger age by mike
snider , p. 1a).

drug use is on the rise among kids as young as eighth graders
usually 13 and they 're using more lsd and inhalants like glue
and air fresheners , says a new survey.

the annual national high school senior survey on drug abuse finds
statistically significant increases in eighth graders' use of
many drugs , including marijuana , cocaine , crack , lsd and inhalants.

we may be in danger of losing some ... hard won ground (in reducing
drug use) as a new , more naive generation of youngsters enters
adolescence , says lloyd johnston , university of michigan , chief
researcher on the study sponsored by the department of health and
human services.

but drug use among high school seniors is continuing a decade long
decline.

the study of 50 , 000 students shows the percentage who tried the
following in the 30 days before they were polled

8th graders alcohol 26 cigarettes 16 marijuana 4
cocaine 0.7 .

10th graders alcohol 40 cigarettes 22 marijuana 8
cocaine 0.7 .

12th graders alcohol 51 cigarettes 28 marijuana 12
cocaine 1.3 .

among 12th graders , use of marijuana , cocaine and inhalants
declined over the year before. not so with lsd.

2 of eighth graders have tried lsd in the last year , up 24
over 1991.

use of lsd among seniors is at its highest point since 1982 6
tried it in the last year.

reducing drug use among students requires a different kind of
strategy that health secretary donna shalala says will be part
of an overall illness prevention plan.

the survey shows drugs are easier to get and fewer eighth graders
disapprove of them.

it 's scary , shalala says. dealers are focusing on younger , more
vulnerable kids.


scott kennedy , brewer and patriot

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
the bible through the barrel of a gun... atf spokesman
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets
the constitution through the barrel of a gun... me



from phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random.
distribution usa
lines 21

in article 1993apr17.013559.17391@pony.ingres.com garrett@ingres.com writes
i see you are a total ignorant asshole as well.
it 's the sign of a small mind to use filthy
language when he ca n't articulate his point.

oh , no , not in this case. i 've noticed that you conveniently edited out your
stupid comment that the prc stands for cambodia. when we 're arguing the
vietnam war and about cambodia , and you toss in a boner like that (along
with your other boners) , you are an ignorant asshole.

oh , and even the vietnamese agree that they did far more damage to
cambodia than we ever did.





there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)

from kane@buast7.bu.edu (hot young star)
subject re mr. cramer 's 'evidence'
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 36

in article philc5hsii.gft@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes

in article 1993apr13.121723.20568@sun0.urz.uni heidelberg.de
gsmith@lauren.iwr.uni heidelberg.de (gene w. smith) writes

when are libertarians going to draw a clear line between
themselves and nambla \? by your own statements , you were once
a member of an organization which you knew supported
exactly what nambla supports , namely abolishing the age of
consent. i 've never supported any such organization. you
have.

while both organizations may , on paper , support the abolition of the age
of consent , there the resemblance stops.

one supports the removal of a coercive law , the other a paper facade
to legitimize sexual relations with children.

what 's the difference , in practice \?

it amounts to your saying , it 's disgusting but should be legal ,

or

someone else saying , let 's allow the parties involved to decide what is
disgusting.

or , if you 're like me , you think that it isn't a coercive law , because
some children ca n't make informed consent.

brian

kane@ buast7 , astro .bu.edu (hot young star) astronomy dept , boston university ,
boston , ma 02215. true personal salvation is achieved by absolute faith in
ones true self.


from helfman@aero.org (robert s. helfman)
subject re clinton 's wiretapping initiative
organization the aerospace corporation , el segundo , ca
lines 22
nntp posting host aerospace.aero.org

in article 9304161803.aa23713@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes

if you look through this newsgroup , you should be
able to find clinton 's proposed wiretapping initiative

for our computer networks and telephone systems.

this 'initiative has been up before congress for at least
the past 6 months , in the guise of the fbi wiretapping

bill.

what kind of brainless clod posted the above garbage \? would they be
so kind as to explain how this is clinton 's initiative , when it
has been before congress for at least the past 6 months \?

jeez , the next thing you know , they 'll be blaming the weather on the
poor guy. they 'll be blaming world war ii on him. they 'll be blaming
the civil war on him. maybe the thirty years war \?




from dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be)
subject re the state of justice
organization university of oregon
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host oregon.uoregon.edu
summary gm 's quest for justice
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr15.143320.8618@desire.wright.edu ,
demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes...
a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact , not
from the fire.

thoughts \?

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

and what about members of the previous jury parading through the talk
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against gm \? should n't that be enough for
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial \?

whatever happened to jurors having to be objective \?

first , people should be aware that brett 's (no last name listed)
posts on bit.listserv.politics indicate that he has been
hostile toward gm 's hiring policies and to the moseley verdict
when it came out. equal opportunity disagreement , i guess. )

my guess , without seeing the judge 's opinion , is that gm 's motion
was denied on due diligence grounds. otherwise , a party to a
case could always keep one or two semi credible witnesses in
reserve to spring if they lose. not exactly a way to promote
repose.

daniel reitman

the uniform commercial code protects the innocent purchaser , but it is not a
shield for the sly conniver , the blindly naive , or the hopelessly gullible.
atlas auto rental corp. v. weisberg , 54 misc. 2d 168 , 172 , 281 n.y.s.2d 400 ,
405 (n.y. city civ. ct. 1967).

from lynn@granitt.uio.no (malcolm lynn)
subject re sexual proposition sexual harassment \?
lines 2
nntp posting host pcgeo23.uio.no
organization university of oslo
lines 3


this is a tesrt
s

from blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne)
subject only 17 month !
x received by usenet.pa.dec.com id aa25085 fri , 16 apr 93 07 52 11 0700
x received by inet gw 2.pa.dec.com id aa12308 fri , 16 apr 93 07 51 10 0700
x received by uiboise.idbsu.edu
(16.6 16.2) id aa28928 thu , 15 apr 93 10 11 24 0600
x to talk.politics.misc.usenet
x cc alt.politics.clinton.usenet
x mailer elm revision 66.25
lines 58



ahhh , remember the days of yesterday \? when we were only
going to pay 17 month \?

when only 1.2 of the population would pay extra taxes \?

remember when a few of us predicted that it was n't true \? )
remember the inaugural \? dancing and singing ! liberation
at last !

well , figure this out

5 vat , estimated to raise 60 100 billion per year ( on cnn )
work it out , chum...

60 , 000 , 000 , 000 125 , 000 , 000 taxpayers 480 year

but , you exclaim , i 'll get free health care !
but , i exclaim , no , you wo n't !

this is only for that poor 37 million who have none. not for
you , chum. ) that comes later.

add in the estimates of the energy tax costs 300 500 year

plus , all that extra corporate and rich taxes that will
trickle down , and what do you have \?

1 , 000 year , just like i said two months ago.

and , the best part \? you do n't get anything for it.

deficit is still projected to rise at same rate it 's been
rising at , by clinton's own estimates. and this assumes that
his plan will work !

i mean , come on , it does n't take a rocket scientist to see
that in another 2 or 3 years , we 're getting another whopping
tax increase , because the deficit will still be growing
faster than the economy.

all clinton is doing , is moving us to a higher diving board.

face it. clinton is bush x 2. in four more years , our
country will be completely bankrupt , and your children 's
future , so oft mentioned by pal bill , will be gone.

and those of you still deluding yourselves will be faced
with the guilt.

well , glancing at watch , gotta go. i want to be out of
here by noon. got an appointment at the lake. no tax
there , yet.

)



from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject re news you may have missed , 3 23
article i.d. genesis.1pqfbd e6b
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 23
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

in article 1pprtvinnctl@aludra.usc.edu sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child) writes
arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

in article 1993apr1.164804.1105@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com babb@k2 (scott babb) writes
jack schmidling (arf@genesis.mcs.com) wrote
jac2y@virginia.edu (jonathan a. cook jac2y ) writes


...

why do you restrict your condemnation of racial strife to israel \?
do the situations in bosnia , tibet , china , etc. not merit your comment \?

as far as i am aware , we have not sent close to 100 billion dollars to

let 's not exaggerate.


i notice you did not offer an alternative number. try this one on for
size..... by the year 2000 , american taxpayers will have given israel
one dollar for every star in the milky way galaxy.

i will let you look up the number.

from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary but how do restrain unpleasant impulses \?
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 46
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article slagle.93apr15000157@sgi417.msd.lmsc.lockheed.com slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com writes
in article 1993apr13.215245.2916@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

in article 1993apr13.083449.1058@cbnewse.cb.att.com doctor1@cbnewse.cb.att.com (patrick.b.hailey) writes

... the point is that this law protects no one but the
established car dealers or people with enough money to start a
fairly big operation all at once. protecting these folks from
competition protects the rest of us from low prices and high
quality.

an excellent point. but you seem to be missing a more subtle
point. it is not the government that should be the recipient
of your displeasure , but the established business interests
that influence and direct government action in this case.

it is the government that is preventing entry to the market. the
desire of those running established businesses to prevent or
restrict the entry of competitors is an understandable , though
generally unpleasant , human failing. but without a means to act
on this desire , without a government with sufficient power to
restrict the options of the potential competitor , the
anti competitive desire remains just an unpleasant wish. the
government is the linchpin , so we seek to disengage it so we
do n't get the shaft.

once again , mark , you do n't specify the means through which the government
is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests. as a
left wing , big government , conventional liberal , i'm just as willing as
you are to vote against anti competitive regulations that favor auto
dealers.

but what i hear from libertarians is a desire to limit incumbents' terms ,
to weaken government by eliminating its power to enforce antitrust laws ,
and a desire to eliminate legislator 's pay. each strikes me as a
particularly ineffective way to insure that auto dealers and other special
interests cannot influence public policy. in fact , they seem clearly
designed to accomplish the opposite.

jsh

mark

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re eight myths about national health insurance (pt ii)
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 134

harelb@math.cornell.edu (misc.activism.progressive co moderator) writes
f o cus health eight myths about national health insurance (pt ii)

an office visit that 's 52 in seattle is 18 in vancouver
(canada). that 's because , among other things , they 've given their
government power to bargain with doctors and hospitals over fees.

the difference in the litigation environment is reflected in the fees.

lack of defensive medicine and near absence of malpractice is really
why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure insurance
in canada (along with france and germany) without hmo 's the nyt
has admitted that malpractice insurance fees are an order of magnitude
lower in canada but doctors take home pay is almost equal to american
doctors also , minimal bureaucracy 'cos the system is so o o simple
(early march).

part of the deal for using the all insurance approach like the french
and germans do (hey , why do n't they criticize france and germany \? is
it because too many people take french and german in college to make
the accusations stick \? ( ) was to preserve the doctors independance.
since the provincial wings of the cma are the ones that go to bat when
the fee schedule hikes are presented , the politically bent doctors
were just cackling when they realized the cma would grow in strength
rather than diminish , especially when unopposed unlike in socialized
medicine approaches like britain 's national health service.

`you 've got to remember , you 've got a waiting list as well , but it 's
not as obvious. if you 're poor and you do n't have insurance , you do n't
go to a surgeon. in the states you ration by ability to pay.'

for non life threatening things , market arguments adequately cover why
certain procedures are in scarcer demand. i have md friends who ca n't
make a living as specialists back in manitoba not due to the insurance
rates but because they wo n't get enough customers the cma medical
monopoly 's grip on doctors licencing (as in the us) aside so they
must move to larger places. however , this does not refute debunking
of waiting lines for urgent and routine care , as has been done in the
u.s. by consumers reports , health policy studies cited by prof. dennis
e. shea on usenet , cnn , nyt , etc.

doug fierro has posted a nyt article from 3 weeks ago about canada 's
health insurance approach , on talk.politics.medicine. there is one
small error in the article not all of our hospitals are private.

wouldn't national health insurance mean that americans who are now
fully insured might have to settle for less \?

in canada , provincial insurance covers all health costs except dental
care , eyeglasses , prescription drugs , ambulance service , and private
hospital rooms , so many canadians do end up buying some private
insurance. a policy to cover all of these things runs about 40 to 40
a month.

of course , the one thing to note is that in the canada france germany
case , private insurance offloaded the basic coverage to the public
sector. they realized they were keeping low risk high profit extra
insurance for things like private semi private rooms (vs. ward
accomodation) , dental , glasses , etc. for corporate or personal
benefits , they 'll have nothing to do with you if you want to be
covered for basic care.

at that point , they would n't even consider a voucher approach
to broker the universal coverage and sell policies to make up
the difference in the federal guidelines and market stuff.



wouldn't free care encourage people to run to the doctor for every
ache and pain \?

people who get free treatment do go to the doctor and hospital about
a third more often than those who have to pay a share of their medical
bills.

still , canadians who pay nothing at the doctor 's have a lower
per person health bill than we do.

it is free in that there are no deductibles nor copayments (two
things which i advocate to make the canadian insurance look more like
real health insurance which actually it is). i know that when
working in alberta , ontario and quebec , i was aware that i was paying
for health insurance e.g. , in toronto , ohip fees were listed on my
pay stub manitoba did not collect at paycheque time , but only
annually at income tax time (built into the tax rate). only fiscal
naifs will proclaim that it 's free , along with the canadian left for
that is part of their brainwashing agenda.

the french do have copayments , though. france magazine 's summer
1992 edition has a fantastic presentation of their basic insurance
coverage , including a sample chart of copayment percentages. for
1 30 days , you 're covered for 80 of the public hospital rate , 100
afterward. with extra private insurance , you can get into a private
hospital and be covered for any differences beyond the public hospital
rate. the public insurance covers 100 beyond 30 days , or the same
cash amount for a private hospital and the difference is paid
out of pocket or according to your supplementary private insurance.
over 2 3rds of french have some form of extra private insurance. so ,
the other 30 of health costs in europe are out of private funds , not
gleaned from other taxes. the gdp figures are combined public and
private expenditures for total outlay using the same methods that
yield the 13 14 figure for the u.s.

isn't the private health insurance industry just too big
and powerful to kill \?

dismantling the health segment of our insurance industry would be
politically thorny , in the quiet words of one advocate for a
national plan. some 1 , 200 firms now sell more than 192 billion in
health insurance. they 'd put up a hard fight. not only has the industry
grown eightfold since canada shut down its own health insurers , but
our government leaves politicians more open to lobbyists than does
canada 's parliamentary system.

health insurance does exist in canada and in western europe , its
just that it does n't cover basic care. you can opt out in canada
and germany , but you 'll have to go uninsured as a result because
there are too few other people that do so i.e. , no market.

when private insurance realized how much money they 'd make without the
risks involved in basic insurance (e.g. , neurosurgery) versus deluxe
amenities (e.g. , having to call granada tv to replace a rental set on
the fritz in someone 's private hospital room) , they started to pat
themselves on the back for their social responsibility. in quebec
last spring , a consortium of private insurers publicly warned against
any thoughts of privatizing routine , low cost parts of that province 's
public health insurance plan.

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas)
subject the verdict is in (rodney king)
organization gordian costa mesa , ca
lines 19

the federal civil rights trial against the four la police
officers accused of violating rodney king 's civil rights is
now history

lawrence powell guilty
stacey coons guilty
theodore brazenio innocent
timothy wind innocent

sentencing slated for mid august , appeals expected.

so far , all is calm in la...


michael thomas (mike@gordian.com)
i do n't think bambi eyes will get you that flame thrower...
hobbes to calvin
usnail 20361 irvine ave santa ana heights , ca , 92707 5637
pabell (714) 850 0205 (714) 850 0533 (fax)

from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re the manitoban candidate
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 32

smith@phoneme.harvard.edu (steven smith) writes
bross@sandbanks.cosc.brocku.ca (brian ross) writes

in the world of the future , bill clinton will appoint canadians to
govern all american institutions (starting with the american health
care system). we will be benevolent canadian dictators.

with yet another tax being floated by the clinton administration to
pay for new ``free'' social programs , i 've really begun to suspect
that the canadians , long resentful of their place in the american
shadow , brainwashed an american draft dodger who fled to canada some
time between 1966 and 1968 , tutored him in the ways of canadian
socialism , awarded him with smokeless marijuana cigarettes when he got
the correct answers , then returned him to the states (under the
control of the domineering wife assigned to his case) to attain high
public office and destroy the evil individualistic and free market
forces in america , thus shaping america in the canadian image.


and not only that , made a second clone from the same tissue sample
after that of said domineering wife , to run at the helm of the
more pro business party under guise of more free trade ... and
she did inhale , many times , to boot ...

( ( (

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from prb@access.digex.com (pat)
subject re diplomat license plates
organization express access online communications usa
lines 21
distribution va
nntp posting host access.digex.net

in article 1993apr13.123404.18191@linus.mitre.org m23364@mwunix.mitre.org (james meritt) writes

automobiles belonging to personnel associated with the embassies from various
nations have diplomatic license plates. they are red , white , and blue and
read dll where l is a letter and the 's are numbers. the d means
diplomatic and the l s indicate which country. a few years ago the

actually , teh d means the registered driver has diplomatic immunity.
that means they can do as they damn well please on the roads , and you
have only god as your protection.

the state department issues saa xxx plates for personnel who work
at the embassies but have n't been granted immunity. most embassies
have restricted parking for embassy personell street side.

the s plates allow them to use those parking areas as well as the
restricted lots at national and state dept , without a lot of crap.

pat



from ries@hqrim.sedd.trw.com (marc ries)
subject re only 17 month !
nntp posting host hqrim.sedd.trw.com
organization trw sedd
lines 25


a alan brock 4 14 93 orange county register editorial titled a case for
repealing the income tax got my attention.

some quotes

... a tax on income , because of the flexible definition of that
concept , invites the government to snoop into every nook and
cranny of our lives. encouraging people to snoop on one another
and report transgressions against the almighty state , which most
americans deplored in nazi or communist regimes...

... although most americans paid no income tax at all 50 years ago
withholding began only during world war ii , as a temporary
exigency , and in 1948 the median family federal income tax was 9...

last year the federal government got only 37 percent of its income
from income taxes... how long ago was it that the federal government
somehow managed to stagger along on 63 percent of its 1992 revenue \?
... would you believe five \? ...

... the income tax has converted a free people into a society of
the fearful and the snitches...



from lefty@apple.com (lefty)
subject re motor voter
organization our lady of heavy artillery
lines 13

in article apr.2.07.48.07.1993.21309@romulus.rutgers.edu ,
kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) wrote

when i entered 1st grade , eisenhower was president and john f. kennedy
was just a relatively obscure senator from new england. so how old do
you think i am now \?

ask me whether i'm surprised that you have n't managed to waddle out of
college after all this time.


lefty (lefty@apple.com)
c .m .c . , d .o .d .

from de@cup.hp.com (dan epstein)
subject re foreign media reaction april 1 12 , part 1 of 3
nntp posting host capella.cup.hp.com
organization hewlett packard
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9.2
lines 19

phill hallam baker (hallam@dscomsa.desy.de) wrote

first off they could recognise iraqu 's responsibility in initiating the
iran iraq war. providing technical assistance to iran to get it 's oil
production back up to capacity would also be a smart move , at the moment
iran is above it 's opec ceiling. if they had extra capacity they would
use it and bring down the oild price further which is in our interests.

i agree with most of what phill says , except the point about it being in
our interests to bring down the oil price. consider that both the u.s.
and great britain have domestic sources to partly satisfy
their energy needs. pricy opec oil impacts both germany ,
japan and many other industrial rivals more than these two.
in addition , the proceeds from the sale (especially by saudi arabia , kuwait
u.a.e. etc) are disproportionately reinvested in the u.s. and g.b. ,
propping up these economies and further providing an incentive
to keep prices from falling too low.

dan epstein

from deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (david matthew deane)
subject re public hearings on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues
reply to deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 11

hmmm...intersting (and long) message , but twice \? well , i do n't care for
libertarianism , but that is a philisophical disagreement , not a tactical
one. reform of existing laws would be an awfully good idea. you would n't
believe some of the outrageous things the guardians of our two party
system do to shut out dissent.

david matthew deane (deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu)

when the words fold open ,
it means the death of doors
even casement windows sense the danger. (amon liner)

from carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca
lines 20
distribution ca
nntp posting host beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov

in article 15377@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
i'm sick of it. this continual effort to inflame the passions
of americans by playing every trial as completely sexist , racist ,
or gay bashing , when the realities are seldom this simple. this
is what happens when a society becomes tied up in ideologies.

i have come to the conclusion that the tv stations here in la
want a riot to happen when the verdict comes in.

in a not so subtle way they are preparing their audience for the
worst and even going so far as to want something to happen for
their viewers with all their commercials and their we are ready
for anything so watch us messages...

carlos.


i as much as any other man am in favor of having the superior position
assigned to the white race abraham lincoln
...ames ! elroy ! jpl devvax ! beowulf pituco ! carlos

from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject hate crimes laws
article i.d. midway.1993apr6.043935.27366
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 40

in article 1993apr5.050127.22304@news.acns.nwu.edu dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes
in article 1993apr4.011042.24938@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com
(steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr3.211910.21908@news.acns.nwu.edu
dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes
...
if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and
battery. why must we add gay bashing to the list \? is n't this a sort of
double jeopardy \? or am i just being a fascist again \?

() to deter an epidemic of gay bashing that has not been deterred by
assault laws.

so we ought to make beating up a homosexual more illegal than beating up a
straight \?

and who 's advocating that \? hate crimes laws are aimed at the motivations
of the acts. just like premeditated homicide is treated stricter than
heat of passion homicide.

() no , it is not double jeopardy. a single act may lead to multiple
charges and multiple crimes.

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right shade. a single
act should never merit more than on charge.

so if i set off a bomb in the world trade center , i can only be charged with
more than one murder , and not the other five deaths and extensive property
damage \? after all , the bomb was a single act.

douglas c. meier you ca n't play electro magnetic golf



ted frank however teel should have mentioned that though
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu his advice is legally sound , if you follow it
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail.
standard disclaimers james donald , in misc.legal

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 23

in article stevethc5jgcr.1ht@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes


just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !


a friend of mine who smoke pot every day and last tuesday took 5 hits of acid
is still having trouble aiming for the bowl when he takes a dump. do n't as
me how , i just have seen the results.

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people screwed up in
the head.





steve thomas
steveth@rossinc.com


ryan

from mpye@vmsb.is.csupomona.edu
subject re media horrified at perot investigating bush !
visser.709454466@convex.convex.com 1992jun25.151502.1@vmsb.is.csupomona.edu visser.709530365@convex.convex.com
organization california state polytechnic university , pomona
lines 29
nntp posting host acvax1
nntp posting user cvads008

visser@convex.com (lance visser) writes
i ca n't find my source.
but. if you state that you will retract your claim , i 'll go dig one up
at the library. fair enough \?

are you serious \? i'm not talking about retracting anything until
you have produced something.

if you were not just talking off the top of your head , i would
assume that you have some memory of what your source is.

put up now without conditions !


yes , very serious. i claim that i can substantiate my statement that
rudman says he does n't believe perot was investigating him. you claim
perot was investigating him. if you will state that you were in error
on this point , provided i produce the source , i 'll go dig it up.

now give me one reason why i should go to the trouble if you wo n't
agree to this \? it is simple enough you know. but i do n't have time
to waste if you 'll just blow it off with more of the tripe you usually
post.




michael pye
email mpye@csupomona.edu

from garrett@ingres.com
subject re fillibuster
summary proceedure
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 24

in article c5jpl7.5cz@dscomsa.desy.de , hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes...
in article 1993apr12.002302.5262@martha.utcc.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes
and like the house of lords which it is copied from it was given pretty
wide powers. unfortunately they started to use them and thus the gridlock
set in.

i was n't aware the house of lords had wide powers. i was under the
impression is was pretty powerless compared to the house of commons , and
certainly did n't have almost equal their powers. (the senate is restricted
only that it may not introduce bills relating to raising revenue.)

the senate was less powerful than the house of lords in the period in question.
the stripping of the powers of the house of lords did not occur until 1914
and david llloyd george 's budget. even despite this the house of lords has
considerable power even today and is far from a rubber stamping body.

just how much power does the house of lords have now \?


who said anything about panicking \? snapped authur. garrett johnson
this is still just culture shock. you wait till i 've garrett@ingres.com
settled into the situation and found my bearings.
then i 'll start panicking ! douglas adams


from gmw0622@venus.tamu.edu (mr. grinch)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization grinchco
lines 52
distribution world
nntp posting host venus.tamu.edu
summary limited governments versus failed governments
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr18.172531.10946@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...

of course , one again faces the question of how one circumscribes government
power (and keeps it circumscribed) in a complex society when it is in the
interest of neither capitalists nor consumers to refrain from using
government power for their own ends. but apart from that little
conundrum...

without having a complete answer to this question , i should think
it obvious that the first step should be to convince people this would be
a desirable result. there are still quite a lot of people who feel that
the command economies of eastern europe failed due to corruption rather than
essential weaknesses of caommand economies , and you still have a majority
in this nation that favors keeping unenforced and unenforcible laws on
the books in order to send a signal .


it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented. now why do you suppose
that never seems to occur \? ...


i fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. constant
combat is n't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing. also ,
they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable
society anyway.


... regulation is such a vauge word...

i would n't call it vague. i 'd call it elastic. all regulation is
not necessarily the same. by opposing all government regulation , some
libertarians treat every system from a command economy to those that
regulate relatively free markets as identical. that 's one reason
many of the rest of us find their analysis to be simplistic.


umm , is there any distinction between vague and elastic in this
context aside from one having a more positive connotation than the other \?

at any rate , we 've been through all this before.

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826


incidentally , this is a libertarian newsgroup , you can get away with
saying , bullshit here. you 're welcome ,


mr. grinch

from gardinal@alishaw (paolo gardinali)
subject re new bullshit study out on gay percentage
lines 48

in 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes


from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

etc. etc.....


the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.


sure ! ! ! and what 's .3 of a woman \? \? \? any hypothesis \? \?

how can you trust a report from people that have no idea
of what a median is \?

the same bullshit article reported that 22 , 5 of all the men have
sex 10 times or more a week (elf , how many times did you fill
one of those questionnaires \? ) and had other statistics that took
in no consideration different class backgrounds , marital status
etc. no information on sampling were given.

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for

do you think you can compare so lightly secondary data from 2 very
different (and discutible) surveys \? \? \?

straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

it just shows how dramatically ignorant are press release writers and
most pople that read them.....


paolo


from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
lines 29

in article c5jobh.7zt@apollo.hp.com goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writes
in article 1993apr14.122758.11467@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jlinder@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jeffrey s linder) writes
in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.c
om (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.

immunizations for children in this country are already free if you care to
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the irresponible parents
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done.

in case you have n't noticed , clintonites are pushing a universal health
care access program. access here means that folks who do not give
a damn about immunizing their children will have health care services
delivered to their doorsteps.

i 've read about more than a few of these programs that ran into
problems in convincing parents to get their children immunized even
when they were delivered to their doorstep. (i do n't know , maybe
that sheet they have to be informed of about possible risks , side
effects , and bad reactions scares them.)


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine)
subject re stop the sexularhumanistoppression former my beloved damn ferigner 's be taken over
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign
lines 31

in article 15apr199303031064@reg.triumf.ca vincent@reg.triumf.ca (pete) writes
in article c5hwa1.ebp@news.cso.uiuc.edu , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu
(brent irvine) writes...
`
` 54 40 or fight was about a territorial dispute with
` british canada , again old stuff.

uh , not quite. the 54 40' boundary dispute is still unresolved ,
and canadian and us coast guard vessels regularly if infrequently
detain each other 's fish boats in the disputed waters off dixon
entrance. the only reason you do n't hear more about it is that
it 's in neither country 's interest to aggravate the quarrel.
that does n't mean that either country is prepared to back down ,
especially the local political representatives whose constituents
are all fishermen.

fishing rights are disputed. between 2 nations , no matter how
friendly , there is always fishing disputes.

what i was getting at was the 54 40' or fight slogan is old stuff
dealing with the land dispute. no one is saying 54 40' or fight
about fishing rights. the territorial dispute about the oregon
territory (we called it) is long resolved.

fishing rights...small potatoes.



personal opinions \? why ,
brent irvine yes. what did you think irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu
they were \? .......

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re ca 's pedophilia laws
article i.d. optilink.15216
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 91

in article 1993apr3.201408.4999@hobbes.kzoo.edu , k044477@hobbes.kzoo.edu (jamie r. mccarthy) writes
cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
unfortunately , homosexuals do n't believe in this concept of freedom.
they believe that they have a right to force people to hire them ,
rent to them , and do business with them , regardless of the feelings
or beliefs of the other person.

allow me to point out that clayton is once again unfairly lumping an
entire class of people , as if they all have one will. having completely
dived into the abyss of believing that there are no queers in the world
who think differently from the child molestation advocating minority on
soc.motss , he does n't even notice that he 's starting a sentence with
they believe when the referent of that they is millions of people.
...so few as to be irrelevant...

if you do n't want to be lumped together as a group , stop insisting
on being treated as a member of a group.

dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be) writes
force people to hire \? no. require people to give them a fair
look \? yes.

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
you give them a fair look. you decide that you do n't want to hire
the guy wearing the nambla t shirt. he files a lawsuit. you lose.
yes , such laws force you to hire homosexuals.

pedophiles , as well \?

sexual orientation is not defined by the anti discrimination law
that was passed last year. pedophilia is n't a sexual orientation \?

and , cramer , let me describe how you 'd have it , and see if this is
accurate. i apply for a job at a computer company. they see i'm
wearing some article of homosexual adornment , i dunno , maybe a
silence death pin or something. they turn me down because of
that. i ca n't do a darned thing and have to go look somewhere else.
am i correct in assuming that you wholeheartedly approve of the
company 's actions , or at least that you wholeheartedly support their
right to take that action \?

i wholeheartedly support their right to take this action. i would n't
do it myself , unless it was something like the nambla t shirt.

how about a black man applies for a job at a bank. the bank decides ,
based on statistics , a black person would be more likely to steal
money , and denies the man the job. would you support the bank 's right
to this freedom \? if not , explain how this differs.

i support their right to do so (just like i support your right to
engage in sodomy with consenting adults) , but i think they are doing
something wrong. i would n't do business with such a bank.

clayton has repeatedly said that california 's statutes classify
pedophilia as a sexual orientation , and that discriminating on the
basis of sexual orientation is illegal.

if true , i'm frankly amazed. but i do n't trust clayton to give me
the whole story. would someone clarify for me whether this is true ,
what sort of discrimination clayton 's talking about (jobs \? housing \?
hate crimes \? ) , and whether the effect of the law is really that
a daycare has to hire an admitted pedophile.

jamie mccarthy internet k044477@kzoo.edu applelink j.mccarthy

here 's the law that was passed and signed by the governor

the people of the state of california do enact as follows

1 section 1. the purpose of this act is to codify
2 existing case law as determined in gay law students v.
3 pacific telephone and telegraph , 24 cal. 3d 458 (1979)
4 and soroka v. dayton hudson corp. , 235 cal. app. 3d 654
5 (1991) prohibiting discrimination based on sexual
6 orientation.
7 sec. 2. section 1102. is added to the labor code , to
8 read
9 1102.1. (a) sections 1101 and 1102 prohibit
10 discrimination or disparate treatment in any of the terms
11 and conditions of employment based on actual or
12 perceived sexual orientation.


13 (b) this section shall not apply to a religious
14 association or corporation not organized for private
15 profit , whether incorporated as a religious or public
16 benefit corporation.


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization winco
lines 45

in article c5l4rp.ebm@news.iastate.edu jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1993apr15.165139.6240@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
i really do n't want to waste time in
here to do battle about the legalization of drugs. if you really want to , we
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is !

read i do not know what the fuck i'm talking about , and am
not eager to make a fool of myself.

oh , you foolish person. i do know what the fuck i'm talking about
and will gladly demonstrate for such ignorants as yourself if you
wish.

the legalization of drugs will provide few if any of the benefits
so highly taunted by its proponents safer , cheaper drugs along
with revenues from taxes on those drugs reduced crime and reduced
organized crime specifically etc , etc

ahhh , the classic truth by blatant assertion technique. too bad it 's
so demonstrably false. take a look at great britain sometime for a
nice history on drug criminalization. the evidence there shows that
during periods of time when drugs (such as heroin) were illegal , crime
went up and people did die from bad drugs. during times when drugs
were legalized , those trends were reversed.


if you would like to prove how clueless you are , we can get into
why again a lot of wasted posts that i do n't think this group
was intended for and something easily solved by you doing a little
research.

now this is a great example of an ironclad proof. gosh , i'm convinced.
( for the humor impaired). first , assert something for which you
have no evidence , then dodge requests for proof by claiming to know
what this group was intended for. as to research , if you 'd done any
at all , you 'd realize that there is plenty of reason to believe that
legalizing drugs will have many benefits to society. there are some
plausible arguments against it , too , but they are n't enough to convince
me that criminalization of drugs is the answer. i'm willing to be
convinced i'm wrong , but i seriously doubt the likes of you can do it.

...dale cook any town having more churches than bars has a serious
social problem. edward abbey
the opinions are mine only (i.e. , they are not my employer 's)


from cmk@world.std.com (charles m kozierok)
subject re the tories could win the lottery ...clinton gst \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 41

(oh boy. it 's the in famous phill hallam baker.)

in article c5jy07.8gk@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes

in article 1993apr15.053553.16427@news.columbia.edu , gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes

cmk@world.std.com (charles m kozierok) writes
gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes
... but like basic plus cable , you have to tell them that you do n't
want it ... for example , hutterite colonies in western canada are not
part of it (mennon and hutter were fundamentalist protestants from
germany whose followers left for the new world ... mennonites are a
very diverse lot while hutterites are similiar to the amish). the
american idea being floated today gives you no option but to live
off the land ...

the selfish bastards that they are. unfortunately , that number has
diminished recently , but once president pinocchio gets through
with us , i hope for a reversal of trend.

well here we have the right hoping for more selfish bastards. pity they
do n't look at what 12 years of the regan bush selfish bastard ecconomy
has done to the country.

how about what 25 years of tax and spend , big government , institutionalized
dependency , and out of control good intentions at others' expense has
done to the country \?

elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselves ,
thats why they are selfish bastards. bush and regan gave tax breaks for the
ultra rich and paid for them by borrowing against the incomes of the middle
class.

yeah , right. and clinton is any different \? please.
he is just a better lia... i mean , politician.

you think slick and his gang of elitist socialist academics will lead
us to the promised land \? do n't hold your breath.


charles

from garrett@ingres.com (the sky already fell. now what \? )
subject recent news
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 35

in the hopes of adding a little life to , what seems to be , the
same old debates , i would like to add a few bits of info and ask for
comments.

1) a couple days ago the headlines were splashed with stories of proof
that the north vietnamese had held u.s. hostages after the war ended.
way back in today 's newspaper (page a7 of san francisco chronicle)
there is an article about the document that held the proof.
used without permission

the document , which was discovered in the archives of the soviet
communist party in moscow , is a russian translation of what is described
as a september 1972 report prepared for the vietnam politburo by general
tran van quang , who is identified as the deputy chief of staff of the
north vietnamese army.
later on in the article after it talks about the claim of 1 , 205
americans in north vietnamese prisons
phong said the easiest way to prove that the document is a
fabrication is to review quang 's career. in 1972 , he said , quang was
not deputy chief of staff he was the army commander in military region 4
in central vietnam.

2) i heard on the radio that the church of scientology has filed for
bankrupcy becuase the employees of cocolat , owned by cos , filed a
class action suit against them for requiring the employees to pay dues
to become members of the church. anyone heard more about this \?

3) micheal jackson went into business with micheal milken. no lie.


who said anything about panicking \? snapped authur. garrett johnson
this is still just culture shock. you wait till i 've garrett@ingres.com
settled into the situation and found my bearings.
then i 'll start panicking ! douglas adams


from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject re swimming pool defense
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 17

in article dasmith.734719640@husc.harvard.edu dasmith@husc8.harvard.edu (david smith) writes
granted , the simple fact of holding down a job will improve these kids' chances
of getting another job in the future , but what inner city kid would want to hold
down just one more minimum wage job when there is so much more money to be made
dealing drugs \?

what suburban kid would want to hold down a minimum wage job when there is so
much more money to be made dealing drugs \?

yet , somehow , surburban kids do hold down minimum wage jobs. so do inner
city kids , when give the chance. any reason you think that inner city kids
are incapable of doing legitimate work \?

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from bearpaw@world.std.com (bearpaw)
subject re mow bodycount
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 33

spp@zabriskie.berkeley.edu (steve pope) writes

any thoughts on who is going to count all of the gorgeous bodies at
the mow \? the press \? the white house staff \? the most junior
senator \? the king of the motss bi \?

just curious as to whose bias we are going to see when the numbers
get brought out.

probably , law enforcement people (park service police and d.c. cops) ,
who will use aerial photographs and extrapolate based on the
density of the crowd in small regions.

these sort of techniques derive from army intelligence and cia
methods of estimating troop strength , and tend to be
methodologically skewed to always come up with inflated numbers ,
so as to justify bigger budgets.

judging from past experience (the '87 march , a peace and justice march the
same year , and 3 different pro coice marches) , the park service will come out
with an estimate that is approximately 1 2 the estimate that organizers will
come up with though the last choice march i went to had a sign in system ,
and the numbers ended up closer. and then you 've got the media types in their
helicopters , rolling dice.

i believe the mow plans and handing out some sort of wristband thingy , and
basing their count on those. i see two problems with this. one , can they
get everybody to take one (and only one) \? two , they could n't possibly have
been able to choose a color design that wo n't clash with somebody 's outfit !


bearpaw


from s0xjg@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization exnet systems ltd public access news , london , uk
lines 68

in article 1993apr03.102200.4802@armory.com rstevew@armory.com (richard steven walz) writes
in article c4ti6g.8c3@exnet.co.uk sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes
in article c4obck.761@unix.portal.com drakon@shell.portal.com (harry benjamin gibson) writes
there is something that bothers me about this whole arguement.


5) could someone please calmly explain why homosexuality is such a great sin \?
without giving the standard just because god sez so . almost all of judeo



thanks for your posting , i enjoyed it.

the reason homosexuality is a sin is because the jews were a struggling
group of people trying hard to survive and differentiate between
themselves and their oppressors. this led to several things.

1. worshipping one god. all their foes were polytheistic.

2. all sex was put in to a moral context. all their foes were perverts
and spilled their seed liberally.

it 's just as easy to spill seed or spread it thin heterosexualy , why then
the specific prohibition on homosexuals , especially since the answer to
everything back then was stoning to death , does n't help population growth
much. also to just say that their foes were perverts begs the question ,

the key word is `spilled'. if semen was spilled anywhere where there
was a chance of procreation it was ok. if it was spilt on the ground or
in to a man it was a big sin , ditto with animals. the jews said sex pro
creation.

homosexuals did n't breed , there fore they are evil and should be stoned
to death.



3. all sex was directed towards breeding. the jews were few in number
and their foes many. to survive everything had to go into multiplication.

like i said , stoning to death does n't help population much. it sounds more
like a set of prejudices that already existed and were blown into a religion
to emphasize the differences of jewish culture and enshrine some pretty


stoning non breeding population was fine. only the breeders were
considered to be worth much.

1 jesus , 70 judaism , 29 original (prejudiced) bullshit.

i 'll buy the bullshit. he was a profound misogynist as well. he might have
been bitterly gay himself. no record of marriage.
rsw

ben gibson
xavier



richard steven walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429 1200


xavier

xavier gallagher play
cheap part time dark overlord by s0xjg@exnet.co.uk
world wide uucp of the universe email
feeds e mail advanced dungeons dragons

from batwood@su1ab.harris atd.com (brett atwood)
subject re i thought commercial advertising was not allowed
nntp posting host su1ab.ess.harris.com
distribution world
reply to batwood@su1b.ess.harris.com
organization harris (government communications system division)
lines 4

debate deleted

i guess it is allowed.


from garrett@ingres.com
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary my .02
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 59

in article 1993apr16.010908.22897@eecs.nwu.edu , ian@nasser.eecs.nwu.edu (ian sutherland) writes...
in article 1993apr15.170731.8797@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr15.013651.11353@tijc02.uucp pjs269@tijc02.uucp (paul schmidt) writes
steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
...
it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams.

you seem to be saying that a limited government will provide more
opportunities for private interests to use it to pursue their own
agendas , and asking libertarians to prove that this will not happen.
while i ca n't offer such a proof , it seems pretty damn plausible that
if the government does not regulate a particular area , it cannot become
a tool of private interests to pursue their own agendas in that area.
i rather suspect that it 's the sort of government we have now that is
more likely to become such a tool , and that it is such a tool in many
instances.

pardon me for interrupting , but why does n't anyone ever bring up other
possibilities besides more government , less government , or no government
and stop there \? it seems to me that the problems with society go much
deeper than government. democracies seem to reflective of the majority
of society , both the good and the bad. if you take away the government ,
you still have the structural flaws in society , except this time , with
no restraints. yes \? no \?
why does n't anybody ever discuss communal society , like a
kibbutz \? i never studied it on depth , but from what i 've heard , the kibbutz
in isreal was very successful. it is also very close to what aristotle
and socrates believed was the best.
sorry to detract from the discussion.

just
as marxism fails to specify how pure communism is to be achieved and
the state is to wither away , libertarians frequently fail to show how
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human
condition.

i suspect that this is because improvement in the human condition as
you define it is not the primary goal of libertarianism , and would not
be the primary goal of a libertarian government. my impression of
libertarianism is that its primary goal is the elimination of
government coercion except in a very limited cases.

but what good is change if there is no tracable improvement in the human
condition \? who would ever support the change if you tell them it wo n't
improve their lives \? i know that there are , and will be , libertarians
who will jump in now and say that it will improve our lives. i can deal
with that. all i'm saying is that improving the human condition must
be the primary goal of any organization.

ian sutherland
ian@eecs.nwu.edu


who said anything about panicking \? snapped authur. garrett johnson
this is still just culture shock. you wait till i 've garrett@ingres.com
settled into the situation and found my bearings.
then i 'll start panicking ! douglas adams


from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
article i.d. optilink.15218
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 25

in article gc3g2b6w165w@honour.welly.gen.nz , radagast@honour.welly.gen.nz (radagast) writes
cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
unfortunately , homosexuals do n't believe in this concept of freedom.
they believe that they have a right to force people to hire them ,
rent to them , and do business with them , regardless of the feelings
or beliefs of the other person.

ha ha ha , oh , clayton , you 're so good , so consistent , so predictable ,
yup , that 's right , they , these homosexual people want to force you to
ignore what 's none of your fucking business. ie. i will explain slowly
their sexual orientation should be irrelevant , as irrelevant as their
gender , skin colour , religious affiliation , attitude to hand gun ownership ,
etc. they want to force you to hire the best person for the job , rent the
accomodation to the person who will look after it , do business with whoever
will make you money..

yet , when a law was proposed for virginia that extended this
philosophy to cigarette smokers (so that people who smoked away
from the work could n't be discriminated against by employers) ,
the liberal gov. wilder vetoed it. which shows that liberals do n't
give a damn about best person for the job , it 's just a power
play.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from cobarruvias@asd2.jsc.nasa.gov (john cobarruvias)
subject re newsweek reports clinton approval ratings...
organization nasa jsc
distribution usa
lines 28

in article 8597@blue.cis.pitt.edu psg @pitt.edu (paul s galvanek)
writes
when i heard the latest approval rating reported for clinton , i
laughed so hard i forgot the exact numbers. maybe one of the
clintonettes can refresh my memory...

has his rating dropped to 48 or 49 percent \? ha ha ha ha ha !

snick oh my either way , it 's still the lowest rating any president
has ever mustered in his first 100 days , since these polls started being
taken.

hum , i guess this has some significance as opposed to having an incredible
drop during the last days in office. unfortuantely having a loss in the
polls during the last days of office usually means no re election. ask
george.


he was finished before he started !

good one , roooster. thats hard to top.


the rooster





from fpa1@trumpet.cc.msstate.edu (fletcher p adams)
subject re abolish selective service
nntp posting host trumpet.cc.msstate.edu
organization mississippi state university
lines 35

kmitchel@netcom.com (kenneth c. mitchell) writes
dave borden (borden@head cfa.harvard.edu) wrote
the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.

i'm really surprised clinton has n't already tried to do this. he seems
to want to tackle other irrelevant issues first , so why not this one as well.

let me say this about that , as a retired navy officer

i agree. cut it. but let 's not stop there.

eliminate the c 17 transport.

wrong. we need its capability. sure it has its problems , very few
airplanes have n't , but getting rid of something we need is not the
answer. what do you want to do , start over a rebuild a new airplane
from scatch \? it 'll have its problems as well and there will be calls
again , for it to be scrapped. the other option is to try to extend
the life of the c 5s and c 141s that are getting extremely old.

scrap the seawolf ssn 21 nuclear submarine.
ground the b 2 stealth bomber.

it 'll cost jobs , but i'm for it. we especially do n't need a b 2. the
ssn 21 , i know litttle about.

fpa


from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
summary constitutional basis of foreign aid
organization historical accuracy , inc.
lines 22
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article c513wj.75y@encore.com rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins) writes
...
i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing
stupid , frivilous things with our money \? then i think , the constitution
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money
from my paycheck and gives it to needy countries \? seriously.

roger collins


since you asked , article i section 1. article i section 8. article i
section 10. article ii section 2. article vi. sixteenth amendment.

with this as a guide , try reading it yourself.

jsh


steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
from quirke a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
distribution world
organization welligton city council , public access.
nntp posting host kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
lines 18

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

you mean , if a large part of the population supports discrimination
against homosexuals , they will be injured. but if a large part of the
population supports such discrimination , how did that law get passed \?

an addition to anti discrimination laws which includes homo and bisexuality
\? one would assume it would be because politicians were listening to the people
coming up with rational arguments rather than variations on bigotry. logic
sometimes prevails.
btw , glad to see that you 've admitted sexual attraction to children is a
seperate sexual orientation. did n't think you had that much honesty.


tony quirke , wellington , new zealand. quirke a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive ,
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. gene spafford , 1992

from cogsdell@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (tony c)
subject guilty .. or not guilty.........(comparitive fault law)
article i.d. mentor.c51uai.586
organization purdue university computing center
lines 6

thanks to everyone who sent replies regarding this case. a few of them were
very informative and helped very much.


once again.
thanks ! t.c.

from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization university of virginia
lines 13

in article 15407@optilink.com walsh@optilink.com (mark walsh) writes
there is a big difference between running one 's business
affairs , and actively ripping people off.

and charging homosexuals more becuase people think that aids is a gay
disease is actively ripping people off.



greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
reply to rcollins@encore.com
organization encore computer corporation
nntp posting host sysgem1.encore.com
lines 46

in article 1993apr15.164605.8439@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article slagle.93apr15000157@sgi417.msd.lmsc.lockheed.com slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com writes
it is the government that is preventing entry to the market. the
desire of those running established businesses to prevent or
restrict the entry of competitors is an understandable , though
generally unpleasant , human failing. but without a means to act
on this desire , without a government with sufficient power to
restrict the options of the potential competitor , the
anti competitive desire remains just an unpleasant wish. the
government is the linchpin , so we seek to disengage it so we
do n't get the shaft.

once again , mark , you do n't specify the means through which the government
is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests. as a
left wing , big government , conventional liberal , i'm just as willing as
you are to vote against anti competitive regulations that favor auto
dealers.

but what i hear from libertarians is a desire to limit incumbents' terms ,
to weaken government by eliminating its power to enforce antitrust laws ,
and a desire to eliminate legislator 's pay. each strikes me as a
particularly ineffective way to insure that auto dealers and other special
interests cannot influence public policy. in fact , they seem clearly
designed to accomplish the opposite.

this is similar to my saying that clinton 's timber summit does little to
fix the health care problem. look at the whole picture , not just
randomly picked libertarian positions. if government is not allowed to
use non initiated force to achieve its goals , than no special interest
can influence the government to use non initiated force on their behalf.

the means to reaching such a restricted government is another topic
which i 'll address briefly. it certainly wo n't happen until
libertarianism is the dominate philosophy. what means do we have to
make libertarianism the dominate philosophy \? statists run the education
monopoly , so we have to be creative. the advocates for self government
reports 85 of their seminar 1 participants embrace libertarianism.
that 's the best means i 've seen yet. we should lobby for compulsory
seminar 1 attendance. ) in jest !

roger collins

it 's amazing to me that governments around the world will try every
aspect of government control before , as a final last resort after
everything else fails , they will try individual liberty.
andre marrou , libertarian candidate for president '92

from decay@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (dean.kaflowitz)
subject re i thought commercial advertising was not allowed
organization at t
distribution na
lines 65

in article c50sma.3gk@voder.nsc.com , matt@galaxy.nsc.com (matt freivald x8043) writes


in article 164871 in talk.politics.misc , margoli@watson.ibm.com
(larry margolis) writes

i would suggest that legal precedent defines a human being (i.e. , a person
whose rights are protected by the constitution and the law) as someone with
a functioning brain.

no , if you want to use legal precedent , you should take a look at the
model penal code , on which many states base their criminal code

my apologies if i was unclear i was not trying to start a statutory
debate , since there are many (in some cases conflicting) statutes on
the books. i was merely suggesting a paradigm that might make sense
for a pro choicer imho.

cite one of these conflicting statutes. you keep making
these assertions , but you have n't supported any of them yet.
i am speaking of statutes that conflict with the definition
larry posted.

why did you delete the code that larry posted \?

also , the model penal code made perfect sense to me. were you ,
perhaps , confused by it \?

also , i am still looking for your definition. the one you used
clearly indicates that a fetus is not a human being.

this is not likely to please either pro lifers or
pro choicers , but it is pretty clear from the legal medical concept of
brain death .
brain death is a method of deciding when a (known) person is legally
dead there 's no analogous concept of brain birth .
i have just coined it. you may object to the paradigm , but it would
make our treatment of human life statutorily consistent.

circular arguments are usually very consistent.

3) if a parent has the right to choose to not take responsibility
for their own child , why are there laws and penalties against
child abandonment \?
this last question is irrelevant and something of a non sequitur.
can you establish some relevance or even some sense for it \?
if at some point an unborn child is a human being , the parents clearly
have the same responsibilities toward her as any other parents have toward
their children.
and no parent can be forced to supply bodily resources toward their children ,
even if necessary to save the child 's life.
there is a confusion here between action and inaction a parent does not have
to run out in front of a bus to save their child 's life either , but a parent
is required to feed his children.


again , your desire for consistency disappears when it does not suit
your needs. the principle of protecting life is abandoned based
on action versus inaction. not much of a principle. suddenly
you recognize that the claim on bodily resources is dependent
on circumstances other than this principle of life. that 's
a very conevnient principle you have there , matt.

dean kaflowitz


from cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization winco
lines 25

in article 1993apr15.193603.14228@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
in article stevethc5jgcr.1ht@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes

just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !

a friend of mine who smoke pot every day and last tuesday took 5 hits of acid
is still having trouble aiming for the bowl when he takes a dump. do n't as
me how , i just have seen the results.

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people screwed up in
the head.

i'm sorry about your friend. really. but this anecdote does nothing to
justify the war on drugs . if anything , it demonstrates that the war
is a miserable failure. what it demonstrates is that people will take
drugs if they want to , legal or not. perhaps if your friend were taking
legal , regulated drugs under a doctors supervision he might not be in the
position he 's in now.


...dale cook any town having more churches than bars has a serious
social problem. edward abbey
the opinions are mine only (i.e. , they are not my employer 's)


from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re just what is in the jobs pork bill \?
summary answer local communities decide what to do with block grants
distribution usa
organization just a boomer , inc.
lines 73
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article c5l5um.isf@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
this was in wed. wsj.

start
the white house , seeking to mount public pressure on gop senators , bombarded
news outlets in some senator 's home states with news releases warning that
certain projects may not be funded if the 16billion stimulus bill is n't
passed.

none of the projects mentioned are actually in the bill , rather they are
part of a wish list that may be funded from the 2.56 billion in
community development block grants.

...

end

i could have sworn i heard a bunch of clintonites going on and on , raving
about how dishonest it was that the rebublicans were taking items from this
wish list in order to ridicule this bill. now that clinton is using that
same list in order to garner support for the bill , are you guys going to
do the honorable thing and say that clinton is being dishonest.

as one of the clintonites cited above , i 'll try to clarify since this
is not a case of clinton 's dishonesty. (i wo n't necessarily defend him
on other issues.)

there were never any specific projects included in the community
development block grant portion of the president 's proposal. congressional
republicans , in an effort to discredit the stimulus package , selected what
they felt were silly sounding projects from a wish list of potential
projects prepared by the us mayors' conference before the stimulus package
was ever proposed. (the document in question was designed to pressure the
white house to increase the size of the block grant proposal submitted
to congress. it did n't work.)

the 2.56( \? ) billion proposed in the stimulus package came nowhere close
to covering the total estimated cost of the original wish list. if it
were passed , communities would have to select which projects to fund and
at what level.

in the case of spokane , wa. , tom foley 's home district , no one ever
expected to be able to refurbish a local swimming pool (one of the
republicans' examples) from the funds available in the stimulus
package since the estimated cost of doing so exceeded the total
amount of block grant funds the city would receive from the stimulus
package for all projects.

the plan , instead , was to use the money on public housing construction
and remodeling to cope with a severe housing shortage. (yup , there are
places where that is true.) the swimming pool improvements were near the
bottom of a long list of priorities prepared by the city. the 3 million
or so to be received would cover only a few of the most pressing
priorities.

if the block grants are cut from the stimulus package , it is these projects
that will be affected by the lack of funds. and that is why the clinton
administration has been publicizing the issue.

a final point. one may or may not like community block grants. it is
worth noting , however , that congressional republicans' opposition to them
is new. since the nixon administration , republicans have generally
supported such grants as an alternative to targeted federal spending ,
arguing that local governments are far better able to determine spending
priorities than washington bureaucrats.

is it clear now \? or is this all too complicated to understand \?

jsh

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization university of virginia
lines 10

in article philc5n6d5.mk3@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes
tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced ....

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism.


greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton press briefing by george stephanopoulos 4.5.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 581
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu






the white house

office of the press secretary


for immediate release april 5 , 1993


press briefing
by george stephanopolous


the briefing room


10 10 a.m. edt

mr. stephanopoulos as you know , the president is soon
to be on his way , on amtrack to camden yards. he 'll be throwing out
the first pitch.

q it 's marc , the maryland area transit , it 's not
amtrack.

mr. stephanopoulos oh , it 's not amtrack \? well , he 's
going from union station , you 're right. excuse me.

q george , what exactly are you prepared to do to
break the logjam with \? \? \? senate \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , as you know , there are
discussions between senator mitchell and senator dole this morning ,
and i think that the president is going to continue to make the point
that he believes that our investment package , our jobs package needs
to be passed as quickly as possible. we need this investment for
summer jobs , for immunization , for highway construction , for the
important programs that will put people back to work right away this
summer. and the president continues to believe his program should be
passed.

q will he compromise , that 's the question \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , as you know , the discussions
are going on this morning in the senate betwen senator mitchell and
senator dole , let 's see what they come up with. but the president
believes his jobs program should go forward.

q george , would the president be willing to accept 8
billion for one year , which apparently appears to be the compromise
being offered by

mr. stephanopoulos well , i do n't know what is being
offered by either side. the senate discussions are going on right
now , let 's see what happens today.

q would he go that far no matter what the
republicans have offered so far , would he go that far , 8 billion per
year \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president believes that his
program should be passed at this time. clearly , we 're going to be
willing to listen to what the senators might or might not be able to
come up with , but i'm not going to get into figures right now. let 's
see what happens.

q it 's reasonable to assume , is n't it , from what has
happened so far that a compromise is going to be necessary in order
to get a vote \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , the republicans seem more
intrested in stopping progress on the president 's jobs bill , than in
doing something to create mr. stephanopoulos well , the
republicans seem more interested in stopping progress on the
president 's jobs bill than in doing something to create real action ,
real jobs this summer for the american people. i think there 's no
question about that. there 's been some frustration of legislative
activity over the last few days.

q so , you 'll need to compromise to get your package
through \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 'll see what happens with the
conversations between senator mitchell and senator dole this morning.

q prepared to compromise

mr. stephanopoulos the president 's prepared to listen
to what senator mitchell has to say this morning after his meeting
with senator dole.

q does he feel that he has been defeated in his

mr. stephanopoulos not in the least. in fact , he 's
been very successful so far in the beginning of his term.

q how \?

mr. stephanopoulos he passed his budget in record
time , in six weeks , and it 's a budget which reduces the deficit by
500 billion over five years. and it 's a budget which provides for
important investments in our future. right now we 've also had strong
passage of his jobs program through the house. simply because a
minority of republicans in the senate choose to perpetuate gridlock
and hold up action on the president 's jobs program is not a sign that
he is not succeeding overall.

q he ca n't beat this , can he \?

q the fact is they can do that \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , the republicans can stop
action. there 's no question about that.

q what are you going to do about it \?

q george , what do you know about these alleged notes
taken by boris yeltsin during one of the meetings in which it appears
that the president told boris yeltsin not to trust the japanese that
when they say yes they mean no \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think that 's a complete
misreading of what happened at the meeting. the context of the
conversation was that president clinton was actually reassuring
president yeltsin at the time about his conversations with prime
minister miyazawa over the kuril islands and the prime minister 's
belief that japan would play a constructive role in the g 7 process.
i mean this was a casual comment about japanese courtesy and
etiquette but overall it was in the context of a conversation where
he was reassuring president yeltsin that he believed the japanese
were serious about their commitment to the g 7 process.

q are you saying that the president said that when
the japanese say yes they mean no \?

mr. stephanopoulos that 's not i do n't know the
exact words and there was a much longer discussion about he did say
something along the lines that he believes that on this issue prime
minister miyazawa intends to really go forward with the g 7 process.

q have there been any attempts to explain this to the
japanese because apparently the japanese press has picked this up and
there appears to be

mr. stephanopoulos i 've seen the reports in the
japanese press and it actually does put the situation in context. it
does talk about the japanese understanding the japanese points of
view. i do n't think it 's going to be a problem. i believe that
there may have been some diplomatic context just to clear things up
but i'm not positive.

q george , was the specific comment that was made
specific to the kuril island situation or was it a general
observation on japanese etiquette \?

mr. stephanopoulos the discussion was about

q the specific comment is what i'm asking about that
has alleged to have been translated from the russian notes , when the
japanese say yes they mean no.

mr. stephanopoulos well , it was a combination. i mean
i do n't think that 's the whole sentence. i think that the specific
comment was a broad , general observation followed up by a specific
finish to the sentence where he said in this case he believes that
prime minister miyazawa means to keep the commitment.

q was he saying it facetiously first \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think it was just a casual
observation.

q and then you say diplomatic contacts were made to
clear it up. has the president sent a message \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , i do n't think the president
spoke i believe that secretary christopher has made some calls but
i'm not sure exactly how many.

q well , this obviously is a bigger deal than you 're
making it out to be if christopher has had to make some calls.

mr. stephanopoulos no , no. it was just that we got
the reports in vancouver and the secretary wanted to make sure that
it was understood and make sure there was absolutely no
mr. stephanopoulos reports in vancouver , and the
secretary wanted to make sure that it was understood , and make sure
there is absolutely no misunderstanding , and i do n't believe there is
on.

q what is our position about the japanese \? that they
may have to say one thing , but actualy mean another \?

mr. stephanopoulos no. the position on the japanese
is as the president stated to president yeltsin throughout the two
days. he said that he had had a good conversation with prime
minister miazawa prior to the summit. he reiterated the u.s.
position , the long standing support for the japanese position on the
kuril islands , but also reiterated prime minister miazawa 's
commitment to move forward on the g 7 process and to play a
constructive role. and i think president yeltsin was very glad to
hear that.

q after listening to secretary christopher on iraq
for the last few days , i'm a little confused. what is the u.s.
policy \? do you want to see saddam hussein overturned \?

mr. stephanopoulos it 's the same policy that secretary
christopher has reiterated , and all of the u.s officials have
reiterated. we expect full and complete and unequivocal compliance
with all u.n. resolutions. right now we do not have that compliance.

q throwing it out further that if iraq complies ,
saddam ca n't stay in office \?

mr. stephanopoulos right. i think that that 's our
judgment is that it is not possible for saddam hussein to comply with
the resolutions and stay in power. but the important point is that
we expect compliance by iraq with all u.n. resolutions , and we will
continue to demand it.

q and are you concerned the iran will become the
dominant power in the area

mr. stephanopoulos secretary christopher has also
spoken to iran over the last several days , and he says we also expect
full iranian compliance with all international norms , and stopping
support of terrorism.

q that 's a very glib statement that he wo n't stay in
power if he complies with u.n. resolutions. on what logic do you
base that \?

mr. stephanopoulos right now saddam hussein is not
complying with the u.n. resolutions at all. he is not respecting the
rights of his people , as is required by the u.n. resolution. he is
not fully complying with all the resolutions regarding inspections.
he is not fully complying with all the resolutions regarding
armaments.

q well , when do you think that if he did comply he
would be out of power \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , right now his power rests on
the repression of his people. if he stopped doing that it would make
it more difficult for him to stay in power.

q george , back on the stimulus package , why is it
that you and the president accuse the republicans of playing pure
politics and perpetuating gridlock \? why is it that what evidence
do you have that they just do n't have a genuine idealogical
difference with you that 's in good faith \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , the fact that several times
in the past the republicans , many of the ones who are now leading the
fight for the filibuster , have supported the very funding they now
seek to stop , most especially , the highway funding.

q george , in regards to that , some of the moderate
republicans said that the white house erred by not being more open to
them during the while the plan was put together , that they had
one , sort of , proforma meeting between the white house and the senate
republicans , and that was it. does the administration look back and
thinks perhaps it could have done a better job of working with some


mr. stephanopoulos well , i'm not sure that it 's true
that there was only one meeting. i mean , the president met with the
republican leadership on at least two occasions before the
introduction of his package. he met with the entire senate
republican caucus also for lunch , and went up there. we are
continually in contact with as many republicans as we can find who
have an interest in the president 's package. we are interested in
what they have to say , as well. but we believe that this program is
important , and we 're going to continue to fight for it.

q your all or nothing , do it with the democrats
alone strategy , did you maybe miscalculate the ability to get it
through \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , i mean , i think that there is
no question that under the senate rules a determined minority can
frustrate activity. i mean , there is just no question about that.
you only need 40 plus one to keep going. 40 plus one to keep going
and to stop any action , and that 's what the republicans are doing.

q going to rethink the way you attempt to get
other things passed as you go through this process for the rest of
the summer \?

q work with republicans and try to woo some
republicans into your camp \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think we 're going to continue to
look for the support of republicans whenever we can get it on the
president 's intiatives \?

q but on this one how are you going to do it
differently than you did it on this one because on this one you
really did stiff the republicans from the beginning and made it clear
that it was a democratic majority that would get this through and
could get it through and you really did n't need republican votes \?
are you going to take a different tack when you have to go for
particular votes \? when you have to go through

mr. stephanopoulos i ca n't see into the future and
understand every possible turn in the legislative road. clearly the
president 's going to continue to reach out when he can.

q you do n't have any regrets then about the way you
have handled it up to now and you do n't plan any changes in your
approach in dealing with the republicans in congress based on this
experience \?

mr. stephanopoulos obviously the president would like
his package passed as quickly as possible and he 's going to continue
to press for that. we will continue to reach out to republicans ,
there 's not question about that. and we 'll continue to reason with
them and try and find appropriate avenues for cooperation. in this
case the republicans have chosen to unify around a filibuster , around
a plan to frustrate action not a plan to move forward.

q they 're being denied any other legislative means of
putting their proposals forward.

mr. stephanopoulos i think they 're being

q any ideas.

mr. stephanopoulos i think their amendments are being
defeated i do n't know that they 're being denied.

q to present them.

mr. stephanopoulos that 's not exactly true. i mean
they get the votes

q that theirs can be passed though by the
parliamentary rules under which they 're playing.

mr. stephanopoulos unless they get a majority in
support all the way around , no , that 's not exactly true.

q george , one more on iraq. is the administration
backing any of the iraqi opposition \? grooming any new leadership \?

q backing any of the iraqi leadership \?

mr. stephanopoulos oh , i again , we 're pressing for
iraqi compliance. i do n't know if we can get into the business of
grooming leadership. i believe there have been some contacts , at
some levels , with iraqi opposition groups. i do n't know about
anything recently.

q jesse jackson , who , of course , is not the
president 's best friend , has , however , been told that there is to be
some kind of town meeting , or some kind of involvement by the
president , pre empted the ball game los angeles. will he consider
something like that , or any other kind of intervention there \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , as you know , the president
appointed commerce secretary ron brown , about 10 days ago , to be a
special envoy to california , and coordiante cabinet activities around
the california economic situation , including the situation in los
angeles.

i believe there will also be visits out to los angeles
by the education or have been visits by the education secretary ,
mr. riley. i believe that transportation secretary pena and hud
secretary cisneros are also going out. and there may be other visits
by cabinet officials over the next several days and weeks. i
would n't rule out the possibility of a visit by president clinton to
california. obviously , he is following the situation closely , and is
concerned about making sure that we make the right long term policy
decisions that will help create the kind of economic opportunities
which help prevent disturbances. but we 're going to continue to
watch it.

q george , as a follow up , reverend jackson is also
supposed to be outside the ball park today , in baltimore , with a
group of supporters protesting the lack of minorities in baseball
management. does the president have a position on that \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president has received
correspondence from reverend jackson. i know that reverend jackson
has also spoken with the white house chief of staff , mack mclarty.
he clearly raises serious questions. there has been some progress in
baseball over the last several years , but still not enough. but the
president intends to continue to go to the ball game.

q is he going to say anything about it today , or see
reverend jackson while he 's out there \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if he is going to see
them , but as i said , the president believes that reverend jackson has
raised some serious questions , and it 's something that , as i said ,
even though there has been progress , it 's clearly not enough.

q did reverend jackson ask him not to go to the ball
game \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not sure about that. i believe
the characterization the reverend jackson is talking about is an
informational pickett. i do n't know that he asked him not to go to
the ball game , but he sent a long , detailed , formal letter outlining
his concerns with the situation in major league baseball and the
president read it.

q george , the orioles are playing the rangers , the
managing partner of the rangers is george w. bush. is he going to be
there , and is he going to meet with the president \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know.

q what is the mubarak schedule \?

mr. stephanopoulos i know that president mubarak is
coming tomorrow morning for a working meeting , they will have a
lunch , and i believe that he is having dinner tonight with vice
president gore.

q and joint statements tomorrow

mr. stephanopoulos i believe so , yes. at the end ,
yes.

q is there evidence , george , that the egyptians did
warn the u.s. about a potential terrorist bombing terrorist
activities \?

mr. stephanopoulos as reported in the new york times ,
i mean , i think that president mubarak did say that there has been
general conversations with the egyptians , as there have been for a
long period of time. we do have general intelligence sharing , i
mean. but president mubarak was very careful to point out that there
was no specific information on this visit that was passed forward.
the president will continue to investigate the situation , but he also
reiterates his belief that we cannot tolerate terrorism of any kind.

q george , he did make specific or the egyptians ,
apparently , did issue specific warnings about this individual who ,
forgive me this individual who , forgive me the name escapes me at
the moment , and said the egyptians were more or less rebuffed in
their attempts to get some kind of action.

mr. stephanopoulos again , i do n't know if i would
agree with your characterization of the mubarak interview. he did
say that they gave general warnings about the possibility of a
network in the united states and upon which we took appropriate
action. but there was no specific information on this specific
operation at all.

q so , the white house does n't feel that any of the
law enforcement agencies whether it be the cia or fbi who would have
received this kind of information was lax or derelict in its duty in
not pursuing some kind of

mr. stephanopoulos no , not at all.

q what 's next with serbia \? it got only a passing
mention in the news conference yesterday

mr. stephanopoulos you did n't get to ask your
question.

q yes , exactly. was there any agreement on concerted
action between the two countries \? and even if there was n't , what
does the u.s. do next \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think the u.s. is clearly going
to move forward in the u.n. today continuing discussions with our
allies on a sanctions resolution and we 'll continue to look for ways
to press the serbians to come to the negotiating table and sign an
agreement.

q george , why do you think sanctions is still an
option \? i mean the serbians make it clear that at least the
leadership is surviving just fine and they feel like they can wait
you out and even the administration officials we had in the other day
said there 's no evidence that they 're going to have an effect any
time soon. the bosnian serbs have said no to the peace plan. when
does no mean no and you have to do something different \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , i mean we are doing something
different. we 're moving forward on further sanctions through the
u.n. and those discussions will continue. we 're going to continue to
try and tighten the noose on serbia , and i think that every
opportunity we have to do that will have an effect over time.

q are we looking again at lifting the arms embargo \?
mr. stephanopoulos the president has said that this is something
that is under consideration.

q george , do you have any more on hugh rodham 's
condition , how he 's doing \?

mr. stephanopoulos as far as i know nothing 's changed.

q george , week after mr. mubarak \?

mr. stephanopoulos it 's a little unclear. i think
we 'll be able to get you more either tonight or tomorrow morning
after the mubarak visit.

q is he going somewhere for easter \?

mr. stephanopoulos not that i know of.

q what more can you tell us about the additional aid
to russia that the president plans to ask congress about \?

mr. stephanopoulos he 's going to be consulting with
the congress and with our g 7 partners over the next couple of weeks.
i know that he spoke last evening with congressman gephardt and their
delegation before the the congressional delegation meets with the
russians this week and those consultations will continue over the
next several weeks.

q do you expect that package to be of the magnitude
of the one announced sunday \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not going to discuss the
magnitude.

q how about the list of cold war restrictions , where
do you stand on that

mr. stephanopoulos as the president said yesterday ,
he 's going to be looking for that list from the congress this week
and reviewing it. he believes he 's going to try and get it this
week and he 's going to review the list , and we 're going to take a
hard look at it.

q but they 're making it up \? i mean it 's no white
house involvement , congress is compiling this list \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think he 's going to talk to the
congressional leaders about compiling the list but i'm certain we 'll
be able to get our own researchers working as well.

q george , is n't lifting the arms embargo more of a
probability than a possibility \?

mr. stephanopoulos it 's something that 's under
discussion.

q secretary christopher has said that it 's a matter
of time and for months before that happens.

mr. stephanopoulos again , all i can say is that it 's
something that the president is reviewing. right now we 're working
with our allies in the u.n on a sanctions resolution , and we 'll
continue to review other matters.

q george , can you tell us anything about the schedule
this week \? any travel \?

mr. stephanopoulos they just asked about that. i
do n't have anything more beyond tomorrow 's visit with mubarak right
now.

q are there consultations , george , with any jewish
american organizations concerning jackson vanick \?

mr. stephanopoulos as you know the national conference
of soviet jewry has a list of , i believe ,
mr. stephanopoulos as you know , the national
conference of soviet jewry has a list of , i believe , 200 refuseniks.
we 'll certainly take a look at that and continue appropriate
discussions.

thanks.






from kane@buast7.bu.edu (hot young star)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 24

in article 15149@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

in article 113328@bu.edu , kane@buast7.bu.edu (hot young star) writes

when are you going to admit that the data you presented show
just this that only about 3 of child molesters are gay , and thus are
not overrepresented with respect to the general incidence of homosexuality \?

when someone can show something besides a redbook article.

correct me if i'm wrong , but is n't this irrelevant \?

either the data shows something , or it does n't. regardless of what other
studies show.

admit it. what you showed to us does n't prove that gay men are more likely
to be molesters.

brian

kane@ buast7 , astro .bu.edu (hot young star) astronomy dept , boston university ,
boston , ma 02215. true personal salvation is achieved by absolute faith in
ones true self.


from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary questions about non initiated force
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 69
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article c5jh23.eu8@encore.com rcollins@encore.com writes
in article 1993apr15.164605.8439@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
...you do n't specify the means through which the government
is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests. as a
left wing , big government , conventional liberal , i'm just as willing as
you are to vote against anti competitive regulations that favor auto
dealers.

but what i hear from libertarians is a desire to limit incumbents' terms ,
to weaken government by eliminating its power to enforce antitrust laws ,
and a desire to eliminate legislator 's pay. each strikes me as a
particularly ineffective way to insure that auto dealers and other special
interests cannot influence public policy. in fact , they seem clearly
designed to accomplish the opposite.

...if government is not allowed to
use non initiated force to achieve its goals , than no special interest
can influence the government to use non initiated force on their behalf.

fine. libertarians and anarchists are not alone in being uncomfortable
with the use of state sponsored coercion. the notion that coercion can
be virtually eliminated in a society (or more properly that once it is
eliminated on the part of the state it is no longer worth serious
consideration) is a view that is peculiar to libertarians and anarchists.

for example , does non initiated force (coercion) include tax collection \?
does it include the minimal level of regulation of commerce envisioned
by adam smith \? since coercion can be exercised by actors other than the
state , how is the state to deal with it \? exclusively through after the
fact arbitration legal compulsion \?


the means to reaching such a restricted government is another topic
which i 'll address briefly. it certainly wo n't happen until
libertarianism is the dominate philosophy. what means do we have to
make libertarianism the dominate philosophy \? statists run the education
monopoly , so we have to be creative. the advocates for self government
reports 85 of their seminar 1 participants embrace libertarianism.
that 's the best means i 've seen yet. we should lobby for compulsory
seminar 1 attendance. ) in jest !

well , i must admit that the picture of libertarians as amway participants
is somewhat more reassuring than the idea of them trying to govern a
complex , conflictual , industrial society. i 'd venture to point out ,
however , that if libertarians could n't convince at least 85 of a group
of seminar participants to embrace their philosophy , their
propaganda skills need to be honed.

frankly , however , it is no great trick to create a government for a
society in which (almost) everyone is assumed to agree about what is a proper
government policy. once that is assumed , all sorts of annoying formalities
can be dispensed with , elections , police , etc. and as mr. marx said ,
the state will just wither away.

on the way there , however , would you like to explain how eliminating
virtually all policies that restrain private coercion in the
current society will help us to live happier lives \? or is it like
socialism just some short term pain that we 'll have to bear until
everyone has had the benefit of re education through regular
seminar training \?

jsh


roger collins

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re the evidence
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 28

in article 115298@bu.edu , kane@buast7.bu.edu (hot young star) writes
bk
so tell me what 's immoral about homosexuality \?

cc
the promiscuity and fetishism that characterizes it.

hmmm.

i 've told you more than once that i 've been monogamous for almost 4 years
now , and that i really do n't get into fetishes.

then you are nearly the only homosexual who is. i do n't believe you.
you 've changed your story before.

yet you maintain my homosexual activity is still immoral.

care to elaborate \?

for that matter , explain why fetishes are immoral \?

kane@ buast7 , astro .bu.edu (hot young star) astronomy dept , boston university ,

the fact that your fetish is more important than who you are making
love to. (actually , in your case , having sex with. )

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from stephen@orchid.ucsc.edu ()
subject a demo of nonsense talk and what about all the other lies \?
organization santa cruz
lines 33
distribution usa
nntp posting host orchid.ucsc.edu

in article 15196@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

homosexuals have been lying about the 10 number for so long that
the politicians are running scared of them. of course , homosexuals
lying should be no surprise.


how can you lie about something that no one knows for sure. i am the first
to state that the 10 figure may be too high but it may just be too low ,
depending on what you are talking about.

keep in mind that there are 'practicing' heterosexuals that are actually
gay. these people chose to take a road that avoids being harassed and
they wanted to 'fit in' with everyone other 'normal' person.

but let 's get off of this irrational behavior of calling everyone a liar ,
you cannot even start to support such claims.

also , the corrupt , criminal and lying nature of kinsey 's work , which
provides much of the justification for homosexual rights in the modern
era , should make people step back for a moment and question the rest
of the crap that they have been force fed by the news media.

this sure sounds definitive. how do you label kinsey 's work like this ,
from that factually based and scientific journal wsj \?


relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

this is an interesting statement. do you realize how many things you do
your life that are not based on 'mutual consent' and that it may be
required on occasion that all parties may not be mutually consenting \?
this

from andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson)
subject response
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 113

fucking news reader... i do n't think this got posted... if it did , ignore
it this time.

(a response to korey)

begin my response
in article 1plorlinnslt@matt.ksu.ksu.edu kkruse@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (korey j. kruse) writes
lamontg@u.washington.edu writes
...

well , i just did a quick medline scan and came up with the following article
by tashkin that reviews the literature , i 'd probably start here...

document 13
an 90273700. 9007a.
au tashkin d p.
in department of medicine , university of california , school of medicine ,
los angeles 90024.
ti pulmonary complications of smoked substance abuse.
rf review article 61 refs.
...
why is n't this information in the faq on marijuana \? if we expect
people to think we are telling them the truth about drugs , why does
this group constantly refute every negative thing about almost all
drugs.

maybe because the claims deserve refute \? the above abstract lists various
possible links to cannabis use (unfiltered almost guaranteed) and lung
problems. someone may get overly excited when they see that article , but
without actually digging up the study and seeing how the studies gathered
their data it really does n't tell you shit. i'm going to track down that
study hopefully tomarrow.

...

i never claimed pot was more or less damageing than
cigarettes......i was just trying to keep ourselves honest. if we are
going to educate kids...and adults...and tell them the truth about drugs
do n't you think a much better approach would be to list the pro 's and
con 's of each type of drug.

what justifies the truth about drugs \? research \? what sort of
research \? correlational data can help establish a theory , but it does not
prove anything.

how can you expect someone to make a
decision when the pdfa on one hand says that all drugs are absolutely
bad bad bad.....and this newsgroup consistently refuses to admit that
drugs like heroin even have negative side effects.

heroin is a relatively safe drug. what makes it unsafe are iv administration
and shit like adulterants. there are side effects , like withdrawal , but they
effect people differently.

i 've seen numerous
posts claiming heroin has lower addiction rates that cigarettes , which
might be true , but it is very deceiving , because heroin is much more
harmful drug to be addicted to than cigarettes. heroin addicts are
far more prone to end up in the gutter and destroy their family and
friends than people addicted to just cigarettes.

stereotypical statement. i know people who use heroin and opiates that
function just fine in society.

this group does
provide some very good information to people , but i am worried that
the pro legalization pro decriminalization movement is being hurt when
it refuses to admit that any some drugs are very harmful....

name some of these drugs so we can debate about them more specifically.

...
i'm all for legalization of most drugs , but when someone asks me
about relative risks of certain drugs or possible bad side effects , i
would like to know them....and not be given the run around by this
group....which recently tried to tell me that pot was not harmful in
any manner to people 's lungs.

no , no , no. (or at least i have n't been arguing this). there is not enough
data to form a scientific conclusion. that does n't mean that cannabis
is benign to users' lungs. we can form all the theories we want , but they
are only theories. some theories are supported by more evidence than others ,
and that makes them stronger.

i think it 's time y'all re examined
your positions and try to understand that you cannot fight the pdfa
by calling them a bunch of liars....

the hell i ca n't ! they state un justified conclusions as fact as
a political strategy to stop drug use.

...

in general , i somewhat see what you 're saying. and people like jack herer
contribute to this. this has been quite a big mind fuck for me recently ,
and i 've pretty came to the conclusion that you ca n't trust anybody by
word of mouth alone my attitude about the general population has
decreased significantly.

gotta run to class..

marc
andersom@spot.colorado.edu


kkruse@ksuvm.bitnet
) ) ( ` kkruse@ksuvm.ksu.edu
( . ) kkruse@matt.ksu.edu






from b645zaw@utarlg.uta.edu (stephen tice)
subject re us government sanctions sacrilege
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
nntp posting host utarlg.uta.edu
organization the university of texas at arlington
lines 82

william december starr writes...

in a typical lawyer baiting fashion , as usual.

(all the while ignoring every principle of the aclu.)

good to see your still out there wds. surely we 've
been around the ring enough by now , that you know
you ca n't spin me up with expletives.

let 's see if there 's anything left worth responding to...

cyrus' achy breaky heart ad infinitum until either koresh surrenders or
the rest of the state of texas is totally depopulated... )

e for effort. heard about the folks who live around foghorns and
airports \?

erect an inverted cross , or a star of david broken asunder , out in
front of the davidians to provoke them. or boom out islamic prayers.
or worse. what temple would you destroy \? what books would you burn \?
will you kill clergy \? will you mock the spirit of god before the
innocent \? \?

sure i would. why not \?

seems right in character to me creature of the state.
btw , are you still happy with your presidents \?

if you in government have no respect for other 's faith , and no respect
for the lives and well being of those innocent children caught in this
hell you 've created why should anyone respect your lipservice of
rule of law \?

what does rule of law have to do with respect for anyone 's religious
faith \?

see the part about the children following the and in the first line
above.

as to a connection , your cult is faith in rules .

no matter who the criminals are , or what they 've done (and it looks
like there are criminals on both sides of the matter) their
conviction is not worth the abuse you 're causing.

what abuse \? please be specific.

sure. my concern is the well being of the children.

if you are willing to ignore the children , or heap abuse , insult , and
sacrilege on the children inside the davidian house then god rebuke
you. best you learn directly from the lord the corruption you 're
committing. in god 's good time and way , the lord judge you i can
not. for truth be told i would send you all straight to hell and
god would be right in sending me right along with you.

oh , fuck you and the god you rode in on , stephen. if you can show the
legitimacy of god 's claim of sovereignty over man , please do so.
otherwise stop ranting and raving about him already.

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu

interesting that you would respond emotionally in defense of the
government. maybe there is a beating heart there.

for the record though , the biggest baddest goverment on earth claims
the most sovereignty over man. best i can tell god allows anyone to
go to hell who wants to. omnipotency logically determines that allowing
and sending mean the same thing. (mere human concepts of course.)

so come on wds. why bother to try some flimsy facade of logic. waco
proves it 's not needed the demonstration that government can walk
over it 's own rules in the name of justice has been made. no problem
by me. noted and announced for the record. just giving the govern
ment it 's due , and getting back to more worthwhile non government
concerns.


j

stephen

from n4hy@tang.ccr p.ida.org (bob mcgwier)
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993
organization ida center for communications research
lines 19
distribution usa
nntp posting host tang.ccr p.ida.org
in reply to bob.waldrop@f418.n104.z1.fidonet.org 's message of mon , 5 apr 93 20 12 35 gmt



rich thompson posts some blather about the libertarian party

august 30 , 31 , sept. 1 everything you always wanted to
know about winning elections , but
did n't know where to ask !


what pray tell do the libertarians know about winning elections \?

bob




robert w. mcgwier n4hy@ccr p.ida.org
center for communications research interests amateur radio , astronomy , golf
princeton , n.j. 08520 asst scoutmaster troop 5700 , hightstown

from cutter@gloster.via.mind.org (cutter)
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
distribution world
organization gordian knot , gloster , ga
lines 23

jon@atlas.mitre.org (j. e. shum) writes

in article c5g1su.k27@wolves.durham.nc.us , wolfe@wolves.durham.nc.us (g. wo
a sad day for civil rights. but typical of nc (unfortunately.)

if it is typical for the principle of reasonable doubt to be upheld in
north carolina , then i would count that in the state 's favor.

reasonable doubt dates back to human rights. we are now in the time of
civil rights. civil rights are issued by the state with whatever strings
attached they choose as the grantor of said rights. and if that means that
verdicts are determined by the needs of the state rather than by guilt or
innocence in a traditional sense , so be it. being subjective rather than
objective may make it harder to anticipate what is right , and you may be
sacrificed for being wrong inadvertantly once in a while , but that really is a
small price to pay for the common good do n't you think \?



cutter@gloster.via.mind.org (chris) all jobs are easy
to the person who
does n't have to do them.
holt 's law

from nadja@weitek.com (nadja adolf)
subject re prolifer or terrorist threat
organization weitek corporation , sunnyvale ca
lines 16

in article c4za0h.ihd@wetware.com drieux@wetware.com writes
in article 1pamhpinn7d3@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu , taite@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu () writes
i'm prepared to instruct individuals in the proper use and
handling of firearms.

as a desert storm vet with six years in the national guard , i have a
great deal of experience in handling weapons and tactical training.


ps anyone up for a discussion of counter sniper operations \?
security drills , your friend the counter terrorist operation.....


if twit promises to train them in tactics and weapons handlings , i doubt
any of them will last long enough to become terrorists. look for a sudden
rise in firearms accidents among the fiends of the fetus , though.

from zippy@hairball.ecst.csuchico.edu (the pinhead)
subject re 50 , 000 reward !
1993apr4.104122.11197@colorado.edu
1993apr4.105514.11664@colorado.edu
5apr199313494915@oregon.uoregon.edu
organization california state university , chico
lines 51
nntp posting host hairball.ecst.csuchico.edu
in reply to dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu 's message of 05 apr 1993 12 49 00 pst

in article 5apr199313494915@oregon.uoregon.edu dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be) writes
in article 1993apr4.105514.11664@colorado.edu ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes...
no , the definition of resident is very specific. it is the
same thing as alien . look it up. remember that the common usage of
the words are not always their legal meaning.

this i gotta see some authority for.

from black 's law dictionary , revised 4th ed. , page 1473

residence. a factual place of abode. living in a particular
locality. reese v. reese , 179 misc. 665 , 40 n.y.s.2d 468 , 472
zimmerman , 175 or. 585 , 155 p.2d 293 , 295. it requires only bodily
presence as an inhabitant of a place. in re campbell 's guardianship ,
216 minn. 113 , 11 n.w.2d 786 , 789.

as ``domicile'' and ``residence'' are usually in the same place ,
they are frequently used as if they had the same meaning , but they are
not identical terms , for a person may have two places of residence , as
in the city and country , but only one domicile. residence means
living in a particular locality , but domicile means living in that
locality with intent to make it a fixed and permanent home. residence
simply requires bodily presence as an inhabitant in a given place ,
while domicile requires bodily presence in that place and also an
intention to make it one 's domicile. in re riley 's will , 266 n.y.s.
209 , 148 misc. 588. ``residence'' demands less intimate local ties
than ``domicile , '' but ``domicile'' allows absence for indefinite
period if intent to return remains. immigration act 1917 , sec. 3 , 8
u.s.c.a. sec. 136 (e , p). transatlantica italiana v. elting ,
c.c.a.n.y. , 74 f.2d 732 , 733. but see , ward v. ward , 115 , w.va 429 ,
176 s.e. 708 , 709 southwestern greyhound lines v. craig , 182 okl.
610 , 80 p 2d 221 , 224 holding that residence and domicile are
synonymous terms. ``residence'' has a meaning dependent on context
and purpose of statute. in re jones , 341 pa. 329 , 19 a.2d 280 , 282.
words ``residence'' and ``domicile'' may have an identical or variable
meaning depending on subject matter and context of statute. kemp v.
kemp , 16 n.y.s.2d 26 , 34 , 172 misc. 738.

legal residence. see legal.

resident. one who has his residence in a place. see residence.

also a tenant , who was obliged to reside on his lord 's land , and
not to depart from the same called , also , ``homme levant et
couchant , '' and in normandy , ``resseant du fief.''


ronald cole e mail zippy@ecst.csuchico.edu
senior software engineer phone 1 916 899 2100
optx international
the bill of rights void where prohibited by law

from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 79

in article 1ql7tuinn8j8@minerva.cis.yale.edu chaudhary amar@yale.edu (amar chaudhary) writes

here 's my own top ten response to mr. ipser 's list

8. it just so happens that that it takes money to make this country work ,
to provide the services that people need , and to help solve the problems
that need to be solved. granted , some things can probably be done more
efficiently for less money , and should be. but some things are going to
cost more money and i'm sick and tired of hearing everyone whining about
taxes all the time. you want to live in my country , you pay your fair
share !

some people pay shares that are more fair than others , and will continue
to do so , even with the presence of president clinton. until the rich
elite hurt from taxes and shower me with their blood dripping from the
wound of the tax dagger , i will scream and yell. because , taxes are
killing the poor and middle class , and i'm tired of the wealthy getting
a free ride in this country. sure , they pay a lot of taxes , but i want
them to share my pain ! !

and , not even slick willy is that fair , is he , seeing that he and his
wife qualify as one of those wealthy people i was talking about \? they 're
on the lower end of wealthy , but wealthy they are.

7. i ca n't believe what hypocrites people are when they ask people to give
up their lives for their country and then complain about taxes. if you 're
willing to send me off to die for some stupid obsession with fighting an
enemy which at best does n't affect us and at worst really should be our
friend , then you have no right to tell me you should n't pay taxes !

yah , i think the draft for vietnam was a sack of shit. but , do we get
to pick and choose which laws we obey , mr. chaudhary \? if so , shall we
set up a you follow the laws you like , and i 'll follow the laws i
like arrangement \?

6. hey , i think the beaded curtains add a lovely 60 's esque touch !

i never thought much of beaded curtains.

now beaded seat covers , on the other hand....

5. health care is a human right deleted

i did n't think i was going to respond to this , but i changed my mind.

tell me , why do you think health care is a human right \?

this is n't a flame or anything , i just wonder. next thing you know ,
free public transportation will be a human right. maybe membership
at prestigious health spas \?

sorry to grease the hill on ya there....

4. make love , not war !

be sure and wrap that wanker when you go spreadin' that free love stuff
around. (or , after the fda gets its thumb out of its ass , use that neat
new reality femi condom.)

3. contrary to popular belief , it is possible to be a male and a feminist
at the same time. to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity
to a majority of the population is just plain wrong , and trying to force
them into some sort of tradition role is even worse. women certainly
have as much to offer this world as men , and the day that gender
discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the revolutions of
the past few centuries seem like reform bills. i look forward to it.

so do i. amen. and all that.

1. hey man , acadamia rules ! !

what the hell is an acadamia anyway \? is that like a macadamia \?

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

slick willy 's already got his hand in my pocket. i'm just afraid
of what he might grab hold of.

from wiggins@cecer.army.mil (don wiggins)
subject re top ten responses to ed 's top ten lists
organization us army corps of engineers construction engineering research labs
lines 16

roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

the real question should the feds bail out steve jobs next (a la chrysler)
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost \?

...a la chrysler \? \? okay kids , to the nearest thousand , how many
dollars did the government spend to bail out chrysler \? more than zero
you say \?

bzzzzzzzzzt. wrong answer.


don wiggins , german irish american success is getting what you want.
lead scout for the baby boomers happiness is wanting what you get.
internet wiggins@osiris.cso.uiuc.edu brother dave gardner


subject re news you may have missed , 3 23
from sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child)
1pklht krf@genesis.mcs.com 1pprtvinnctl@aludra.usc.edu 1pqfbd e6b@genesis.mcs.com
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
nntp posting host aludra.usc.edu
lines 47

arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

in article 1pprtvinnctl@aludra.usc.edu sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child) writes
arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

in article 1993apr1.164804.1105@rapnet.sanders.lockheed.com babb@k2 (scott babb) writes
jack schmidling (arf@genesis.mcs.com) wrote
jac2y@virginia.edu (jonathan a. cook jac2y ) writes


...

why do you restrict your condemnation of racial strife to israel \?
do the situations in bosnia , tibet , china , etc. not merit your comment \?

as far as i am aware , we have not sent close to 100 billion dollars to

let 's not exaggerate.


i notice you did not offer an alternative number. try this one on for
size..... by the year 2000 , american taxpayers will have given israel
one dollar for every star in the milky way galaxy.

i will let you look up the number.

ok , i admit i have no hard data on this. why do n't you help me with this \?
if you would compile a commented list of all grants , un repaid loans (if any) ,
and direct aid , i 'd be very interested to see it. if you could give me
references from , for example , congressional budget authorization hearings ,
i could look them up here and i 'd be happy to post a verification of your
data.

otherwise , i 'll try my hand at this , but unfortunately i wo n't have sufficient
time available until the end of this month , so the results would be delayed.

let me know if you 're interested in doing this.

samuel
mossad special agent id314159
media spiking and mind control division
los angeles offices

pratice safe .signature ! prevent dangerous signature virii !
guildenstern our names shouted in a certain dawn ... a message ... a
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning ,
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it.

from mfriedma@us.oracle.com (michael friedman)
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
nntp posting host hqsun4.us.oracle.com
organization oracle corporation , redwood shores ca
distribution usa
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.
lines 34

in article 1993apr14.231117.21872@pony.ingres.com garrett@ingres.com writes
in article philc5ht1t.gwa@netcom.com , phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes...

correct. jfk was quite disgusting in that way. the reports of the women that
he coerced via power of the office are now in the dozens. today , we' d
call for immediate resignation for that kind of behaviour.

i guess coercing women into having sex is much worse than stealing , breaking
and entering , rigging national elections , starting secret wars that kill
hundreds of thousands , and using the powers of your office for personal
gain like nixon did. not !

garrett , you are a really pathetic liar.

some of your charges are arguable , but most of them are obvious lies.

i challenge you to present us with any evidence that nixon stole ,
rigged a national election , never mind elections , or used the powers
of his office for personal gain.

you ca n't because there is absolutely no evidence that any of these
events occurred.

along with normalized relations with the prc.

normalizing relations with cambodia \? you must be joking. we sponsored
the overthrow of the cambodian government. after repeated failed attempts
of course.

your sad level of historical and political knowlege is probably best
exemplified by the fact that you think prc stands for cambodia instead
of red china.



from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary feasibility considered
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 72
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 16apr199317391664@rigel.tamu.edu gmw0622@rigel.tamu.edu (mr. grinch) writes
in article 1993apr16.124824.29405@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...


on a case by case basis , the cost benefit ratio of government regulation
is obviously worthwhile. the libertarian agenda , however , does not call
for this assessment. it assumes that the costs of regulation (of any
kind) always outweigh its benefits. this approach avoids all sorts of
difficult analysis , but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic ,
to say the least.


i assume you mean that analyzing the cost benefit ratio of government
regulation on a case by case basis is worthwhile. let me suggest that
this is not an option. regulators regulate , it 's what they do.

i'm not sure why you do n't consider it an option. no one suggests that
such analysis should be left to regulators. in fact , the re inventing
government movement provides just such a cost benefit approach to the
analysis of public spending. libertarians would do well to learn more
about it.


it might be possible to pass an amendment which would prevent
any liscensing laws from being valid , assuming you could convince people that
it would overall be a good idea. eliminating the liscensing laws which
serve no good purpose (the vast majority of them) while maintaining the
worthwhile ones (assuming there are any) is not feasible.

sorry , but it strikes me that it is the only feasible approach. what is
not feasible is a wholesale attack on all government regulation and
licensing that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent
tasks.


i have no objection to an analysis of medical care , education ,
national defense or local police that suggests a free market can provide
a more effective , efficient means of accomplishing social objectives
than is provided through statist approaches. with some notable
exceptions , however , i do not see such nitty gritty , worthwhile
analysis being carried out by self professed libertarians.

jsh

i note that the above examples tend to be among the few government areas
likely to win some approval among libertarians anyway.

actually , the only areas of public spending above that strike me as
generating substantial support among libertarians are police and defense.
(it is an interesting aside that as committed as libertarians claim to
be to a principle of non coercion , the only areas of public spending
that they frequently support involve hiring people with guns....hmmm...)

the most objectionable government expenditures are entitlements , which
also are the biggest. certain individuals will suggest that these should be
considered defense on the grounds that they are a sort of danegeld to
would be revolutionaries , but i personally do n't feel we have much to fear
from an alliance of geezers and unwed mothers. maybe i 've led too
sheltered a life.

perhaps you have. may i suggest that you consider that revolutionaries
frequently generate support by acting as protectors of geezers ,
mothers and children. governments that ignore such people on the grounds
that we do n't have much to fear from them do so at their own peril.

jsh

mr. grinch

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re california insurance commissioner endorses federal legislation to protect consumers from scam insurance companies
distribution usa
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 111

in article 1993apr14.164549.24069@cbnewsi.cb.att.com , gadfly@cbnewsi.cb.att.com (gadfly) writes
in article 15342@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
and now those other options do n't exist. we probably agree on this
more than you think welfare was invented to solve a problem of the
30 's , but the poverty is now so much worse , and our economic infra
structure has been so eroded , that it just ca n't keep up any more.

you mean , since your philosophy took over , the economy has almost
collapsed.

excuse me , my philosophy \? you do n't have any idea what my philosophy
is. the american economy has had its ups and downs through a number of
prevailing economic philosophies. but then , economics is hardly a science.

in my lifetime , your philosophy socialism masquerading as a liberal
welfare state has been in ascendancy.

no , i mean exactly what i wrote the welfare system of the new deal is
wholly inadequate to cope with the current state of affairs.

absolutely. so the response of socialists is take us even further
into socialism.

(2) whether or not the fathers work
is not germane to single mothers.

very true. but the promotion of casual sexuality is something that
plays a part in the single mother problem.

i 'll buy that and there 's lots of reasons for it , extremely far down on
the list being the flash in the pan media attention a bunch of middle
class dropouts got for their philosophy and experimentation.

flash in the pan \? no , your subculture has utterly dominated the
tv and movie industries for two decades now.

my subculture \? my , we 're getting personal. the only subculture i see
dominating the tv and movie industries is money . if you 'll buy it ,
they 'll sell it. and as recent movements to boycott tv advertisers have
shown , they 're very sensitive about what sells. whatever happened to
personal responsibility , anyway \? or am i personally responsible for
the decline in that , too \?

to the extent that people have been encouraged to not be responsible
for themselves , yes.

come on. you and i both know that the major problem of this society
today is n't a lack of employment , it 's a lack of people willing to work.

huh \? \? \? tell that to the single mother i know who was laid off from
her 10 hour job at a hospital and now works 2 full time minimum
wage jobs to barely be able to support herself and her kid. barely.
hey , she 's too proud to go on public assistance , but the only jobs
she can find are menial and with no benefits. and no career path
either they find excuses to lay people off and hire new ones rather
than give raises and perks. and why not \? it 's a lot cheaper.

oddly enough , all the unskilled or semiskilled people i know manage
to find employment almost immediately. maybe she needs to move to a
cheaper part of the country , where jobs are plentiful , and the cost
of living is lower.

the west side of chicago is about as cheap as it gets squalor city.
tell me about all these places where it 's cheap to live and jobs are
abundant i 'll pass them on.

sonoma county.

you live in a strange and wondrous place , sir. inexpensive housing ,

not exactly cheap , but not los angeles , either.

lots of employment , and utterly surrounded by socialists. well , i suppose
that 's the sort of environment that would attract socialists , or at least
not dissuade them.

no , it 's that areas with a lot of wealthy breed socialists all the
spoiled rich kids , feeling guilty about their wealth. but not guilty
enough to give it away they just look for politicians to take my
more limited wealth away.

i see a lot of people willing nay , eager to work. what i do n't see
is a system that makes it at all feasible to do so. it 's not just
welfare , which nobody enjoys , but there just are n't the jobs any more.
when the us was expanding industrial capacity there was always a mill
to go work in skills to learn , a future. now there 's only mcdonalds.

odd. not the experience of anyone i know. just the opposite.

in california \? \? \?

yup.

mr. cramer , i was there hippiedom was a very low budget operation.
our drugs were cheap.

the money i was referring to was aid to families with druggie
cohabitators (afdc).

well , i doubt that much of this goes to drugs there is n't much left after
buying food , and there is very little in the first place. sure , you read
about such cases now and then , but that 's what makes them news. show me
your statistics about afdc abuse.

i can tell you that relatives i have known , the drugs came first , the
food was secondary.

ken perlow

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re lincoln slavery (re top ten tricks you can play on the american voter)
article i.d. optilink.15229
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 36

in article 1993apr3.185448.13811@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article kmitchelc4wa87.hlz@netcom.com kmitchel@netcom.com (kenneth c. mitchell) writes
slavery makes economic sense (it never makes moral sense) when human
muscle power is an economically valuable asset. agricultural slavery might
have lasted right up to the first mechanical cotton reaper , but no
further reapers are cheaper than slaves , and do n't have to be fed during
the winter.

this argument makes a several fundamental errors. first agricultural
slavery was not limited to production of cotton. in the american south
slave labor was used extensively to grow tobacco , sugar , and rice , all
of which remained labor intensive enterprises well into the 20th century.

and of course , in states like kentucky and virginia , not well suited to
large scale plantations , slave labor was used to make one of the most
valuable agricultural products of all more slaves. in some ways , this
treatment of humans beings as breeding livestock is the most horrifying
aspect of american slavery.

second , although mechanization of cotton production could be expected to
reduce the demands for labor eventually , it was only in the 1940 's
the mechanization of cotton production in the south largely eliminated
the labor intensive character of the operation , long after the first
mechanical cotton reaper was invented.

this is an interesting question. steinbeck 's grapes of wrath
(published in the 1930s) , uses agricultural mechanization of cotton
production in arkansas as the cause of the joad family being evicted
from the land. how many years were involved in the mechanization of
cotton farming \? when did this first appear \?

ken mitchell the powers not delegated to the united states by the
steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from jar2e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (virginia 's gentleman)
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
organization university of virginia
lines 11

in regard to woody 's post , i thought i would remind him of something in
the midst of his tirade against academia
as a member of the generation likely to pay for the crap reagan and his cronies started with the deficit according to the brilliant laffer curve (not ! ) i
think we need to look with open minds upon any ideas which will allow us
to directly address the problems of the gigantic federal deficit and debt and
continue to allow our economy to expand and i do n't remember woody and co.
complaining about academia while laffer implemented his policy , stockman
approved it while being fully aware the numbers not adding up , and reagan
completing the largest con job of the century which my generation and i will now have to pay for.

jesse

from jason@ab20.larc.nasa.gov (jason austin)
subject polls (was re top ten excuses for slick willie 's record setting disapproval rati)
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va
lines 37
reply to jason c. austin j.c.austin@larc.nasa.gov
nntp posting host ab20.larc.nasa.gov
in reply to libwca@emory.edu 's message of 14 apr 93 20 31 09 gmt

in article 2680@emoryu1.cc.emory.edu libwca@emory.edu (bill anderson) writes
according to a ``cnn poll'' to key reason for clinton 's low
approval rating is people are angry about him not moving fast enough
on gays in the military. i just burst out laughing when i heard this
what planet do these cnn people live on anyway \?

jason c. austin
j.c.austin@larc.nasa.gov

dunno , man... that sounds pretty damned unlikely to me , too ,
although it 's certainly one of the reasons i'm pissed off at him.
maybe the sample was taken entirely from my fellow memebers of the
cultural elite \?

jason , can you quote some of these poll questions \?

thanks ,
bill
v

i 've never seen cnn give out the poll questions on the air.
if you sent them a letter asking for them , you might get them. here 's
my guess of how part of a session might look

question do you approve of clinton 's performance \?
answer no
questions do you disapprove due to the gays in the military issue \?
answer yes

conclusion clinton has a low approval rating because he 's not moving
fast enough on gays in the military.


i think any group truly dedicated to reporting the news would
not use manufactured news like polls.

jason

from wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr)
subject re law and economics
organization northeastern law , class of '93
lines 174
nntp posting host nw12 326 1.mit.edu
in reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu


procedural note ted directed followups to misc.legal only. while i
respect his right to do so , my own opinions are that (1) followup to
fields are mere suggestions , not mandatory commands and (2) this issue
is of sufficient (a) general political relevance and (b) civil liberties
interest to warrant keeping it active in t.p.m and a.s.c l as well , at
least for this round.

in article 1993apr11.155955.23346@midway.uchicago.edu ,
thf2@midway.uchicago.edu said

uh , no. that 's not what happened in boomer . what happened in
boomer was that the judge did n't allow the plaintiffs to blackmail
the cement plant by demanding a multi million dollar plant to be shut
down over 185 , 000 in damages , and required the plant to pay the
plaintiffs the 185 , 000 to make them whole. the plant would never
have been shut down the plaintiff 's lawyers would have just
negotiated a windfall settlement , because the plaintiffs would prefer
an amount greater than 185k to having the plant shut down , while the
plant would prefer any amount less than the value of the plant to have
the plant continue in operation. everyone 's property rights were
protected the plaintiffs were made whole unnecessary settlement
costs were avoided.

okay , now here 's my interpretation of boomer , based on the facts as
presented in the new york court of appeals holding ( boomer v.

note the new york court of appeals is the highest court in new york
state. while the united states and 48 of the fifty states call their
highest court supreme court , supreme judicial court or supreme
court of appeals , maryland and new york call theirs simply the
court of appeals. to make matters worse , new york also calls its
second highest court the supreme court , appellate division ...

atlantic cement co. , 26 n.y.2d 219 , 257 n.e.2d 870 (1970))

oscar h. boomer , et al. , owned land near the atlantic cement company 's
plant near albany , n.y. (the fact pattern gives no information as to
which came first , the plaintiff 's acquisition of the land or he
defendant 's start of production at their cement plant.) in the course
of its regular operations , the cement plant did injury to the
plaintiffs' property via dirt , smoke and vibrations emanating from the
plant. the plaintiffs sought injunctive relief that is , they asked
the court to order atlantic cement to stop damaging their property.

(commentary this seems entirely reasonable to me. boomer at al owned
their property and , presumably , a right to quiet enjoyment of it.
atlantic cement 's actions were depriving boomer et al of that right.)

instead of granting the plaintiffs' request for an injunction , the court
ordered them to accept the damage being done to their property , provided
that atlantic cement paid them 185 , 000 in compensatory damages. in
other words , the court granted atlantic cement co. , a private party , the
power and authority to take the plaintiffs rights to quiet enjoyment
of their property by eminent domain. a taking by eminent domain is
always problematical even when it 's done by the state allowing a
private firm to do it is , in my opinion , totally wrong.

(yes , i know , the boomer court did n't call it eminent domain. but if
it walks like eminent domain and swims like eminent domain and quacks
like eminent domain...)

let me take issue with the way you 've presented the case... you say that
what happened in boomer was that the judge did n't allow the
plaintiffs to blackmail the cement plant by demanding a multi million
dollar plant to be shut down over 185 , 000 in damages. blackmail \?

(pulls out black 's law dictionary , abridged 5th edition....
blackmail unlawful demand of money or property under threat to
do bodily harm , to injure property , to accuse of crime , or to expose
disgraceful defects. this crime is commonly included under
extortion statutes. )

how do you define as blackmail one party 's act of demanding the right
to set its own sale price for a unique piece of property which it owns
and which another party has expressed an interest in buying \? or of
demanding the right not to sell that property at any price \? as i see
it , boomer et al , having found themselves in the fortunate position of
owning something which atlantic cement had to purchase if it wanted to
stay in business , had every right in the world to set whatever price
they wanted. there is n't , or at least should n't be , any law that says
that you have to be a nice guy in your private business dealings.

you go on to say the plant would never have been shut down the
plaintiff 's lawyers would have just negotiated a windfall settlement ,
because the plaintiffs would prefer an amount greater than 185k to
having the plant shut down , while the plant would prefer any amount less
than the value of the plant to have the plant continue in operation.

if so , so what \? since when are the courts supposed to be in the
business of preventing parties from reaping windfall settlements from
other parties when those settlements arise from wrongful acts by those
other parties \? if atlantic cement did n't want to have to face a choice
between paying a windfall settlement or going out of business , well ,
should n't atlantic cement have thought of that before going into
business \? (i note that as far as the facts show boomer et al were not
the parties responsible for bringing about this situation that was
atlantic cement 's own fault for choosing to build and operate the type
of plant they did where and when they did.)

and then you say everyone 's property rights were protected the
plaintiffs were made whole unnecessary settlement costs were avoided.
as above , i dispute your claim that the plaintiffs were made whole.
they were , in fact , by court action deprived of their rights as owners
of property to choose to sell or not sell that property at a price
acceptable to them. and for that deprivation they were not made
whole. and again i ask since when are the courts supposed to be in the
business of ensuring that unnecessary settlement costs are avoided \?
(if so , i 've been miseducated i always thought that the courts were
supposed to be in the business of ensuring that justice is done.)

is boomer really being taught as infamous \? that 's really sad if
it is , because i fail to see how it 's less than completely sensible.
you should read the law and economics stuff first hand instead of
filtered through teachers who clearly do n't like it , for whatever
inexplicable reasons.

(1) boomer is not being taught as infamous , at least not at my
school.

(aside northeastern law usually does a very good job of hiring for
their first year , mandatory classes (such as torts , where i first
encountered boomer ) instructors who , regardless of their personal
opinions , can and do teach the law neutrally. when the students get
into their second and third years , in which the students (a) can pick
and choose which courses to take (except for the mandatory professional
responsibility , of course) and (b) are presumed to be a bit more worldly
and self confident , less likely to be consciously or sub consciously
intimidated by law school professors and able to learn from openly
biased instructors rather than be indoctrinated by them , the instructors
tend to be more open in expressing their own opinions. this is
especially true of part time instructors who , in real life , are
practicing attorneys or sitting judges... this can be very
educational , sometimes far more so than being taught by a somewhat
cloistered scholar. end of aside.)

i called it infamous because that 's my opinion of it. for the reasons
i 've stated above , i believe it to be a triumph of something that i can
only call economic correctness over justice.

(2) it is completely sensible only if you believe that the alleged
right of the owners of atlantic cement to stay in business and avoid
losing a lot of their own money due to their own wrongful act , and
the alleged right of several hundred atlantic cement employees to
not have their jobs disappear , should trump the rights of people who
own property which was damaged by atlantic cement 's wrongful acts.
(and if you believe that it is correct for the courts (or any other
branch of government) to grant to private parties the right to take
other people 's property by eminent domain.)

you 'd like posner , bill. he 's a libertarian.

really \? i did n't know that... what , if anything , has he had to say
about cases like boomer \?

of course , he has too much of a paper trail to ever be nominated by a
president , democrat (wo n't like his antitrust stance) or republican
(wo n't like his support of gay marriage) , and if bright law students
shiver at what they do n't understand , it 's easy to imagine how the
press will play it up as baby selling. (i 've seen mike godwin claim
that posner asserts that law and economics is applicable to everything
and is the end all and be all , when posner says precisely the
opposite.) so it goes.

i 've admitted that my understanding of the field generally referred to
as law and economics is weak. if it advocates the use of economical
analysis as one of many tie breaker factors which courts may use to
help them reach decisions in cases in which the dispute , as measured by
the scale of justice , is evenly balanced , fine. but as illustrated by
boomer , it is not fine when the courts start viewing the economics
of a case as being more important than the justice of a case.

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu


from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re my gun is like my american express car
lines 137
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr14.195912.16613@grace.rt.cs.boeing.com rwojcik@atc.boeing.com (richard wojcik) writes

in article 734629856@misty , john@anasazi.com (john r. moore) writes
papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) writes

i'm not. i'm in canada. we have far fewer shootings like this. we have
had , i believe , one mass murder in the last twenty years.

i'm not going to say we do n't have our gun problems. but we do have the
world 's largest undefended boarder with one of the most gun happy countries
in the world. i think canada illustrates that gun control does have an
effect. in fact , it 's suprising that there is any difference considering
how easy it is to smuggle a gun from the u.s.

yes , it 's amazing , is n't it. in fact , it should tell you that gun control
is not the reason your crime rate is low , since any idiot can smuggle guns
into canada from the us at any time.

i think paul was trying to make the point that any idiot does n't. there are
surely some idiots who do smuggle guns , but paul seems to feel that the exis
tence of stricter gun control laws has had a deterrent effect.

this seems a strange argument to make considering that canada 's
violent crime rate in general is far lower than that of the u.s. (our
non gun crime rate is greater than their entire crime rate). it
would seem strange to suggest that it , to , were the result of gun
control laws.

i think if we looked we 'd find very specific (cultural and
enforcement) reasons why the non gun rate is low as well , and then
that reasons could be applied to the with gun rates as easily.

given that most
criminally used guns are either legally purchased or stolen from those who
purchase them legally , having more restrictions on legal possession does
seem to have the effect of reducing gun related crimes.

aside from the fact that i find the idea of being punished
because somebody might steal something from me and go and commit a
crime with it a silly solution , it still does n't address the
question of canada. (which is now , by the way , blaming their rising
gun crime rate on the u.s. strange that the border used to magically
keep the guns out , but now is n't.)

it certainly makes
sense that it would. (well , it makes sense to some of us , anyway. )

the other side of the coin , of course , is that far illegal drugs
are purchases legally or stolen from people who purchase them legally.
i 've still not been convinced that guns , a commodity which criminals
have shown their perfectly willing to pay for from illegal sources
(stolen either from police , military , or civilian) we would n't simply
see south american sources from which drugs come start smuggling guns as
well , since there 's a thriving gun manufacturing industry down there.

if you would just look a little closer at the crime statistics , you would
realize that
our non gun crime rate is also very high , so guns per se are not the issue

directly contradicted by the nejm study that compared crime in seattle and
vancouver , b.c. the non gun rates were roughly the same for both cities. the
difference in violent crime rates was almost totally gun related.

and as was not pointed out in the study , but in critiques
of it , (two seperate articles by james wright and david kopel come
to mind) it was pointed out that the difference was also almost
entirely minority related. that is , the gun crime rate skyrocketed
for poor minorities (blacks and hispanics primarily) while when you
compared the white majority they were virutally identical.

the problem with the nejm study was they compared minority vs.
non minority percentages but failed to take into account the relative
conditions of those minorities. that there was an eqaul percentage of
nomn whites was about as far as they went. they failed to take into
account that the non whites in either city were not living in the
same conditions.

if the situation was entirely based on availability of guns ,
then we 'd expect that the white rates , the two groups which are
arguably fairly comparative in the two cities , would have a far
higher rate in seattle. yet the majority in seattle is not only
not significantly higher when the minorities are excluded , but slightly
lower.

violent crime is highly concentrated in the inner city

surprise. pick the area with the highest incidence of poverty , drug use , disease ,
etc. since rates are lower in suburbia , us middle class folks can ignore the
problem.


the point is , of course , that many of the u.s. inner city
problems are not mirrored in canada. as such if there is a condition
which is significantly different in canada from the u.s. , and violent
crime is highly correlated to that area , suggesting that gun control
is the source of canada 's low rate is highly questionable. (as one
canadian pointed out on talk.politics.guns , canada 's major gun control
in 1978 did not result in either a reduction or a slowing of an increase
in violent crime rates , which have been rising steadily since. apparently
they did n't even mirror the u.s.s very large drop of violent crime in
the early eighties.

most violent crime occurs in areas with strict gun control already

post hoc ergo propter hoc. those areas implemented gun control because of
the high rates.

true only to a certain extent. take washington d.c. , where
gun control was instituted while it had crime problems true , but that
crime proceeded to explode afterwards. similarly for new york.

the question is not simply a point in time where crime was high
or low. did the gun control significantly and positively impact
violent crime. since it 's gone up in those areas , often faster than it
was going up before , you ca n't simply dismiss the high crime rate by
saying gun control was caused by it. yes , gun control may be instituted
to deal with high crime. but if the crime is not positively impacted , you
ca n't continually say that that crime rate was entirely a cause of
that gun control , since much of that crime rate increased after gun control
was implemented , just as happened in canada.

similar or worse rates exist in cities with poor gun control.

as would be expected if violent crime was generally independent
of gun control.

and the jury is still out on the question of whether recent tough laws in
washington d.c. may have alleviated violence and suicide rates there.

would this be the laws which made manufacturers liable for what
others did with their guns , and suddenly the police found nobody would
sell to them \?

david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from joec@hilbert.cyprs.rain.com ( joe cipale)
subject re clayton need not retract
organization cypress semi , beaverton or
lines 13

in article apr.9.08.39.25.1993.15639@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
civilized society. the only way a homosexual can maintain even a
modicum of respectability is by remaining in the closet.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

once again , it appears that the one eyed man has appeared in the land of the sighted
and for some strange resaon has appointed himself the ruler and supreme power.

joe cipale

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's radio interview in pittsburgh 4.17.93
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 212
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu





the white house

office of the press secretary
(pittsburgh , pennsylvania)

for immediate release april 17 , 1993


interview of the president
by michael whitely of
kdka am radio , pittsburgh

pittsburgh international airport
pittsburgh , pennsylvania



10 40 a.m. edt


q for everyone listening on kdka radio , i'm mike
whitely , kdka radio news. we 're here at the pittsburgh
international airport and with me is the president of the united
states bill clinton.

and i 'd like to welcome you to the area and to kdka.

the president thank you , mike. glad to be here.

q there are a lot of things we 'd like to talk
about in the brief amount of time we have , but some news is just
breaking from los angeles. i guess the entire country has been
kind of holding their breath , wondering what 's going to happen in
the trial of the four los angeles police officers. we just heard
that two of those officers , the sergeant , sergeant koon and
officer powell have been found guilty , and two officers have been
found not guilty.

it 's a situation that 's been building for over a
year since the first trial and now this trial and this verdict.
and i wonder what your thoughts are this morning on how you see
the situation in los angeles in connection with your
administration and what you 're trying to do.

the president well , first of all , i think the
american people should know that this trial , in my judgment , is a
tribute to the work and judgment of the jury , as well as to the
efforts of the federal government in developing the case.

the law under which the officers were tried is a
complex one the standards of proof are complicated. the jury
decided that they would convict the sergeant who was responsible
for supervising the officers and the officer who on the film did
most of the beating. the jury acquitted an officer who kicked
rodney king , but also plainly tried to shield him from some
blows , and another officer who was a rookie.

no one knows exactly why they did what they did , but
it appears that they really tried to do justice here. they
acknowledged that his civil rights were violated. and i think
that the american people should take a lot of pride in that. but
i hope now we can begin to look ahead and focus on three things
first of all , the importance of trying to bring this country
together and not violate the civil rights of any american
secondly , the importance of renewing our fight against crime.

i think it 's important to recognize that in the
poorest areas of los angeles and many other cities in this
country , people may be worried about police abuse , but they 're
even more worried about crime. it 's time that we renewed our
efforts to go to community policing put 100 , 000 more police
officers on the street pass the brady bill that would require a
waiting period before people could buy a handgun , and do some
other things to reduce the vulnerability of our people to
violence and drugs.

and the last point i 'd like to make is it seems to
me that we have got to rededicate ourselves to the economic
revitalization of our cities and other economically distressed
areas. if you just think about it if everybody in los angeles
who wanted a job had one , i do n't think we 'd have quite as many
problems as we do.

and i laid out a very ambitious program in the
campaign to try to bring private investment and public investment
to bear in our cities. i have dispatched the commerce secretary ,
ron brown , to california to try to come up with some strategies
for that state , because it 's our biggest state with our highest
unemployment rate which could then be applied around the
country. i want to talk to him and to the attorney general , to
the new head of the naacp , to reverend jackson , and to several
other people , and then i 'll decide where to go from here with
regard to los angeles and the other cities of the country.

q let 's talk about what brings you to the
pittsburgh area today. there have been i guess there 's been a
lot of discussion on capitol hill about your stimulus package.
you 've been locked in a battle with the gop. yesterday , as you
said earlier in your radio address , you made some moves to break
that gridlock. what brings you to pittsburgh , in particular to
allegheny county , in particular to pennsylvania , with that
battle \?

the president well , there are two reasons. first
of all , pittsburgh , allegheny county and pennsylvania supported
me in the last election because they wanted a new direction in
economic policy. we have passed our overall economic plan it
gives the country a very different budget for the next five years
than we 've had in the previous 12. we reduced the deficit and ,
at the same time , increased investment in jobs and education and
health care , in the things that will make us a stronger country.

but in addition to that , i asked the congress in the
short run to spend a little more money , a modest amount of money
to create another half million jobs in the next year and a half
to try to cut the unemployment rate by a half a percent but also
to try to spark job creation in the private sector more. the
plan passed the house. it has the support of a majority of the
senate. at the present time , all the republican senators as a
bloc are filibustering the bill. that is , they wo n't let it come
to a vote.

i believe that senator specter would like to vote
for the bill. and i believe that senator dole , the republican
leader , has put a lot of pressure on a lot of the republicans to
stay hitched. and they 're all saying that this bill increases
the deficit. it does n't. this bill is well below the spending
targets that congress approved , including the republicans , for
this year. this bill is paid for by budget cuts in the next five
years. this bill is designed to give a jump start to the
economy. and i must say , a lot of the republican senators that
are holding it up , when mr. bush was president , voted for
billions of dollars of emergency spending of just this kind
much of it was totally unrelated to creating jobs.

so what i'm trying to do is to break this logjam.
i 've held out an olive branch , i 've offered a compromise. but i
think that we ought to try to put some more americans to work
right now to show that we 're changing the direction of the
country. and that 's the purpose of the bill.

q have you been in touch with senator specter or
his office lately \?

the president well , we 've been trying to talk
regularly to through my white house congressional liaison
operation to the senators that we think are open to this
senator specter , senator d'amato from new york , senator jeffords
from vermont , senator hatfield from oregon , and five or six
others whom we believe know we need more jobs in this economy and
know that we are paying for this with budget cuts over the life
of the budget i presented.

you know , it has a lot of appeal to say , well , we 've
got a big deficit , we should n't increase it more. but the truth
is that we are paying for this with budget cuts in the whole life
of the budget over the next few years. and more importantly , we
have this program well below the spending targets that congress
has already approved for this year. and they 've done this for
years , with the republicans voting for it many republicans
voting for it for things that were n't nearly as important as
putting the american people back to work.

so i just hope that this does n't become a political
issue. it ought to just be about the people of this country and
the need for jobs.

q i have some questions from people who supported
you , and some people who are skeptical about your administration.
it has to do with their hopes , and also with their fears. a lot
of people who supported you and voted for you in pennsylvania i
think some of them are now saying , we 're glad we got him in the
white house , but now look at this incredible process he has to go
through. look at these problems. look at this gridlock. and
they 're beginning to wonder , is this going to work can you pull
it off \? and , of course , your skeptics are saying , well , i knew
it was going to be like this.

the president well , what i would i 'd ask
people , first of all , to remember that we are , frankly , moving
very fast. the budget resolution that the congress passed is the
fastest they have ever passed a budget resolution ever in
history , setting out the next five year budget targets. so we
are moving really rapidly. and we 've got them working on
political reform , welfare reform , health care reform , a whole
wide range of things.

but it 's a big operation. you ca n't expect to turn
it around overnight. it took 12 years to produce the conditions
which led to the victory i received from the people in november ,
and we ca n't turn it around in 90 days. but i think we 're making
real , real progress.

i would urge the people not to get discouraged.
we 're not going to win every battle , and not everything is going
to happen overnight. but we are definitely moving and changing
things.

q thank you very much.

the president of the united states , bill clinton ,
here live at pittsburgh international airport. i'm mike whitely ,
kdka news.

end10 31 a.m. edt




from libwca@emory.edu (bill anderson)
subject re formal rebuttal to the presumption of jurisdiction
organization emory university , atlanta , ga
lines 17
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3

kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
in article 1993apr5.045612.14229@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes

... you 're not breathing clean air provided by government
regulations , ...

if this does n't beat all i ever heard ! the above certainly says a
mouthful about the mindset of ted frank , and also of statists
everywhere.


yes , there 's certainly no need to argue with him , or address the
substance of what he says he 's a statist , after all. probably
politically correct , too...

bill


from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
lines 27
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr16.170521.21129@midway.uchicago.edu shou@quads.uchicago.edu (roger colin shouse) writes

speaking of vat did anyone see cnn 's report yesterday (4 15) \? it
was quite hillarious (no pun intended). they ran down how a percent tax
was added at each stage of manufacturing , graphicaly depicting a stack of
quarters being added at each wholesale stage. when they got to the final
stage (the actual retail sale) the small stack of quarters added to the
large stack already there was said to be the amount paid by consumers.
in other words , they completed ignored the fact that at each stage the
tax would of course be passed on to the next buyer with the retail consumer
paying the full load.

these are not journalists they 're lap dogs.

one of the commentators on one of the big three news programs
described the vat (which ai n't a sales tax) as a tax government 's love.
i was even surprised he got the reason right it effectively hides the
majority of the tax the consumer has to pay from the consumer. it 's
kind of like they do with cars. you pay far more for automobile taxes than
most people realize because it 's contained in two dozen different taxes ,
everything from your license to your tires to your gasoline.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from jmc@sail.stanford.edu (john mccarthy)
subject re new environmental group launches.
in reply to eoneill@nyx.cs.du.edu 's message of sun , 4 apr 93 23 02 33 gmt
reply to jmc@cs.stanford.edu
organization computer science department , stanford university
lines 17


teddy o'neill creature with furry hobbit feet from bath uk ,
a sentimental fool , posts

with the force of a world wide youth movement , it ought to
be possible to establish a coordinated global program to
accomplish the strategic goal of completely eliminating the
internal combustion engine over , say , a twenty year period.

evidently there are no open questions , either scientific or about
how people prefer to live.


john mccarthy , computer science department , stanford , ca 94305

he who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense.


from cosc0000@ucssun1.sdsu.edu (riyadh al hajmoosa)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
organization san diego state university computing services
lines 16
distribution usa
nntp posting host ucssun1.sdsu.edu

kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study
(discrediting kinsey) says so.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

my understanding from my psycology classes is that the percentage is
more like 10 12 world wide. i would really like to know your source
for the 1 2 figure.

riyadh moosa.
sdsu chemistry.
cosc0000@ucssun1.sdsu.edu

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re the manitoban candidate
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 12
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , smith@phoneme.harvard.edu (steven smith) says

with yet another tax being floated by the clinton administration to
pay for new ``free'' social programs , i 've really begun to suspect
that the canadians , long resentful of their place in the american
shadow , brainwashed an american draft dodger who fled to canada some


hey , he has been talking with mulroney a lot , huh \?



from dyoung@ecst.csuchico.edu (douglas young)
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster
distribution na
organization california state university , chico
lines 77
nntp posting host grotus.ecst.csuchico.edu

in article philc5ls4a.mea@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes
in article 612@vega.iii.com rhockins@enrico.tmc.edu (russ) writes
in article philc5ht85.h48@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil
ronzone) writes

not at all. you are apparently just another member of the
religious left.

not at all. i am not a member of the religious left , right ,
or even center. in fact i do n't consider myself very
religious at all this will probably result in flames now )
. in fact phil , you should leave religion out of it. it just
clouds the issue.

the religous left worships trees , rivers , the planet , and hates people.

and the religious right worships engines , smokestacks , landfills ,
and hates people.

what does this name calling have to do with anything you are claiming about
the truth of environmental disaster \? nothing that i have read in this
thread , nor heard from anyone i have talked to , would suggest to me that
people fit the definition you give of the religious left. come off it , phil.
a prime motivation for protecting our environment is so that we ,
people , can continue to live in it healthily. we just disagree on what
is necessary to maintaining a healthy environment for people.

show me all these environmental disasters . most of them
are n't. and the natural disasters we have had individually
far outweigh the man made ones.

russ 's response deleted to save space

i guess you missed the newspaper articles this week about exxon presenting
evidnce (through the astm) on the issue of the valdez incident. seems
that valdez is mostly recovered , despite the religious left 's cries of

hundreds of years .

what ! \? they have already repaired that old hulk ! ! ! \? wow ! ! ! )

i suppose you mean the alaskan shores that were devastated by the
valdez accident \? i have n't seen the articles. what do they say exactly \?
has mostly all the ocean and shore life returned \? the sands are mostly
as clean as they were before \? the microbial samples are mostly back to
a normal balance \? the fish and fowl populations have mostly returned \? what \?

then again , the relgious left claimed it would take 20 yearsb to put out
the kuwait oil fires...
...
you should face the facts. love canal
was not , and is not , an environmental disaster , nor even a problem.

nor is times beach and tmi and acid rain killing trees and ....

not a problem \? would you move to three mile island \? i would imagine
there is some cheap property available !

the naturally occurring catastrophic events disasters that destroy
property (ie hurricanes , tornados , earthquakes) do not usually leave
toxic wastes that prevent people from re building their lives there.
the man made disasters (oil spills , toxic dumping , radioactive waste
dispersions) cause death and make an area unliveable far beyond the
initial event.


there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)



) (
douglas young (dyoung@ecst.csuchico.edu)
i do n't know why , but i seem to expect a serious discussion on the net.
) (

from stromer@eyore.unet.com (philip h. stromer)
subject re urgent ted frank wanted for killing aj teel...
article i.d. unet.1993apr6.221210.3054
organization network equipment technologies , redwood city
lines 31
nntp posting host eyore

if the heading is true , mr. frank should be ashamed of himself.

nothing makes me gag more than people who do n't respect the
rights of others to voice their opinions. my idol lenny bruce
once commented about that asshole time magazine when they
advocated censorship of his material. time actually sided
with the cops' and their arresting of bruce at his shows ,
whereby he routinely would say cocksucker , then the cops
would rush the stage to arrest him. my , how the times have n't
changed...

i ca n't help but think of how lenny would be received in today 's
politically correct arena. heck , i even support the right of
neo nazis to speak their opinions and march down the streets.

and before mr. frank or anyone else makes any wisecracks about
anti semitism...i'm jewish , a longtime member of aipac and the jnf ,
and have contributed over 1000 apiece to these fine groups. i'm
a regular contributor to every pro israel group i can find , but i
still support the right of people like arf to speak up and vomit
his propaganda.

i want to know just who these people are ! ! !

i'm basing all this on the assumption that mr. frank did indeed
write to some sysadmin requesting mr. teel to be admonished. if
this is not the case , i hereby retract these nasties directed
toward him. if not , i stand against mr. frank and his trashing
of the first amendment.

philip stromer

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re prolifer or terrorist threat
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 22

in 1993apr5.204531.9006@jetsun.weitek.com nadja@weitek.com (nadja adolf) writes

in article c4za0h.ihd@wetware.com drieux@wetware.com writes
in article 1pamhpinn7d3@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu , taite@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu () writes
i'm prepared to instruct individuals in the proper use and
handling of firearms.

as a desert storm vet with six years in the national guard , i have a
great deal of experience in handling weapons and tactical training.


ps anyone up for a discussion of counter sniper operations \?
security drills , your friend the counter terrorist operation.....


if twit promises to train them in tactics and weapons handlings , i doubt
any of them will last long enough to become terrorists. look for a sudden
rise in firearms accidents among the fiends of the fetus , though.

bless you , nadja , we needed a name for these attack puppies. friends
of the fetus , or foof for short. )


from mwalker@novell.com (mel walker)
subject re top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans
nntp posting host mwalker.npd.provo.novell.com
organization novell , inc
lines 23

in article c5kmz5.hy4@newsserver.technet.sg , ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed
ipser) wrote


top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans


deleted for a very good reason which i'm sure you can guess


0. enact a law that bans people without a sense of humor from
posting allegedly humorous items. if he did this , i think
his approval rating would go through the roof !

copyright (c) edward a. ipser , jr. , 1993

this means we ca n't quote ed without his permission. no using these lists
in your .sigs , folks !


mel walker mwalker@novell.com
all opinions expressed are of the author.
novell , inc. is not responsible for the content of this article.

from dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier)
subject re hate crimes laws
article i.d. news.1993apr6.052552.18045
organization northwestern university , evanston illinois.
lines 25
nntp posting host unseen1.acns.nwu.edu

in article 1993apr6.043935.27366@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@midway.uchicago.edu writes
in article 1993apr5.050127.22304@news.acns.nwu.edu dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right shade. a single
act should never merit more than on charge.

so if i set off a bomb in the world trade center , i can only be charged with
more than one murder , and not the other five deaths and extensive property
damage \? after all , the bomb was a single act.

ted frank however teel should have mentioned that though

again , mr. frank has come to the rescue with his cool headed reason. how
about , one charge per victim \? of course i 'll think about it in a few days
and find a case where this does n't apply either.

what the heck , i do n't study law , i just hate lawyers. )


douglas c. meier you ca n't play electro magnetic golf
northwestern university , acns according to the rules of centrifugal
this university is too commie bumblepuppy. huxley , brave new world
lib pinko to have these views. dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu

from goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
nntp posting host dzoo.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma
lines 52

in article 15apr199320293386@utkvx.utk.edu drevik@utkvx.utk.edu (drevik , steve) writes
in article c5jobh.7zt@apollo.hp.com , goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writes...
in article 1993apr14.122758.11467@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jlinder@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jeffrey s linder) writes
in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.c
om (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.

immunizations for children in this country are already free if you care to
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the irresponible parents
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done.

i do n't know where you live , but this is not the case nationawide.
perhaps your state or municipality has put together the funds to
do so , but in my area and most areas where i know people , immunizations
cost .

nationwide , the immunization rate among toddlers is about 50 , but
it is reportedly as low as 10 in some inner city neighborhoods.
i bet more than 10 kids living in such neighborhoods are already
covered by medicaid.

here in massachussets , we have had a universal immunization program ,
the kind of clinton seems to be proposing , for many years (two decades \? ).
mass' immunization rate is 65 . what about the other 35 \? i guess
some parents are indeed too ignorant or too lazy , or simply do not
care.


sorry to shatter your stereotypes.

\? \? \?


in case you have n't noticed , clintonites are pushing a universal health
care access program. access here means that folks who do not give
a damn about immunizing their children will have health care services
delivered to their doorsteps.




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's.





disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's.


from dsh@eceyv.ncsu.edu (doug holtsinger)
subject re pro abortion feminist leader endorses trashing of free speech rights
organization ncsu
lines 71

in article c5mmep.19n@panix.com
gcf@panix.com (gordon fitch) writes
dsh@eceyv.ncsu.edu (doug holtsinger) writes

51 arrested for defying judge 's order at abortion protest rally
the miami herald , april 11 , 1993

circuit judge robert mcgregor 's order prohibits anti abortion pickets
within 36 feet of the property line of aware woman center for choice.
even across the street , they may not display pictures of dead fetuses
or sing or chant loud enough to be heard by patients inside the clinic.

several years ago , justice william o. douglas , who was
about as libertarian as you can get about free speech
and similar issues , wrote a majority opinion in which
the supreme court turned down an appeal by a group of
people who had been prohibited from demonstrating in
front of their landlord 's home.

do you have a cite for the case \? you do n't give enough
information to be able to compare the two situations.
if the demonstrators had been blaring loud rock music
into the landlord 's home all day and night , then i could
see how the opinion would be justified. but this court
order had prohibited abortion protesters from displaying
pictures of dead fetuses , which does n't disrupt the privacy
of anyone inside the clinic.

he pointed out that
people have a right to be free from speech ,

perhaps in the privacy of their homes , but not on public
property. did the korean grocery store owner in new york
city have a right to be free from the speech of the protesters
outside his store \? patrons inside the store could hear the
protesters asking them to re consider shopping there how
is that different from the abortion protesters asking women
to re consider getting an abortion at a clinic \?

harassment goes beyond
expression to direct attack on particular persons ,
in this case the workers and clients at a clinic.
its purpose is clearly not to convey information or
express an opinion , but to intimidate and do harm to
other others.

even if the protesters' speech could be considered
harassment (which it is not) , hate speech laws have
generally been struck down by the courts. i do n't see
how the words ``do n't kill your baby'' or ``abortion is
murder'' could be considered harassment.

anti abortionists have lost the battle for public
opinion , and the more psychopathic among them have
turned to harassment , arson , bombing and murder to
carry on their war. there is no reason not to
restrain them to protect the ordinary civil rights
of everyone else.

some of the protesters were arrested for simply praying
quietly on a public sidewalk. yeah , i could see how
that might be equivalent to bombing and murder .
uh huh. let us know when you get a grip on reality.


) ( gordon fitch ) ( gcf@panix.com ) (
( 1238 blg. grn. sta. , ny ny 10274 718.273.5556 )


doug holtsinger


from elf@halcyon.com (elf sternberg)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization pendor , unltd.
lines 35
distribution world
nntp posting host nwfocus.wa.com
comments
originator elf@halcyon.com

in article 1993apr16.200354.8045@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes

actually , i bet you more gay bi men are as not as promiscuous as gay men ,
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and
with social pressures , probably would at least try.

geez , where have you been , ryan \? i proposed this theory months
ago. let 's take it one step further , even. if , as the surveys show ,
up to 33 of all men have had a homosexual encounter , then there must
be an even larger percentage of people who have had homosexual erotic
fantasies. but if less than 10 of the population is gay , what can we
say about these people who do n't identify as gay but have demonstrated
gay potential. obviously , a large chunk of these people chose (or ,
more accurately , were forced to choose by force of religion and social
sanction) to put those feelings aside , to be heterosexual.

obviously , cramer and kaldis fall into this category.

these people are the ones who are so hung up on choice.
obviously , since they chose , everyone must have , and homosexuals are
just flaunting their perversion by choosing not to go along with what
society has dictated.

of course , i'm that most awful of perverts. i chose , i gleefully
admit that i was heterosexual until i met the right man and chose to
indulge in my homoerotic potential. take that !

elf ! ! !

elf@halcyon.com (elf sternberg)

the purpose of writing is to inflate weak ideas , obscure pure
reasoning , and inhibit clarity. with a little pratice , writing can be
an intimidating and impenetrable fog ! bill watterson 's calvin.

from nils@monroe.dartmouth.edu (nils nieuwejaar)
subject re we 're winning the war on drugs. not !
keywords drugs dea wod legalization
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
lines 42

kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot) writes

the chart that follows was taken from the wednesday , april 14 , 1993
issue of usa today ( drug use up among u.s. eigth graders by mike
snider , p. 6d).

adolescents' choices

drugs used by eighth graders in the last month
estimated , per 100 students
1991 1992 pct. chg.
alcohol 25.1 26.1 4
cigarettes 14.3 15.5 8
marijuana 3.2 3.7 16
amphetamines 2.6 3.3 27
lsd 0.6 0.9 50
cocaine 0.5 0.7 40
crack 0.3 0.5 67

source university of michigan institute for social research ,
1993 report

we are not winning the war on drugs . i think you can see that one
of the tactics that the dea employs to give people the impression that
the war on drugs is being won is to selectively quote statistics
only statistics that support their contention that drug use has gone
down. the excerpt from time magazine that i included in this post is
an excellent example of how organizations like the dea attempt to
deceive the public.

unfortunately , there 's not much we can learn from the statistics presented
here either. due to rounding , the 1991 est. for lsd could be anywhere
from .550 to .649 and the 1992 est. could be anywhere from .850 to .949.
this means that the actual change (if you believe these statistics in the
first place) was anywhere from 31 to 73 . similarly the increase in
cocaine use could be anywhere from 18 to 66 and the increase of
crack use could be anywhere from 29 to 120 . this does n't even
take into account the margin of error which is n't provided here.

this does not mean that the rest of the argument you present is unfounded ,
but it does mean that usa today has (not surprisingly) provided us
with virtually no information.

from edo2877@ucs.usl.edu (ott edward d)
subject email
keywords e mail clinton
organization univ. of southwestern la. , lafayette
distribution usa
lines 5

does anyone have prez. clinton`s e mail address.
thanks a lot




from dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be)
subject re traffic case
article i.d. oregon.5apr199315572465
distribution world
organization university of oregon
lines 20
nntp posting host oregon.uoregon.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr5.140934.876@colorado.edu ,
ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes...
the mcdonald case was dismissed in the interests of justice

on whose authority do you have this and on what grounds was it
dismissed \?

daniel reitman

how not to write a deed

one case involved the construction of a conveyance to grantees jointly , as
tenants in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the
survivor thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the
said parties hereto , equally , jointly , as tenants in common , with equal rights
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the survivor thereof
at the death of the other.

the court held that the survivorship provision indicated an intent to create a
joint tenancy. germain v. delaine , 294 ala. 443 , 318 so.2d 681 (1975).

organization arizona state university
from cxnbk@asuacad.bitnet
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993
lines 5

narrative , narrative , narrative. . .



c.b.

from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject re rodney king trial , civil rights violations , double jeopardy
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
lines 37

in 1993apr2.182942.22445@husc3.harvard.edu spanagel@husc11.harvard.edu (david spanagel) writes

recently it 's occured to me that i 've never heard of any person ever being
tried in federal court for violating someone 's civil rights. of course
there have been cases before the supreme court in which it was decided
that someone 's civil rights had been violated (e.g. , miranda , escobedo ,
etc.) , but institutions were , de facto , the defendants , not individuals. am i
mistaken \? have there been similar cases against individuals in the past \?

i know it was used several times in the south , to prosecute the murders of
blacks , after all white juries had cleared the accussed.

furthermore , what are the specific charges against the four lapd officers \?
which civil rights or laws are they accused of violating \?

i believe it is a general charge , that is no specific right is mentioned.

what about double jeopardy \? has there been any concern that a verdict
against koon , et al. might be overturned upon appeal because they 're being tried
again for the same actions \? (i thought i heard something on the news about
this.)

the ss has previously ruled that since the seperate governments were in
essence seperate sovereigns , then double jeopardy does not apply.

(if this is true , then could defendents also be tried under city and
county governments \? )

this mornings paper said that the aclu has decided to reinstate its
opposition to this kind of thing. they had earlier suspended their
opposition while they examined the king case. there might be hope
for the aclu after all.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 23
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c5jh23.eu8@encore.com , rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins) writes

look at the whole picture , not just
randomly picked libertarian positions. if government is not allowed to
use non initiated force to achieve its goals , than no special interest
can influence the government to use non initiated force on their behalf.

either the government has force available to it , or it does n't. the
libertarian position is that the government can use force only when someone
else uses force first even when that first force is not directed
against the government , but one of its citizens. that all being true ,
what safeguards do we have against the government claiming that some
initiation of force on its part is really a response \? (like the burning
of the maine , the tonkin gulf incident , or the assault on waco \? )

i ask this not to argue , but to understand.

(followups to alt.politics.libertarian only.)


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from drk@melodian.cs.uiuc.edu (dave kohr)
subject re foreign media reaction april 1 12 , part 1 of 3
organization cs dept. , univ. of illinois at urbana champaign
lines 19

in article c5jv7a.7f7@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes
the usa could go quite far to mend the bridges with iran. the people
there are rather pissed off because the usa first supported the shah who
they loathed and then supported saddam when he mounted an unprovoked
attack. hardly surprizing after the embassy hostage crisis but iran is
meant to be the country run by unreasonable bigots not the usa so if there
is to be movement it would be easier for the usa to move.

phill hallam baker

it is also widely stated (in non mainstream sources) that the cia had a
large part in the overthrow of the popular (and popularly elected)
left leaning premier mossadegh in 1953. is this widely recognized outside
the u.s. \? (i have never seen it mentioned at all in mainstream u.s.
media.) how about within iran \?

dave kohr cs graduate student univ. of illinois at urbana champaign
work 3244 dcl , (217)333 6561 home (217)359 9350 e mail drk@cs.uiuc.edu
one either has none or not enough.

from jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr)
subject re the state of justice
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 13
nntp posting host achates.mit.edu

in article 1993apr15.170239.8211@hemlock.cray.com
rja@mahogany126.cray.com (russ anderson) writes

there 's a guy on death row in texas that was denied a new trial , dispite
evidence of his inocents.

i recommend the book adams v texas , the story of a man (adams) who
was sentenced to death for a crime he did n't commit. most of the book
is the story of the long appeals process , and the problems and delays
caused by not being able to introduce new evidence in certain courts.


john carr (jfc@athena.mit.edu)

from c115184@cs.ualberta.ca (merth eric william)
subject re af ats red army fraction (raf) communique
nntp posting host assn119.cs.ualberta.ca
organization university of alberta , edmonton canada
lines 19


in article c4vbm1.gs0@ncoast.org , cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton) writes

as quoted from c4vctb.j1h@dscomsa.desy.de by hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)

is n't it wonderfull the way people can make the sadistic and indescriminate
murder of the bader meinhof gang sound like altruism \?

gee phil , i 'd remember where you are and that these people are monitoring the

net. i 'd also remember that they have about as much sense of humor as ed


damn. it is n't big brother after all \? and all this time i thought that all
those revolutionaries , while blowing things up and killing the odd
innocent person in the process , really did love all us proles. ('cause
everybody knows that dialectical materialism will save you even
if it has to get you killed first ).
what a fool i 've been.

from jason@ab20.larc.nasa.gov (jason austin)
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va
lines 45
distribution usa
1993apr5.193616.14521@cbnewsi.cb.att.com philc51d4f.g2j@netcom.com
reply to jason c. austin j.c.austin@larc.nasa.gov
nntp posting host ab20.larc.nasa.gov
in reply to phil@netcom.com 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 00 24 14 gmt

in article philc51d4f.g2j@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes
in article 1993apr5.193616.14521@cbnewsi.cb.att.com gadfly@cbnewsi.cb.att.com (gadfly) writes
now let me get this straight. after a nice , long rant about
how people need to take personal responsibility for their
economic and social lives , all of a sudden 1960 's radicals
(such as me , i guess) are responsible for poor people 's
lifestyles \? tell me how that works or do you think that poor
people are just too dumb to think for themselves \?

there are many reasons for the disintegration of the family
and support systems in general among this nation 's poor.
somehow i do n't think murphy brown or janis joplin is at
the top of any sane person 's list.

you want to go after my generation 's vaunted cultural
revolution for a lasting change for the worse , try so called
relevant or values education. hey , it seemed like a good
idea at the time. how were we to know you needed a real
education first i mean , we took that for granted.

the 1960 's generation were the most spoiled and irresponsible.

the depression had create mothers and fathers that were determined that their
kids would not want for anything going overboard and creating a nation of
brats.

consider the contrast between two famous events in july of 1969.

apollo 11 and woodstock.

which group had large numbers of people that could not feed themselves and
reverted to the cultural level of primitives (defecation in public etc.).

and which group assembled , took care of itself , and dispersed with no damage ,
no deaths , no large numbers of drug problems ....


was n't woodstock also called the biggest parking lot in
history \? they rejected society and went back to nature in their
parent 's cars.

jason c. austin
j.c.austin@larc.nasa.gov



from tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re the state of justice
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 31
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu

demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact , not
from the fire.

thoughts \?

how can a witness tell that someone in a burning truck is dead rather than
unconscious \?

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

what kind of witnesses \? if we are talking about witnesses who were at
the accident , or were otherwise directly involved (e.g. , paramedics ,
emergency room doctors , etc.) , then they should have been used at the
first trial. you do n't get a new trial because you screwed up and
forgot to call all of your witnesses.

if we are talking about new expert witnesses who will offer new
interpretations of the data , note that the loser can always find
such witnesses. if this were grounds for a new trial , then the loser
could always get a new trial , and keep doing so until the loser
becomes a winner (and then the other side would come up with new
expert witnesses).

tim smith

from edo2877@ucs.usl.edu (ott edward d)
subject e mail
organization univ. of southwestern la. , lafayette
distribution usa
lines 7



does anyone have the e mail address for the white house. if so please send it to
me thanks a lot.




from hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen)
subject re will italy be the next domino to fall \?
organization wake forest university
lines 51
nntp posting host ac.wfunet.wfu.edu

(note cross posted to alt.politics.italy and talk.politics.misc
this is a reply to an article by ed ipser which also appeared in
alt.politics.usa.misc and alt.politics.libertarian , but no longer belongs)


i hate to defend ed (the article was very poorly written) but here goes

hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes
ed should take a look at the budget deficit regan and bush created together
before he starts to make claims about europe collapsing based on the budget
deficits here. none of them are serious on the usa scale.

italy 's per capita debt is much higher than usa 's.


we do not want our countries to be run by a narrow elite of rich lawyers
for the benefit of the super wealthy.

this is exactly what the public in france italy perceive to be the
problem thus the french election and italian pulizia.


regarding the post pulizia italy
what looks likely to happen is the fringe parties are going to do much
better in the next election. most of the parliamentary deputies are going
to get replaced and the parties are going to be forced to look to people
who are free of any hint of corruption. look out for a parliament of
pavarotti 's and porn stars.

wrong. this is true perhaps only for the lega nord.
the referendum sunday is expected to establish a british american style
first past the post system in the senate. if implemented , it would
encourage a two (or perhaps three ) party system in italy.
most likely the dc and psi will not be these parties rather there will
be a shakeup of the entire party structure from which 2 new parties
will emerge to dominate. will lega nord be one of these \? who knows.

(the camera dei deputati (lower house) will likely remain with
proportional representation for a while , but there is talk of switching a
portion of that house , too. maybe as much as 40 first past the post)

overall , the electoral reform in italy is a welcome change. italians
are tired of having crappy government. porn stars , pavarotti 's and
hunters fishers wo n't gain seats because pr is dead. a good two party
system will bring italy efficient , accountable government.

it 's about time.

jeff hagen
hagenjd@ac.wfu.edu


from bmich@cs.utexas.edu (brian keith michalk)
subject re high speed rail is bad
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 16
distribution tx
nntp posting host coltexo.cs.utexas.edu

in article 1993apr15.162802.20933@hydra.acs.ttu.edu mcgoy@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu (david mcgaughey) writes

the question , i think , then becomes do we , the general public , need the train \?

i certainly do not , nor will i ever , need this train in lubbock , texas. with
the inexpensive air travel provided between dallas and houston , i do n't think
people in dallas or houston need it either.

i totally agree. really , the only people this is going to benefit , are
those who live in the cities where the train stops. who wants to drive
to the train station from x (lubbock for example) \? it 's probably farther
to drive to the train station than it is to the nearest national airport.

i really ca n't see spending 5.7 billion on a system that only three cities
will benefit from.


from al976@yfn.ysu.edu (franklin kadell jordan)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
organization youngstown state youngstown free net
lines 28
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


i am so tired about all this debate on how many gays there
are ! such arguments are basically worthless , imho. would it
really matter if it were millions of people who are regularly
denied access to housing , employment , and personal security or
even only one \?
as for death threats , i happen to know from personal
experience that gay people are far more likely to receive
them based on political veiws or even personal philosophies
related to the issue of sexual orientation than are heterosex
uals. not a week goes by that i personally or one of my friends
is not physically or verbally harrassed for even appearing to
be gay.
everyone is garaunteed certain unalienable rights under
our current form of government in theory , yet every day
gay people are victimized by their local governments , by
the police force , and by (for the most part) an uninformed
and ignorant public. is this democracy \? i do n't think so.
a society 's sense of justice is judged on the basis of
the treatment of the people who make up that society.
all of those people. and yes , that includes gays , lesbians ,
and bisexuals whose crimes have no victims , and who
are as varied and diverse as the society of wich they are
a part.

frank jordan
gay arab bassoonists unite ! ! !


from paul@hsh.com (paul havemann)
subject re clinton president to nominate carter for nuclear security post
organization hsh associates
lines 28

in article 1qgbljinnn4o@life.ai.mit.edu , clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92) writes

the white house
office of the president
for immediate release april 13 , 1993

president to nominate carter for nuclear security

no , no , no ! bill , please , do n't nominate anyone who pronounces it
noo q lar ! jimmy always used to drive everyone nuts when he did that !
and do n't let amy anywhere near ! and...

(washington , dc) the president announced today that he intends
to nominate ashton carter , the director of harvard 's center for
science and international affairs , to be assistant secretary of
defense for nuclear security and counter proliferation.

emily litella voice

...never mind.



paul havemann (internet paul@hsh.com)

they 're not just opinions they 're caffeine for the brain !
(up to 50 milligrams per cynical observation.)
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000 mg. keep reading.

from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 36

atboyken@iastate.edu (aaron t boyken) writes

here 's a question what if , instead of a true vat , the federal
government imposed a sales tax of say 2 3 \? the tax would only
be paid on retail sales (thus not building up at all levels of
production costs that are just passed on to consumers anyway) ,
and would only go to reducing the deficit. (i know that this
would never happen , but it seems a lot more palettable than
a vat).

canada 's gst is collected as a sales tax and is considered a vat.
funnily , the previous hidden wholesale tax that it replaces was
never referred to as a tax (or , people never paid mind to it ,
thus the uproar when it was brought up front as the gst
one party has actually campaigned on hiding the tax again).

the stated intent of the tories was to use the gst to write down
our deficit. unfortunately , their legislation did n't include any
mechanism for disbursing the collected funds in such a manner and
the money is now sitting in escrow. i do n't know what is involved
in releasing the funds , but one dilemna is that the tories are not
fiscal conservatives themselves though while taxing and spending ,
they 've made moves to apply the breaks to a runaway locomotive by
the end of this time the end of their second term ( 9 years).
while they do have chances of getting a third term , catching up
in the polls to their more moderate slightly leftish pro business
rivals , the liberals (as in euro uk) , the tories' heir apparent
for the leaders' mantle has been termed a clone of hillary
clinton ...

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from rwd4f@poe.acc.virginia.edu (rob dobson)
subject re motor voter
organization university of virginia
lines 12


kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
when i entered 1st grade , eisenhower was president and john f. kennedy
was just a relatively obscure senator from new england. so how old do
you think i am now \?

and we all hope , teddy , that you will graduate from the first grade
while clinton is president. keep trying.



disclaimer remialcsid

subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
from rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins)
organization encore computer corporation
nntp posting host sysgem1.encore.com
lines 35

julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas) writes
in article c50fnh.cvo@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
with a tip of the hat to david letterman for making the top ten format
so popular

top ten reasons that conservatives do n't want to aid russia

looking around who \? where \?
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia. many other
conservatives do as well.

julie
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else

yes , it was nixon who was most vocal about giving money to russia. it
makes me proud to be a libertarian. it appears both conservatives and
liberals prefer to cold war until you win , then nurse the enemy back to
health for another go around.

it 's like subsidizing the wealthy countries (japan , germany , etc.) with
free defense , and then trade warring with them because of the economic
competition. it 's like subsidizing tobacco farmers while paying
bureaucrats to pursuade people not to smoke.

i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing
stupid , frivilous things with our money \? then i think , the constitution
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money
from my paycheck and gives it to needy countries \? seriously.

roger collins

if we were directed from washington when to sow and when to reap ,
we would soon want bread.
thomas jefferson

from phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
subject re mr. cramer 's 'evidence'
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random.
lines 43

in article 1993apr17.111713.4063@sun0.urz.uni heidelberg.de gsmith@lauren.iwr.uni heidelberg.de (gene w. smith) writes
in article philc5lsd9.ms3@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil
ronzone) writes

libertarians want the state out of our lives.

nambla members want to fuck little boys.

now do you get it \?

i see ! libertarians want to have the right to fuck little
children of either sex , and want to make sure everyone else
has this right too. nambla just wants to have the right to
fuck little boys.

or are you just a secret member of nambla \?

you 're the one who suddenly seems to be defending the right
to fuck children. how many little girls have you raped today ,
phil \?

if wanting to abolish the age of consent is not repectable ,
it is not respectable for anyone.

hmm , you still do n't get it. then again , i'm not posting from a university
where the hue and cry was raised against jewish physics .

tell me , committed any anti semitic acts today \? what kind of boots do you
wear \?

and still libertarians want the state out of their lives. parents are very
capable of protecting their children against the predations of pedophiles ,
which , btw , you still have n't disassociated yourself from.

are you , or are you not , a member of nambla \?




there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)

from tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re winning tax case !
article i.d. shelley.1pqi26innl8j
distribution world
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 27
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu

dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be) writes
which makes it legally unsound. if i were representing mr. teel ,
i 'd try a procedural approach if i could find one , or recommend
he plea bargain. he 's setting himself up to be in hot water.

indeed. reading the cases of people who 've tried the various things
mr. teel suggests show that defendants fall into two classes (1) those
who win on procedural grounds or some grounds not related to their
claim , and (2) those who lose.

consider newman v. schiff , 778 f.2d 460 (8th cir.1985) , which i 've seen
cited by tax protestors other than mr. teel as a win for mr. schiff.
mr. schiff offered 100 , 000 on tv to anyone who would call in the
show and cite any section of the internal revenue code that says that
an individual has to file a return.

mr. newman took him up on it. mr. newman had seen the show in a rebroadcast
the next morning. mr. schiff claimed that the offer only extended to
people who actually say the original broadcast , and so there was no offer
for mr. newman to accept , and so no unilateral contract was formed , and
so mr. schiff did not have to pay 100 , 000.

mr. schiff was correct , and so won. so , yes , mr. schiff won against a
claim on the 100 , 000 reward. however , his win had nothing to do with
the tax code.

tim smith

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 99

in article stevethc5lm2e.fx8@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes
in article c5l69c.fxp@news.iastate.edu jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach)
writes
in article stevethc5js6f.fn5@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) w
rites
boy , it looks like the wod is working really good to stop people from
being screwed up in the head , given that example !

(issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal
drugs and who is not screwed up have to pay for this idiot 's problems \? he
's
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the wod , on the other hand , is a
n
immediate threat to my life and livelyhood. tell me why i should sacrafice
this to that ! ).

hello , is there anybody in there \? you think you have to pay for this idiot 's
problem now , who 's going to pay for the ballooning number of addicts and
all of the associated problems with them. i do n't even want to think about
it with hillary in the white house and an administration that feels our
pain .

look , if you were truly for lower taxation and less government , you would not
be advocating the wod. ever wonder why the wod is a bi partisan issue \?


no harm but to himself \? what about when he drives his school bus full
of kids into a train. when he gets stoned and drives up on a sidewalk
and kills 5 people. when he lives off me on welfare for the rest of his
life.

ridiculous. i ca n't imagine anyone this stupid. forgive me for flaming ,
but this is sooooooo obvious !

tell me why any of the above cases cannot be caused be a legal drug , viz.
alcohol , or are you for having a war on that , too \?

now i 'll tell you more people are killed by alcohol related accidents
than all other drugs combined. by far.


probably because more people have access to alchohol. it is legal you know.



the problem with the wod is that it has no bite. sending the slimy
bastards to the chair for selling drugs to kids , now there 's some bit.


yeah , that 's it , send a kid from the inner city , who has no other viable
means to make money and turns to selling drugs , to an over crowded federal
prison where he learns to do real crime.


of course , this kid would be much better off selling crack to his neighborhood
and helping in its demise.

without drug money being pumped into these blights from the (affluent)
outside , there would be no crime (who would they steal from , each other \? ).
drugs bring money into the community just like any other business would ,
except that , since drugs are illegal , the economy is an underground one.

and if those drugs were legal , the neighborhood could legally go to hell.

a self sustaining underground economy can only proliferate by a constant
willful infusion of money from the outside. if you take away drug laws ,
you put an end to the underground economy , and therefore to large scale
crime.


and if we made murder legal , we would put an end to murder as a crime.

kids in the inner cities are faced with a very tough life growing up
there , or selling drugs and having everything at their fingertips instantly.
many kids choose selling drugs. they sell products to people who want to
buy them. they make money off of rich white kids from the suburbs. then
they go to prison. then they become hardened criminals , and learn that
you 're much better off stealing car stereos in the suburbs because all
the police forces are spending all their money in the inner city saving
people from themselves.

what \? \? \? \? \? \?


you can bring up all the examples you want about crack babies and whathaveyou.
the solution never has anything to do with the laws (crack is illegal).


so you are saying crack babies who are that way legally are okay \?

no social problem , however great , is worth destroying the freedom in america.
the destruction of freedom is never an answer to any social problem.

you ca n't even walk down the street at night alone in america because of drugs.
freedom my ass.

ryan

from ihorton@cch.coventry.ac.uk (dr zippy)
subject re sexual proposition sexual harassment \?
nntp posting host cc sysh
organization dr zippys psycho surgery
lines 13

in article 930316.144130.lynn@pcgeo23 lynn@granitt.uio.no (malcolm lynn) writes

this is a tesrt
s

of your spelling , eh \?

dr zippy.


dr zippy , proof that dum blonde is n't a women only title

ihorton@uk.ac.coventry.cck

from will steeves goid@zooid.guild.org
subject re anita hill...giving out pubic hairs \? ! oh please ! prove it ! !
x to theodore a. kaldis
organization the zoo of ids
lines 100

kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes...
in article 1993mar20.161551.4638@zooid.guild.org goid@zooid.guild.org (will s
eeves) writes

j. lani herrmann

we are wondering why the clinton administration is having so much
trouble finding a suitable nominee for the post of attorney general ,
when there is an obviously superior candidate ...

we refer , of course , to prof. anita hill.

michael friedman

probably because if they pick her the republicans will investigate
the rumors that she sometimes returned papers to her students with
a couple of pubic hairs inserted between the pages.

while i'm hardly one of prof. hill 's biggest fans , i find this hard
to believe.

could you please supply (with a post , preferably) some proof of this ,
ie. , newspaper articles documenting such allegations , etc. \?

well , your ignorance about this is unsurprising , given you 're a
canadian. and i'm at a complete loss at to why you should be so
interested in this , given that it is an american issue which should
properly be of absolutely no concern to you at all.

actually , my interest in gender issues is not limited to international
boundaries. indeed , i often exchange information with americans about
issues which concern us , in both countries.


in any event , in
answer to your question , the following is taken from david brock 's
article , the real anita hill , published in the march 1992 issue of
the american spectator . this is taken from page 27.


ah...someone had mentioned this journal , but gave no further information.


but the most bizarre incident is alleged to have happened in the
school year 1983 84 at oral roberts university , according to a
sworn affidavit , dated october 13 , 1991 , and filed with the senate
judiciary committee , in which lawrence shiles , now a lawyer in
tulsa , recounted the following

shortly after the class had begun , professor hill gave us a
written assignment which i completed and duly turned in. when
this assignment was passed out to the class after having been
marked by the professor , sitting next to me were fellow
students jeffrey londoff and mark stewart. upon opening the
assignments and reviewing our grades and comments made by anita
hill , i found ten to twelve short black pubic hairs in the pages
of my assignment. i glanced over at jeff londoff 's assignment
and saw similar pubic hairs in his work. at the time i made the
statement to londoff that either she had a low opinion of our
work or she had graded our assignment in the bathroom. mark
stewart overheard the conversation and said that he had similar
pubic hairs in his assignment also. this became the standing
joke among many students for the remainder of the year in
classes.

other students in that class confirmed the story. londoff says
he could n't be certain that the hairs were pubic , but he said he
thought it was unlikely that they could have come from hill 's head ,
since they were short , coarse , and curly , and hill had had the hair
on her head straightened. another student who saw the hair , but
did not want to be identified , said of its origins you just know
when you see it.

does this satisfy you ,

yes , thank you , though i am really curious as to why this never came out
(at least not in what i saw , up here in canada , or on cnn , which is sent
up here) during the thomas nomination hearings. surely , one would think
that her claim to having been sexually harassed , would have a great deal
less credibility if it could be shown that she had herself been guilty of it.


or do you regard sworn statements given to a
u.s. senate committee as equivalent to toilet paper \?

ahemmm.... it depends. )

(for instance , if it were the sworn statements at the warren commission ,
then yes , i would say that the statements were no better than toilet
paper , used at that ) , but in most cases , the answer would be no ).


will steeves , goid@zooid.guild.org neil hull is goid
zooid bbs , toronto , ontario the zoo of ids goids rule
(416) 322 7876

solve patriarchy , install peterarchy
peter j. hanus , b.a. (upei)

slmr 2.1a scott me up , beamy.

from mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization gordian costa mesa , ca
lines 60

in article c5ij7h.l95@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1993apr15.021021.7538@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article c5huh1.241@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
think about it should n't all drugs then be legalized , it would lower
the cost and definitely make them safer to use.

yes.

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine
legality.

why not \?


where do they get these people \? !

what , pray tell , does this mean \? just who exactly is they \?
you mean they as in people who do not blindly swallow every
piece of propoganda they are given \? or they as in nokd (not
our kind , dear). or they as in an appeal to some audience
that is supposed to implicitly know and understand \?

i really do n't want to waste time in
here to do battle about the legalization of drugs. if you really want to , we
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is !

read i do not know what the fuck i'm talking about , and am
not eager to make a fool of myself.

my point was that it is pretty stupid to justify legalizing something just
because it will be safer and cheaper.

from a pragmatic standpoint , there certainly is some justification
if it is a vice people will commit anyway. shall we criminalize
alcohol again \? if the re legalization for alcohol were done from
anything other than the pragmatic standpoint , i 'd be happy to hear
about it. the fact is that it was n't.

a few more ideas to hold to these criterion prostitution the killing of all
funny farm patients , aids victims , elderly , unemployed , prisioners , etc.
this would surely make my taxes decrease.

only the first one make any sense. there is nothing to legalize
about all the rest. just in case you have n't made the connection
(which i expect you have n't) the connecting theme in this thread is
a persons autonomy over their life and body. vice statutes serve
only to make it more expensive for the rich and more dangerous
for the poor , as tim so eloquently put it. people will , however ,
take autonomy over their lives , regardless of what the government
says.
and why , pray tell , is aids victim in snear quotes \? are you of
the revisionist sort that thinks there is no such thing as the aids
plauge \? or do they just deserve it \?


michael thomas (mike@gordian.com)
i do n't think bambi eyes will get you that flame thrower...
hobbes to calvin
usnail 20361 irvine ave santa ana heights , ca , 92707 5637
pabell (714) 850 0205 (714) 850 0533 (fax)

from schwarze@starbase1.caltech.edu (erich schwarz)
subject re 19th century capitalism
organization caltech , div. of biology
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host anise.bio.caltech.edu

in article 31mar199317363332@jane.uh.edu , mece3d@jane.uh.edu (chris
struble) wrote
christian struble writes

some people are not very good at getting the best deal for their
effort , and others are unwilling to put forth much effort , even in
the face of economic incentives. there will always be some people
who are stupid or lazy , relative to the ability or effort of most
others. the question is what do you do with them \? there are three
options
...
2) kill those who are not productive as a drain upon society .
this is the communist ( all who do not toil shall not eat
lenin) or fascist approach.
...

you 're being too generous to the communists , i think. in practice ,
communism has solved the problem by killing off anybody who is too
productive , and who therefore raises embarrassing questions about why the
rest of the group is a bunch of sluggards. the mass butchery of kulaks
in the ussr is a good instance of this.
a poor second best is to have a neighboring capitalist country to which
people of politically incorrect skill and ambition flee. i often wonder
just what castro would have done if the cubans presently in miami would
have been forced to remain in cuba. would they have revolted and killed
him off , or been killed \?
best of all is to build a wall locking the citizens of your country in ,
load it up so heavily with attack dogs , barbed wire , and land mines that
most people fleeing over it die , and then give everyone the choice of
obedience , prison , or flight. this would be a bad science fiction novel ,
if the east germans had n't actually done it. the last person to die
crossing the wall , as i recall , was an unarmed woman who was shot in the
back. erich honecker was going to go on trial for that , but he fled to
socialists in chile.
it 's good to be kind to one 's intellectual opponents , but sometimes
it 's a sheer waste of time.

erich schwarz schwarze@starbase1.caltech.edu

from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject just what is in the jobs pork bill \?
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
distribution usa
lines 26

this was in wed. wsj.

start
the white house , seeking to mount public pressure on gop senators , bombarded
news outlets in some senator 's home states with news releases warning that
certain projects may not be funded if the 16billion stimulus bill is n't
passed.

none of the projects mentioned are actually in the bill , rather they are
part of a wish list that may be funded from the 2.56 billion in
community development block grants.

...

end

i could have sworn i heard a bunch of clintonites going on and on , raving
about how dishonest it was that the rebublicans were taking items from this
wish list in order to ridicule this bill. now that clinton is using that
same list in order to garner support for the bill , are you guys going to
do the honarable thing and say that clinton is being dishonest.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from k044477@hobbes.kzoo.edu (jamie r. mccarthy)
subject re ca 's pedophilia laws
organization kalamazoo college
lines 79

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
k044477@hobbes.kzoo.edu (jamie r. mccarthy) writes

having completely
dived into the abyss of believing that there are no queers in the world
who think differently from the child molestation advocating minority on
soc.motss , he does n't even notice that he 's starting a sentence with
they believe when the referent of that they is millions of people.
...so few as to be irrelevant...

if you do n't want to be lumped together as a group , stop insisting
on being treated as a member of a group.

please point out where i have said i even was a member of that group ,
much less asked to be treated as such , much less insisted upon it.

sexual orientation is not defined by the anti discrimination law
that was passed last year. pedophilia is n't a sexual orientation \?

wait a minute. you 've been claiming for quite a while now that
pedophilia , according to ca state law , is a sexual orientation. now
your position is that the law does n't specifically exclude it \?

you know damn well what 's going to happen. some guy in a nambla
t shirt 's going to apply at a day care , they 're going to turn him down ,
he 's going to take it to court , and the court 's going to rule that
sexual orientation is defined as homosexuality , heterosexuality , or
bisexuality.

unless and until that court decides that pedophilia is a sexual
orientation , you have no business saying so.

silence death pin or something. they turn me down because of
that.

i wholeheartedly support their right to take this action. i would n't
do it myself , unless it was something like the nambla t shirt.

despite the fact that all homosexuals are lying bastards \?

how about a black man applies for a job at a bank. the bank decides ,
based on statistics , a black person would be more likely to steal
money , and denies the man the job. would you support the bank 's right
to this freedom \?

i support their right to do so deletia but deletia

ah.

so , for example , you are opposed to the civil rights act of 1964 \?

here 's the law that was passed and signed by the governor

the people of the state of california do enact as follows

1 section 1. the purpose of this act is to codify
2 existing case law as determined in gay law students v.
3 pacific telephone and telegraph , 24 cal. 3d 458 (1979)
4 and soroka v. dayton hudson corp. , 235 cal. app. 3d 654
5 (1991) prohibiting discrimination based on sexual
6 orientation.
7 sec. 2. section 1102. is added to the labor code , to
8 read
9 1102.1. (a) sections 1101 and 1102 prohibit
10 discrimination or disparate treatment in any of the terms
11 and conditions of employment based on actual or
12 perceived sexual orientation.


13 (b) this section shall not apply to a religious
14 association or corporation not organized for private
15 profit , whether incorporated as a religious or public
16 benefit corporation.

there 's no for purposes of this act , the term 'sexual orientation' will
be defined as section \? no definitions anywhere \? did they run this
through the state congress on an accelerated schedule or something \?

jamie mccarthy internet k044477@kzoo.edu applelink j.mccarthy

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re the tories could win the lottery ...clinton gst \?
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 48

in article c5jy07.8gk@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes

in article 1993apr15.053553.16427@news.columbia.edu , gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.
edu (gary l dare) writes

cmk@world.std.com (charles m kozierok) writes
gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes

secondly , any canadian who has worked and participates in the
insurance (it 's a negative option , you have to explicitly decline
it) knows that the premium is deducted separately ...

yes , and some americans actually have a problem with having more
of their money taken from them to pay for others' health care...

but note again , the canadian and german health insurance is voluntary

not true. i am required to have insurance by law. the method of collection
effectively makes it a tax.



the selfish bastards that they are. unfortunately , that number has
diminished recently , but once president pinocchio gets through
with us , i hope for a reversal of trend.

well here we have the right hoping for more selfish bastards. pity they
do n't look at what 12 years of the regan bush selfish bastard ecconomy
has done to the country.

elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselve
s ,
thats why they are selfish bastards. bush and regan gave tax breaks for the
ultra rich and paid for them by borrowing against the incomes of the middle
class.


this country is hardly ruined. in fact , it is booming compared to after the
1980 election.

this whole usa has gone to hell and reagan bush caused it , is not only lame ,
pathetic , and old....... it 's wrong.

under reagan bush the economy grew by 1.1 trillion dollars. this is more than
the entire economy of germany , a kind , gentle country , in many peoples'
books. what a joke.

ryan

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's remarks at summer jobs conference 4.14.93
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 378
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu





the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 14 , 1993


remarks by the president
at summer jobs conference


hyatt regency
crystal city , virginia


11 22 a.m. edt


the president thank you very much. the speech that
octavius gave says more than anything i will be able to say today
about why it 's important to give all of our young people a chance to
get a work experience and to continue to learn , to merge the nature
of learning and work why it 's important to honor the efforts of
people like jerry levin and nancye combs and pat irving and all of
those who are here.

i want to thank the secretaries of labor and education
and all the people who work with them for sponsoring this and my
good friend , governor wilder , for being here and for speaking and
all of the business and local community leaders from the city and
county and state level from around america who are here.

this has been a pretty fun day. (laughter.) i loved
hearing the young people sing. it was music to my ears because it is
their future that we are really struggling about. (applause.) a
year and a half ago i began the quest to seek the presidency because
i was concerned about their future. because i believe that our
country , which had always been a beacon of hope for the young , had
too little opportunity , was too divided among ourselves across lines
of income and race and region and other ways , without a vision to
take us into the future.

i entered with the hope that together we could create
more opportunity and insist on much more responsibility from all of
our people. but in the process we might recreate the best of
america 's community , knowing that together we could always to more
than we could individually and that we might secure our future.

all of you here today are committed to that. the 1 , 000
jobs that jerry levin has committed time warner to is symbolic of the
commitments made by many of the private sector people who are here ,
and those who are around the country. the work that nancye combs
does , and the successes of all the young people like those on this
stage , and especially the eloquent statement octavius jeffers all
those things show that together we know what we need to do , and we 're
on the right track.

last july when i was traveling across america 's
heartland in my luxurious bus , i visited seneca high school in
louisville , kentucky. and there i met young people and business
people who were participating in the louisville education and
employment partnership. i saw what nancye combs talked about today.
i saw how the young people were making an extra effort to succeed
both in school and at work. i saw , as i have seen many times in my
own state , the principle illustrated that octavius has talked about
that for millions of american young people it is really an
impediment to both their learning and their ability to be good
workers to draw a sharp dividing line between what is work and what
is learning.

in the world in which we are living , the average young
person will change the nature of work seven or eight times in a
lifetime. we must learn to merge the work world and the learning
world much better. and we must determine that all of our young
people see the opportunities that some of them have had showcased
here today.

whether you 're in business or in government or in
education , you know that we have a big job to do when it comes to
building a future that really , honestly includes opportunity for all
of our people. there are still a lot of people who say , well , things
are pretty good here in washington and everything 's fine the best
thing we can do about this whole thing is nothing. they all have
jobs. (laughter.) all the people who say that. (applause.)

they all have health insurance. they all have a pretty
good education. and they all have a pretty secure knowledge that
they 'll be okay no matter what happens. i say that not to be either
political or unduly critical , but to point out that one of the great
challenges of this age for every advanced nation everyone is to
fully develop the capacities of all of its people , and then find work
for them to do.

all the european countries have higher unemployment
rates than we do , but also stronger support systems for the
unemployed. the japanese unemployment rate has been going up.
they 're going to adopt a stimulus that , even if you count it in its
most rigorous terms , is three or four times bigger than the one that
i have proposed to create jobs.

in west germany alone , the unemployment rate is now
about as high as ours. this is a big problem for advanced nations.
it costs a lot of money to add an extra employee , with a lot of
pressure from low wage producers in other countries that are growing
their own economies and trying to provide new opportunity for their
people.

but it is especially important for america for two
reasons one is , we have a whole lot of folks who , unless we move
aggressively , will not have the education and skills we need to be
competitive and productive in a nation like this. the second is ,
even if we educate them all , if there are n't jobs they will be robbed
of the fruits of their educational labors. people need to be able to
work in this country. (applause.)

we have always had some unemployment and , indeed , some
of it is normal. you 've always got some people leaving jobs and
moving around the country and doing first one thing and another. we
have now , at this moment in our history , the necessity for all big
organizations , including the government , to reexamine the way they
are organized and who ask whether there are too many people working
at some kinds of jobs. but in the whole , we must still be able to
create jobs in a country like america , to provide people with the
chance to work.

it 's going to be difficult for me to make the welfare
reform proposals that i will make to congress in the next couple of
months it 's going to be hard for me to make those work if , at the
end of all this work , to get off welfare there is n't a job.
(applause.)

so we have two tasks. one is to develop the capacity of
the american people to perform without regard to race or income or
the circumstances of their birth. the other is to make sure that
there are some opportunities for them to bring to bear for their
talent and to be rewarded with a paycheck. it is a great challenge.
i do not pretend that all of the answers are simple. but i know if
you want to ask the american people , all of them , to be more
responsible , if you want to recreate a sense of community in this
country that bridges the lines of race and income and region , you
have got to have opportunity in that mix.

a part of our vision for america has to be a future for
every young person in this country who 's willing to play by the rules
and work hard and strive for the end of the rainbow. there has to be
something at the end of that rainbow. and that is what we are
basically here to talk about today what can we all do as partners ,
recognizing none of us can do it alone , to develop the capacities of
our people to succeed wherever they live and whatever their
background. and then , what can we do to make sure that there 's
something there for them to do \?

the summer jobs program we 're discussing today is an
integral part of that plan , because it will promote the values of
work and opportunity and fairness , community. it will put the people
first , and it does have a partnership between the public and private
sector.

i said when i addressed the united states congress in
february on this program that i would seek to create about 700 , 000
extra summer jobs from government sources and then challenge the
american business community to meet that target so that we can create
more than a million new summer jobs over and above what had been
created before.

many , many people have responded to that challenge. and
jerry is just a shining example of that which has been replicated in
this room and around the country people who are going to do more
than they otherwise would in the private sector to give young people
a work experience. and it is terribly important.

i want to emphasize that this summer jobs program is
part of an overall commitment to increase the capacity of the
american people from retraining defense workers who lose their
jobs and other adults who need to acquire new skills to improving
the transition from school to work for young people who do n't go to
college but do need at least two years of post high school training
either on the job or in a community college or a vocational setting ,
so that they can be competitive workers , making it possible for more
people to go on to college who do want to go.

all these things are part and parcel of a comprehensive
plan. it 's also important , as i said , that we create more jobs. the
emergency jobs program that i asked the congress to adopt would
create a half a million extra jobs over the next year and a half , and
that would reduce the unemployment rate by a half a percent. it
would also enable us to absorb more young people coming into the work
force in jobs that otherwise will not be created.

it also will help a lot of cities and counties to
invest in things that need to be done at the grass roots level
projects long delayed , water projects , sewer projects , park projects ,
new industries and particularly in small and medium size communities
a whole range of things that will improve the economy and improve
the environment.

the summer jobs program is an important part of that
because we have tried for the first time , through the work of the
labor department and the education department and through reaching
out to people like you , to make this more than just a one shot summer
jobs program to integrate it with private sector efforts to
hopefully replicate it in each coming summer to move these young
people into further educational opportunities and to further job
opportunities and to have a strong , meaningful education component
to these summer jobs something that the united states government
has never fully emphasized before.

a lot of these young people , as you well know , because
they come from difficult backgrounds , because they go to school in
difficult and challenging circumstances , need extra help in building
their basic skills in math and language , reasoning and in other
areas. and a lot of educational studies show that young people who
have difficulty in school often forget as much as 30 percent of what
they learn over the summer and then that has to be repeated the next
year.

what we are trying to do here is to give people the
opportunity to learn good work habits and to reinforce their learning
skills and to put them together and then , hopefully , over the next
couple of years , if our entire program passes , to give every school
in this country the opportunity to have a good work and learning
environment.

there will be more applied academics , more opportunities
for people to learn and work during the school year , so that this
will not simply be an isolated moment for these young folks , but will
be a part of building a whole new educational experience , a whole new
work experience , and moving on a pathway to a better future.

the summer jobs programs are not designed to be make
work jobs. they 're designed to make a future for the people holding
the job. and that 's what they will do. in the process , they 'll help
to build local communities , to strengthen local economies , to solve
local problems. real jobs renovating housing , repairing public
buildings , doing clerical work , providing nursing assistance in
hospitals , supervising and training children at child care centers ,
and learning all the way. challenging young people to learn while
they earn , but letting them earn.

you know , it 's very difficult to make a case to people
who have never seen opportunity on their own street that they should
do this , that , or the other thing if there 's no evidence of the
opportunity that 's at the end of the effort. i have not been sparing
in going for the last year and a half into places where it is n't
exactly popular to say it , and say i wanted to reform the welfare
system i wanted to toughen child support i wanted to require people
to work i was sick and tired of people being irresponsible in the
use of guns on the streets , and i wanted to change all that. but if
you 're going to summon people to greater responsibility , you have to
reward them when they do the right thing with opportunity.
(applause.)

the young people we propose to put to work under our
program will spend 90 hours learning basic skills , such as math ,
reading , writing either on the job in the classroom. they will
stretch their minds as well as work up a sweat. they will have a
sense of accomplishment. it will literally be a summer challenge ,
but a challenge that will take them into a different life.

so i want to ask all of you to support this effort even
as i , as your president , support your effort. at the end of the
summer we will evaluate all the young people who participate. we 'll
see whether they , instead of falling behind over the summer
academically as too many young people do , they stayed even or moved
ahead. i suspect that they will.

this summer , secretary reich and secretary riley and i
will be visiting many of your communities. we 'll really try to learn
from you which of these efforts are working , what we should do next
summer , how we can build it in to what goes on during the school
year , how we can build in our job training efforts and the works that
we do with your companies to make sense of this whole thing so
that we maximize the impact of the taxpayer dollar and your private
investments as well.

we want to honor the companies and the communities , the
business leaders and the young people who do the very best jobs this
summer. and , again , i want to say to all of you in private business
who have matched our effort , i thank you. and to all of you who
have n't , and those across the country who may listen or learn about
this event today , i want to implore other private employers to
stretch a little bit to give other young people a chance to work this
summer. i'm telling you , we cannot go through another 10 years when
we do n't give these children anything to say yes to. if we exhort
them to do right , we 've got to be able to reward them. (applause.)

when the other speakers were talking , i was sitting up
here on the platform , listening and reveling. and they got talking
about work , and i got to thinking about all the different things i 've
done to make a living in my life. when i was 13 , i made a very
foolish short term business investment i set up a comic book stand
and sold two trunks full of comic books. made more money than i had
ever had in my life. but if i had saved those trunks , they 'd be
worth 100 , 000 today. (laughter.)

that does not mean young people should not be
entrepreneurial. it just means that you ca n't foresee a generation
ahead. i have mowed yards and cleared land and built houses and
worked in body shops and the parts departments of a car dealership.
and i 've done a lot of different things for a living. some
people say i got into politics to escape work. (laughter.)

i learned something from every job i ever had. but i
grew up in a generation where i literally did not know a living soul
without regard to race or income who wanted to work who did n't have a
job. i grew up in a generation when all you had to really say to
people is , get an education and you 'll be all right. you 'll get a
job and you 'll make more money next year than you did this year. now
i live in a generation full of people , most of whom do n't make any
more money in real dollars than they did 10 years ago and they 're
working longer hours and they 're paying more for the basics of life.
and we are now wondering whether we can create the jobs that these
young people want.

now , i want to close by reemphasizing these two things
it does n't matter what kind of economic policies this administration
pursues , or how much productivity increases there are in the private
sector , if young americans do n't get a good education , do n't learn
how to work and ca n't be productive , those jobs will not be created
in this country. machines will do the work or the work will be done
off shore by people who have the same skill levels and can work for a
third or a fourth or a fifth the wages. so nothing we can do
economically will matter unless we build the skills and capacities of
america 's work force. and anybody that pretends otherwise is just
kidding.

on the other hand , we need to be honest. every wealthy
country in the world , including the united states , is having
difficulty creating jobs. if i knew everything that needs to be done
i 'd be glad to tell you and we could just call off the whole
deliberations of congress and everything else. i do n't have all the
answers. but i know this doing nothing is not the answer.
(applause.)

and so the jobs program that i have presented to
congress , with the summer jobs , with the money for the cities and the
counties , through the community development program , with the
infrastructure money , is a small part of a big budget. it is an
attempt to engage in an experiment to see whether or not , with the
economy recovering in terms of corporate profit , we can give a little
boost to it , give opportunities to young people , create a half a
million jobs and maybe get the engine going again.

most of the jobs in this program are going to be jobs in
the private sector , not government jobs , even though it 's government
money. and the lion 's share of the work in rebuilding the american
economy obviously will come from the private sector. that 's the kind
of system we have and it works pretty well.

but this is the challenge we have. so i ask all of you
here today to support the summer jobs program , to ask your friends
and neighbors to support it , to go back home and ask your employers
to make a little extra effort to do what you can to help me pass the
funds to create the 700 , 000 jobs that the united states government
should create this summer , so that together we can have this
partnership. because more than anything else , we have to give a
future a future that our young people can believe in.

we need to send them a message that here in america if
you study hard and work hard , if you obey the law and contribute
something to your community , you will be rewarded by your country.
you can build a future from you own dreams.

that has always been the promise of america. together
that 's what this summer of challenge needs to be a reaffirmation of
the promise of america for so many young people to whom that promise
has been an illusion. we can make it a reality.

thank you very much. (applause.)

end11 45 a.m. edt




from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re re fillibuster
lines 323
organization university of tennessee computing center

in article c5n4wh.izv@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

in article 1993apr15.213436.1164@martha.utcc.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes

in article c5jpl7.5cz@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

in article 1993apr12.002302.5262@martha.utcc.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes

well yes and no. the federalist papers are propaganda and it is therefore
difficult to determine precisely what maddison etc were up to from them.

there are a couple of ways to look at them. one is , we want
you to support this constitution , so we 'll say anything that we think
will appeal to you , or the more straightforward , this is why we think
what we 've suggested in this constitution is a good idea.

you clearly consider the former to be the primary situation.

the point is that they did not make pains to point out where the consitution
may have been aginst the new yorker 's interests. also they did not want
to raise opposition by basing their advocacy on unpopular principles.

horrors , appealing to popular principles. can we perhaps as the
question of whether the constitution might have been written to appeal
to the principles , rather than , as you appear to believe , it was written
with something else in mind and propoganda put out by its supporters.

but let 's be honest about something , here. when was the last time
you brought up all the valid points against your own arguments \?

or are they simply propogranda \? we ca n't know what phill really
means because he 's obviously using arguments designed to convince.

well , i know hamilton was a dyed in the wool monarchist , and
probably the authoritarian extreme to jefferson 's democratic impules.
but what would you suggest as a means of determining their opinions
on the government if we do n't consider what they wrote about the
government \?

i do n't propose that any means exists for determining their true opinions.
thus their true opinions died with them and are of little help today.

their opinions have not the slightest bearing on the matter though , only their
arguments. these are true or false regardless of who said them or why.

if they 're true or false , regardles of why they were said , why
on earth did you make a point of calling them propogranda \? that
would seem to be irrelevent.

the
difficulty that most us posters seem to have is in considering that their
arguments may have been flawed or no longer apply to modern societies.

oh , i have no argument with questioning them. i do n't believe
they no longer apply , but that 's because i think most of them were
good arguments. i'm not entirely happy about the situation , because
they were obviously only applied to a minority of the time , but i do n't
think that alone is sufficient to invalidate them.

if they were alive today the one opinion we could count upon these men to
express is that a careful study of the mechanisms of government is necessary
and that an ongoing improvement of the same is required. they gave their
opinions in certain areas and have been proved right. in other areas they
got it wrong. they ensured that there was a mechanism to adapt and improve
the consititution. this can only happen if there is a willingness to accept that
the structural problems within the us political system may require
constitutional change as a solution.

since the u.s. constitution is the basis for the u.s. political
system , most changes in it would require constitutional change. in this
particular case , however the fillibuster is a matter of procedure
and tradition. it only should have been made part of the constitution. )

if the senate was less powerful than the house of lords , than
we 'd almost have to state that the house of representatives was also.
(in fact , they both were , because the british government had much
greater power than did the american system).

in principle no , in practice yes.

in principle no \? that they had less power of that they should have
had less power \?

the british government today is theoreticaly
dependent on the will of the monarch. by convention any monarch seeking to
exercise that power is deposed. the subtly is that the prime minister is
not able to identify their politics with the national interest in the same
manner that us presidents regularly do.

phill , we 're discusing the power of legislative houses. while
the prime minister is member of parliament , he is more analgous (although
badly) to the u.s. president.

now , please explain to me how the u.s. house of representatives
is in principle more powerful than the house of lords (or the senate)
but in practice is less. are you suggesting that the writers of the
constitution really intended for them to be more powerful , but gosh
darn the thing was ratified before they realized they 'd forgotten to put
those extra restrictions on the senate in \?

i disagree. the system is not too slow , it was simply designed to
handle less than it has demanded that it handle. as somebody in washington
put it (whose name i forget) , congress has become everybody 's city
council.

one reason for that is that at every level the government is rendered unable
to come to decisions. these decisions are pushed up to the next higher level
instead.

not at all. as any entry level political science course will tell
you , people who want laws implemented will always choose the level of
government to attack which presents them with the best chance of
getting what they want. with national interest groups it is simply
a very rational thing to do to want the federal government to enact a
law rather than the states. less people to persuade , and less
contributions to make.

why do those concerned about abortion primarily concentrate at
the federal level \? simply because if they win that battle all the little
state battlefields are won by extension. the same extends to insurance ,
medicine , and most other questions.

local government has not failed in that it has n't done what it
should , but that it is dominated by local interests. thus non local
interests who want localities to abide by their rules ca n't get their
rules past the local government. thus , since they 've got more clout ,
only in the wrong place , they appeal to the next higher level because
it can impose its will on the lower.

i mean , let 's get real here. do we really need the congres
of the united states deciding that x traffice light should be on thus
and such pattern \? or that carjacking needs to be a federal as opposed
to a local crime \?

the more people want the more congress will take power to sell
it to them for their votes. i do n't think the rise of special interests
is coincidence with the increased power of congress.

congress is more than capable of quick action , and has more than
enough power and time on its hands , if it confined itself to what its
original jurisidiction was and allowed more local autonomy.

if they were to start from a social welfare model instead of the current
no state subsidy motto they would be better placed. as it is there is
plenty of state money being handed out. the problem is that it is
distributed on the basis of power in congress and not on the basis of
actual need.

bingo. the higher up the governmental ladder the less actual
need matters , because political power can be concentrated at higher
levels , while people with less cloud only find themselves reduced to
in effectiveness.

in order to set up a school project in new york state you have to pay off the
other 49 states with pork defense contracts , agricultural subsidies etc.
or to be precise 30 of the states since you need 60 to beat the filibuster.

then why not simply leave new york 's education to new york \? i
remain unconcinved that there is any state in the union which is not capable
of educating its own children if that 's what they want to do. and if
you leave it to them , you only have to worry about the pork in that
state. and since industries ca n't concentrate their political power
and wealth , rather they must divide it among the states to try and get
what they want , individual voices have more relative impact.

the problem with the fillibuster is not that you must buy off
states , but that the congress has acquired too much power to sell pork.

it is not a case of the system of government they created failing ,
but that it is operating under a set of conditions they specifically
wanted to avoid. namely , a concentration of power. it would seem
then that the proper thing to do is not to reduce the power of either
house in some attempt to grease the wheels. all you 'll get then is
a system which moves quicker to do stupid things. it would make more
sense to make more decisions at a local level.

no , you have to break the machine free of seizure before you can redirect it.

but why on earth should we want to redirect it \? you said yourself
that you have to sell pork to get things through congress. if congres
has less authority to sell pork and retains its authority to enact
national legislation within its granted jurisdiction , the pork problem
is significantly reduced.

the current blocks on power simply absolve congress of any responsibility
to come to a decision.

the current blocks essentially state that inaction is preferable
to action , thus it the system is weighted against action. considering
the government the usually the institution with the sole power to
enforce its decisions by force , i consider bias against making those
decisions a good thing.

pushing the decisions lower in the pyramid wo n't
work unless the lower levels are less corrupt. in most cases they are worse ,
not better.

the difference with the lower pyramid is that a) they have
more legal , legitimate authority in most matters under our constitution
than the federal government , and b) at those lower levels power is
harder to concentrate. and c) you get the benefit of not imposing
new deicisons on everybody at once. you get to see them tried out
without a national decision. congressional action usually treats the
entire country as a whole , yet even with similar problems in different
areas , different solutions may be called for.

and while i often do n't agree with the decisions my local
and state reps make , at least i have a better option of going to
the city council and shooting my mouth off. i 'd much rather the
majority of laws be made by accessible people who hang around and end
up having to put up with them rather than somebody far off in
washington with half a million or more constituents.

i'm curious what you base your assumption that lower levels
are more corrupt.

i fail to see where any restrictions , implied or otherwise , were
placed on the veto. it could just as easily have been read as a means
to put a check on democratically popular but unwise (in the executive 's
opinion) policies.

since we were arguing from the federalist papers i would point to them.

phill , you brought up the federalist papers. we were
arguing the fillibuster and whether or not a minority of senators
should be allowed to hold up a bill. you claimed the senate was
suppose to be a far less powerful house , and i contended there was
nothing in the constitution or other writings which indicated this.
which was when you brought up that we ca n't decide what the founders
wanted based on the federalist papers. you argued against them ,
i never argued from them. i have primarily referred to the constitution ,
which places only very small restrictions on the senate than for
the house.

the
us constitution gives almost no reasoning as to how it should work. the
only part where a reason is given is the right to bear arms ammendment where
the well regulated militia justification is ambiguous.

the u.s. constitution is a nuts and bolts document. the delcaration
of independence was the high brow reasoning. (there are a couple of other
examples , though , such as the reasoning for the power to tax , and the
reasoning for the power to grant permits , both in article i , section 8.)

that the veto was meant to be an exceptional measure follows from the
fact of the senate. if the president was meant to revise legislation then
there would be three chambers of the legislature , not two. furthermore
the separation of powers would have been much less distinct.

to a certain extend i do believe the veto has become something
it was n't intended. however , i also believe it is inevitable considering
the congress' own abuse of their power to make bills say whatever they
want them to say. unlike most people i think we should n't be worrying
about the veto , which is fine , but of the problem in congress which
almost necessitates its abuse.

there is no limit in the constitution to the president 's veto power
regarding what a bill is for. previous presidents have used the veto
for any number of reasons , most usually having something to do with their
agenda. i am really curious how you single bush out as the president
who abused vetos.

he has the record for vetos.

bush \? phill , that 's absurd. bush had 37 vetos , one of
which was over ridden. go read up on fdr if you think that 's
anything resembling a record.

why is it not a reasonable restriction \? because 51 senators
is the magic holy number upon which laws must be based \? if 41 senators
feel safe enough with their state constituencies to stand up and
fillibuster is n't that enough to indicate there 's a sufficient question
as to whether a law is a good idea or not to re evaluate it \?

up to a point , the fact is though that when the majority are opposed by
a minority the minority should not be allowed to win by default.

why not \? what is inherently wrong with biasing the system
against action \? historically governemnt action in the u.s. when
dealing with issues with a bare minority and a large minority have
not been successful. when you 're in a position of imposing federal
power on diverse people , why should the federal government not have to
got through something more than a bare majority

why one earth should 51 be sufficient to enact a law which
covers 250 million people in very , very diverse places and living
in radically different conditions \? why should n't a super majority
be required \?

because the bill at issue is a money bill relating to a short term proposal.

now we 're switching from a general question of a fillibuster
to a specific bill. i do n't see how it make a difference.

it is not a change in the law where a presupposition in favour of the
status quo is arguable.

sure it 's arguable. theyr'e arguing it. however , requiring
60 to bring it to a vote ensures that they 'll have to have a good
argument. something that is n't based solely on party lines.

any system in which the simple majority is given absolute power
to ignore the minority then the minority will be ignored. i do not
see this as a positive thing. and for all that i'm sure the republicans
are looking for pork as much as the democrats , they 've got some legitimate
objections to the legislation in question.

so instead you consider a system under which the minority automatically win
to be superior \?

no , i am completely happy with a system which requires a minority
for action . since u.s. history is a history of carving up population
groups and implementing piece meal on minorities , i feel minorities
should have sufficent clout to prevent action they feel strongly enough
about. and 41 is hardly a tiny minority. i do n't advocate the minority
being capable of initiating actionm but i see no problem with biasing
the federal system against action.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from drieux@wetware.com (drieux , just drieux)
subject history , its dangerous
nntp posting host vladimir.wetware.com
reply to drieux@wetware.com
organization castle wetware philosopher and sniper
lines 43

in article ajv@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu , mrynders@bronze.ucs.indiana.edu (maurice rynders) writes
in article 1993apr12.143224.23273@alleg.edu meyerj (jon meyer) writes
in article 1993apr5.073813.5246@nwnexus.wa.com pyotr@halcyon.com (peter
d. hampe) writes
drieux@wetware.com (drieux , just drieux) writes

pps why is there still no call to end clinton 's illegal
war in somalia \? \? \? \? \?

hold on there tex it 's not his war. everybody knows that
its part of the reaganbushlegacy.
\?

yeah , sure. they created the starvation there. they put the warlords
there. yep. sure. been brainwashed by the media , have n't you \?

he probably is. by the way what has reagan to do with this any way \? i
bet most people had never even heard of somalia , during the reagan
administration !

ok boys and girls ,

what was the 'ogadan war' \? \? \? \?

the money raised in band aid covered how much of
the cost of which soviet client state to replace what
catagory of weapon system lost in the aforementioned war \?

why was the joke we arm the world. really not that funny \?

gonzo station is the designation for which usn op area \?
and the primary threat targets in the area were .....

ciao
drieux




all hands to the big sea of comedy !
all hands to the big sea of comedy !
last call of the wild of the humour lemmings


from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject re supply side economic policy (was re david stockman )
article i.d. desire.1993apr6.125825.8263
distribution na
organization acme products
lines 60

in article ufk gqu00wbke7cx5v@andrew.cmu.edu , ashish arora ashish @andrew.cmu.edu writes
excerpts from netnews.sci.econ 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po..
by not a boomer@desire.wrig
...

the deficits declined from 84 9 , reaching a low of 2.9 of gnp before
the tax and spending hike of 1990 reversed the trend.

brett
is this true \? some more details would be appreciated.

in billions of dollars ( gnp)
year gnp receipts outlays deficit debt unempl admin

1977 1930 355.6 (18.4) 409.2 (21.2) 53.6 (2.8) 709.1 carter
1978 2174 399.6 (18.4) 458.7 (21.1) 59.2 (2.7) 780.4 carter
1979 2444 463.3 (19.0) 503.5 (20.6) 40.2 (1.6) 833.8 carter
1980 2674 517.1 (19.3) 590.9 (22.1) 73.8 (2.8) 914.3 7.9 carter
1981 2986 599.3 (20.1) 678.2 (22.7) 78.9 (2.6) 1003.9 8.4 reagan
1982 3130 617.8 (19.7) 745.7 (23.8) 127.9 (4.1) 1147.0 11.0 reagan
1983 3325 600.6 (18.1) 808.3 (24.3) 207.8 (6.2) 1381.9 10.9 reagan
1984 3688 666.5 (18.1) 851.8 (23.1) 185.3 (5.0) 1576.7 8.6 reagan
1985 3958 734.1 (18.5) 946.3 (23.9) 212.3 (5.4) 1827.5 8.1 reagan
1986 4177 769.1 (18.4) 989.8 (23.7) 220.7 (5.3) 2129.5 7.9 reagan
1987 4442 854.1 (19.2) 1002.1 (22.6) 148.0 (3.4) 2354.3 7.1 reagan
1988 4771 909.0 (19.1) 1064.1 (22.3) 155.1 (3.2) 2614.6 6.3 reagan
1989 5201 990.8 (19.0) 1142.8 (22.0) 152.0 (2.9) 2881.1 bush
1990 1031.2 1251.6 220.4 3190.5 bush
1991 1054.3 1323.0 268.7 3599.0 bush

source statistical abstract of the us (1990 version) , american almanac
(1993 version) , universal almanac (1993 version) , information please almanac
(1991 version)

graphically deficits as a of gnp , 1981 89

gnp
7

6 x
x x
5 x

4 x
x
3 x x
x
2

1

0 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989

ironically , bush could have frozen spending , kept his no new taxes
pledge and balanced the budget.

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from brian@gab.unt.edu (brian drakula stone)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
lines 39
organization college of arts and sciences

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.


is n't is funny how someone who seems to know nothing about homosexuality
uses a very flawed (imho) source of information to pass jusgement on all
homosexual and bisexual men. it would seem more logical to say that since
the heterosexual group of men is larger then the chances of promiscuity
larger as well. in my opinion , orientation has nothing to do with it.

men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male. i have had sex three
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin.

so... whose promiscuous \?

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals. just because
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world....
statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default hetero...

look closely at the person , not the group.

all flames will be ignored. )

later ,


( )( )
( brian stone )( )
( unt cas tech. support )( life without your touch is hard , )
( )( but life without you in unthinkable. )
( brian@gab.unt.edu )( )
( )( )


from donb@igor.tamri.com (don baldwin)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization toshiba america mri , south san francisco , ca
lines 17

in article 16bb1b92b.dak988s@vma.smsu.edu.ext dak988s@vma.smsu.edu writes
you think that you all have it bad....here at good ol' southwest missouri
state u. , we have 2 parties running for student body president. there 's the
token sorority fraternity faces , and then there 's the president and vice
president of norml. they campaigned by handing out condoms and listing
their qualifications as , i listen really well. it makes me sick to have
a party established on many of the things that are ruining this country like
they are. i think i 'll run next year. (

well , a student body president ca n't exactly campaign on the stand
that he 's tough on crime . their job is to listen to what people want
and fund things that make sense.

condoms and marijuana are n't exactly the worst things to have available
either...

don

from borden@head cfa.harvard.edu (dave borden)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization smithsonian astrophysical observatory , cambridge , ma , usa
lines 39


in article stevethc5js6f.fn5@netcom.com , steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) writes
in article 1993apr15.193603.14228@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
in article stevethc5jgcr.1ht@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes


just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !


a friend of mine who smoke pot every day and last tuesday took 5 hits of acid
is still having trouble aiming for the bowl when he takes a dump. do n't as
me how , i just have seen the results.

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people screwed up in
the head.


i 'll answer you 're sarcasm with more sarcasm

boy , it looks like the wod is working really good to stop people from
being screwed up in the head , given that example !

(issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal
drugs and who is not screwed up have to pay for this idiot 's problems \? he 's
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the wod , on the other hand , is an
immediate threat to my life and livelyhood. tell me why i should sacrafice
this to that ! ).

and not only that , but if the drugs were legal we could have pharmacists instead
of pushers selling them , and the pharmacists could be obligated to not only
inform the purchasers of the dangers of drug use , but also show them how to use
the drugs in relatively safe ways. and the dangers of impurities (responsible
for much of the suffering that drugs cause) would be all but eliminated.


dave borden
borden@m5.harvard.edu

from kbanaian@bernard.pitzer.claremont.edu (king banaian)
subject re swimming pool defense
lines 24
organization pitzer college

in article 1993apr17.201310.13693@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes
in article dasmith.734719640@husc.harvard.edu dasmith@husc8.harvard.edu (
david smith) writes granted , the simple fact of holding down a job will
improve these kids' chances of getting another job in the future , but what
inner city kid would want to hold down just one more minimum wage job when
there is so much more money to be made dealing drugs \?

what suburban kid would want to hold down a minimum wage job when there is so
much more money to be made dealing drugs \?

yet , somehow , surburban kids do hold down minimum wage jobs. so do inner
city kids , when give the chance. any reason you think that inner city kids
are incapable of doing legitimate work \?

i suppose the correct answer is not family values \?

s'pose not. never mind. sorry.

king sparky banaian it 's almost as though young
kbanaian@pitzer.claremont.edu white guys get up in the
dept. of economics , pitzer college morning and have a big smile
latest 1993 gdp forecast 2.4 on their face ... because ,
you know , homer wrote the
iliad . d'souza

from timr@sco.com (tim ruckle)
subject who are the ``rich'' \? (was re professors whining about pay)
organization the gifted and the damned
summary soak 'em if you got 'em...
keywords not me !
lines 79



candidate clinton promised to tax the rich , and most folks thought that
was a pretty nifty idea. then president clinton said he wanted families
who make more than 100 , 000 to bear 70 of the new tax burden , and many
were quick to complain that their six figure income does not make them one
of the well to do. it 's particularly ironic (to me) that it 's in those
traditionally liberal enclaves of the bay area and academia where the
wealthy are struggling so to fit themselves into the mantle of just
regular working class folk .

nobody will ever admit to being rich everybody 's middle class. so who
are the rich \? well , i 'll throw out some stats from the 1990 census and
let you be the judge...

va negvpyr mzimmersc5e1qk.fn9@netcom.com
mzimmers@netcom.com (michael zimmers) jevgrf
in article 1qcdvbinn5ti@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov
fogarty@sir c.jpl.nasa.gov (tim fogarty) writes
...
that would be about 55 to 65 thousand us , and that is what tenured
professors can expect to make. for a phd with say 10 years experience ,
65 , 000 is a lot less than what he could be making in industry.

oh \? as a 12 year veteran of silicon valley , i 've seen precious few
employment ads that call for phds. and 65k is hardly chump change
it 's well above the median household income for the state.

bay area average household income is in the mid 40 , 000 range. national
average is 31 , 889. the bay area has nearly twice the national average
of six figure income households (9.1 vs 4.8 ). the cost of living here
may be high , but i do n't think it 's twice the national average...

in los angeles , modest home prices can be 500 , 000.

a 1 , 500 square foot tract house in a bay area working class neighborhood
goes for about 250 , 000. i doubt that the los angeles market is all that
different. it would appear that this definition of modest is perhaps a
bit immoderate...

so what \? they 're no cheaper for those who are gainfully employed.

in california , 65 , 000 is not upper middle class.

it depends upon your definition it 's clearly above average.

it is more than what two thirds of california households make. seems
to me that belonging to the upper one third is not an unreasonable
definition of upper middle class . note that if that professor 's
spouse earns 35 , 000 they become one of clinton 's rich families.

here 's a breakdown of national , california , and bay area household incomes

30k 30 50k 50 100k 100k

us 49 24 23 4 the census bureau did some weird
ca 41 26 26 7 rounding here...more like 5
ba 34 25 31 9

and to add a little prespective

a minimum wage earner working 40 hours week makes 8 , 840 year. the poverty
line for a family of four is 15 , 171. if they make up to twice that , the
government considers them to be working poor . say we decide to call this
the lower middle class . then how 'bout

30 50k annual income is middle class . 50 100k is upper middle class .
100k is rich . 1 , 000k is filthy rich . and 10 , 000 is bill gates .

make sense \? )

timr


there 's nothing surer ,
the rich get rich and the poor get poorer ,
in the meantime , in between time ,
ai n't we got fun.
raymond egan

from kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm)
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 15

tfarrell@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (thomas farrell) writes
so you feel that the defendents should have been convicted regardless of the
evidence. now that would truely be a sad day for civil rights.

i do n't know about everybody else , but to me , they should have been
convicted because of the evidence , which in my mind was quite
sufficient.



so , you sat in the court room and listened to the case. after careful
consideration , you have come to your conclusion. well , good for you.




from miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu
subject none
distribution usa
organization university of kansas academic computing services
lines 22

in article 1993apr12.183349.23115@kadsma.kodak.com , pajerek@telstar.kodak.com (don pajerek) writes

...

what i see is that the media is reasonably fair , but is seen as
'liberal' by conservatives , and 'conservative' by liberals.

not that i think anyone cares , but this pattern (using other examples
of course) was discussed 2 , 000 years ago by aristotle in
nicomachean ethics . note that you ca n't use this insight to reason
backwards e.g. since the conservatives see the media as liberal and
the liberals see the media as conservative , the media are fair ! (though
i 've seen this reasoning implied)

don pajerek

standard disclaimers apply.

ken

miner@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu nobody can explain everything to everybody.
opinions are my own g. k. chesterton

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 27

in article 1993apr13.104856.25246@lclark.edu , snodgras@lclark.edu (bil snodgrass) writes
in article c581g8.kw8@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy) writes
in article 15283@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
for a while , homosexuals paid higher insurance rates than straights ,
and with very good reason , until the government made it illegal to
do so.

well if we go by this philosophy how many children do you think
we help pay for with our insurance premiums \? \? \? children who obviously
cannot be afforded , since the insurance companies have to pay for
all of the prenatal and birthing..... what about the children born
with horrible flaws who cost the system an arm and a leg to be kept alive \?
we all pay because we are all part of this society and we should take
care of one another.....

oddly enough , dependent coverage costs a bit more than for one self
alone. but if you really believe your claims , you could make a lot
of money starting the homosexuals health insurance co. and refuse to
insure breeders. but i shudder to think what your premiums will be
like.

bil snodgrass iii



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 59

in article 1993apr16.141409.25036@pmafire.inel.gov cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale
cook) writes
in article 1993apr15.193603.14228@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.
acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
in article stevethc5jgcr.1ht@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) w
ri
tes

just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !

a friend of mine who smoke pot every day and last tuesday took 5 hits of acid

is still having trouble aiming for the bowl when he takes a dump. do n't as

me how , i just have seen the results.

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people screwed up in
the head.

i'm sorry about your friend. really. but this anecdote does nothing to
justify the war on drugs . if anything , it demonstrates that the war
is a miserable failure. what it demonstrates is that people will take
drugs if they want to , legal or not. perhaps if your friend were taking
legal , regulated drugs under a doctors supervision he might not be in the
position he 's in now.


i do agree with you , in a way. the war on drugs has failed , but in my opinion ,
that does n't mean we have to give up. only change the tactics.

for instance , here are how some penalties should be changed.

dealing coke death
dealing heroin death
dealing pot death
dealing crack death

the list goes on and on ! ! ! ......

just kidding ! ! !

however , on a more serious note , i do believe that we should take some money
away from the foriegn operations in south america and costly border
interdiction efforts. (do n't think i'm going to say , spend it to educate
people , because i know plenty of educated dopers). actually , spend it on
things like drug treatment programs.

i saw an interesting story on 60 minutes about how the british actually
prescribe and addict his recommended dosage , and try to ween him off from it ,
or cut the amount down to levels where it is acceptable . sounds good so far
from what i heard with a decrease in cost , lower addiction rates by wiping out
the dealer 's markets , etc. (but that was the only thing i have heard about it.)

however , legalizing it and just sticking some drugs in gas stations to be
bought like cigarettes is just plain silly. plus , i have never heard of a
recommended dosage for drugs like crack , ecstasy , chrystal meth and lsd.
the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine cigarettes , pot and heroin.

ryan

organization students for increased beverage access (siba)
from mark 'mark' sachs mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu
subject re top ten excuses for slick willie 's record setting disapproval rati
93105.032616mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu 1qkl3i 9bj@usenet.ins.cwru.edu
lines 49

in article 1qkl3i 9bj@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , an030@cleveland.freenet.edu
(broward horne) says
in a previous article , mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu (mark 'mark' sachs) says
in article 1qhr73 a8d@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , an030@cleveland.freenet.edu
(broward horne) says
it sure does appear that way , does n't it \?

the attitude that people are stupid if they do n't agree with you is not
going to bring you great success in life. free advice , there.

whew. mark , what on earth makes you think i give a fuck
about being a success , particularly now when i 'll just
the hell taxed out of me \? oh , this is excellent.

that was hardly the point , was it \? i was commenting on this all too common
republican attitude that if people disagree with us , they must be idiots , they
must be sheep being led around by the evil liberal media conspiracy. this is
a dangerous attitude indeed. because it 's not a very big step from people
are sheep , they ca n't think for themselves to people are sheep and need
firm leadership from we , who know better ... this sort of attitude makes
me worry about what 'll happen to the united states if the extremist wing
of the republican party ever gets back into power again.

holy christ ! )

hey ! this is a government funded newsgroup ! let 's have some separation
of church and state , damn it !

besides , let 's ahem examine the record , shall we \?

broward clinton 's going to taxe the holy fuck out of you !
mark no , he 's not. only 17 month

( i still get a laugh out of this one ! ) )

more like

broward clinton 's going to raise your income taxes by over 1000 !
mark no , he 's not , only about 204.
broward (silence)

want some more free predictions \?

ok , i predict that in 1996 the republicans will still be bitter. yeah , yeah ,
i know , it 's not very impressive to predict things that are inevitable...

...so i propose that we destroy the moon , neatly solving that problem.
your blood pressure just went up. mark sachs is mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu
disclaimer if psu knew i had opinions , they 'd try to charge me for them.

from lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization itc uva community access unix internet project
lines 61

in article apr.17.06.54.41.1993.15825@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
in article c5k5lc.cyf@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard) writes

1) so what \?

so this bolsters the contention that many homosexuals are liars.

so if this study is proved wrong then it proves that heterosexuals
are liars \? unlike the propaganda spouted by the far right the ten
percent figure was backed up by the best study available at the time.
its hardly certain that this new study is correct since it has n't
even been out for enough time for any double checking to happen.

the alan guttmacher institute , btw , is funded by planned parenthood ,
so it hardly qualifies as a bastion of conservatism , or of family
values .

of course if they had found 10 then it would be invalid because it
was funded by planned parenthood )

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers
gather in washington dc. after all if there are only 6million of
us then this is an event unprecidented in history...

this preassumes that 2.5 million queers will show up on april 25th.
there wo n't be anywhere near that many. go ahead make my day
promote that number. that way , it will surely be a much greater
embarrassment and slap in the face to homosexual activists when the
crowds are much smaller.

even if its only one million the point still stands. even getting
1 6th of a given population in one place would be unprecidented.
if even 1 million show up in dc it will raise serious doubts about
this study , or indicate a resolve unprecidented in human history.

btw , have you noticed that even slick willie is n't going to be in town
that day \?

he is n't the target of the march , nor do presidents often speak at
civil rights marchs (of course it would have been nice). however
the republicans and conservative democrats would do well to take
notice.



join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .

call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .

the above smacks of antihispanic bigotry.

this is quite amusing. obviously you know nothing about the history
of math.

join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .


organization city university of new york
from f36si@cunyvm.bitnet
subject united nations gettin' busy
lines 4

chapter 7 operation in somlia. almost chapter 7 in cambodia and yugo.
'bout time the un started using force to make the peace happen.
hopefully , they will soon be doing the same with world economics.


from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization university of virginia
lines 17

in article 15218@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
yet , when a law was proposed for virginia that extended this
philosophy to cigarette smokers (so that people who smoked away
from the work could n't be discriminated against by employers) ,
the liberal gov. wilder vetoed it. which shows that liberals do n't
give a damn about best person for the job , it 's just a power
play.

of course clayton ignores the fact that employers pay health
insurance , and insurance for smokers is more expensive than for
non smokers.


greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton vp gore joins students in orlando for 1st kids earth summit
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 102
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



white house
office of the vice president


for immediate release contact heidi kukis
thursday , april 15 , 1993 202 456 7035
julia payne
202 456 7036


gore joins students in orlando for first kids earth summit
will take part in special town meeting on the environment
saturday , april 17 , 1993 orlando , florida

wasington joining students from across the united states
and around the world for the first ever kids earth summit , vice
president al gore will travel to orlando , florida , on saturday
(4 17) and participate in a special town hall meeting , hosted by
linda ellerbee for broadcast on nickelodeon , to hear the young
people 's concerns and share ideas about the environment.

the vice president will take part in the kids world
council plan it for the planet from 2 5 pm (edt) saturday
(4 17) in orlando , florida. he will tour a display of student
environmental projects , then videotape the town hall meeting
where he will discuss with student delegates their concerns about
the environment and their plans for an environmentally sound
future.

the town hall meeting will be moderated by linda ellerbee
and taped for a news special , nickelodeon special edition plan
it for the planet , which will air on sunday , april 18 at 8 pm
(edt). it is sponsored by nickelodeon and the children 's earth
fund.

young people care about the environment because they know
it affects our future. across the country and around the world ,
young people are speaking out about the environmental challenges
we face. they are identifying problems , thinking about
solutions , and they are demanding action from their leaders , the
vice president said.

the kids world council delegates are meeting for three days
in orlando to discuss how to save energy and switch to renewable
energy. they will be following the format and goals of the earth
summit that took place last year in rio de janeiro. the vice
president led the senate delegation to the earth summit.

i look forward to hearing what young people have to say
about the environment and their future. their insight into the
world around us is important , the vice president said.

(more)








schedule for the vice president
saturday , april 17 , 1993


2 15 pm (edt) vice president tours display of student
environmental projects.
nickelodeon studios
orlando , florida


3 30 pm (edt) vice president takes part in town hall meeting
with kids world council delegates and
linda ellerbee.
nickelodeon studios
orlando , florida


5 pm (edt) vice president departs from kids world council
for washington , d.c.




note press that wish to attend should contact eileen
parise or marty von ruden in florida at 407 352 7589.















from hagenjd@wfu.edu (jeff hagen)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
organization wake forest university
lines 4
nntp posting host ac.wfunet.wfu.edu


was n't it tricky dick who issued stern warnings to bush clinton
not to 'lose russia' \? (a la 'who lost china \? ')


from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject re supply side revenue
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
distribution na
lines 22

in 9460@tekig7.pen.tek.com ssoar@tekig5.pen.tek.com (steven e soar) writes

in article c5217t.j5b@newsserver.technet.sg , ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes

the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the deficit to a level
above where it was when reagan left office.

which , considering the amount bush congress added to it , would be a
not inconsiderable achievement.

while we 're on the subject , i also believe that the supply side claim that
reducing taxes raised revenue is also false , because they typically factor in

you need to hop over to talk.politics.misc. wee have been chewing on this gem
for awhile. the challenge has been made to name a single supply sider who
ever said this. for the last three weeks the challenge has gone unmet.
i issue the same challenge to you.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re damn ferigner 's be taken over
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 24

in article 01apr93.17160985.0059@vm1.mcgill.ca cz94@musica.mcgill.ca (cz94) writes

mark anthony young

pps many americans have a special legal status based on a mere
accident of birth . only people born in the us can become president
of the us. and since parliament could theoretically replace the queen
with anyone they want (even a ferigner ) us law is in one dimension
more restictive than uk law as regards birth privileges.

this is not just theoretical. note how ferigner william iii was
imported from holland to kick out local boy james ii , ...

which provided the basis for the denoument of the film which
introduced errol flynn to the world. (love interest was olivia de
havilland , who went on to appear with flynn in 7 more films.)

exercise for non old movie buffs what film was this \?
exercise for old movie buffs what were the 7 more films \?

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

from jason@ab20.larc.nasa.gov (jason austin)
subject re top ten comments overheard in the secret service lounge
organization nasa langley research center , hampton , va
lines 29
reply to jason c. austin j.c.austin@larc.nasa.gov
nntp posting host ab20.larc.nasa.gov
in reply to popec@unkaphaed.jpunix.com 's message of tue , 06 apr 93 02 29 13 gmt

in article ez0j2b3w165w@unkaphaed.jpunix.com popec@unkaphaed.jpunix.com (william c. barwell) writes
croaker@highlite.uucp (francis a. ney) writes

besides which , we do n't want clinton assasinated , because that would make h
a martyr a la jfk.

it 's a much better deal to have him end his term of office in disgrace , after
watching all his liberal democrat friends on his staff run this nation down t
toilet.

assuming , of course , that the riots a fortnight from now do n't do it for him.


he 'd have to go a far ways to run things down as bad as reagan and bush
did. we did n't have riots but bush got dumped out on his spotty behind.


we 'll see in 4 years.


pope charles slack in our time !

\? s

you need to stop watching tv and start reading some history.

jason c. austin
j.c.austin@larc.nasa.gov


from tak@leland.stanford.edu (david william budd)
subject re rodney king trial , civil rights violations , double jeopardy
distribution us
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 53

in article c50pul.cl4@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
in 1993apr2.182942.22445@husc3.harvard.edu spanagel@husc11.harvard.edu (david spanagel) writes



furthermore , what are the specific charges against the four lapd officers \?
which civil rights or laws are they accused of violating \?

i believe it is a general charge , that is no specific right is mentioned.


i do n't think that this is accurate. i believe , and could be wrong , that
there is a specific right allegedly to have been violated , like the
14th or due process or whatever.

what about double jeopardy \? has there been any concern that a verdict
against koon , et al. might be overturned upon appeal because they 're being tried
again for the same actions \? (i thought i heard something on the news about
this.)

the ss has previously ruled that since the seperate governments were in
essence seperate sovereigns , then double jeopardy does not apply.

(if this is true , then could defendents also be tried under city and
county governments \? )

this mornings paper said that the aclu has decided to reinstate its
opposition to this kind of thing. they had earlier suspended their
opposition while they examined the king case. there might be hope
for the aclu after all.


double jeopardy does not apply , but not for the reasons you quote. double
jeopardy states that a person may not be tried twice on the same charge.
however , the police are not on trial for the crime of excessive force
or assault. they are now on trial for the different crime of violating
mr. king 's civil rights.

as for the city and county or state trying you more than once ,
it most likely will not happen. this is because cities and states
have separate laws governing behaviour. for example , in some states ,
it is an offence to carry marijuana , but not a city offence. also ,
i think murder is against federal , but not some state laws.


!
! 1 1
! 1 1 1 and my mind was filled with wonder ,
! 1 1 1 when the evening headlines read
! ! 1 1 'richard cory went home last night ,
! ! and put a bullet through his head.'
!


from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 27

in article stevethc5li9y.c1v@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes
in article 1993apr16.171354.3127@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.a
cs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes

however , legalizing it and just sticking some drugs in gas stations to be
bought like cigarettes is just plain silly.

i do n't find this silly at all. i find it silly (black humor) that we 're
spending billions of dollars and risking the lives and freedoms of every
american to save a bunch of by choice druggies...

could you please tell us why you find this silly. that 's , why , letters
w , h and y , rather than arguments like oh , everbody thinks such and
such is true .

first , the only drug that could possibly be put in drug stations are marijuana
or its derivitives. every other drug that i can think of can kill you if you
take to much. (by the very nature of these drugs , your decision making skills
are n't up to par. that is how it differs from asprin , flinstone vitamins , etc.
we do n't even allow penicilin to be sold over the counter.)

second , we already have a big enough drunk driving and alchoholic problem in
this country. if marijuana were legal , undoubtedly more people would use it ,
and that is a problem. people use it , get stupid , and hurt other people.

ryan

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re clinton 's wiretapping initiative
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 49
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , helfman@aero.org (robert s. helfman) says

in article 9304161803.aa23713@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes

if you look through this newsgroup , you should be
able to find clinton 's proposed wiretapping initiative

for our computer networks and telephone systems.

this 'initiative has been up before congress for at least
the past 6 months , in the guise of the fbi wiretapping

bill.

what kind of brainless clod posted the above garbage \? would they be


what kind of brainless clod does n't understand the difference
between a proposed bill , blocked in congress and an executive
order , issued by clinton , and crammed down our throats .


here , let me give a remedial course in thinking

in order to create the appearance of low interest rates , uncle sam
has shifted his debt from long term to short term securities.

in effect , uncle sam has transformed the federal goverment into
one giant s l , waiting to blow.

short term rates rise interest payments on deficit rise
uncle sammy has to borrow more causing short term rates to rise.

uncle sammy gets caught in a positive feedback loop. his options

i) raise taxes a truly unimaginable amount
ii) make truly unimaginable spending cuts

results of i) large numbers of pissed off citizens
results of ii) large numbers of pissed off citizens


uncle sammy has thoughtfully taken the initiative to pre empt the use
of communication newtworks to foster a nation wide , grassroots
uprising.




from hampton@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (kevin podsiadlik)
subject re top ten excuses for slick willie 's record setting disapproval rati
organization umcc , ann arbor , mi
lines 23
nntp posting host umcc.umcc.umich.edu

in article 2671@emoryu1.cc.emory.edu libwca@emory.edu (bill anderson) writes
shapiro@sofbas.enet.dec.com (steve shapiro) writes

oh , and btw , its william jefferson blythe clinton.

no , it 's not and i really fail to understand the use of that name
as an insult. do you feel that being adopted implies some sort of
moral failing \?

no , it 's a sign of aristocrtic out of touchness with the middle
class. you ask george herbert walker bush about that.

and that 's not his full name \? what , then , is it \?


even quayle had his honeymoon period. it lasted a full 48 hours
after he was chosen as bush 's running mate.


kevin j. podsiadlik
vaporware engineer 2nd class this 'contribution' the president wants
e mail hampton@ais.org us to make... is it tax deductible \?
compuserve 71460 , 3602 larry wright

from steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization visionaire , san francisco , ca
lines 53

in article c5ij7h.l95@news.iastate.edu jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1993apr15.021021.7538@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article c5huh1.241@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1qd1sninnr79@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov fogarty@sir c.jpl.nasa.gov (tim fogarty) writes
i would be upset that , although abortions would continue , they would be
a lot more expensive for the rich , and a lot less safe for the poor.


so now things are supposed to be legal just to keep their cost down
and the safety factor high \? \?

think about it should n't all drugs then be legalized , it would lower
the cost and definitely make them safer to use.

yes.

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine
legality.

why not \?


where do they get these people \? ! i really do n't want to waste time in
here to do battle about the legalization of drugs. if you really want to , we
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is !

go for it. i have yet to see anybody justify the
prohibition on drugs and the ensuing war on drugs. in the world of
.politics here on usenet , it is you that is crazy. anybody who gives
the matter any thought beyond reading headlines cannot justify this
atrocity , this all out war on individual rights.

just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !


my point was that it is pretty stupid to justify legalizing something just
because it will be safer and cheaper.


once again , in chorus why is this stupid \?


a few more ideas to hold to these criterion prostitution the killing of all
funny farm patients , aids victims , elderly , unemployed , prisioners , etc.
this would surely make my taxes decrease.

the above paragraph is gibberish that all i can make of it...




steve thomas
steveth@rossinc.com

from smith@phoneme.harvard.edu (steven smith)
subject the manitoban candidate
in reply to bross@sandbanks.cosc.brocku.ca 's message of 10 apr 93 23 10 23 gmt
organization harvard robotics lab , harvard university
1993apr10.231023.19680@spartan.ac.brocku.ca
lines 18

bross@sandbanks.cosc.brocku.ca (brian ross) writes

in the world of the future , bill clinton will appoint canadians to
govern all american institutions (starting with the american health
care system). we will be benevolent canadian dictators.

with yet another tax being floated by the clinton administration to
pay for new ``free'' social programs , i 've really begun to suspect
that the canadians , long resentful of their place in the american
shadow , brainwashed an american draft dodger who fled to canada some
time between 1966 and 1968 , tutored him in the ways of canadian
socialism , awarded him with smokeless marijuana cigarettes when he got
the correct answers , then returned him to the states (under the
control of the domineering wife assigned to his case) to attain high
public office and destroy the evil individualistic and free market
forces in america , thus shaping america in the canadian image.

steven smith

from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject re kyle k. on rodney king
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
distribution usa
lines 26

in article c5nh58.hp4@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes
in article c5lp0y.fdk@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \?

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important.

i'm curious why you took a beign statement and cross posted it to several
different news groups , including something along the lines of
alt.discrimination.

exsqueeze me \? i saw your original post in alt.discrimination.
your post was cross posted to three groups. my followup was cross posted
to two of those three (omitting soc.motss).

now , instead of engaging in meta discussion off the topic , could you answer
the question posed \? if your statement is so beign ( ! \? ) , you should have no
trouble politely responding to a polite query.

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne)
subject clinton 's wiretapping initiative
x received by usenet.pa.dec.com id aa05890 fri , 16 apr 93 11 05 06 0700
x received by inet gw 2.pa.dec.com id aa23713 fri , 16 apr 93 11 03 42 0700
x received by uiboise.idbsu.edu
(16.6 16.2) id aa29234 thu , 15 apr 93 13 23 52 0600
x to talk.politics.misc.usenet
x cc alt.politics.clinton.usenet
x mailer elm revision 66.25
lines 19


if you look through this newsgroup , you should be
able to find clinton 's proposed wiretapping initiative
for our computer networks and telephone systems.

this 'initiative has been up before congress for at least
the past 6 months , in the guise of the fbi wiretapping
bill.

i strongly urge you to begin considering your future.

i strongly urge you to get your application for a passport
in the mail soon.

i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you
have overseas , into protected bank accounts , while
you are still able.



from walsh@optilink.com (mark walsh)
subject re age of consent child molestation
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 40

in article c4tz28.cpp@panix.com roy@panix.com (roy radow) writes
in 15148@optilink.com walsh@optilink.com (mark walsh) writes

it should be noted that nambla has not been present in the
other 600 or so gay parades in the nation. while i view this
as an isolated event , i am very troubled by its reccurence.

i hope i'm not going to hate myself for getting involved in
this discussion , but i felt obliged to keep things factually
accurate.

last year nambla marched in the pride parades in boston , new
york and san francisco. it was not the first time we
participated in these parades and it will not be the last. (i
have marched with the nambla contingent in new york , every
year , for more than a decade.)

thank you for correcting the error in my post to the net.
this information came from a newspaper article that was
fuzzy in my mind. i can only wonder if there have been
similar outcries about nambla 's presence in the parades
of new york and boston.

yours in liberation from molestation ,

mark

north american micro biological laboratories association
for a packet containing a sample bulletin , publications list
and membership information send 1.00 postage to...

note sometimes i do the darndest things while trying to
squelch my desire to flame the living daylights out of
somebody for their beliefs and or associations , especially
if they are so genial... phil , take it away ! )

mark walsh (walsh@optilink) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh
amateur radio km6xu@wx3k aol bigcookie@aol.com uscf l10861
what , me worry \? william m. gaines , 1922 1992
i'm gonna crush you ! andre the giant , 1946 1993

from jfh@rpp386 (john f. haugh ii)
subject re high speed rail is bad
reply to jfh@rpp386.cactus.org (john f. haugh ii)
organization river parishes programming , austin tx
distribution tx
lines 14

in article 1993apr13.210503.11099@pony.ingres.com garrett@ingres.com (the sky already fell. now what \? ) writes
i did n't see your post so i ca n't comment on it. my .02 on high
speed rail is , i like it. i like it alot. it would be too bad to
see it tainted by corruption. that 's all.

the speed limit on commuter tracks in the northeast is 120mph. we
already have something that resembles high speed rail in this
country and it requires massive government subsidies. we do n't need
another government boondoggle.

john f. haugh ii pgp 2.1 ! 's ... ! cs.utexas.edu ! rpp386 ! jfh
ma bell (512) 251 2151 dof 17 @ 's jfh@rpp386.cactus.org
look up ponzi scheme in a good dictionary it will have a picture of joe
liberal handout right next to it. stop federal spending. cut the deficit.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 19

in article c5l0v1.jcv@news.cso.uiuc.edu , dans@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (dan s.) writes
do n't forget about the culture. sadly , we do n't (as a society) look upon
homosexuality as normal (and as we are all too well aware , there are alot
of people who condemn it). as a result , the gay population is not encouraged
to develop non promiscuous relationships. in fact there are many roadblocks
put in the way of such committed relationships. it is as if the heterosexual

such as \? not being able to get married is n't a roadblock to a permanent
relationship. lack of a marriage certificate does n't force a couple
to break up. this is an excuse used by homosexuals because the
alternative is to ask why they are so much more promiscuous than
straights.

dan



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re if drugs should be legalized , how \?
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 32

in article 1qrohrinnipe@senator bedfellow.mit.edu wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (wil
liam december starr) writes

in article 1993apr18.003848.21571@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ,
rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) said

however , legalizing it and just sticking some drugs in gas stations to
be bought like cigarettes is just plain silly. ryan c scharfy

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican
idea that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and
simply decriminalize cocaine , marijuana , heroin , lsd , etc. please
explain why the idea of allowing recreational drugs to be bought like
cigarettes is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for
nicotine... wdstarr

yeah , cancer is pretty cool , is n't it.

ryan , please explain how the coolness or lack thereof of cancer is
relevant to a discussion of the legalization of currently illegal
recreational drugs. for that matter , please explain how it 's even
relevant to a discussion of currently legal recreational drugs such as
tobacco. wdstarr

you said it worked so well with tobacco. i was being fascisious(i ca n't spell
worth a damn)

look , this is getting ridiculous , first , i think tobacco should be legal.
anybody who ca n't see the difference between tobacco and marijuana has got to
be high.

ryan

from kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot)
subject we 're winning the war on drugs. not !
organization oklahoma state university , computer science , stillwater
keywords drugs dea wod legalization
lines 140

the dea and other organizations would have the american people
believe that we are winning the war on drugs . i'm going to
dispel the propaganda that the dea is putting out by showing
you the drug war 's real status. to help prove my assertions
i 've also posted two articles from usa today that clearly
demonstrate that drug use among certain age groups is on the
rise. if wod is working , as we 're led to believe , then drug
abuse should have gone down substantially by now. the reality
is , is that it has not gone down very much. if anything ,
substance abuse is on the rise. i'm also going to supply a
possible solution to this problem.

the following text is an excerpt from an article about rock music
and pot entitled hello again , mary jane which appears in the
current issue of time magazine (april 19 , 1993 , p. 59).

law enforcement officials say pot advocates are just blowing
smoke when they talk about the comeback of the weed. perhaps
because of the change of administrations , the marijuana lobby
is out in full force , says robert bonner , head of the drug
enforcement administration. the fact is , they 're losing the
battle. in 1985 more than 23 of youths ages 12 to 17 said
they smoked marijuana in 1991 that figure was 13 , and bonner
says it is still falling. bonner also offers a reminder that
studies confirm such marijuana health risks as destruction of
nerve cells in the brain and lung damage.

the chart that follows was taken from the wednesday , april 14 , 1993
issue of usa today ( drug use up among u.s. eigth graders by mike
snider , p. 6d).

adolescents' choices

drugs used by eighth graders in the last month
estimated , per 100 students
1991 1992 pct. chg.
alcohol 25.1 26.1 4
cigarettes 14.3 15.5 8
marijuana 3.2 3.7 16
amphetamines 2.6 3.3 27
lsd 0.6 0.9 50
cocaine 0.5 0.7 40
crack 0.3 0.5 67

source university of michigan institute for social research ,
1993 report

we are not winning the war on drugs . i think you can see that one
of the tactics that the dea employs to give people the impression that
the war on drugs is being won is to selectively quote statistics
only statistics that support their contention that drug use has gone
down. the excerpt from time magazine that i included in this post is
an excellent example of how organizations like the dea attempt to
deceive the public.

usage of one particular drug may have gone down but at the same
time usage of other drugs may have gone up (a.k.a. substitution).
also , drug usage among one particular age group may have gone down
but drug usage among another age group may have gone up . therefore ,
if one takes a look at the big picture , taking into consideration all
the statistics , then it 's obvious that the so called war on drugs is
being lost. perhaps the drug war is being won as far as illegal drugs
go , but if one factors in alcohol abuse , smoking , and use of inhalants ,
then the magnitude of the drug problem in this country can then placed
in its true perspective.

for those of you who do n't consider alcohol to be a drug then try
drinking a fifth of whiskey sometime and then come back and tell me
that it 's not a drug. agencies like the dea only go after illegal
drugs. this is one of the reasons why the drug war is a fruitless
attempt at preventing substance abuse people will merely switch to
another drug if the one they were using becomes scarce or unpopular.

the solution to the drug abuse problem in this country may be to
legalize some not all drugs whose toxicity has been shown to be
within reasonable limits (you wo n't drop dead after using it a few
times) and then couple this with a massive drug education program.
the reason why i think legalization is part of the solution is
because people seem to be able to easily obtain drugs despite the
government 's efforts to the contrary the money spent on drug
interdiction could be spent more effectively elsewhere (e.g. , drug
education). additionally , legalization would reduce crime because
the profit motive would be taken out of drug trafficking which often
goes along with other kinds of crime. not to mention the fact that
addicts would have less reason to prey on innocent people for their
money and posessions in order to support their expensive habit
legalization would cause the street price of drugs to fall
substantially so drugs would be much more affordable to addicts.

imho , the way to reduce substance abuse is to do to drugs what has been
done to smokers make drug use socially unacceptable rather than try to
employ heavy handed law enforcement and punish people by incarcerating
them. as you already know , people in the u.s. smoke a lot less than
they used to. this reduction in the number of smokers has been brought
about by public awareness campaigns , laws restricting where people can
light up , warning labels on cigarette packages , taxation on tobacco in
order to reduce consumption , and so on. i propose that similar methods
be used to reduce substance abuse after legalization has been carried
out. they are as follows

drugs being sold must come with clear , concise information which
states the possible health hazzards involved with using this
product and recommendations on how the drug should be used.
things like dosage levels and how long the drug should be used
ought to accompany the packaging the drug is contained in.

all drugs should be taxed at a rate that generates a lot of
revenue but not so high as to encourage people to acquire drugs
through illegal channels. part of the revenue collected from
drug taxes should be used to fund drug education and law
enforcement.

make it a felony to sell drugs to minors (people under the age of
18). anyone can sell drugs but they must not dodge paying the
taxes on drugs or sell drugs with the warning information absent.
failure to pay the appropiate taxes on drugs or omitting warning
information should also be a felony.

establish a government agency whose job is to insure that the
purity and safety of all drugs is as high as possible. this
agency would try to prevent people from getting a hold of bad
drugs something that is a fairly serious problem now.

i'm sure that many of the things i 've discussed in this article have
been hashed out before in this newsgroup. nevertheless , i thought
it was a good idea to give my two cents (actually a buck and a half...)
all at once so you could get a good idea of where i currently stand on
wod. go ahead and tear into my post i'm sure there is something in it
that you may wish to take a different view on or flame. ) ) ) btw ,
i posted the articles from usa today to not only help prove my
assertions but also to provide information on lsd usage among youths
something which i noticed some posters to this group were interested in.

scott kennedy , brewer and patriot

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
the bible through the barrel of a gun... atf spokesman
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets
the constitution through the barrel of a gun... me


from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re the tories could win the lottery ...clinton gst \?
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 44

in article 1993apr16.083029.12516@umr.edu ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy) w
rites
in article 1993apr16.031616.23130@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.
acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes

this country is hardly ruined. in fact , it is booming compared to after the
1980 election.

this whole usa has gone to hell and reagan bush caused it , is not only lame
,
pathetic , and old....... it 's wrong.

under reagan bush the economy grew by 1.1 trillion dollars. this is more tha
n
the entire economy of germany , a kind , gentle country , in many peoples'
books. what a joke.

drive down to cincinnati and take a look. not pretty , is it \?

but drive up to cleveland and it is about 10 , 000 times better. i from toledo
originally (but that place always as sucked as long as i 've been on the planet.

things were much better there in 1980. all that growth went into
the hands of ron and georgie 's pals , and i didn't get a single
dime of it , dammit. and , now , i'm gonna be bled to death by tax
leeches to pay for the damage. f ing great.

republicans have been trying to pass a balanced budget amendment for the last
ten years.


oh , here 's another thing. seems like a lot of people in
columbus drive over to marysville and make japanese cars. hm.

because for a while , the american companies coul n't even compete in their own
country , where free trade is n't even an issue. however , even the automobile
pendelum has swung back to the big 3.

i wonder how many american owned companies employ those in
central ohio \? other than ohio state university. )

oh , i do n't know. it 's probably in the tens of thousands.

ryan

subject re top ten comments overheard in the secret service lounge
from mark 'mark' sachs mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu
organization the leader desslok school of diplomacy
lines 22

in article 1993apr4.163015.10438@highlite.uucp , croaker@highlite.uucp (francis
a. ney) says
of who else but president of the united states william jefferson clinton.
it 's a much better deal to have him end his term of office in disgrace , after
watching all his liberal democrat friends on his staff run this nation down
the toilet.

tsk. surely you do n't wish for the democrats to destroy our beloved country
just so your party can get some trivial political advantage \? that 's rather
a petty way to think. (not that this pettiness does n't extend all the way
to the u.s. senate , i 've noticed...)

while bush was president , i kept hoping and praying that he 'd wise up. i
could n't stand the man , but i wish he 'd done a decent job if so , we might
not be in the mess we are now , and that would be a small price to pay for
suffering through another term of republican control. similarily , you should
be hoping and praying that clinton does a good job. even if you 're certain
he wo n't.

...so i propose that we destroy the moon , neatly solving that problem.
your blood pressure just went up. mark sachs is mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu
disclaimer if psu knew i had opinions , they 'd try to charge me for them.

from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization university of virginia
lines 21

kaldis writes
the fact that she was wearing a miniskirt with no underwear was
presented as evidence that she was a prostitute , and the court
apparently found this compelling.

ah , i know women who wear miniskirts without wearing underwear , and
they are not prostitutes.

because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the
marines were engaged in self defense. got it , knucklehead \?

gee , both clayton and kaldis engaging in ad hominem arguments.

i presented evidence that what you said is not what the judge ruled.
provide your evidence. repeating a false claim is not evidence.


greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from garrett@ingres.com
subject re return of the know nothing party
summary the right to know nothing
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
lines 32

in article c5jlq3.2bl@wetware.com , drieux@wetware.com writes...
in article 23791@organpipe.uug.arizona.edu , ece 0028@bigdog.engr.arizona.edu (david anderson) writes
in article c56hdm.945@wetware.com drieux@wetware.com (drieux , just drieux) writes
but i guess one needs to know a little about the bible ,
christianity and american history.....

mt. st. helens did n't spew such crap. how do you manage ,
drieux , day in day out , to keep it up \? \?

so which are you advocating \?
that you know nothing about american history ,
or that you know nothing about the bible \?

is this a restoration of the know nothing party \?

go easy on him drieux. it is the right of every american to
know nothing about anything.

ciao
drieux

all hands to the big sea of comedy !
all hands to the big sea of comedy !
last call of the wild of the humour lemmings



who said anything about panicking \? snapped authur. garrett johnson
this is still just culture shock. you wait till i 've garrett@ingres.com
settled into the situation and found my bearings.
then i 'll start panicking ! douglas adams


from shou@quads.uchicago.edu (roger colin shouse)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
reply to shou@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 16


speaking of vat did anyone see cnn 's report yesterday (4 15) \? it
was quite hillarious (no pun intended). they ran down how a percent tax
was added at each stage of manufacturing , graphicaly depicting a stack of
quarters being added at each wholesale stage. when they got to the final
stage (the actual retail sale) the small stack of quarters added to the
large stack already there was said to be the amount paid by consumers.
in other words , they completed ignored the fact that at each stage the
tax would of course be passed on to the next buyer with the retail consumer
paying the full load.

these are not journalists they 're lap dogs.

roger shouse
the university of chicago email shou@midway.uchicago.edu


from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
distribution usa
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 7

perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study
(discrediting kinsey) says so.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

from akasacou@alfred.carleton.ca (alexander kasacous)
subject re chrysler bailout
organization carleton university , ottawa , canada
lines 79

in article 1993apr5.195216.27893@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu mconners@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (michael r conners) writes

plug this one in i'm a conservative , i hate pee cee 's (although i
have to use one at work) , and am a proud owner of a next station.

the real question should the feds bail out steve jobs next (a la chrysler)
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost \?


you have just reminded me of an old tom paxton song...

i m changing my name to chrysler
(tom paxton , 1980)

oh the price of gold is rising out of sight
and the dollar is in sorry shape tonight
what the dollar used to get us
now wo n't buy a head of lettus
no the economic forecast is n't right
but amidst the clouds i spot a shining ray
i caneven glimpse a new and better way
and i 've devised a plan of action
worked it down to the last fraction
and i'm going into action here today.

chorus

i am changing my name to chrysler
i am going down to washington d.c.
i will tell some power broker
what they did for iacoca
will be perfectly acceptable to me.
i am changing my name to chrysler
i am heading for that great receiving line
so when they hand a million grand out
i 'll be standing with my hand out
yes sir i 'll get mine

when my creditors are screaming for their dough
i 'll be proud to tell them all where they can go
they won'y have to scream and holler
they 'll all be paid to the last dollar
where the endless streams of money seam to flow
i 'll be glad to tell them all what they can do
its just a matter of a simple form or two
it 's not renumeration it 's a liberal education
ai n't you kind of glad that i'm in debt to you

chorus

since the first first amphibians crawled out of the slime
we 've been struggling in an unrelenting climb
we were hardly up and walking before money started talking
and it 's sad failure is an awful crime
it 's been that way for a millennium or two
but now it seems there 's a different point of view
if you 're a corporate titanic and your failure is gigantic
down in congress there is a safety net for you.

chorus...



perhaps steven jobs should take paxton 's advice and change his name to
chrysler , or perhaps set himself up as an s l , maybe neil bush could
give him a hand \?


akasacou@alfred.ccs.carleton.ca

no eternal reward will forgive us now for wasting the dawn...
j.morrison

the opinions expressed above are mine. like anyone else would
admit to them.



from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's trip to pittsburg
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 31
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house


office of the press secretary


for immediate release april 15 , 1993



statement by the press secretary



the president will travel to pittsburgh on saturday , april
17 to talk about his job creation plan and its impact on the
state of pennsylvania , where it would create as many as 3 , 818
full time jobs and up to 21 , 240 summer jobs. he will make a
public address at pittsburgh international airport at 9 30 am.

the president will leave washington early saturday morning
and return that afternoon. a white house press charter will
depart andrews air force base at 7 30. filing facilities will be
available in pittsburgh.






from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton background briefing in vancouver 4.4.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 993
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu





the white house

office of the press secretary
(vancouver , british columbia)



background briefing
by
senior administration officials


april 4 , 1993

canada place
vancouver , british columbia


9 40 a.m. pst


folks , we 're about to start the background briefing
on the aid package.

senior administration official good morning. the
president president clinton and president yeltsin agreed
yesterday on a series of american initiatives to support economic
and political reform in russia , and it 's valued at 1.6 billion.

before taking your questions and running through the
basic outlines of this package , i want to make a few points.
first , this is the maximum that the clinton administration can do
with available funds to support russian reform. all of the funds
have been allocated and appropriated by the congress. there is
no need for the administration to go back to the congress to fund
any of these programs. all our fiscal year '93 funds currently
are available , so in effect , all of these programs can begin
tomorrow.

the second point is that this package is designed to
support russian reformers. all of the initiatives in the package
are directed at reformers and for their benefit , and all have
been worked out with prior consultation with the russian
government.

third , the president is determined that we will
deliver on these commitments this year. the package is designed
to maximize our ability to support reform. in designing it we
wanted to avoid making commitments that we could not meet , and we
feel very confident that we can meet all of these commitments in
front of you.

fourth , i 'd like to note the special importance of
trade and investment. i think it 's fair to say that russia 's
capital and technology needs throughout the next decade extend
well into the hundreds of billions of dollars. no collection of
governments can meet those needs only the private sector can do
so. and so the president and president yeltsin agreed to make
trade and investment a major priority in the relationship.

they also agreed that there would be a new joint
commission on energy and space formed , headed on the u.s. side by
vice president gore on the russian side by prime minister
chernomyrdin. and the goal of this effort is to break through
the barriers to trade and investment on both sides and to promote
a vastly expanded relationship.

if it would be helpful i 'd be prepared to run down
the first page , which is a summary of u.s. assistance , and just
give you some general background on what these programs are.
i 'll do it quickly and then i 'll be glad to take questions.

the first group of initiatives are humanitarian food
and medical assistance. this is part of our effort which has
been underway for several years to provide basic humanitarian
grant food assistance so that the russian government can assure
there 's at least a minimal amount of bread on the shelves in the
major cities. that 's 194 million in grant that is from food
for progress , the grant portion of food for progress. we 'll also
be continuing our grant assistance in medicines and
pharmaceutical supplies , and that 's 30 million.

the second item is concessional food sales. as you
know , the united states has had a long term grain relationship
with russia. it 's important to us and it 's important to russia
that we continue that relationship. the president has chosen the
food for progress program which is a concessional loan program.
the value over the next seven months is 700 million. these are
concessional terms. the exact terms have not been worked out ,
but i think it 's fair to say there will be a grace period on
principal of six or seven years , and concessional rates
thereafter for the life of the deal.

the third program is a collection of private sector
support. we think this is one of the most important things we 're
going to do. privatization and the creation of small businesses
is the number one priority of the reform government in moscow.
and so the president has decided to create a russian american
enterprise fund capitalized this year at 50 million. and the
goal of this fund is to make direct loans to small businesses in
russia , to take equity positions in those businesses.

the president has also decided to create a
privatization fund which would work directly with the russian
government in its priority objective of trying to convert state
enterprises from a state owned basis to a private basis. he has
also agreed the president has also agreed to establish a
eurasia foundation. this would be a private foundation led by
prominent americans to fund democratization projects in russia.

the fourth grouping you see there in the summary
page is democratization itself. i think it 's fair to say that
this administration has given a new impetus to the goal of
pursuing democratization in russia. you see that we have a total
of 48 million in programs , various programs. the detailed
tables give an indication of some of the programs that we 're
launching.

the president is also calling for the development of
a democracy corps , which will be an overarching umbrella group to
try to incorporate all of the disparate private and public
efforts now underway from the united states to support reform in
russia.

the fifth program you see is russian office of
resettlement. this is a new initiative created and
conceptualized by this administration. this is a demonstration
project. what we 'd like to do is work with the russian military
to help resettle russian officers returning from the baltic
states and other parts of the former soviet union. we want to
make sure that we work out the best way to do that , whether it 's
with russian labor and russian materials or using prefab american
construction. and so we 've decided to fund on a demonstration
basis the construction of 450 housing units. we 'll be working
very closely with the russian military on this. and i would say
that we have a long term commitment to this project.

the sixth area is energy in the environment. they
are two issues that the president feels strongly about. our
initial efforts will be feasibility studies to look into the
possibility of enhancing their energy production , both oil and
gas and equally important trying to cut down on the leakages in
the oil and gas pipeline systems , which cause so much
environmental damage.

i 've talked a little bit about trade and investment ,
about the new group being created that the vice president will
chair on our side. secretary ron brown will also be cochairing
with deputy prime minister shohkin , a business development
committee , which will work in all other sectors of the economy ,
to break down the many barriers that currently exist and impede
trade and investment. we are also going to appoint a full time
investment ombudsman in the american government to work on this
problem full time.

and the point i 'd like to make here is , trade and
investment in the 1990s is every bit as important , to draw an
analogy , as arms reductions was in the '70s and '80s. and we
just thought that in looking at this we needed to make a
commitment within our own government to have people work on it
senior people on a full time basis , because it is terribly
important.

you 'll notice that the united states is going to
support russia 's membership in the gatt. russia has had observer
status. russia has requested our support and , in fact , requested
our advice in becoming a member of the gatt. we think that the
long term goal of drawing russia into the global economy is
paramount , a very important goal. and that is why we are
supporting the membership in the gatt. we are also supporting
their access to gsp , the generalized system of preferences.

you 'll note that ex im has extended 82 million in
credit for a caterpillar deal in siberia , that opic has extended
150 million in credits and loan guarantees for a conoco oil
project. i 'd like to emphasize that we are very close to an
agreement between russia and the united states for a 2 billion
framework facility through the ex im bank that would finance
russian purchases of american oil and gas equipment and services.
we think this is a very important development. we think we 'll
get there by april 14th , which is the opening day of the tokyo
conference , the g 7 conference.

before i take any further questions , i 'd like to
defer to my colleague , who will review the security assistance
objectives with you.

senior administration official our major
unfinished agenda with the russians and with their counterparts
in ukraine , kazakhstan and belarus is in the area of the safe and
secure dismantlement of the nuclear arsenals on their territory
under the terms of the start i and start ii agreements.
recently we completed in moscow three , i think , very important
agreements that devote a significant chunk of nunn lugar funding
to three important programs. the first is the program of 130
million for the strategic nuclear delivery vehicle dismantlement
program. that is for submarines , for icbm dismantlement and for
bomber dismantlement 130 million.

the second is a 75 million tranche of funding for
the construction of a facility to store nuclear materials removed
from the warheads as they are dismantled. this will essentially
contribute to the overall design and the early phases of the
construction of that storage facility.

and finally , a 10 million tranche of money to help
in the establishment of a monitoring system for the nuclear
materials as they are withdrawn from the weapons system. so we
add that 215 million total to the extant nunn lugar assistance
which has been flowing about 150 million for some overall
safety improvements for various kinds of equipment and safety
measures that we have been working out with the russians over the
last couple of years.

so this is an area where we will be going a lot more
work with not only the russians but with the ukrainians , kazhaks ,
and belarussians. belarus , for example , has just , in the last
couple of weeks , received up to 65 million in fy'93 funds for
safety , security and dismantlement programs on belarussian
territory. and this was in the wake of their ratification of
start i , an agreement to accede to npt.

so we are working very hard with all the parties to
the lisbon protocols , and will continue to work very hard with
them. and i look upon these three recent agreements with russia
as a very important step in that process.

q the opic funds to is that for the field in
kazhakstan and conoco already signed this deal with
kazhakstan. why do you feel now it is necessary if it 's the
same one , why do you feel it 's necessary \?

senior administration official it 's not the same
deal. chevron signed a deal with kazhakstan , the tenges oil
field. this is a new investment project. it 's a polar lights
oil development and renovation project , and it 's being announced
today. so it 's completely new.

q can you tell us more about what 's involved \?

senior administration official yes. conoco , like
other american oil companies has been searching for ways to do
two things. one , to prospect for new oil in siberia , west
siberia and two , to try to get into the business of renovating
oil wells and renovating pipelines , both oil and gas , in russia.
the objective here , obviously , is to take advantage of the
natural resources in russia , increase energy production , which
will , in turn , increase hard currency revenues , which is what
russia needs.

so we think this deal is very , very good development
for russia. the russians do as well , and it 's good for an
american company. and the american government has played a
leading role in pulling this together through the credit facility
in opic and through the loan guarantee.

q so it 's to search and also to renovate fields
that are already there \?

senior administration official that 's right.

q on that point , should other american companies
expect to get administration support for such deals , or should
they now go to the ex im and try to get the money out of the 2
billion \?

senior administration official well , as you know ,
ex im is part of the u.s. government and various parts of the
u.s. government have been pushing , including the state department
and the white house for this deal to be consummated. and we
think it will. and if we arrive at this agreement by april 14th ,
there will be 2 billion in financing available for american
companies to sell their equipment and sell their services.

q that should take up all of the rest of the
deals and their wo n't be and their will or there wo n't be
support for opic sort of deals such as this conoco \?

senior administration official there 's a
tremendous amount of interest on the part of american oil and gas
companies to invest in russia. we think that the ex im oil and
gas facility , the 2 billion facility , once it is concluded , will
soak up a lot of that interest. but i think the interest may
even extend beyond that. and if so , the government will respond.

q what 's the current year budget costs of that
2 billion agreement should it go forward \? and is there any
current year budget costs

senior administration official i 'll have to refer
you to ex im for that. i do n't know the details of that.

q the concessional food sales is there any
current year costs to that , or is it delayed until the years in
which the payments are due \?

senior administration official the concessional
food sales are from food for progress , which is a usda program.
usda has the funds , we do n't need to go back to the congress to
expend those funds. there will be a hit in the budget. i 'd
refer you to usda and omb for the details on that.

q can you talk about the democracy corps \?

q and the private sector how many folks are
going to be involved in that \?

senior administration official why do n't i start
with the democracy corps first. i think the administration felt
coming into office that there were literally thousands of
organization , private organizations in the united states that in
one way or another were working at the goal of trying to achieve
democratization in russia , helping on a farmer to farmer basis.
and there were literally 10 or 15 u.s. government agencies that
had a variety of programs in this area. and so the
administration felt the president felt it was important to try
to draw all of these initiatives together under one group to give
some coherence to the efforts and to give some impetus to the
efforts. and so this is a presidential initiative.

it will be headed by ambassador tom simons who will
soon take up his duties as the coordinator for u.s. assistance in
the former soviet union. and we 're very hopeful that we might
use this democracy corps not only to draw upon the resources of
our own government , but the resources of the american private
sector and schools and communities across the nation.

q any kind of commitment yet , any kind of word
yet on fy'94 , and any new money that needs to be appropriated
besides the 300 million the president talked about \?

senior administration official the administration
is requesting additional funds in fy'94 of 700 million. what
the president has done this weekend is to consult really
intensively yesterday with president yeltsin about additional
measures the united states could take in some of these areas to
support reform. he 'll be consulting with the congress. when he
returns to washington , he 'll be consulting also with the other
ally governments , and we 'll make a decision at that time.

q two questions about the 700 billion
agricultural money. first of all , i thought it was the sort of
consensus that what russia did not need was more loans for food.
so why did you decide to do it that way \? secondly , could you
explain agriculture has been stopped from making further loans
for food because of russia 's inability to pay. how does this fit
into that situation \?

senior administration official as you know , the
united states for a long time has been a major supplier of grains
and food commodities , agricultural products to russia. i think
between 1991 and '92 we had extended a little bit of history
here about 5.5 billion in credits , credit guarantees , through
the commodity credit corporation. that was the principal vehicle
to ensure the sale of american grain products. on december 1 of
last year , '92 , the russian government stopped its payments on
that program. they are now in arrears to us on that program , and
therefore , by law , the united states cannot continue that
program. and so the president , working with secretary espy and
other officials in the cabinet , looked for other ways that we
could promote american grain sales.

and i think we have two ways to do that. we 've
announced today 194 million in grant food assistance through the
food for progress program. but we do not have sufficient
authority to spend 700 million in grant food , and so we looked
for a concessional loan program.

i think everybody agrees that russia that a
short term loan program for russia would not make sense now , but
a long term concessional loan program would. and that is what
this program is. it will provide , once the final details are
worked out , for a six to seven year grace period on payments of
principal. and then from years seven through 15 , which is the
life of the deal , it will provide for concessional rates of
interest generally around three to four percent. and so we
believe and the russian government believes this is a good deal
for them because it will avoid the imperative of early payments
and put them into the out years , but it will also continue this
very important grain relationship , which is important for them ,
and it 's important for the american farm community.

q i gather from what you say that this could make
it explicit the russians' failure to pay the interest on ecc
loan does not in any way affect this kind of loan going through ,
is that right \?

senior administration official let me be explicit
about that. we are prevented under the law to from continuing
the commodity credit corporation short term credit program
because of russia 's arrearages to the united states. all of you
know about those arrearages. they total about , i think , around
640 million. usda can give you an exact figure. so having
taken that into consideration and wanting to preserve american
market share and a long term grain relationship , wanting to
respond to a specific request from the russian government for
major food assistance , knowing that we could n't take it from the
grant programs because we do n't have sufficient authority there ,
we looked at food for progress , which is a program we 've used to
great effect in other parts of the world. and we consulted with
the russian government and arrived at this solution.

i think the russians are pleased because it provides
them with the food , but also gives them a little bit of relief on
the short term payments.

q where do those funds actually come from \?

senior administration official they come from the
food for progress program , which is a program under usda 's
authority. usda has the authority to spend these funds. we do
not need to go back to the congress for these funds. and i want
to make that general point again everything in this package ,
the 1.6 billion package , comprises funds that have already been
allocated and appropriated by the congress. the administration
can begin to spend these monies tomorrow. and it 's very
important in our eyes that we expend all the funds this year ,
that we meet these commitments. and we are confident we 'll be
able to do so.

q how did you arrive at the figure of 700
million does that max out that program , or did you actually
have a range from 0 to

senior administration official there 's a reason
for it. the reason was that the russian government told us
that 's about the amount of grain that they needed between now and
harvest time. and so the idea is that we would begin the
shipments probably 100 million per month from now until the
harvest in the autumn , at which time russia wo n't require the
same level of food imports from the west.

q i would imagine there 's going to be some
considerable envy and jealousy on the part of some of the other
republics because of the size and the scope of this with russia.
have you given any consideration to advancing negotiations for
the same kinds of projects with the ukraine , with georgia , with
some of the other republics \?

senior administration official yes , we 're very
conscience of the fact that we also have an interest in extending
american support to the 11 other countries of the former soviet
union. we have told ourselves , and we have planned that in the
area of technical assistance , the grant technical assistance that
you see , roughly 50 percent of the funding will go to russia and
roughly 50 percent to the other countries.

in the area of food sales , we have been active with
ukraine , in grant food assistance with georgia and armenia. we
will continue that. and i think it 's fair to say that after this
summit we will go back and look at all of our programs with the
other countries to ensure that they are adequate and they are
productive and they 're hard hitting.

q has anything happened at the summit to lead
american energy companies and other companies to believe that
russia is going to be more user friendly toward them in terms of
taxing , legalities , bureaucracy \?

senior administration official well , one of our
primary objectives coming into this summit was to highlight , not
only the economic agenda , but also trade and investment. and i 'd
like to refer to the point i made at the beginning. we 're
convinced in talking about this problem the problem of how to
support russia long term we 're convinced that no collection of
western governments have the financial resources over the next
decade to fuel the continuation of reform , that only the private
sector can do that.

we look at our own society and we see tremendous
capability in resources in the oil and gas sector. it is a very
good match with what the russians need now , which is financial
investment in the existing oil and gas wells and pipeline and new
technology and new capital to finance new production.

that 's what the russian government has told us it
wants to do , and so that 's why we have made such a major emphasis
on it. that 's why trade and investment was a prominent issue on
the first day of these talks , and in fact , figured prominently
last night in the meeting between president yeltsin and president
clinton. and we 're hoping that together we might send a strong
signal to the american business community that we support their
efforts to invest in russia , that the united states , through ex
im and opec and the department of commerce , will be there to
support them.

q my question is , is yeltsin in any position to
deliver on making russia a more

senior administration official we think he is. i
would note that president yeltsin 's prime minister , mr.
chernomyrdin , worked for 30 years in the russian oil and gas
sector. he will now chair a high level commission with the vice
president , vice president gore , to try to break through the
barriers that currently exist to western investment in the oil
and gas sector. we believe we have a commitment to make that
committee an important committee. and we 're looking forward to
the work.

q what type of mechanism is already in place to
administer the private sector portion of the program \? and will
the u.s. be directly involved in the tail end of distribution of
the actual funds or is the money simply turned over to the
russian government for distribution at their will \?

senior administration official are you talking
about the variety of programs listed here \? it depends on the
program itself. in most cases , though , we are either working
through american pbos or american government agencies to ensure
that the money obviously is well spent , that the money gets to
the intended source. that 's an obligation we have to the
congress to ensure the money is well spent and that we can
account for the money. we have done that in the last couple of
months intensively and we will continue to do it for each of
these programs.

but they are all quite different. for instance , in
the area of grant food and medical assistance , for grant food it
is carried out through usda and usda accounts for the delivery of
the food. for grant medical assistance , we 've been working
through project hope which is a private organization. for the
housing for instance , the resettlement of russian officers ,
we 'll be working with a group of american pbos. on some of the
democratization projects , we 're working directly with russian
private individuals and private foundations. we 're working with
journalists in russia on a media project that you may have
noticed.

so we literally have here 30 to 40 different
activities under all these rubrics and they 're all going to be
carried out in slightly different ways. some directly with the
russian government , some with russian citizens.

q the jackson vanik restrictions that remain and
on the cocom restrictions that remain , can you tell us what the
president has to do on that \?

senior administration official well , as george
noted yesterday , president yeltsin raised these as irritants in
the relationship. the president has noted that. i think it 's
fair to say we will go back now in our own government when we
return to washington and look at both of these questions , and
we 'll get back to the russian government.

q you were not prepared for these questions when
you got here \?

senior administration official we were prepared
for these questions. we 've looked at them. but we 're not
prepared to make a quick decision this weekend. they require
let me just explain , particularly on jackson vanik. they require
consultation with the congress. they require consultation with
the american jewish community. and we 're very sensitive to those
concerns. and so we 'll want to go back and talk to them before
we take any action.

q is this package designed so that you will not
have to go to congress for anything at this point \?

senior administration official as i said at the
beginning , the advantage of this particular package is that all
the funds have been allocated and appropriated by the congress.
so the administration will not have to go back to the congress to
seek any additional authority to fund any of these efforts. in
effect , they can all begin tomorrow , and i know that many of the
agencies responsible for these projects will begin tomorrow. and
that 's the advantage of this particular initiative.

q if this , as the president says , is a long term ,
long haul thing , and members of congress are at this moment
heading for moscow , why are n't you talking about going to
congress and suggesting to the president of russia that you are
prepared to go to congress for various things \?

senior administration official i think we 've been
clear about that. the president is discussing this weekend with
president yeltsin some additional ideas that we have for american
funding of additional projects , and ideas that he has. we have a
major congressional delegation that left last night , headed by
representative gephardt and we 'll want to consult with that
delegation and other members of congress before doing anything.
and we 'll also want to consult with our allies. so that 's where
it stands now.

q we 've been told repeatedly that a number of
these items represent different or new ways of spending the money
already appropriated. could you just tick off which of these
items represents reprogramming or at least spending money in ways
that it was not previously set to be \?

senior administration official i think that we 've
said that these are all projects that either congress had
allocated money for through the freedom support act there were
some funds that were left over from fy'92. and this
administration took office and had some new ideas about how the
funds might be expended.

we did n't use just the freedom support act funds or
the fy'92 funds. we went into some of the agency allocations
ex im , opic , and usda and tried to look for creative ways to
further our programs.

and example of that is the food for progress
concessional loans. we had hit a brick wall with another type of
funding through usda. we could not go forward legally , and so we
looked for a more creative way to ensure continued american
market share and ensure continued grain sales , and we think we
found it.

q where , for example , are you getting the money
for this russian officer resettlement

senior administration official that 's from the
freedom support act funds.

q in other words , all of the money is being
directly spent in new ways , so to speak

senior administration official most of the grant
projects that you see if you look at the general chart , the
second chart , it 's broken down into grant and credits. and if
you look under grants , the technical cooperation projects that
total 281.9 million that is almost all freedom support act
funding. a little bit of it is leftover funds from fiscal year
'92. the nunn lugar funds , of course , you know about the
legislative history of those funds.

q cooperation

senior administration official from fy '92 \? i
do n't have the exact figure. it was not a considerable figure.

q could you tell us please , has anything happened
here this weekend that will break the log jam between ukraine and
russia over start for start i and ii as a result of what 's
happened here

senior administration official both presidents ,
president yeltsin and president clinton , will be discussing this
issue this morning. in fact , we have n't yet gotten to security
and arms control related issues. that will be this morning 's
session. i know that president clinton will be very strongly
reinforcing that this is a top priority for us. we 've been
talking to the russians and the ukrainians over the last couple
of weeks about ways that we might help to facilitate the
discussions between them. up to this point , this has been a very
important negotiation that 's been going on essentially between
moscow and kiev. and we are at the point now of essentially
discussing with them if there are ways that we could contribute
to this discussion , help to move things forward essentially.

but in terms of what is coming out of this weekend ,
i do n't yet know. in a couple hours we 'll know.

q \? just a follow up on the financing here. is
any of this robbing peter to pay boris since it 's all current
year appropriations , have you taken it from anyplace that 's been
earmarked and put it into this fund \?

senior administration official there are smoke and
mirrors here , and i think it 's an important point to note. we
could have given you a page of assistance numbers that included
out year funding. we 're going to make a long term commitment to
many of these projects for instance , the enterprise funds , the
privatization effort , the housing effort. and we 've already
talked to the russians about our long term commitment.

we could have put in really big numbers and this
could have been a bigger package , but we wanted to make a point
this package is fy '93. it 's funds that we have. and we 're
going to do what we say we 're going to do. and the president
feels very strongly about that. in the past there is a legacy
that the western governments , the combination of governments , put
up large budget figures and for any number of reasons we 're not
able to meet them , we 're determined , and the president is
determined , to carry out every single program in this package.
and we 'll do it.

but we do have a longer term commitment , and that 's
part of the discussions on economics this weekend. we 're looking
for russian ideas on what it is we can do to most effectively
support reform. and we 've told them that we do have a commitment
on some of these programs beyond this fiscal year.

q taken it way from any

senior administration official no , we have n't.
okay , the question is , have we reprogrammed any of these funds
so have we taken it from other countries to pay for programs in
russia \? the answer is no , we have not done so.

q in terms of funding , there is no available
monies left and you simply find a creative way to find money
somewhere else. does n't that , in fact , support the theory \?

senior administration official not at all. i
do n't think it does. that 's a particular example , and the
example is grain sales. the commodity credit corporation credit
guarantee program was short term loans that russia had to pay
back within 12 to 15 months. you all know about russia 's debt
problem , and russia was unable to meet those commitments. so we
looked for a way to do two things to meet russia 's requirement
for grain. they 're a net grain importer on a massive scale , and
also meet our objective of making sure that the american farmers
have a chance to sell their products to russia. and we simply
look for another way to finance that. and we have legislative
authority to do it. this program has been successful in other
areas. we had not tried it before in the former soviet union ,
but we thought we should now.

q is n't this really the bush clinton aid package
for russia , since these funds were really first derived by
initiatives put forward by president bush \?

senior administration official no , i do n't think
that 's a fair characterization. a lot of these funds were
appropriated by the u.s. congress is 1991 , in 1992. this
administration took office and inherited some obligations that
the bush administration had made. but we had a long six to seven
week review of this program. we decided to meet the commitments
that had been made by the previous administration.

but we have gone well beyond them in funding the
enterprise fund , which was just an idea , but the idea had not
been filled out with a program. there was no number attached to
it. in grouping together some projects and trying to make them
into a coherent whole in the privatization effort , i would say ,
is another clinton initiative.

further , we listened to the russian government and
listened to the russian military who told us that the
resettlement of their officers was important to them for
political and economic and social reasons. and president clinton
has responded to that. and we are making a long term commitment
that beyond this demonstration project we 're going to figure out
a way to do much more in trying to settle those officers.

i would also say that the president has given
impetus to all of us in the agencies to think much more broadly
about what it is we can do on democratization , because there we
have some experience and some comparative advantage that lends
itself to the russian experience. and in calling for the
creation of a democracy corps , which is another new initiative ,
we 're hopeful that we can take the resources of the private
sector as well as the american government , to achieve that
objective.

so i would not characterize it that way at all. and
as most of you know , i am a career civil servant. i was in the
last administration. i'm very familiar with what the last
administration did. and i would characterize this as a clinton
assistance package for russia.

q there 's been a lot of criticism that aid in the
past has not gotten to the people. is there anything in this
outside of the ombudsman , that will guarantee that this money
will not just disappear because it 's being administered by the
russian government \?

senior administration official i think that i
know that the president and other senior officials of our
government are concerned that american money be spent wisely and
that it get to the source that it 's intended for which it 's
intended. and so we 're going to take great care aid and the
state department will take great care in making sure that the
funds are expended properly and that they 're reaching their
source.

i would not that this package is not simply a
package of support solely to the russian government. some of
these projects , especially in democratization and exchanges , are
going to be worked out directly with russian private individuals ,
with businesses. the private enterprise support is another
example of that.

senior administration official if i could just add
a word on this point with regard to the ssd related programs , one
area that we 've been looking at very , very closely is
consideration of actually using russian firms in subcontracting
for these kinds of programs. they would be working very closely ,
of course , with the american firms , who would be the prime
contractors. but this is a fine example , i think , of a more of
a imaginative and flexible approach toward getting some of that
funding down to the grassroots level , down to the ground in
russia but at the same time ensuring that it is spent
efficiently and for the purposes for which it was intended.

q when would the democracy corps start \? exactly
when do you see this happening \? how would get it off the ground \?

senior administration official well , the president
is today calling for the creation of a democracy corps. i think
it 's fair to say that we 're going to work out its framework over
the next couple of weeks. ambassador simons takes up his duties
on may 1st. but in effect we 've already started , because over
the last couple of weeks the administration has begun to reach
out to people in the private sector who have come to us asking us
to help facilitate their activities in russia. and we 've said
that we will be helpful. we 've also tried to kind of coordinate
in a much more effective way the activities of our own
government. we do have 10 or 15 agencies that are active in
russia in one way or another. we think it makes sense to draw
them together and to focus their efforts.

q excuse me. how much of this 1.6 billion will
actually be spent in the united states by american made goods \?

senior administration official i do n't have any
figures for you now , but perhaps we could try to work something
up in the next couple of days on that.

q this figure is larger than the figure that has
been in the press did this program grow yesterday as a result
of the discussions , or have we just been that far off the mark \?

senior administration official no , i think
unfortunately the press has been a little bit off the mark , and
i'm sorry to say that. no , this package president clinton put
us to work about seven weeks ago on this package. and he was
briefed intensively on this. he contributed a lot of the
intellectual leadership in this package. he contributed a lot of
the ideas in the package. and i think it 's fair to say that we
had this rough package worked out about two weeks ago. we have
been refining it ever since. we spent a couple of days last week
going over it with the russian government , both the embassy in
washington and the government in moscow through our own embassy.
and so it 's been evolving. but this particular package has been
together for about two weeks.

q where is yeltsin 's input into this then \? there
was so much talk before about the president wanted to get
yeltsin 's views about specifically what was needed and so forth.
is that in the out years \?

senior administration official no , it 's both.
president yeltsin has on several occasions told us , for instance ,
that support for the creation of private businesses is important
to him that the resettlement of russian military officers is
important and that first and foremost the effort to privatize
the state industries is important to them.

and so what we did was to try to make those the
centerpiece of our technical assistance part o the package. we
listened to him. on the privatization effort , we have been
working with the russian government for months on this trying to
work out all the details. so the russian government on most of
these programs was involved every step of the way.

but let me get at the other part of your question.
the president is also using this weekend to talk about a broader
set of initiatives that we might undertake. and we 're looking
for his ideas. the president has brought his own ideas to the
table for instance , on energy and the environment and in
housing. but we 're looking for russian ideas not. we need to
consult with the congress and we need to consult with the other
allied governments that are also active.

q there 's essentially nothing that happened in
the last day and a half that measurably altered the package that
you came in with \?

senior administration official this particular
package , as i said , was worked out and was ready about two weeks
ago. we have since then consulted with the russian government on
the final stages of its development , and so this weekend we 've
primarily talked about future , about what more the united states
and other western countries can do to support reform in russia ,
which is our base objective here.

q i noticed that you that money appropriated
to train bankers and businessmen and officers. can you tell me
what about job training for workers who are displaced by
privatization \?

senior administration official you 're right we
have a program to train russian young russians in banking and
financial services in the united states. part of the housing
initiative , it 's not just to build housing units , it 's to retrain
russian officers who are retiring into other professions.

q money for job training for workers whose
jobs are disappearing because of privatization

senior administration official we have not yet
allocated any money for that.

q why not \?

q of the 6 million is going to build 450
housing units. is n't that a lot of money per unit given what the
western dollar will buy in the former soviet union \?

senior administration official if you want to do
housing the right way , it 's not just the building the framework
of a house , you 've got to think about all the utilities. you 've
got to think about the purchase of land. you 've got to think
about sewage and gas and electricity and so forth. and it 's also
retraining. it 's not enough to put retired an officer coming
out of riga or tallin or vilnius in a house in western russia.
we think we have an obligation to try to retrain those officers
as well. this is responding to a request from the russian
government.

q of the 6 million will go to retrain

senior administration official that 's right.

q are you talking about apartment buildings or
single

senior administration official we 're talking about
single , individual dwellings.

q you 're saying that only 450 families will be
served by this \?

senior administration official what i want to i
thought i pointed out earlier , this is a demonstration project.
what we did n't want to do given the experience that the
germans and the turks and the italians have had in building
housing in western russian , we did not want to leap into it with
a huge amount of money. what we want to do is work over the next
couple of months and try to figure out with american
organizations in the private sector the best way to get this job
done.

i noted that we have a long term commitment to that.
and so i would expect that we would put a lot more money into
this in the future . but we want to do it wisely we want to
spend the money wisely.

q what is it about this program that convinces
you that it will protect russia 's reforms and that russia will be
in a position to may back the money they 're supposed to pay back ,
especially considering their other debt problem \?

senior administration official well , look , i think
it 's important to note that the united states on its own does not
have the capability to fuel a continuation of russian reform.
it 's got to be a collective western effort , and we 're looking to
our allies to do more as well. but beyond that , it 's really what
the russians do that is going to decide the fate of reform. we
can simply play a role , and we feel we have an obligation to do
so , which is consistent with our national interests.

q did the president say that the value of the
u.s. contribution was that it would create security and
prosperity for the united states \? so what is it about this
program that does this \?

senior administration official i think you have to
go back to the fundamental objective of our policy toward russia ,
and that is we want to do everything we can to support the
continuation of reform. we are convinced that if reformers stay
in power , then we 'll be able to continue the drawdown of nuclear
forces , foreign policy cooperation and economic interaction ,
which are the three benefits to the united states from reform in
russia. so it 's not a simple question. you ca n't just say that
this program is the answer. it 's a long term question and we
have to make a long term commitment to it.

q and then on the question of russia 's ability to
repay , what convinces you they 'll be able to pay seven to 15
years from now \?

senior administration official well , the russian
government has made a commitment to repay , and what we 're hoping
is that if reform continues , and if they can continue to improve
their oil and gas sector and earn additional hard currency
revenues , that russia will be in a position six or seven years
from now to pay back those loans.

q substantial government to government loan
we 've ever gotten into with the russians \?

senior administration official i do n't want to
answer authoritatively on that. i do n't go back 20 or 30 years
on this. but in the last four or five years , yes it is , because
the previous way that we financed grain exports was really to
just ensure private bank loans. this is a different type of
effort.

q government loans in any other sector that
you recall \? i know it was n't done in

senior administration official i think it 's fair
to say this is a new and unique effort.

end10 25 a.m. pdt

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 38
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy) says

let the great chuckmeister make a couple predictions , if you
will

1. the sun will rise tomorrow.
2. rush will bash clinton on his next show.
3. i will turn out to be clinton 's love child.


hey , i was n't the one dancing and singing on jan. 20 , now
was i \? i was roundly ridiculed for my predictions .

sure they were easy. tell that to the other 43 of the people. )




sucka !

made in usa


hook , line , and sinker ! chuckle


just wait until the see what clinton has planned for
their pension funds ! ) this one does n't take much thinking
either. uncle sam needs money , bad , and pension funds got it.

well , they used to have it. turns out the states have been
plundering state employee funds for the past 2 3 years. )

ah , it 's gonna be swell !




from riggs@descartes.etl.army.mil (bill riggs)
subject re hard times investments was (no subject given)
organization lnk corporation , riverdale , md
lines 50
nntp posting host descartes.tec.army.mil

in article 1pkvcl nu0@usenet.ins.cwru.edu an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne) writes

in a previous article , riggs@descartes.etl.army.mil (bill riggs) says

so much land , and in the long run , we have a zero sum game going. someone ,
somewhere , is going to make a killing from nosediving real estate
markets. the worst thing to do is panic. the best thing you can do is
to ride out deflation to the end. it hurts , but you 're better off
than if you sell short and donate to someone else 's inheritance.


sad. paradigm shift is coming , chum.
ride the wave !

i do n't believe in the wave theory .


there 's only so much land . oh , god , is this mike zimmer 's
replacement \? !

my mother in law , who grew up in germany , does n't believe in
money at all. she started out as a real estate developer , and now raises
horses. she keeps telling me that inflation is coming back , and to lock
in my fixed rate mortgage as low as possible.


here , let me spell it out for you.

can you spell two trillion dollar bank bailout \?

maybe you 'd like to invest in some foreign currency.

which one would you guess to come out on top \?

(sigh speculators never learn.)



bill r.



the only proposals in the senate that i my opinions do not represent
have seen fit to mention are particularly those of my employer or
praiseworthy or particularly scandalous ones. any government agency.
it seems to me that the historian 's foremost bill riggs
duty is to ensure that virtue is remembered ,
and to deter evil words and deeds with the
fear of posterity 's damnation.
tacitus , annals iii. 65

from drieux@wetware.com (drieux , just drieux)
subject return of the know nothing party
nntp posting host vladimir.wetware.com
reply to drieux@wetware.com
organization castle wetware philosopher and sniper
lines 38

in article 23791@organpipe.uug.arizona.edu , ece 0028@bigdog.engr.arizona.edu (david anderson) writes
in article c56hdm.945@wetware.com drieux@wetware.com (drieux , just drieux) writes

well actually its a case of resolving whether one
supports biblical literalism , and the enerrancy of the bible ,
or whether on wished to jump on the sexularhumanist ,
detain all the true christians in death camps approach
of the northern liberal abolitionists and their efforts
to destroy the bible , corrupt the moral fibre of american
and lead the god fearing into the bondage of liberal degeneracy.

but i guess one needs to know a little about the bible ,
christianity and american history.....

mt. st. helens did n't spew such crap. how do you manage ,
drieux , day in day out , to keep it up \? \?

so which are you advocating \?

that you know nothing about american history ,
or that you know nothing about the bible \?

is this a restoration of the know nothing party \?

ciao
drieux

ps what was the free negro sailor act about ,
and what was the supreme court 's ruling on it... and
more importantly , how does this complicate the mythology
that all blacks were slaves \? \? \? \?



all hands to the big sea of comedy !
all hands to the big sea of comedy !
last call of the wild of the humour lemmings


from deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (david matthew deane)
subject re public hearings on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues
reply to deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 10

ack ! sorry for the repeat posts i thought i was posting to the newsgroup
on which this appeared. could n't figure out why it was n't appearing in
my newsgroup. stupid of me. slap my hands. bang my head against the wall.
sorry ! bloody public anouncements...mumble mumble mumble...

david matthew deane (deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu)

when the words fold open ,
it means the death of doors
even casement windows sense the danger. (amon liner)

from golchowy@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca (gerald olchowy)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
organization university of toronto chemistry department
lines 38

in article 9304151442.aa05233@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes
well , it seems the national sales tax has gotten its very

own cnn news logo !

cool. that means we 'll be seeing it often.

man , i sure am glad that i quit working ( or taking this
seriously ) in 1990. if i kept busting my ass , watching
time go by , being frustrated , i 'd be pretty damn mad by
now.

i just wish i had the e mail address of total gumby who
was saying that clinton did n't propose a nst .


actually , jerry brown essentially did...and clinton , in his demagogue
persona , condemned brown for it in the crucial ny primary last year.

however....

why do n't the republicans get their act together , and say they
will support a broad based vat that would have to be visible
(the vat in canada is visible unlike the invisible vats they
have in europe)
and suggest a rate sufficient to halve income and corporate
and capital gains tax rates and at a rate sufficient to give
the clintons enough revenue for their health care reform , and
force an agreement with the democrats that the top income tax
rate would then be frozen for the forseeable future and could
be increased only via a national referendum.

why not make use of the clintons to do something worthwhile...
shift the tax burden from investment to consumption , and get
health care reform , and a frozen low top marginal tax rate
all in one fell swoop.

gerald

from deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (david matthew deane)
subject re public hearings on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues
reply to deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 281

in article 1993apr5.200623.15140@dsd.es.com , bob.waldrop@f418.n104.z1.fidonet.org (bob waldrop) writes

announcing. . . announcing. . . announcing. . . announcing


public hearings

on the compliance by the

united states government

and the governments of the states of

florida , louisiana , arkansas , missouri ,
west virginia , north carolina , indiana ,
maryland , oklahoma , nevada , wyoming ,
georgia , and maine

with certain international agreements signed
by the united states government , in particular ,

the international covenant on civil
and political rights
(signed 5 october 1977)

and the

document of the copenhagen meeting of the
conference on the human dimension of the
conference on security and cooperation
in europe
(june 1990)

a democracy project of

celebrate liberty !
the 1993 libertarian national convention
and political expo

sept. 2 5 , 1993
salt palace convention center
marriott hotel
salt lake city , utah




these hearings will investigate charges that the governments
referenced above routinely violate the political and
democratic rights of political minority parties. persons
interested in testifying at these hearings , or in submitting
written or documentary evidence , should contact

bob waldrop
p.o. box 526175
salt lake city , ut 84152
(801) 582 3318
bob.waldrop@f418.n104.z1.fidonet.org

examples of possible information of interest includes
evidence and testimony regarding

(1) unfair or unequal treatment of political minorities

(2) physical assaults on volunteers , candidates , or
members of minority parties

(3) arrests of minority party petitioners , candidates , or
members while engaged in political activity

(4) structural barriers to organizing third parties and or
running for office as anything other than a democrat
or republican (e.g. signature totals required for
petitions to put new parties and candidates on ballots ,
requirements for third parties that democrats and
republicans are not required to meet , etc.)

(5) taxpayer subsidies of democratic and republican
candidates that are denied or not available to third
parties

(6) fraudulent or non reporting of minority party vote
totals (e.g. stating totals for democratic and
republican party candidates as equal to 100 of the
vote)

(7) refusals by state legislatures , governors , and courts to
hear petitions for redress of grievances from third
parties , and or unfavorable rulings laws
discriminating against third parties

(8) refusal to allow registration as a member of a third
party when registering to vote (in states where
partisan voter registration is optional or required)

(9) vote fraud , stuffing ballot boxes , losing ballots , fixing
elections , threatening candidates , ballot printing errors
machine voting irregularities , dishonest corrupt
election officials , refusal to register third party voters
or allow filing by third party candidates failure to
print third party registration options on official voter
registration documents intimidation of third party
voters and or candidates and or any other criminal
acts by local , county , state or federal election officials

(10) exclusion of third party candidates from debate
forums sponsored by public schools , state colleges and
universities , and governments (including events
carried on television and radio stations owned and or
subsidized by governments

(11) any other information relevant to the topic.

information is solicited about incidents relating to all non
democratic and non republican political parties , such as
libertarian , new alliance , socialist workers party , natural
law party , taxpayers , populist , consumer , green , american ,
communist , etc. , as well as independent candidates such as
john anderson , ross perot , eugene mccarthy , barry
commoner , etc.





representatives of the governments referenced above will be
invited to respond to any allegations.





relevant sections of the document of the
copenhagen meeting referenced above

(the participating states) recognize that pluralistic
democracy and the rule of law are essential for ensuring
respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. . .
they therefore welcome the commitment expressed by all
participating states to the ideals of democracy and political
pluralism. . . the participating states express their conviction
that full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
and the development of societies based on pluralistic
democracy. . . are prerequisites for progress in setting up the
lasting order of peace , security , justice , and co operation. . .
they therefore reaffirm their commitment to implement fully
all provisions of the final act and of the other csce
documents relating to the human dimension. . . in order to
strengthen respect for , and enjoyment of , human rights and
fundamental freedoms , to develop human contacts and to
resolve issues of a related humanitarian character , the
participating states agree on the following. . .

(2). . . they consider that the rule of law does not mean
merely a formal legality which assures regularity and
consistency in the achievement and enforcement of
democratic order , but justice based on the recognition and
full acceptance of the supreme value of the human
personality and guaranteed by institutions providing a
framework for its fullest expression.

(3) they reaffirm that democracy is an inherent element of
the rule of law. they recognize the importance of pluralism
with regard to political organizations.

(4) they confirm that they will respect each other 's right
freely to choose and develop , in accordance with
international human rights standards , their political , social ,
economic and cultural systems. in exercising this right , they
will ensure that their laws , regulations , practices , and policies
conform with their obligations under international law and
are brought into harmony with the provisions of the
declaration on principles and other csce commitments.

(5) they solemnly declare that among those elements of
justice which are essential to the full expression of the
inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all
human beings are the following. . .

. . . (5.4) a clear separation between the state and political
parties in particular , political parties will not be merged with
the state. . .

. . . (7) to ensure that the will of the people serves as
the basis of the authority of government , the participating
states will. . .

(7.4) ensure . . . that (votes) are counted and reported
honestly with the official results made public

(7.5) respect the right of citizens to seek political or public
office , individually or as representatives of political parties or
organizations , without discrimination.


relevant sections of the
international covenant of 5 october 1977
referenced above

the states parties to the present covenant. . . recognizing
that. . . the ideal of free human beings enjoying civil and
political freedom and freedom from fear and want can only
be achieved if conditions are created whereby everyone may
enjoy his civil and political rights , as well as his economic ,
social , and cultural rights , considering the obligation of
states under the charter of the united nations to promote
universal respect for , and observance of , human rights and
freedoms. . . agree upon the following articles. . .

article 2. (1) each state party to the present covenant
undertakes to respect and to ensure to all individuals within
its territory and subject to its jurisdiction the rights
recognized in the present covenant , without distinction of
any kind , such as race , colour , sex , language , religion ,
political or other opinion , national or social origin , property ,
birth , or other status.

(2) where not already provided for by existing legislative or
other measures , each state party to the present covenant
undertakes to take the necessary steps , in accordance with its
constitutional processes and with the provisions of the
present covenant , to adopt such legislative or other measures
as may be necessary to give effect to the rights recognized in
the present covenant. . .

article 3. the states parties to the present covenant
undertake to ensure the equal right of men and women to
the enjoyment of all civil and political rights set forth in the
present covenant. . .

article 25. every citizen shall have the right and the
opportunity , without any of the distinctions mentioned in
article 2 and without unreasonable restrictions (a) to take
part in the conduct of public affairs , directly or through
freely chosen representatives (b) to vote and to be elected at
genuine periodic elections which shall be by universal and
equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot ,
guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the electors (c)
to have access , on general terms of equality , to public service
in his country.

article 26. all persons are equal before the law and are
entitled without any discrimination to the equal protection of
the law. in this respect , the law shall prohibit any
discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and
effective protection against discrimination on any ground
such as race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other
opinion , national or social origin , property , birth , or other
status.




there will be no peace without freedom.
think globally act locally.
resist much. obey little.
question authority.

comments from bob waldrop are the responsibility of bob
waldrop ! for a good time call 415 457 6388.

e mail bob.waldrop@f418.n104.z1.fidonet.org
snail mail p.o. box 526175
salt lake city , utah 84152 6175
united states of america
voice phone (801) 582 3318





do n't blame me i voted libertarian.
disclaimer i speak for myself , except as noted copyright 1993 rich thomson
uucp ... ! uunet ! dsd.es.com ! rthomson rich thomson
internet rthomson@dsd.es.com irc rich pext programmer

david matthew deane (deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu)

when the words fold open ,
it means the death of doors
even casement windows sense the danger. (amon liner)

from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re eight myths about national health insurance (pt ii)
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 156

v140pxgt@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (daniel b case) writes
gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes...
the difference in the litigation environment is reflected in the fees.

lack of defensive medicine and near absence of malpractice is really

why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure insurance


and maybe that 's not such a good thing. i also read somewhere that
it is next to impossible in canada to litigate against the health
system class action suits are nearly impossible , and you ca n't sue
the provincial health officials at all.

since our doctors are private and the system is just an insurance
plan , litigation would not involve the insurance fund. our lawyers
do not work on contingency , so that if you were to sue for malpractice
then you 'd better be sure of winning to cover your fees ... likewise ,
if you were a doctor and subject of a suit , it 's time to sweat.

since the provincial wings of the cma are the ones that go to bat when
the fee schedule hikes are presented , the politically bent doctors
were just cackling when they realized the cma would grow in strength
rather than diminish , especially when unopposed unlike in socialized
medicine approaches like britain 's national health service.

oh no. do n't let the ama know about this. they have enough power as it
is. ask most americans whether they 'd like the doctors' lobby to get
more powerful.

a few weeks ago , the president of the canadian ma wrote a letter to
the nyt to decry a lobbyist 's advert repeating the same old trash.
this is significant because the ama and the cma are interlinked
organizations and he would not have done it without the approval
of his ama cronies.

well , yeah , tell us about the national defense medical centre outside
ottawa. theoretically it 's limited to service personnel , but some
studies i 've heard about have suggested that about half the patients
there are civilians who not only have connections but are n't urgent
at all.

it serves the same purpose as the bethesda naval hospital ... since
not all hospitals can provide everything , maybe they have some stuff
that others do n't \? (ottawa 's population is only a quarter million ,
if you include the surrounding counties.)

the problem is , in a system where hospitals' annual budgets are
approved by the government , how do you keep political considerations
out of medical decisions \? i bet that if you 're an mp or mpp , or good
friends with one , you 're put on any hospital 's urgent care list no
matter how minor your problem. which is ok unless you 're someone who
gets bumped off the list for some bigshot.

people of influence will get their way in any system , american or
european. it 's the golden rule he who has the gold makes the
rules. (

as for annual budgets , those are actually annual grants for facilities
(e.g. , mops , pans , etc.) given to hospitals of which most are private
nonprofit foundations (btw , i have no problem with having aggressive
for profit hospitals like the french , who use our approach ... but in
the paris region they have almost as many people as canada does so
their market is much more diverse). the rest has to be made up for
by billings from patients who use their services.

wouldn't national health insurance mean that americans who are now
fully insured might have to settle for less \?

in canada , provincial insurance covers all health costs except dental
care , eyeglasses , prescription drugs , ambulance service , and private
hospital rooms , so many canadians do end up buying some private
insurance. a policy to cover all of these things runs about 40 to 40
a month.

hmm. how much difference would it make in the figure of percentage
of gnp spent on health care if dentistry and optometry were included
in the accounting \? maybe canada spends proportionately just as much
on health care as we do.

the gdp figures are combined public and private expenditures for total
outlay , and are compiled use the same methods by the oecd that yield
the 13 14 figure for the u.s.

so what happens if the health care systems financially collapse.

how \? they are collecting premiums ... and i'm an advocate of having
copayments like the french do in their system in order to make it look
more like the real insurance that it is. the private doctors and
hospitals will still be there after the insurance (hypothically)
disappears , as they were there before it appeared.

bob rae , the second least popular man in ontario , warned ontarians a
few years ago that if they did n't stop cross border shopping in such
huge numbers , the services they expect from the province just wo n't
be there in a few years

for one thing , i think that bob rae is an idiot ...

he did n't say so , but i knew he meant the ohip.

most of ohip comes from separate premiums on your paycheck if you are
a player ... he wants to spend our money on other things than the
health insurance. our high taxes are high for other spending but
health insurance , which is separate and optional , and it is being
spent in a nonpartisan manner by every party. )

ohip is just a health insurance plan it does not provide any kind
of health care , that is up to you and your private doctors.

would the private insurers take up the slack \? they 'd be under no
obligation to. of course , they could eventually make money again ,
but if what you say is true , they 'd be loathe to do so (and out of
practice in handling such basic services , too).

some of the companies providing extra insurance are subsidiaries of
american companies , and their parents provide full insurance down
here. regardless , all firms up north can easily turn on cable tv
to see how well the american firms are doing by being involved in
basic coverage. the private firms are making too much money after
having gotten rid of basic coverage. they run around patting them
selves on the back for their own cooperation in providing extras
for those people who deserve it .

when private insurance realized how much money they 'd make without the
risks involved in basic insurance (e.g. , neurosurgery) versus deluxe
amenities (e.g. , having to call granada tv to replace a rental set on
the fritz in someone 's private hospital room) , they started to pat
themselves on the back for their social responsibility. in quebec
last spring , a consortium of private insurers publicly warned against
any thoughts of privatizing routine , low cost parts of that province 's
public health insurance plan.

again , i doubt americans would like giving the insurance companies that
much power. i half wonder if the canadian health insurers did n't go
along with the provinces and the federal government years ago because
they knew that there was a good chance of the public system going bust
in the long run , and then afterwards they could clean up (okay , this
sort of contradicts what i said higher up. but it 's another possibility).
they 'd have an added bonus when arguing against government
involvement in their industry as they could then point to its failure
instead of just citing theoretical principles.

i agree ... they were in a win win situation. but right now , it seems
that they have won bigger , when you look at how full their coffers
are. friends from my sisters' mba class were still being flown out
for job interviews individually with insurance firms in london , on ,
(canada 's insurance capitol a la hartford) along with generous expense
privileges this year despite the ongoing post recession blues.

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 26

in 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes


the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

possibly because gay bi men are less likely to get married \?

what was the purpose of this post \? if it was to show a mindless obsession
with statistics , an incredibly flawed system of reasoning , and a repellent
hatemonger agenda , then the purpose was accomplished with panache.

(a) get a clue. (b) get a life. (c) get out of my face. i'm not in yours.

drewcifer

bi andrew d. simchik schnopia !
as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu treewater

words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes

from bmich@cs.utexas.edu (brian keith michalk)
subject re high speed rail is bad
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 14
distribution tx
nntp posting host coltexo.cs.utexas.edu

in article 1993apr13.150740.6221@iqsc.com rex@iqsc.com (rex black) writes
rail in texas. being from california , i have come to the conclusion
that one has two choices for preventing economic strangulation through
traffic high speed rail or growth limits.

rex

growth limits \? how will hsr help with the traffic congestion \? from what
i understand , the rail will not stop in places like waco , or bryan , or
lots of intermediate places in between. even though i live in austin ,
i do n't see myself using the train except on rare occasions. probably
twice a year. and at 65 dollars a ticket i could probably drive for
cheaper also. (even if the price of gas went up)


from dsh@eceyv.ncsu.edu (doug holtsinger)
subject pro abortion feminist leader endorses trashing of free speech rights
organization ncsu
lines 38


51 arrested for defying judge 's order at abortion protest rally
the miami herald , april 11 , 1993

melbourne , florida ...

circuit judge robert mcgregor 's order prohibits anti abortion pickets
within 36 feet of the property line of aware woman center for choice.
even across the street , they may not display pictures of dead fetuses
or sing or chant loud enough to be heard by patients inside the clinic.

the protesters say the ruling all but wiped out the first amendment
to the constitution.

``this is our sidewalk , '' said joe carroll , 33 , a landscaper who
marched with his children , mary grace , 8 , and john , 7.

``i am not a rescuer. i am not a trespasser. it 's just that this is
my sidewalk. i am not really protesting abortion. we are protesting
denial of our rights of assembly , religion , speech. this judge is
trashing the constitution.''

the children 's grandmother led them away , sobbing , as carroll and
his father were arrested.

outside the clinic , eleanor smeal , president of the washington ,
d.c. based feminist majority foundation , called for the florida
legislature and congress to pass laws as tough as the judge 's
order , which covers only brevard and seminole counties.

``this cannot go on , '' she said. ``this is not freedom of speech ,
this is total psychological warfare with violence. it is ridiculous
to have to ask clinics to go court by court . . . to get protection.''

...




from donb@igor.tamri.com (don baldwin)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization toshiba america mri , south san francisco , ca
lines 21

in article 1993apr15.193603.14228@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !

a friend of mine who smoke pot every day and last tuesday took 5 hits of acid
is still having trouble aiming for the bowl when he takes a dump. do n't as
me how , i just have seen the results.

gee , the war on drugs has been going on for all these years and they 're
still getting drugs ! imagine that...

my friends who like grass (i don t agree but it 's pretty harmless) are
unable to get it , yet i know a number of places where someone stupid
enough could get crack cocaine within a half hour of leaving my office.

the war on drugs has been completely unsuccessful , yet it 's lead to really
horrible abuses of peoples' constitutional rights. i do n't see how a
thinking person could justify it.

don


from jviv@usmi01.midland.chevron.com (john viveiros)
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster
distribution na
organization chevron
lines 31

in article philc5ht85.h48@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes
not at all. you are apparently just another member of the religious left.

show me all these environmental disasters . most of them are n't. and the
natural disasters we have had individually far outweigh the man made ones.

most of your so called disasters (love canal , times beach , tmi) are n't disasters
at all.

so look , if you want to worship trees (or owls or snails or whatever) , fine , do
so. but don't try to push the scaredness of your religious off onto me.

if you want to see environmental disasters , go to eastern europe or some
parts of the fsu (former soviet union). this is because they had no
environmental protection laws and were trying to increase productivity
at any expense to justify their political systems. luckily for us , some
of our politicians with vision passed some environmental laws. that
is n't to say that they should n't be modified , but all i ever hear from
you is that the environmental laws were dreamed up by a bunch of
left wing tree huggers intent on putting us back on horseback. yes ,
there are some of those , but a lot of us simply want to procede with
caution.


john viveiros (jviv@chevron.com)
chevron usa standard disclaimer applies
midland tx

netnews userid for nntpserver.chevron.com

who said no news is good news \?

from kbanaian@bernard.pitzer.claremont.edu (king banaian)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
lines 43
organization pitzer college

in article veal.731.734985604@utkvm1.utk.edu veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes
in article 1993apr16.164750.21913@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca golchowy@
alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca (gerald olchowy) writes
in article 9304151442.aa05233@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes

why do n't the republicans get their act together , and say they
will support a broad based vat that would have to be visible
(the vat in canada is visible unlike the invisible vats they
have in europe)
and suggest a rate sufficient to halve income and corporate
and capital gains tax rates and at a rate sufficient to give
the clintons enough revenue for their health care reform ,

the republicans are , in general , fighting any tax increase.
there is also worry that a vat would be far too easy to increase
incrementally.

i was a graduate student in the early 1980s , and we had a conference on
reaganomics where jerry jordan , then a member of the council of economic
advisors , was a speaker. i had the pleasure of driving him back to the
airport afterwards , and since taxes were the main topic of discussion i
thought i would ask him about the vat. i have favored it for these reasons
you mention , that the income base is too hazy to define , that it taxes
savings and investment , that it is likely to be more visible. he agreed ,
and reported that the cea at that time was in favor of vat. so why not
propose it \? i asked. he replied that the reagan white house feared that
the democrats would introduce vat in addition to the income tax , rather
than in lieu. better not to give them any ideas , he said.

pretty prescient.

(btw , what is different between canada 's tax and most of
europe 's that makes it visible \? )

yes , any canadian readers , please tell us if the tax is displayed on price
stickers (i'm relatively certain it is not in europe).

king sparky banaian it 's almost as though young
kbanaian@pitzer.claremont.edu white guys get up in the
dept. of economics , pitzer college morning and have a big smile
latest 1993 gdp forecast 2.4 on their face ... because ,
you know , homer wrote the
iliad . d'souza

from phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
subject re a rational viewpoint was re new study out on gay percentage
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random.
lines 27

in article 1qn57cinnabv@darkstar.ucsc.edu stephen@orchid.ucsc.edu () writes
it is very difficult for a young person to develop and build
a positive view of themself when they are constantly being
told implicitly and explicitly that they are wrong and
immoral.

yes , that is most certainly true. however , the paragrapgh reflects a value less
position and infers that what is more important than anything else is to
have a positive view of one 's self.

this of course , is foolish.

should a mass murderer , a pedophile , a 10 year old pyromaniac have a positive
view of themselves \?

of course not.

a person that engages in behaviour that a large number of people condemn ,
and if you believe in the concept of society , then your only choice is
to expect that person to have a negative view of themselves.



there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re professors whining about pay
distribution usa
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 53

in article 1qf2kqinnrkd@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov , fogarty@sir c.jpl.nasa.gov (tim fogarty) writes
in article 15320@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article 1q4k3binne6k@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov , fogarty@sir c.jpl.nasa.gov (tim fogarty) writes
in article 15307@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
2. professors get summers off industry employees do n't.

what professor gets the summer off \? the primary purpose of a professor
at a university is to publish. teaching is secondary. the summer
is when professors are able to do the research required for their
papers.

i'm told by my advisor that only at some universities is publishing
the primary emphasis many professors in the cal state university
system do n't publish at all. those that prefer teaching are under
no pressure to publish.


when discussing and issue , it helps that all participants use the same
definitions , although this rarely occurs on usenet.

when i use the term university , i think of an organization that has
a bachelors , masters , and phd program. i believe that cal state schools
do not. i call them colleges. uc schools are universities. at a univeristy
the number one goal is to publish.

cal state university system offers bachlors and masters degrees. the
ph.d. is not offered , because of opposition from uc.

at the cal state schools , do the professors you speak of have phds \? at

nearly all the professors have phds. i have n't had a professor who did n't ,
though my wife has had a couple of professors with just an m.a. a friend
had an instructor who did n't have a degree at all , but because he had
been minister of culture for the black panthers , he was teaching anyway.
he had a bad habit of usually not showing up to teach the class , and
finally quit in disgust at the racism of a university that expected him
to show up to teach.

a university you have professors with phds and then teaching assistants (tas).
tas were the slave labor , graduate students who got their tuition paid , and
a few hundred a month for living expenses in exchange for doing all the grunt
work. the professors taught the lectures , with 100 to 500 students per class ,
then the tas taught the labs , with 20 to 30 per class.

tim fogarty (fogarty@sir c.jpl.nasa.gov)

at sonoma state university , typical class size is 20 to 30 per class.
teaching is definitely more the goal , and sometimes , it actually happens.
the best professors at sonoma state u. are equivalent to the best
professors i had at ucla and usc.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from matt@galaxy.nsc.com (matt freivald x8043)
subject re nlns fascism with a friendly face
nntp posting host pogo.nsc.com
organization thought police watchdog agency , u.s.a.
lines 370


who wants to look through the bars at some reactionary liberal conspiracy
theory idiots and see how they rant and rave at the erosion of their populist
support \? this is very typical of the elitist liberal attitude that the people
are incapable of thinking for themselves. this elitist attitude will be the
eventual undoing of the arrogant liberal tide sweeping america , as the people
begin to realize more and more that they are being treated like errant children
and robbed of their freedoms by a bunch of utopian arrogent socialist jerks.


in article 167077 in talk.politics.misc , new liberation news service
nlns@igc.apc.org writes

subject nlns fascism with a friendly face
lines 164

from new liberation news service nlns
subject nlns fascism with a friendly face

written 8 33 pm apr 14 , 1993 by nlns@igc.apc.org in igc nlns.news
nlns packet 3.11 4 14 93

fascism with a friendly face does rush limbaugh remind you of
anyone \?
daevid bornhuetter machen , the madison edge

the main difference between adolf hitler and rush limbaugh is that
hitler was original and showed initiative.
mort sahl on the tom snyder radio show , abc radio network ,
october 27 , 1992.

although i find myself often disagreeing with the populist rationale
of mr. limbaugh , i find him entertaining and i often agree with his
conclusions. the fact that he sends liberal reactionaries like these
idiots through the roof makes him all the more entertaining.



(nlns) believe it or not , i was planning this comparative review of
mein kampf and limbaugh 's transcribed rant , the way things ought to
be before sahl issued his comparative review. as usual , sahl 's was
independent and sharp as a scalpel.
my effort can only dream of comparing favorably to mort 's. at
least it has a fairly popular orginating premise everyone i 'd mention the
idea to thought it was either divinely inspired or at least past due for
delivery.
those reactions are based on parallels that should be obvious to the
most peripheral observer of the acts of those false prophets. both are
noted for their galvanizing oratorical skills , which they both used with
passion to generate a political cult of massive numerical proportions (in
fact , limbaugh claims to have an audience of just over 12 million , almost
identical to the number of votes cast for hitler in the april 1932 german
election). both used a myopic social perspective to build the cult , and
enthusiastically amputated facts from the record to fabricate their
ideological quilt.

actually , i find limbaugh 's oratory less than sizzling and his debating
skills sometimes lacking , even though his conclusions are often correct.

i would suggest that a bankrupt leftist ideology that hopes to use concentrated
political power and a loaded gun to force everyone to do the right things
(where right is defined by the elitist academics who lead the movement)
is showing an acute case of myopic social perspective , not to mention
arrogance and utter stupidity.

limbaugh is certainly far from perfect , but his opponents in the established
body politic and the media are the ones arguing for federal control of
virtually all aspects of the lives of the citizenry , and for the elimination
of local control over affairs public.

perhaps limbaugh has a following because the people are tired of being treated
like errant children by a self important group of arrogant controlling myopic
people who have no understanding of how life operates outside of the oughta be 's
inside their own hopelessly closed minds.



the last point is glaringly documented by passages in the opening
pages of both books. hitler 's example is when , on page 5 , he claims the
german nationalist terrorist leo schlageter (he bombed part of a railway
line between dusseldorf and duisburg , being caught in the act , in 1923)
was betrayed to france by a representative of his government when
there has never been any factual foundation for such a statement.
in fact , the governments of both the reich and prussia , as well as
the vatican , actively intervened to save him from execution , and almost
succeeded.

ok , let us take your word for that and work with it. a nice specific
incident.



limbaugh follows suit by making the hysterically sarcastic
claim in his introduction that in a school or during a commencement
ceremony or many other public places... god is unconstitutional. of
course , it 's not god but the official imposition of particular concepts of
god against an individual 's will that 's unconstitutional. but limbaugh is
too gleeful in his talent for distortion to want you to know that.

hmmm , congress shall pass no law regarding an establishment of religion ,
nor prohibiting the free exercise thereof. liberal translation the
federal government (as long as it is run by liberals) may force local
school districts to include certain iconic content in christmas displays ,
while prohibiting others.

i think limbaugh has you on this one. it seems to me that he is arguing
for less imposition of the federal government into religion.

nice job on the specificity of that one , too.



analysis of historical modern communication media deleted

but , as mort sahl also observed on the radio the other night , some
cloutmeister of the radical right wants limbaugh to be a focal point of
their propoganda. (and remember , sahl is an al haig conservative these
days.)
mort might not know exactly who rush 's equivalent of rodolf
hess is (the book itself suggests ed mclaughlin , the former president of
abc radio and now limbaugh 's partner in efm media , the radio
program 's production company). but mort himself is a veteran of the talk
show , having hosted them in new york , washington and los angeles. he
knows what evil lurks in the hearts of major market media men. he knows
that limbaugh could not have collected his audience had not the
opportunity been placed on a silver platter and handed to him. limbaugh
earns his money just as honestly as al capone did it 's almost worthy of a
rico indictment.

ah yes , it is a conspiracy of profound proportions. methinks that you
may be a bit resentful of mr. limbaugh 's success because you attribute it
primarily to luck (how , after all , could anyone with profound differences
of opinion from yourself have become successful without the operation of
conspiracy or blind luck ! ) do you feel this same level of knee jerk
resentment against lottery winners , or do you congratulate them on their
good fortune \?



on questions of social issues , there is an overabundance of
material in the limbaugh book that seems to echo hitler 's venom. for
example

this should be great fun , since it is the liberal movement in america
that is pushing the hardest for centralized fascist control of the people
and business (government business 'partnership' indeed) , and mr. limbaugh
is the populist nemesis of that movement.

i have read mr. limbaugh 's book , and although it was not the most literary
piece i have read in recent memory it certainly did not contain venom
at all , let alone venom comparable to an individual who callously murdered
millions out of racism.



on their own qualifications to control society
hitler out of the host of sometimes millions of people , who
individually more or less clearly and distinctly guess the truth , partly
perhaps understand it , one man author 's emphasis must step forward in
order to form , with apodeictic force , out of the wavering world of
imagination of the great masses , granite principles , and to take up the fight
for their sole correctness , until out of the playing waves of a free world of
thought a brazen rock of uniform combination of form and will arises
(page 577).

a very serious tone in that oratory.



limbaugh who needs the media when they 've got me \? ... the
show is devoted exclusively to what i think ... the phrase with half my
brain tied behind my back to make it even denotes the egress of mental
aptitude i require to engage and demolish liberals and others who disagree
with me ... it might take four or five years , but i'm convinced the media
will slowly and reluctantly come around to my way of thinking , kicking
and screaming all the way. (pages 266 , 21 , 299 and 273 , respectively.)

you neglect to mention that mr. limbaugh (have you ever listened to his show ,
btw \? ) continuously encourages his audience to think for themselves rather
than blindly following any media icon , himself included. you yourself mention
that he makes no bones about his show being strictly about his own opinions.
he also adopts a rather satirical approach , and presumes his audience to be
intelligent enough to distinguish satire from seriousness (and he says as much).
this is in contrast to the average mass media show , in which the audience is
treated as society 's intellectual lowest common denominator.

i am sure that adolf hitler was a master of satire i am sure he was just
kidding when he said that the jews were the cause of germany 's problems and
needed to be exterminated.



on religion as the basis of a nation
hitler in this world human culture and civilization are
inseperably bound up with the existence of the aryan. his dying off or his
decline would again lower upon this earth the dark veils of a time without
culture ... he who dares to lay hand upon the highest image of the lord
sins against the benevolent creator of this miracle and helps in the
expulsion from paradise. (page 581.)

this is not religion , it is clearly a perverse worship of race. since
christ was a jew , it seems quite unlikely that hitler 's characterization of
the aryan as the highest image of the lord fits with christian doctrine.



limbaugh america was founded as a judeo christian country ...
but our intellectual and political elites are often either hostile or
ambivalent toward religion ... people for whom belief in god is at best a
charming superstition have managed to ban prayer from the public schools
for the last thirty years. is it only a coincidence that the quality of
american education has declined ever since \? (pages 274 5.)

private religious schools have a vastly better record of success than
publicly funded schools. american history is indeed primarily judeo
christian. i suppose that mr. limbaugh pointing out facts is equivalent
to adolf hitler worshiping the aryan race. i think you might be reaching
just a wee bit here.



on popular culture as a reason for social collapse
hitler the fight against the poisoning of the soul has to set in ...
one has only to look at the menus of our movie houses , vaudevilles and
theatres and one can hardly deny that this is not the right kind of food ...
theatre , art , literature , movies , the press , billposters and window displays
must be cleaned of the symptoms of a rotting world and put into the
service of a moral idea of state and culture. (pages 346 and 348.)

definite suggestion that the government should control the entertainment
industry here.


limbaugh today , hollywood is in trouble. the reason is that
hollywood has forgotten who its audience is ... they make fun of people
who believe in god. they ridicule the traditional family , heterosexuality
and monagamy. they disparage american heroes. (page 254.)

just a guess here , but i do n't think that mr. limbaugh would advocate
government control of hollywood. you should perhaps call his radio show
to confirm this. i believe this is more a criticism of hollywood and the
depraved moral values it espouses , not an advocation of government control
of hollywood.

90 's liberals , on the other hand , want to have complete government control
of our school systems , so that the government can teach the people at an
early age the right way to view religion and morality. i believe mr.
limbaugh is against this , as his satirical use of the young heads full
of mush hyperbole indicates.



on the news meida
hitler the activity of the so called liberal press was the work of
gravediggers for the german people and the german reich. one can pass
by in silence the marxist papers of lies ... it 's task is only to break the
people 's folkish and national spine , in order to make it ripe for the yoke of
slavery of international capital and its masters , the jews. (page 331.)

pretty strong conspiracy theory insinuated here , with an implicit plea for
government power to be used to break up the conspiracy.



limbaugh elements of the media have jumped on the
bandwagon of leftist causes. the cynical journalist of the past has been
replaced in many cases by an enthusiastic cheerleader for causes ... during
the gulf war , cnn correspondent bernard shaw said cnn is a global
network. we ca n't take sides. cant take sides \? ! ... if they do n't
realize that their freedom lies in the united states of america and that
therefore they should defend this nation , they are hopelessly misguided
and , may i suggest , flirting with megalomania. (pages 270 and 268.)

indication here that elements of the media (since career is a self selected
categorization , perhaps an inferred 'larger percentage than represented in
the populace at large') has a leftist bias. does n't sound too unreasonable.
no insinuation that cnn should not report in an objective fashion , only
that for reporters to say that they do not have any personal bias in the
situation is disingenuous to megalomaniacal.

you may disagree , and it may well be exagerrated , but it is not an unreasonable
opinion and mr. limbaugh goes well out of his way to make sure that his
audience knows that these are his opinions , unlike most other reporting that
purports to achieve perfect objectivity but in actuality will in some degree
or other , in a statistical sense , reflect the biases of the reporters. who
is being disingenuous here , mr. shaw or mr. limbaugh \?

again , you should ask mr. limbaugh himself , but i expect that he would
oppose government control of the media.





to continue these comparative excerpts is certainly possible , but
ultimately too depressing to take in one reading.

it is indeed depressing to see such myopia and tiresome liberal arrogance.
liberals love to play games with paradigms as a way of discrediting people
who disagree with them. why do n't you challenge conservative ideology
on an intellectual level rather than engaging in ludicrous comparisons \?
perhaps the underpinnings of your ideology are intellectual only in that
they exist in your mind , not the real world.



after putting these books down , there is one undeniable fact that
haunts me. in the 1920s , adolf hitler fed depressed and frightened
germans the opiate of hatred of those around them in turn , it allowed
germans to hand their collective national power to the nazis. in the 1990s ,
rush limbaugh is doing the very same thing distributing hatred to
depressed and frightened americans in turn , it is helping the american
radical right to maintain its power base as the 12 year nightmare of the
reagan bush era comes to an end , hoping to rebuild it into their hopes for
the fascist states of america.

perhaps there are a few among the intellectually challenged who percieve
rush limbaugh as a hate monger , but in my experience he has been spreading
laughter at the ludicrous self importance of the left , not hatred.

as to mr. bush , you may be correct about his fascist economic leanings.
mr. reagan , on the other hand , did his best to reverse the fascist trend
of government involvement in business. mr. clinton is increasing fascism
in america through business government partnership and increased levels
of taxation. perhaps you should not have skipped your vocabulary classes
in grade school.



and if limbaugh is not as repellant a hitler , it is only because the
radical right utilizes limbaugh as its own gateway opiate. one can only
wonder what the ultimate drug is they plan to hook america on.

hmmm. seems to me that limbaugh is not in any way comparable to hitler
because he has not murdered six million jews and many , many others out of
racism. i come from a mixed race family , so i am quite well attuned to
racism i do n't hear any coming from rush limbaugh. the only place i hear
racism coming from these days and being taken seriously is from the liberal
left.

the liberal left is the movement i see trying to get america hooked
on the opiates of socialized medicine , socialized transportation , socialized
education , etc. the left already has america hopelessly addicted to
that liberal drug , the social security chain letter. it is quite clear
to me that while the hitler analogy does not really apply to either rush
limbaugh or william jefferson clinton , if one of the two is closer than
the other it is clearly the fascist clinton.


the madison edge can be reached at po box 845 , madison , wi 53701
0845 (608) 255 4460.

30

this is the same address as idiots anonymous , is n't it \?


matt freivald


liborgalism
thinking is irrelevant. integrity is irrelevant.
free speech is irrelevant. private property is irrelevant.
personal responsibility is irrelevant.
conservativism is futile.
you will be assimilated.

these are my opinions only and not those of my employer ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !



from kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm)
subject re kyle k. on rodney king
distribution usa
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 54

thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes

in article c5nh58.hp4@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes
in article c5lp0y.fdk@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \?

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important.

i'm curious why you took a beign statement and cross posted it to several
different news groups , including something along the lines of
alt.discrimination.

exsqueeze me \? i saw your original post in alt.discrimination.
your post was cross posted to three groups. my followup was cross posted
to two of those three (omitting soc.motss).

now , instead of engaging in meta discussion off the topic , could you answer
the question posed \? if your statement is so beign ( ! \? ) , you should have no
trouble politely responding to a polite query.

well , i do n't think your query was exactly polite , but i will try to
give you a polite responce. something atypical of the net , but here it goes.

black is a descriptive adjective that describes mr. king. from many
of the newspaper , radio , and tv news reports i have seen , this adjective
is commonly in front of his name. i have never seen anyone complain about
the use of this adjective when used in a benign manner. i did not say that
mr. king was a no good black ! i do not know mr. king and would not make this
ascertian without some evidence to this effect. i used it purely as a
descriptive adjective in the same manner than many ( most ) news people have
used it in the past.


the entire second trial was about race , ted. i do n't feel compelled to
discuss mr. king 's racial background , but had mr. king been white there would
not have been a second trial. you probably are saying that the beating would
not have occurred if he were white , but that is an extremely difficult call
to make. it is possible the case , but not definately.

i still think your actions are crap , ted. they are far more divisive than
me using the adjective 'black' in a non derogenory manner. would you have
been happier if i had used 'african american' \? if so , then you really are
lost in the world of pc. you have already been instrumental in getting one
persons net access revoked , and i wonder if you have sent a copy of my
message to my sys admin with a plea that i am not worthy of posting.

the way you went about this 'polite' inquiry makes me believe it was
anything but.



from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re urgent ted frank wanted for killing aj teel...
lines 181
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article 1993apr12.031404.25988@eff.org , mnemonic@eff.org (mike godwin) writes

in article c5bvqy.fld@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes

but punishing the person for posting such a thing smacks of
authoritarianism.

it 's a deliberate act of fraud intended to cause harm.

you seem to be unclear about the legal meaning of fraud. mere
misrepresentation is not fraud.

your comment here is meant as a put down. it fails for several reasons

1) you have edited out the context of the action under discussion.
2) i never brought the legal definition up. i use the english language
and not the legal dialect. the legal definition of fraud changes from
one country to another in any case. the context of the discussion is morality
of censorship.



how does a posting from your site do any such thing \? especially if your
site is a university \? do you know any person who believes that a
university endorses every comment made from a university site \?

that is why i refered specifically to a company.

good. now , do you know any person who believes that a company endorses
every comment made from a university site \?

you are extrapolating from the statement i made concerning a circumstance
in which such an act of censorship would be permissable to the teel case.
if you had bothered to read the post instead of trying to prove how stupid you
thought me you would have done rather better. the mode of argument i was using
was a form of rhetoric. argument by example , i describe a wide set of
circumstances in which an action is permisable and demonstrate that they
do not apply , thus the action is not permisable.

obviously a company posting from a university adress would be squashed , it
would be contrary to the internet comercial use.

usenet does not distribute letterhead.

organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera

i suggest strongly that if you mean for this to be taken as letterhead you
get a better stationery designer.

now you are clutching at straws. in the context of the discussion it was
the fact of association between the company and the post that was important.
the typeface etc is inconsequential.


there are people on the net who are openly supporting the murder of members
of my family.

sigh.

if you are implying that i am lying i suggest you read mark holohan and ulick
staffords posts into soc.culture.british. if you are suggesting that
advocating murder is a trivial matter i would prefer that you state it
directly.

certainly i oppose the right of dr sidiqui and the ayatolah khomenhi to
call for the murder of salman rushdie. incitement to murder is not part
of what i consider legitimate freedom of speech.


as for your notion that employees can argue their different political
views at their own expense , could you explain precisely what expense
you 're talking about \?

internet is not free. the connection charges are quite expensive for comercial
concerns.

could you give me a cost breakdown for the expense to your company
attributable to an employee 's posting a political view in disagreement
with yours \? numbers , please.

that is irrelevant , the case is not the incremental cost but the facility
cost. if i decide that a company i am associated with should subscribe
to usenet that usenet connection is the property of the company. it is
quite legitimate for a company to have a political or other agenda and
regulate the use of its property in accordance with its policy. for example
if a microsoft employee were to post windows nt is crap do n't buy it
from a microsoft machine i would consider it reasonable for microsoft to
sack that employee. in the same way if a company decides that it has
political objectives it might wish to regulate postings in a political
manner. this is no worse than rupert murdoch using his papers as a political
platform for his views.


i was refering to the arrogance of your position , quoting the words written
by slave owners at me in the cause of freedom.

which words written by slave owners did i quote \? i do n't recall quoting
anyone.

ah yes you did not quote them , merely refered to them.


your constitution is not
considered sacrosanct in other parts of the globe.

nor have i assumed it is. i do n't consider the first amendment to have
talismanic value.

you might just as well have attempted to argue from the king james bible
to a muslim. i was pointing out that your reasoning is parochial when with
little effort you could have made a substantive point.

i made the effort apparently you made a certain effort to misunderstand
me.

your article consisted of a reference to the first ammendment , your signature
and pretty well damn all else.


for an example of a uk publication that understands this , try index on
censorship.

i used to subscribe , i would still if i was not moving.

index regularly publishes opinions by non americans who believe the first
amendment represents appropriate free speech principles for all open
societies. see , e.g. , the opinions of the dissenting law lords in the
spycatcher case.

are you refering to the initial hearings on an injunction or the judgments
on the substantive case \?

the initial hearings that the government won were judged on the not unresonable
judgment that assertion by the government that the national interest might be
harmed would be grounds for prior restraint. the second set of hearings on the
substance judged that the government had no case and that the official secrets
act could not be used to suppress information in thwe public domain already.
the part that they won was over the copyright issue which is rather separate.

here again the issue of censorship is rather different in the case that
information is divulged on the understanding that it will not be communicated
to third parties. the first ammendment certainly does not apply in this
case as the numerous prosecutions of spies in the us proves.

the crux of the spycatcher affair was extrateritoriality of british law.
the censorship aspect of it arose as a result of the government 's
ludicrous attempts to prevent summary of the case in the book.


you have n't any reason to believe that anything i 've said has been reached
unquestioningly.

only most of what you write.

for someone who purports to be opposed to argument from assertion , you
certainly get by on assertions a lot.

funny i saw that as a rejection of an assertion that you had made. of course in
rejecting an assertion i have to make a contrary assertion , since this assertion
is unprovable i left it at that.

so far i have not seen you demonstrate a command of the contrary opinion to your
own. you are attacking my anti censorship view because i dare to accept the
validity of some pro censorship arguments while rejecting their conclusions.
plus i am not an absolutist. i have this funny idea that the solution to this
problem was not decided in 1789 by a group of white male gentry in secret
session and sumarized in a single line. furthermore i do n't think that the
issues are half as simple as you imply.

you may think that i am being anti american in disallowing recourse to the
first ammendment. it 's just that this argument has no currency in the parts
of the world where there is state censorship such as iran , kewait and israel.

i do n't pretend to have geared my discourse for all conceivable audiences.

i do n't think that you have geered your discourse to any audience save that
of proving that you are the only person wearing a white hat.


phill hallam baker

from golchowy@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca (gerald olchowy)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
organization university of toronto chemistry department
lines 27

in article c5m2f9.geb@news.iastate.edu atboyken@iastate.edu (aaron t boyken) writes

if the vat will be done in the same way that state and local sales
taxes are done , nothing will be on the sticker. the cleark ringing
up your purchase (gum , gas , car , etc.) will hit a button to add
another 5 on top of the state and local sales taxes (and that wo n't
include any of the vat from previous levels of sales).


there is no need to include the vat from previous levels because
the vat is a difference tax...if the vat is x , than the amount
of tax the government receives through all the levels is x of
the purchase price of the end consumer. at the intervening levels ,
only the difference between the vat paid out and the vat received
is remitted to the government.

here 's a question what if , instead of a true vat , the federal
government imposed a sales tax of say 2 3 \? the tax would only
be paid on retail sales (thus not building up at all levels of
production costs that are just passed on to consumers anyway) ,
and would only go to reducing the deficit. (i know that this
would never happen , but it seems a lot more palettable than
a vat).

a vat is infinitely preferable to a retail sails tax...

gerald

from steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization visionaire , san francisco , ca
lines 34

in article 1993apr15.193603.14228@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
in article stevethc5jgcr.1ht@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes


just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you !


a friend of mine who smoke pot every day and last tuesday took 5 hits of acid
is still having trouble aiming for the bowl when he takes a dump. do n't as
me how , i just have seen the results.

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people screwed up in
the head.


i 'll answer you 're sarcasm with more sarcasm

boy , it looks like the wod is working really good to stop people from
being screwed up in the head , given that example !

(issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal
drugs and who is not screwed up have to pay for this idiot 's problems \? he 's
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the wod , on the other hand , is an
immediate threat to my life and livelyhood. tell me why i should sacrafice
this to that ! ).





steve thomas
steveth@rossinc.com

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton war powers resolution on bosnia 4.14.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 102
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house

office of the press secretary



for immediate release april 14 , 1993


text of a letter from the president
to the speaker of the
house of representatives and
the president pro tempore of the senate


april 13 , 1993


dear mr. speaker (dear mr. president )

as part of my continuing effort to keep the congress fully
informed , i am providing this report , consistent with section 4
of the war powers resolution , to advise you of actions that i
have ordered in support of the united nations efforts in
bosnia herzegovina.

beginning with u.n. security council resolution 713 of
september 25 , 1991 , the united nations has been actively
addressing the crisis in the former yugoslavia. the security
council acted in resolution 781 to establish a ban on all
unauthorized military flights over bosnia herzegovina. there
have , however , been blatant violations of the ban , and villages
in bosnia have been bombed.

in response to these violations , the security council decided ,
in resolution 816 of march 31 , 1993 , to extend the ban to all
unauthorized flights over bosnia herzegovina and to authorize
member states , acting nationally or through regional organi
zations , to take all necessary measures to ensure compliance.
nato 's north atlantic council (nac) agreed to provide nato air
enforcement for the no fly zone. the u.n. secretary general
was notified of nato 's decision to proceed with operation deny
flight , and an activation order was delivered to participating
allies.

the united states actively supported these decisions. at my
direction , the joint chiefs of staff sent an execute order to
all u.s. forces participating in the nato force , for the conduct
of phased air operations to prevent flights not authorized by
the united nations over bosnia herzegovina. the u.s. forces
initially assigned to this operation consist of 13 f 15 and
12 f 18a fighter aircraft and supporting tanker aircraft.
these aircraft commenced enforcement operations at 8 00 a.m.
e.d.t. on april 12 , 1993. the fighter aircraft are equipped for
combat to accomplish their mission and for self defense.

nato has positioned forces and has established combat air
patrol (cap) stations within the control of airborne early
warning (aew) aircraft. the u.s. cap aircraft will normally
operate from bases in italy and from an aircraft carrier in the
adriatic sea. unauthorized aircraft entering or approaching
the no fly zone will be identified , interrogated , intercepted ,
escorted monitored , and turned away (in that order). if these
steps do not result in compliance with the no fly zone , such
aircraft may be engaged on the basis of proper authorization by
nato military authorities and in accordance with the approved

more

(over)

2

rules of engagement , although we do not expect such action will
be necessary. the commander of unprofor (the united nations
protection force currently operating in bosnia herzegovina) was
consulted to ensure that his concerns for his force were fully
considered before the rules of engagement were approved.

it is not possible to predict at this time how long such
operations will be necessary. i have directed u.s. armed forces
to participate in these operations pursuant to my constitutional
authority as commander in chief. i am grateful for the con
tinuing support that the congress has given to this effort , and
i look forward to continued cooperation as we move forward
toward attainment of our goals in this region.

sincerely ,




william j. clinton








from piatt@gdc.com (gary piatt)
subject re employment (was re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization general datacomm ind. inc. , middlebury , ct 06762
lines 51
nntp posting host esun228
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

dov bai msi visitor (bai@msiadmin.cit.cornell.edu) wrote
in article c5fg7t.6at@exnet.co.uk sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes

true , man did not invent the need for food , shelter , warmth and the ilk ,
but man did invent the property laws and the laws of trespass.
but how do you think property is generated \? does it grow automatically
on trees when we wish so , or someone has to produce it \?

some say it was generated by god or goddess some say it was the result of
the coalescence of billions of tons of interstellar debris. in either case ,
the property of which xavier speaks has been around for millions of years.


it all follows from the fact that mother nature does not
provide us automatically with our needs ,

oh \? when did she stop \? mother nature has been automatically providing
us with her bounty ever since we crawled out of the primordial ooze. it
is not produced it produces itself , year after year. last night , for
example , i saw four deer crossing the road (pretty sight , too) in an
earlier time , one of them would have been dinner.

there are 2 ways to go with produced things the first is to
trade it with the the person(s) who produced it.
the other one is to take it with a gun from the person who produced
it. the first way is the civilized method , the second is how savages
arrange their affairs.

the american indians had no concept of ownership of property , and often
freely gave of their supplies to neighboring tribes , trading food and
clothing for weapons or services. the native hawaiians , like their
polynesian ancestors , also could not conceive of that idea , and shared
many things with the other islanders. in fact , hi'ipoi , the hawaiian
word for cherish means sharing food . the great mahele , in which
the islands were divided up more or less evenly between the rich and
the poor , was a white man 's idea. in africa , villagers will often
share tools , crops , and clothing with other members of their own village
and neighboring villages. every anthropologist who has ever been to
africa has at least one tale of the difficulties arising from the so
called theft of the scientists possessions two concepts of which ,
until the visitors came along , the natives had no understanding.

these are the people we call savages .

on the other hand , car jackings and muggings are up from last year.

dov , before you make further comment on this thread , i think it would
behoove you to study all of the facts.


garison

from jamesdon@infoserv.com (james a. donald)
subject re winning tax case !
organization the liberty trust
lines 22
x mailer tmail version 1.13


do you have a strange definition of winning that you titled this thread
winning tax case ! \? sloan lost . by a unanimous 3 0 decision that tore
his arguments to pieces. he went to prison using these arguments. see
united states v sloan , 939 f2d 499 (7th cir 1990) , aff'g 704 f supp 880.

the tax protesters are legally correct , but they are put in jail anyway.

the weakness of the governments legal position is shown by the fact that when
someone protesting tax or gun laws on legal grounds gets a federal jury trial
(very rare) the feds blatantly stack the jury , with the same old faces turning
up time after time.

however teel should have mentioned that though his advice is legally sound , if
you follow it you will probably wind up in jail.



james a. donald joseph stalin said ideas are more powerful
than guns. we would not let our enemies have
jamesdon@infoserv.com guns , why should we let them have ideas.

from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject malpractice not the issue (was re 8 myths about national health...)
summary malpractice insurance and litigation do n't explain us health probs
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 46
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article c5p0hx.39e@acsu.buffalo.edu v140pxgt@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (daniel b case) writes
in article 1993apr18.001116.19872@news.columbia.edu , gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes...
the difference in the litigation environment is reflected in the fees.

lack of defensive medicine and near absence of malpractice is really

why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure insurance


then why do we really need national health insurance then \?
would n't it just make more sense to find some way to cut down
on the cost of malpractice insurance \?

it would if malpractice and defensive medicine were the main
factors in explaining spiralling us health care costs , but they are n't.

although gary is correct in noting that malpractice related problems are
greater in the us than canada , they by no means account for the overall
difference in health care costs. (they do account for a somewhat larger
portion of the difference in physicians' gross income in the two countries.)

some facts. malpractice insurance and awards account for less than 1 of
total health care costs in the us. in 1991 , according to a survey of
physicians conducted by a national medical journal physicians averaged
paying 3.7 of their practice receipts in malpractice insurance.
malpractice insurance premiums and malpractice awards peaked in 1985
they 've declined significantly since then. at the same time , health
care costs have increased more than any period in history.

as far as defensive medicine is concerned , the ama estimates that its
total impact is about 7 billion per year. that 's about 8 of the total
current increase in health care costs and the estimate is from a group
that could be expected to overestimate the impacts of defensive medicine
on health care.

as small a problem as this is in the overall scheme of things , however ,
clinton has been on record for a long time favoring an indemnification
of md 's against malpractice suits if they follow procedures set by their
specialties. this would eliminate most , if not all frivolous suits
while retaining the ability to sue for true malpractice.

jsh

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 61

in article c5k5lc.cyf@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard) writes
in article 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.

1) so what \?

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the disproportionate
involvement of homosexuals in child molestation. they also lie
about 10 to keep politicians scared.

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers
gather in washington dc. after all if there are only 6million of
us then this is an event unprecidented in history...

but many of the people who will be marching are n't homosexuals , but
other members of the leftist agenda.

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners....

not surprising. remember , that study includes homosexuals as well.

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population.

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those
who said they where homosexual \? or is that number to inconvient for
you....

it was n't published.

it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

fuck off

typical homoseuxal response.




clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from gmw0622@venus.tamu.edu (mr. grinch)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization grinchco
lines 29
distribution world
nntp posting host venus.tamu.edu
summary more on failed governments
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr18.200255.13012@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...
in article 18apr199314034390@venus.tamu.edu gmw0622@venus.tamu.edu (mr. grinch) writes
in article 1993apr18.172531.10946@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented. now why do you suppose
that never seems to occur \? ...


i fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. constant
combat is n't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing. also ,
they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable
society anyway.

and the reason that the soviet union could n't achieve the ideal of pure
communism was the hostility of surrounding capitalist nations...uh huh.
somehow , this all sounds familiar. once again , utopian dreams are
confronted by the real world...
steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com



steve , you 're the one who suggested that a failed government should be an
ideal proving ground , i never felt that way in the first place. quite the
contrary , i think a better proving ground would be someplace that already
had a governemnt that would prevent outright acts of agression , yet had a
strong spirit of individualism and initiative. someplace like... texas )

mr. grinch

from stephen@orchid.ucsc.edu ()
subject new 'guess' out on gay percentage
organization santa cruz
lines 38
nntp posting host orchid.ucsc.edu

in article c5la55.bwq@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy) writes
clayton cramer writes
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population.

did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing
to admit to being a member sexual minority (homosexuality) are more
willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority (highly
promiscious) \?

i did n't think that you did.


greg hennessy , university of virginia

it is obvious that mr. cramer has the 'ability' to take the 'leap of faith'.
i have listened to several of the men involved in this study , and even they
claim that the men involved will not 'tell the whole truth'.

i put little value in extrapolating from these types of 'studies' or 'surveys' ,
they have limited subsets of individuals , and there is alot of skewing due
to improper selection methods , and the bias of the people involved in the
studies on both sides subject and researcher.

would you admit to be part of a group that was not very well liked \? would
you admit to having had sex with other people at some considered abnormal
rate (this applies to heterosexual men). in fact , as one gay man and one
straight man put it , men lie about the number of partners , because that 's
the thing to do our culture for the male almost requires this type of
response. it may seem harmless and silly , but carries a large emotional
and mental price tag.

i hear college male students everyday talking about their 'supposed'
conquest. they just have to look good to one another , at least in their
eyes. but also know that alot of this does go on , there are many college
males (hetero) having a lot of sex with different partners.

from donb@igor.tamri.com (don baldwin)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization toshiba america mri , south san francisco , ca
lines 24

in article c5huh1.241@news.iastate.edu jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach)
writes
i would be upset that , although abortions would continue , they would be
a lot more expensive for the rich , and a lot less safe for the poor.

so now things are supposed to be legal just to keep their cost down
and the safety factor high \? \?

in the case of victimless crimes yes , i think so.

think about it. if i rob or beat up or rape or kill someone , it 's very
clear to anyone not a sociopath that i 've done something immoral. on the
other hand , if i smoke grass or have sex with a consenting adult in a
manner illegal in that state , the morality or immorality of that act is
merely a lifestyle choice it doesn t clearly hurt anyone else. imo , if
such an act doesn t hurt another person it should not be interfered with.

think about it should n't all drugs then be legalized , it would lower
the cost and definitely make them safer to use.

i think so. and i do n't use drugs , outside of the legal ones (alcohol
and coffee).

don

from ian@nasser.eecs.nwu.edu (ian sutherland)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization eecs department , northwestern university
lines 40

in article 1993apr15.170731.8797@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr15.013651.11353@tijc02.uucp pjs269@tijc02.uucp (paul schmidt) writes
steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

as noted in another thread (limiting govt) , the problem libertarians face
is insuring that the limited government they seek does not become the
tool of private interests to pursue their own agenda.


...

it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams.

you seem to be saying that a limited government will provide more
opportunities for private interests to use it to pursue their own
agendas , and asking libertarians to prove that this will not happen.
while i ca n't offer such a proof , it seems pretty damn plausible that
if the government does not regulate a particular area , it cannot become
a tool of private interests to pursue their own agendas in that area.
i rather suspect that it 's the sort of government we have now that is
more likely to become such a tool , and that it is such a tool in many
instances.

just
as marxism fails to specify how pure communism is to be achieved and
the state is to wither away , libertarians frequently fail to show how
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human
condition.

i suspect that this is because improvement in the human condition as
you define it is not the primary goal of libertarianism , and would not
be the primary goal of a libertarian government. my impression of
libertarianism is that its primary goal is the elimination of
government coercion except in a very limited cases.

ian sutherland
ian@eecs.nwu.edu

sans peur

from dowdy@tochtli.biochem.nwu.edu (dowdy jackson)
subject re swimming pool defense
nntp posting host tochtli.biochem.nwu.edu
organization northwestern university , evanston , illinois
lines 23

in article kbanaian.488.735081194@bernard.pitzer.claremont.edu kbanaian@bernard.pitzer.claremont.edu (king banaian) writes
in article 1993apr17.201310.13693@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes
in article dasmith.734719640@husc.harvard.edu dasmith@husc8.harvard.edu (
david smith) writes granted , the simple fact of holding down a job will
improve these kids' chances of getting another job in the future , but what
inner city kid would want to hold down just one more minimum wage job when
there is so much more money to be made dealing drugs \?

what suburban kid would want to hold down a minimum wage job when there is so
much more money to be made dealing drugs \?

yet , somehow , surburban kids do hold down minimum wage jobs. so do inner
city kids , when give the chance. any reason you think that inner city kids
are incapable of doing legitimate work \?

i suppose the correct answer is not family values \?

s'pose not. never mind. sorry.

are you assuming that families in the inner city do n't have family values \?
i sure hope not.



from tk@pssparc2.mitek.com (tom kimball)
subject re supply side economic policy (was re david stockman )
organization openconnect systems , dallas , tx
distribution na
lines 36

in article c5217t.j5b@newsserver.technet.sg ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes
details that you are seeking , is that the grahm rudman budget controls
were working. in fact , they were working so well that unless the feds
did something , they were going to have to start cutting pork. so bush
and the democrats got together in a budget summit and replaced
grahm rudman with the now historic grand compromise in which bush

yea , it turned out that gramm rudman was a sham to fool the voters
into accepting the borrow and spend policies of the last 12 years.



as it turned out , the taxes killed the reagan expansion and the caps

anyone can expand the economy by chargeing 3 trillion on their credit
cards. big deal. deficit spending only expands the economy in the short
term. in the long term it shrinks the economy for numerous reasons. i would
have much preferred that the taxpayers had that 3 trillion instead.


the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the deficit to a level
above where it was when reagan left office.

chew on that awhile.


if reagan had kept his campaign promise to balance the budget by 1983 ,
there would have been no need for bush or clinton to raise taxes. and
all reagan had to do was balance that puny carter deficit.

chew on that awhile.


tom kimball openconnect systems
2711 lbj freeway , suite 800
tk@oc.com dallas , tx 75006

from mdouglas@netcom.com (hokh'ton)
subject re kyle k. on rodney king
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 39

in 1qqfam ogh@usenet.ins.cwru.edu aa680@cleveland.freenet.edu (vern morrison) writes


in a previous article , kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) says

thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes

in article c5lp0y.fdk@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \?

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important.

i'm curious why you took a beign statement and cross posted it to several
different news groups , including something along the lines of alt.discrimination look rodney king is black and large. i have several large black male friends , and they are referred to as being large black men ( to their faces , and by
themselves ). you know , ted , i have a large number of adjectives for you ,
but i will spare you most of them because i try not to get into personal
flame wars. let me just say that i think your action of cross posting this
was total bs , and you 're trying to start some crap. hopefully , others will
see through your trite little game and not play along.

you still have n't addressed ted 's statement. we 're waiting.

yeah , i'm also curious as to why you felt compelled to remind us of the
guy 's race. btw , i do n't mean to imply that you 're clueless or anything , but
the statement was hardly benign .





hokh'ton the crystal wind is the storm ,
mdouglas@netcom.com and the storm is data ,
michael douglas llyr and the data is life.
player 's litany (the long run)



from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton am press briefing by dee dee myers 4.15.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 844
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu





the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 15 , 1993


press briefing
by dee dee myers


the briefing room


9 45 a.m. edt


q why was the 10 00 a.m. postponed \?

ms. myers just due to scheduling conflicts. so as we
put out , the president will meet with the leaders of the national
police organizations at 2 00 p.m. in the rose garden , as opposed to
10 00 a.m. the only other things on his schedule today are at
11 00 a.m. he 'll meet with general vessey , who , as you know , is on
his way to vietnam to continue working on the mia pow issue. at
12 30 p.m. he 'll have lunch with the vice president in the oval
office. and at 2 00 p.m. he 'll meet with the police organizations.
then from 3 00 p.m. to 4 00 p.m. he 'll do his weekly photos with the
various groups.

q a photo op with vessey \?

ms. myers there 's no coverage on the vessey meeting.

q why \?

ms. myers why \? it 's a closed meeting.

q what about the lunch \?

ms. myers the lunch \? no , there 's no coverage.

q is he meeting with any congress people today \?

ms. myers nothing scheduled.

q there are no meetings

ms. myers there are no congressional meetings today ,
no.

q has the president been given any information by the
pentagon or reached any conclusion about the validity of this report
from hanoi \? any instructions to vessey on how to deal with the
vietnamese on that subject \?

ms. myers well , clearly , the report is the first order
of business. it 's high on the agenda on something that they 'll
discuss. i think the president and general vessey will discuss the
parameters of his visit to vietnam today , but the president has n't
drawn any conclusions about the report yet. certainly , it 's
something that he wants general vessey to talk with the vietnamese
about first.

q did the president talk with any republican senators
yesterday about the stimulus package \?

ms. myers he spoke with senator dole.

q how many times \?

ms. myers i believe once during the day and once last
night.

q what was the outcome of that \?

ms. myers they 're continuing to work toward some kind
of an agreement on a jobs package.

q is it your impression that senator dole is in any
way flexible on this \?

ms. myers well , i think we 're hopeful that we 're going
to get some kind of jobs package through the senate , and we 'll
continue to work with senator dole and others until we reach some
kind of an agreement.

q did they discuss the vat tax \?

ms. myers i do n't know if that came up.

q can you check that \?

ms. myers sure.

q so what are they is the president offering to
scale down his program is that what he 's trying to do , buy it down
to where dole will sign on \?

ms. myers well , he 's trying to protect as much of it
as he can. but it 's important to him to get some kind of a jobs
package through the senate and through congress now. and as soon as
we reach some conclusions on that , we 'll let you know. but at the
moment , he 's continuing to consult with members of congress
including , obviously , senator dole.

q is he talking to anybody else \?

ms. myers i do n't believe he talked to any other
republicans yesterday.

q is he talking to anybody today \?

ms. myers i do n't think anything is scheduled , but i
would n't rule it out.

q we were led to believe that the president called
mr. dole on the subject of russian aid and that bob dole brought the
conversation around to stimulus package. is that correct \?

ms. myers i think the president has contacted several
people on russian aid. i think that it was always expected that the
stimulus package or the jobs package will be part of any conversation
he would have with senator dole. the primary objective of the
conversation was russian aid. that was the first order of business ,
but it was both.

q in the president 's mind , are they linked
politically in that if the republicans continue to reject the
stimulus package , he thinks it will be harder to sell russian aid to
the american people \? has he made that argument \?

ms. myers i ca n't talk about specifically what
arguments he might have made. the president is obviously committed
to both. he liked to see a jobs package to the american people
first. but as you know , we outlined the details of additional
russian aid last night in tokyo.

q but does the president believe that the stimulus
package will make it more difficult to persuade americans to vote for
russian to accept a vote for russian aid \?

ms. myers i think that the president is going to
continue to work to pass the stimulus package , to pass a jobs
package , and we 're still hopeful that we 'll get some kind of jobs
package through the congress.

q is it fair to say that the president is negotiating
now with dole \?

ms. myers he 's discussing options with him.

q on the stimulus , is it your understanding that over
the break some democrats , themselves , have left the support that they
had earlier for the package , the stimulus package \?

ms. myers i think we still have wide support in the
senate for the jobs package.

q but specifically , that you 've lost democrats other
than shelby \?

ms. myers i do n't believe so. there has n't been a
vote.

q what about kohl \?

q kohl and feingold \?

ms. myers there has n't been a vote yet. and we 'll
continue to work with senators to try to get a majority to try to
bring the package to a vote , because we believe that a majority of
the members of the united states senate support the package.

q if you 're were n't worried about kohl and feingold ,
why did george mention milwaukee projects the other day \?

ms. myers i think george pointed out a number of
projects in a number of states that stand to be funded , or to lose
funding if this jobs package does n't pass.

q no democrats. (laughter.)

ms. myers i 'll let you draw your own conclusions.

q does he plan to talk to dole again today or any
other republicans again today \?

ms. myers there 's nothing specifically scheduled , but
again , i would n't rule it out.

q does he plan to put out any more press releases to
any other states today \?

ms. myers what we 've done is we 're in the process of
breaking down the benefits of the jobs package state by state. i
think it 's entirely feasible that as we sort of are able to sum those
up , we 'll send out press releases to the various states that suggest
how their states would benefit from this package.

q will you share those with us \?

ms. myers sure. as we did yesterday.

q do you have copies of the ones you sent

ms. myers yes , we made those available yesterday. and
we certainly can continue to provide them today.

q dee dee , since yesterday 's questions and subsequent
stories about the vat , what further consideration of this issue has
been given \?

ms. myers nothing 's changed since yesterday. i think
the president commented on it this morning to say only that it was
something he knew was being considered by the task force and that he
has not made a decision on , and i do n't think we have anything to add
to that.

q but he also said that business and labor groups are
telling him they support it. can you tell us

ms. myers i think that there has been i'm not going
to speculate on who supports it. i think the president said that
there has been some support among business and labor groups. i do n't
think he said he was directly contacted by them.

q are we to take that to mean that the administration
has sounded out business and labor groups on this

ms. myers i think there 's been plenty of public
discourse on this over the years and even recently , but i do n't think
i want to add to that.

q in february , though , the president said that this
was something to be considered 10 or 15 years down the road. what
has happened between then and now to cause this administration to
change its mind \?

ms. myers i think as we said yesterday , it is
something that the working groups are looking at. they 're
considering a wide variety of options on everything from funding to
specific options that will be covered by the president 's health care
plan. the president has not taken it up yet , has not made a decision
on it. and beyond that , i do n't have anything to add.

q you have n't answered the question. it was n't being
considered by anyone in the white house after the president 's
comments in february , and george reaffirmed that in a briefing.

q and then suddenly

q what happened \?

ms. myers the working groups , as we have said
throughout , we instructed to consider a wide variety of options
across the board. and one of the things that has been talked about
and that they are clearly considering is some kind of a value added
tax.

q but the president himself took this off the table ,
dee dee , and suddenly it reappears. and this goes to the credibility
of this administration in a way. what has happened in the meantime \?

ms. myers the president has not looked at this , it
has n't been presented to him , again , yet. the working groups are
looking at it , as they 're looking at a wide variety of options , and
no decisions have been made.

q and it raises the question of how independently the
task force is working.

ms. myers the task force was instructed to consider
all options , and they 've taken that mandate seriously and they 're
considering all options.

q but that 's not the impression that the president
left in february. the impression he left was that this was something
that was long range , to be looked at 10 , 15 years down the road. the
clear implication of his remarks was that this was something that was
not on the table , not an option.

q if it changes i 'll tell you.

q bring him on.

q and you repeatedly referred to the president 's
remarks , telling us that those were still in operation.

ms. myers it 's changed , and we told you. (laughter.)

q but that 's what alice rivlin 's comments and donna
shalala comments were about. i mean , that seemed like an
orchestrated effort because you have two independent cabinet officers


ms. myers i would n't no , alice rivlin 's not a
cabinet member , first of all. second of all , it was not
orchestrated , but clearly , they both said yesterday and in the last
couple of days that it 's something that 's being looked at. we
confirmed that yesterday. and i do n't have anything to add to that.

q is it because he has very few options \?

q is this something that it will be incumbent upon
the task force to convince the president about \? in other words , has
the president himself personally ruled it out and it 's now up to the
task force to convince him to put it back on the table \? or is it , in
fact , back on the table , having been placed there by discussions with
the president \?

ms. myers it is not the working group 's mission at
this point to convince the president of anything. it is their
mission to put before him his options and to explain the benefits and
the costs and the basic pros and cons of each of those options. i
think that they will certainly present the vat to him in that
context , and at this point he 's not that presentation has not been
made , but it 's something that he will hear and he has not made a
decision on.

q they will present it to him as one of his options ,
though he specifically ruled it out \?

ms. myers correct.

q dee dee , is this more than a trial balloon \? is
this a serious consideration that the working groups are giving to
this form of taxation \?

ms. myers it 's simply a statement of fact. the
working groups are considering a wide variety of options on a number
of issues relating to health care reform. one of the options that
they 're looking at is the vat.

q dee dee , when the working groups were examining
this possibility , was this on the table during the same time period
that you were telling us that it was not \?

ms. myers i do n't know what the specific timing of
their drafting of options is. i do n't know.

q who was telling you that it was not under
consideration \?

ms. myers i was referring back to the president 's
comments.

q have they discovered that the sin taxes wo n't raise
enough money to fund the core benefit package \?

ms. myers no , there 's no decisions that have been made
on how to pay for the health care plan.

q i'm asking whether the projections

ms. myers there 's a number of options depending on how
the plan is structured. you ca n't decide how much the plan is going
to cost until you decide what the plan is going to look like. and so
you ca n't discuss what financing options have been ruled in our out
until you know.

q dee dee , we 've been told that they have a computer
models on a number of possible packages.

ms. myers correct.

q the question is whether they have now determined
whether sin taxes would not produce enough money for even the barest
minimum package. that is not a very difficult computation.

ms. myers it is a question that you know that we 're
not going to answer until there 's a number of options being
considered. it depends on how the package is structured. the exact
details of the package and the financing mechanisms used to pay for
them are all among the decisions that have yet to be made.

q and when the president has been meeting with health
care his health care advisors , which we are told he has been doing


ms. myers correct.

q they have never once said to him , these are your
funding options , including the vat \? he has never heard the word vat
in his

ms. myers i am not going to comment on the specific
nature of the daily they 're not daily , but the quasi regular
briefings.

q well , you have.

ms. myers i have not , other than to say that he 's not
considered the vat. and i think that is a true statement.

q no , but you said that it has not been presented to
him as an option.

ms. myers correct.

q that does n't mean he has n't heard about it.

ms. myers i'm not going to get into the details of
what 's discussed. i think that statement stands for itself.

q specific , dee dee. when you say he has n't
looked at it , do you mean that he has n't looked at it in terms of
paying for medical coverage , or has n't looked at it in general \?
because back in chilicothe he was very specific in defining how it
works , what the advantages are , the whole thing. it sounds like

ms. myers but that was i think in chilicothe , if
you go back to his remarks there , it was a broader philosophical
discussion of the tax structure. and i think the comments were
generally in reference to the overall economic plan. but clearly ,
it 's something that he 's thought about in the broad context. i mean ,
that was clear in chilicothe. what i'm saying is that in the process
of the working groups it 's something that he has n't considered yet.
it 's something that the working groups will present to him among the
number of options , and that no decisions have been made. and i'm not
going to comment any further on the details of the meetings where
health care issues are being discussed.

q it 's your statement from this podium that no
discussion of this has taken place. you say that no option that
the option has not been presented to him.

ms. myers that is correct.

q do you stand by does the white house still stand
by george 's statement in march that this will not be in the proposal \?

ms. myers no decisions have been made. we have
nothing to add to what 's already been said.

q let me follow up here. do you stand by what rivlin
said yesterday , that if any kind of vat were to be used or
considered , that other changes to the tax code would have to be made
so that it would be less regressive \?

ms. myers i'm not going to comment any further on what
might happen if.

q but do you stand by the previous conversations in
february that if there were to be a vat , i think the president said
you 'd exclude food and energy

ms. myers i'm not going to comment on the specific
structure of a decision that has n't been made.

q was the president aware prior to donna shalala 's
comments yesterday that this was under consideration by the working
groups \?

ms. myers i do n't know specifically what

q could you check for us , because that 's a real
important credibility question \?

ms. myers sure.

q since the task force was brought together this
issue has been discussed , at the beginning and throughout , as one
fairly painless way to raise a lot of money. were you all kept in
the dark \? was the press office kept in the dark over the past month
and a half when you 've been denying that a vat tax would be
considered that it was actually on the table over there as an option \?

ms. myers i think we 've said all that we have to say.
it is something the working groups are looking at. the president has
not made a decision about it yet. and beyond that , i have nothing to
add.

q well , sorry , dee dee , there are still a couple of
questions that we are going to have to ask because we have a problem
with credibility here yours primarily. what we 're asking is , if
you all were not told at all that this thing was being considered
while you were coming out here and telling us that it was not , or if
it 's a case that you were coming out here and deliberately misleading
us.

ms. myers i do n't believe that anyone has ever come
out here and deliberately misled you from this podium ever ever.

q has anyone tried to shade it a little bit to
indicate something has anybody told anybody to come out

ms. myers we 're not trying to shade answers or
deliberately mislead anybody. i 've said what i have to say about
this issue.

q all we were trying to find out

ms. myers i understand what you 're trying to find out
and i 've given you the answers , helen.

q we 're trying to find out what changed what made
it an option again. that 's the

ms. myers the working groups were given a broad
mandate to investigate all options , and they are doing that.

q yes , but it was n't an option before. how can you
investigate it if the president has taken it off the table \?

ms. myers it is something that they 're obviously
considering and the president has not made a decision on.

q yes , but he took it off the table in february.

ms. myers working groups are considering it. they 'll
present it to the president at some point and he 'll make a decision.

q why would they consider it if he has taken it off
the table \?

ms. myers it 's clearly on the table.

q yes , but he took it off the table. did he change
his mind \?

ms. myers it 's back on the table , bill.

q did he change his mind \?

ms. myers he said this morning that he has n't made a
decision about it. he obviously knows that it 's on the table. it 's
something that he will look at at some and when we have a decision on
this we 'll let you know.

q so he must have changed his mind , right \?

ms. myers at some point it will be looked at. i mean ,


q dee dee , there 's like two options either he
changed his mind or the working groups think they 're authority
exceeds the president 's.

ms. myers the working groups were given a broad
mandate to look at all options they 've done that.

q are you going to put out his income tax \?

ms. myers yes , there will be something available on
his income tax probably later this afternoon. his return will be
available.

q will there be any kind of briefing to go through
it \?

ms. myers no , nothing 's planned. i think someone will
be available , probably not in a briefing setting , but to walk you
through the questions.

q we 're used to be walked line by line through the
presidential tax forms.

ms. myers i 've seen those briefings. (laughter.)

q could we have one \?

ms. myers no , i do n't think there will be any kind of
a formal briefing , but there will be somebody available to answer
your questions about it.

q did they file a joint form \?

ms. myers yes.

q when did he file it \?

ms. myers i believe it 's being filed today.

q dee dee , is there going to be a backgrounder for
miyazawa \?

ms. myers no , there will be a readout after the
meeting.

q no backgrounder today \?

ms. myers no backgrounder today.

q this is complicated stuff. we need help.
(laughter.)

ms. myers we ca n't give you taxes and miyazawa all in
one day , it 's too confusing. (laughter.)

q vance and owen have opened the doors on the use of
force in bosnia. they 've both said that , a , they never ruled it
out , and b , it might be necessary now. does that influence your
thinking on whether or not to change your approach \?

ms. myers there 's been no change in our policy towards
bosnia. we have always said that we 'd consider

q but does that impact upon your decision \? are they
people whose opinions would carry weight with you \?

ms. myers they 're people whose opinions carry weight
certainly. i mean , the president supports the process that they 've
initiated. but there 's been no change in our policy for bosnia ,
although we 're considering a number of options right now. if the
serbs do n't come back to the negotiating table , if they do n't sign on
to some kind of an agreement , we will consider additional options ,
which we 've been saying regularly.

q one follow up question then \? we cannot get a
straight answer from anyone in the administration. why do you not
set a deadline for the serbs \? can you tell us the strategic or
tactical reasons for not giving them a deadline to come to the table \?

ms. myers we 're continuing to put pressure on them
every day.

q which does n't work so

ms. myers well , we think it is having some effect.
we 're going to continue to tighten sanctions. as you know , we
support the omnibus resolution. we expect that to come to a vote on
the 26th.

q you say it 's having an effect can you give us
any documentation \?

ms. myers i 'd be happy to provide somebody to talk to
you about the impact of the sanctions and things like that.

q there 's been no you have not been able to
provide anybody who can tell us that the sanctions have had any
effect in bosnia. serbia , yes in bosnia , no.

ms. myers i think that they 've had effect in serbia
and we think they 've had some effect in bosnia. and again , i 'll be
happy to provide somebody to walk you through the details of that , if
you 'd like.

q we would like to hear from someone who can show us
what the effect has been in bosnia. we had the briefing on all of
the terrible things that are happening in belgrade , but we have n't
seen anything that indicates an impact on the fighting. can you
provide something along those lines \?

ms. myers i will see what i can get you.

q on the extra russian aid that christopher announced
this morning where is that money coming from \?

ms. myers we 'll have to work with congress on the
details of that package.

q so that would be new money that you would hope to
get \?

ms. myers yes , that 's new money , in addition to the
1.6 billion announced in vancouver. so i assume that you all have
seen the 1.8 billion package that was announced this morning in
tokyo by secretary christopher.

q is n't there a concern , though , about offering
something which you have to get in congress \? i mean , that was the
concern with vancouver you did n't want to do that.

ms. myers the concern with vancouver was to do
something immediately , which required money that was already approved
in the fiscal '93 budget. what we 're looking at now is a little bit
longer term plan to build on top of the 1.6 billion that we
announced in vancouver. this clearly will require congressional
approval , or some of it will anyway , and we 're going to continue to
work with congress to make that happen.

q to what extent has that been vetted or agreed to by
congress \?

ms. myers the president has had a number of
conversations with members and will continue to work with them as
this process moves forward.

q was christopher able to put this package out with a
fair degree of understanding that you will be able to get it through
congress \?

ms. myers it was created in consultation with
congress.

q in meeting with the law enforcement officials , is
that does that have a set speech and a goal \? a direction \?

ms. myers yes , the president will talk about and
the law enforcement organizations are endorsing the president 's jobs
package. they believe particularly the summer jobs package will help
give kids something to do.

q who are they \?

ms. myers it 's members or leadership from three
organizations napo , which is the national association of police
organizations ibpo , which is the international brotherhood of police
organizations , i believe and iupa , which is the international union
of police associations.

q will the fbi chief be there \?

ms. myers the fbi chief \? no.

q or any other federal law enforcement officials \?

ms. myers no , it will be the president and these
national law enforcement organization leaders.

q does the 1.8 billion announced today include the
400 million that 's in the fy '94 budget for disarmament \?

ms. myers no. the nunn lugar money is separate.

q so this would be the 700 million that 's in the
budget already , plus another 1.1 billion \?

ms. myers i believe all of this is on top of the 700
million already in the budget.

q is this going to be part of the supplemental or
fiscal '94

ms. myers we 'll work with congress on the exact
funding mechanism on exactly how this will be paid for.

q this 1.8 billion on top of

ms. myers on top of 700 million on top of the 400
million nunn lugar money we announced earlier.

q and this is what prompted the president to call bob
dole it was on this tranche , not on the previous money he was
calling bob dole \?

ms. myers correct.

q is there a briefing on miyazawa \?

ms. myers there will be a readout after the meeting
with miyazawa. tomorrow.

q dee dee , on a totally unrelated matter , some
republicans who are active in the u.s. chamber of commerce are
complaining about this new cozy relationship between the white house
and the chamber of commerce. there are the town hall meeting the
other night , the satellite and all of this relationship.
does the white house feel that you 're getting too close to these
chambers of commerce \?

ms. myers that 's an interesting charge. (laughter.)
after how many years of democrats being accused of not paying any
attention to the chambers , now there are those who would accuse us of
being too close. i think that 's interesting. but no , we 're thrilled
by the support we 've received from the national chamber and local
chambers across the country and we 'll continue to work with them on
this and other initiatives.

q what 's the status of the president thinking about
going to this democratic retreat \?

ms. myers it 's on his calendar. i think he 'll almost
certainly go.

q all three days \?

ms. myers we have n't figured out exactly when he 'll be
there yet.

q is it open to coverage \?

ms. myers no , i believe the whole thing is closed.

q is he going to have any kind of address , statement ,
anything at all on the gay rights march on the 25th \?

ms. myers we 're still looking at that. we have n't
made a final decision about how we 'll who will make a statement or
what

q any meetings scheduled with any of the leaders \?

ms. myers nothing is scheduled , but i would n't rule it
out.

q what about an aids czar \?

ms. myers it 's coming.

q anything on the weekend \?

q there 's been a suggestion that he 's going to this
retreat to avoid having to participate in the gay rights or appear
or have any involvement in the gay rights march.

ms. myers no , i think this is something he 's been
discussing for a long time appearing at the senate democratic
retreat.

q the weekend \?

ms. myers weekend \? do n't know the only thing on
right now is the radio address on saturday.

q any travel plans \?

ms. myers if it changes none right now.

q he 's not going to be off campaigning for his
stimulus package \?

ms. myers no specific plans right now.

q what about mid week \? anything likely \?

ms. myers it 's possible. yes , i think it 's likely
that we 'll travel next week certainly the weekend.

q has he called thurmond about his daughter \?

ms. myers i do n't know. i 'll check.

q going to name a drug czar this weekend \?

ms. myers this weekend \? i do n't believe so.

q and the radio address on saturday is that going
to be focused on the stimulus package \?

ms. myers i'm sure it will.

the press thank you.

end10 10 a.m. edt




from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re top ten excuses for slick willie 's record setting disapproval rati
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 56
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu (mark 'mark' sachs) says

in article 1qhr73 a8d@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , an030@cleveland.freenet.edu
(broward horne) says
it sure does appear that way , does n't it \?

the attitude that people are stupid if they do n't agree with you is not
going to bring you great success in life. free advice , there.


hahahahahah. oh , christ ! oh , hahahahah.

whew. mark , what on earth makes you think i give a fuck
about being a success , particularly now when i 'll just
the hell taxed out of me \? oh , this is excellent.

holy christ ! )

besides , let 's ahem examine the record , shall we \?

broward clinton 's going to taxe the holy fuck out of you !
mark no , he 's not. only 17 month

( i still get a laugh out of this one ! ) )

broward oh , here comes a national sales tax
clinton supporter oh , no , bill never said that


want some more free predictions \?

)


it always makes me smile , to see george bush used to defend
bill clinton. can you imagine anything sadder than to be left
with george bush as a final argument \?

true. the republicans did look pretty pathetic in november of '92. )

yup. they surely did.
almost as pathetic as clinton suppoters are looking in
april of 93.

well , chumbo , i see my my watch here that my appointment
at the lake is about 2 hours past due ! )

you 'll let me know who the full time working thing works
out , wo n't you \? i want to enjoy every minute of my free
time and free health care ( the only reason i would have
gone back to working ! ) thanks , bill ! ) )





from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton press briefing by george stephanopoulos 4.15.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 1135
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu






the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 15 , 1993


press briefing
by george stephanopoulos

the briefing room



1 04 p.m. edt


mr. stephanopoulos good afternoon.

q could we do this on the lawn \?

mr. stephanopoulos that would be nice. let 's go out
to the cherry blossoms. we 'll do like the president.

q is the stimulus package dead \?

mr. stephanopoulos absolutely not.

q can you tell us more about the dole talks \? you
said it was a good visit , but no compromise.

mr. stephanopoulos yes. the president had a good talk
with senator dole last night. i think that as we said before , there
were no specific compromises on either side , although it was a very
good discussion about the jobs package and about other issues as
well. as you know , the president first called senator dole i believe
tuesday night to talk about the russian aid package. they did not
speak senator dole called him back wednesday morning when the
president was out. instead he spoke with tony lake , and at the close
of that conversation , indicated that he wanted to speak to the
president about the jobs and stimulus package. they finally talked
about that yesterday afternoon.

at the close of that discussion they said that they
would have another talk last night , which they did , when the senator
was up in new hampshire. and although there were no specific
compromises made on either side , they did say that they would
continue to have some discussions. and that 's where we are.

q well , who is giving in \? where is it standing are
both making concessions \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know that it 's at that
phase. no compromise has been made. as the president has said
consistently , he intends to come forward with an adjusted package.
he believes in the package , but he believes that if it 's going to
take adjustments to get the minority to release it , he 's willing to
make those adjustments.

q on the subject of a vat

mr. stephanopoulos oh , boy.

q can we stay on this for one more minute \?

mr. stephanopoulos sure.

q we have a problem with the five minutes

q i know no decisions have been made , but what would
lead the health group to believe that a vat might be necessary \?

mr. stephanopoulos sorry , andrea , i'm not going to go
down that road. no decisions have been made. as the president said
this morning , a number of groups , a number of members of congress , a
number of other organizations have recommended that this be looked
at. the working group is looking at it , but no decisions have been
made.

q to follow , have they done that directly through
him \? have labor and business groups been in touch with the president
about it \?

mr. stephanopoulos not to my knowledge , although
there 's a lot of people who have public decisions in support of the
vat. but the president has not made a decision.

q at the meetings that he 's had with his own task
force advisers , have they discussed the funding issue and what the
possible options would be \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think that that has been
presented for a decision , no.

q not for a decision , but has it been discussed as an
option \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , there are a lot of levels of
briefing. i do not believe that the vat has been presented to the
president as , okay , this is something for you to decide on.

q you 're not saying he did n't know it was being
considered , though , are you \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , he said it 's being considered.

q he knew that.

q but has he discussed that with his advisers \?
that 's what i'm asking.

mr. stephanopoulos the president has said it 's being
considered. i do not know what level of discussion there has been
over the vat. it is something the working groups are looking at. i
do n't even know that it 's

q but he did n't say he was considering , did he , at
this stage \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , he is not. i think we 're
getting into something of a metaphysical debate right here. what is
considered

q well , he is the one who said , i have n't reviewed
it.

mr. stephanopoulos that is true. that is what i just
repeated.

q george , is there any concern here that as a result
of the definite statement he made in february and the promise that if
it were to be considered he 'd let us know , and having it trickle out
the way it did , that there may now be the development of a
credibility gap on this issue and others \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think so. i mean , it is
now public knowledge that this is being considered.

q is he or you at all embarrassed about the absolute
statements that were made from this platform to the effect that it
was off the table and was not being considered , and then to have it
come out not from you people , but

mr. stephanopoulos well , wait a second. it came out
from the administration. what are you talking about \?

q what i'm saying is , though , that the president said
he would let us know.

mr. stephanopoulos right.

q you people then said you said , i believe , that
it 's not going to be on the program.

mr. stephanopoulos on march 25th.

q on march 25th.

mr. stephanopoulos circumstances change.

q well , i understand. but we have to find that out
by rooting around in the fine print of an interview

mr. stephanopoulos rooting around i know you did do
a very good job there to read the usa today article. but this is
(laughter) the deputy director of the omb and the secretary of
health and human services. i mean , that is common anytime you guys
write a story that has an unattributed quote from somebody in the
clinton administration , the headline is i 'll look at it right
here , and ap story clinton wants more money for spying.

q what about his remark that if it were being
considered , he 'd tell us about it \?

mr. stephanopoulos and the administration 's concerned ,
and he 'd let you know.

q and did he \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes. absolutely. what did he say
this morning \?

q it had to be dragged out of you here yesterday.

mr. stephanopoulos it did n't have to be dragged out of
me. we had the deputy director of the omb , we had the secretary of
health of human services say it was being considered. that is his
administration. that is his administration policy.

q were these authorized trial balloons , or were they
orchestrated leaks \? i mean , what was the

mr. stephanopoulos they were asked questions , they
answered the questions.

q you 're saying here that it did n't have to be
dragged out , that you more or less made it clear yesterday you were
considering it.

mr. stephanopoulos absolutely. i was very clear.
painfully clear.

q was there a particular political strategy in making
it clear the administration is considering a new tax increase on tax
day \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , it was just this issue is being
considered. they were asked if it was being considered they
answered that it was being considered.

q george , the new york times

q why do it yesterday \?

mr. stephanopoulos they were asked.

q the new york times reports today that secretary
reich and the chief economist at the labor department used apples and
oranges numbers in order to portray last month 's unemployment figures
in a way that was supportive of the president 's job stimulus bill ,
but which turned out to be totally false.

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if it was totally
false , but i think (laughter) the chief economist at the labor
department did grant that it was an inappropriate mixing , and they
say that.

q the question is , is the president concerned about
behavior that amounts to corrupting government data \? and what 's he
doing about it , if so \?

mr. stephanopoulos the chief economist has said that a
mistake was made , it wo n't happen again , and that 's the end of the
matter.

q is n't that the same information that goes to the
president \?

q if i could go back to the stimulus package

mr. stephanopoulos there 's two separate pieces of
information. i think that 's where the confusion was.

q when did you all first learn about this mistake
that was made \?

mr. stephanopoulos i read the article this morning.

q and as far as you know , is the president aware of
it \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think so.

q and was he aware of it before he read about it in
the new york times \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know. not to my knowledge.

q did you ever hear about it before this morning \?
anything \?

mr. stephanopoulos i did n't.

q was n't the president given an erroneous spin on
this for his own purpose \? for his speeches , for his arguments \?

mr. stephanopoulos well again , i'm not sure. both
statements are true. what the labor department has granted is that
mixing them in one sentence , essentially , was misleading. they said
it was a mistake. they said they would n't do it again.

q did they drop it is this something that you
choose to spin or make an issue of \?

mr. stephanopoulos whenever fewer people are out of
work , we 're gratified. but that does n't take away from the need to
get this jobs package going.

q if i could go back to the stimulus package for a
minute. you said that the president plans to come forward with an
amendment. is the timetable still what it was that the amendment
would be laid down on monday and voted on on tuesday , or did he , in
the conversation with dole , talk about the possibility of putting
that off for a few more days to give more time for the discussion \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think at this point there 's no
changes in the schedule at all. i do n't know that they discussed the
timing like that.

q do you believe that you 're closer or getting closer
this week than you were last week \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , i believe that we 're going
to pass a jobs package. the president is prepared to make
adjustments in order to get that to happen. i do n't know where the
votes are on cloture at this particular time. i do n't know what 's
going to happen until we have a vote. but the president believes
deeply in this jobs package and wants to get it done.

q has there been any indication that this situation
has changed \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're going to continue to work on
it. we 'll know when the votes are taken.

q george , last week you said that there are or
various people in the administration were saying that you could n't go
through dole , you were going to have to try and go around him because
he was immovable on this subject of a compromise , or at least the
compromise he wanted was not anything like the one that you could
accept. this week you 're talking to him. is that because you 've
realized that the peeling off effort was n't going to work \?

mr. stephanopoulos that 's because senator dole wanted
to talk to the president about the stimulus package.

q he initiated the conversation \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q secretary reich this morning said that , in fact ,
the president is not willing to compromise on this bill at all. you
say he 's making

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know that that 's exactly
what he said. i think he said he did n't have any indication that
there was any compromises yet or that there would be a compromise ,
and the president does n't want to compromise. and the president
does n't want to compromise. but if he has to make adjustments to get
it through , he will.

q officials here yesterday said that panetta was
working on a series of adjustments that might be made public before
the actual vote.

mr. stephanopoulos it 's possible.

q today \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not sure exactly when that will
happen , but i think that it 's very possible that we 'll come forward
with some sort of a different package , or senate democrats will come
forward with some sort of a different package in order to get it
passed.

q as we understood his conversations with dole , the
first one was some discussion of this and i 'll get back to you
tonight with some details or some adjustments , or whatever the phrase
is. did he offer him some details or some adjustments \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think it 's a question of how
detailed. i mean , i think they had a general discussion about the
package last night , subsequent to their conversation yesterday
afternoon. i believe that there will be follow up discussions today
in the senate , not necessarily between the president and senator
dole. and let me just reiterate , neither side has made specific
compromises at this date. when we have something we 'll let you know.
and i'm not suggesting that senator dole has accepted anything that
we 've talked about or that we 've offered anything in a hard way.

q what are the follow up discussions if not the
president and dole \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think senator mitchell is going
to talk to senator dole.

q is that a threat \? (laughter.)

q did the president say to senator dole , all right ,
how about this number as an overall size , or did dole say to the
president , i can go as high as this \? did they talk numbers \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think it was a negotiation
in that respect. it was more of a discussion about their positions.

q did they discuss actual numbers \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm just not sure. i know they
talked about the basic outlines of the packages. i think they talked
about the programs they cared about. i do n't know if they got to the
level of this many x billion dollars.

q does dole have to sign off before there is a
package \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , of course not.

q did the white house have anything to do with the
protesters who showed up in new hampshire today where senator dole
was speaking \? was that in any way organized by

mr. stephanopoulos not to my knowledge , no.

q and has the president been in touch with senators
kohl or feingold \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think he 's talked to them ,
no.

q george , is the president considering the more
palatable fact of having a national sales tax instead of having the
haves having to continuously pay for the have nots \? and is he going
to scrap his proposed tax on the privileged few , with the haves
having to pay for the have nots \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president believes deeply that
the tax rates on upper income americans , as he presented in his
budget , should go up. and i think for the second half of your
question , i 'll refer you to my briefing from yesterday.

q george , on the subject of accuracy in information ,
you suggested the other day that the stimulus package included money
that would solve the water problem in milwaukee. apparently that is
not true. it 's actually waste water money.

mr. stephanopoulos it 's waste water money for
wisconsin , and some could go to milwaukee.

q but it would not affect the drinking water problem
because it 's waste water money , right \?

mr. stephanopoulos it would affect the water treatment
overall.

q but the implication from your statement the other
day was that it would help fix this disease problem in milwaukee now.
would you agree that 's not the case \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not sure of the specifics. i
know that it goes to the overall water treatment in wisconsin.

q a leftover question from this morning , which was ,
when did the president find out that the task force was deliberating
on a vat \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not sure exactly when. i just
do n't know. i assume it came up over the last certainly between
the time that we had commented on in the past and two days ago.

q so sometime since march 25th \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think that 's right. i do n't know
the exact date.

q george , the president this morning mentioned that
some labor and business groups are for the vat tax. apparently , the
national association of manufacturers talks about perhaps the vat tax
being okay if it replaces the btu tax. so does the president feel
that perhaps this might be in place of some other tax he 's proposed ,
or is this totally in addition to the other taxes he 's already
proposed \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think we 've said all we have to
say about the vat at this point. i mean , there 's just no this is
being considered by the health care working groups , and that is all.
the president has n't made any further decisions beyond that.

q but it would be to finance health care , it would n't
be to replace some other tax that finances it would n't replace the
income tax , for instance \?

mr. stephanopoulos there have been no discussions on
that.

q in terms of getting a vat tax through congress ,
senator dole 's press release today said vat on tax day. do you
think does it have a chance of getting through congress \? would it
have a chance \?

mr. stephanopoulos i have no idea.

q is that a consideration whether you all put it
forward \?

mr. stephanopoulos that would become a consideration
if the president were to decide to do it. it 's not in consideration
now.

q you said at the beginning of the briefing that
circumstances had changed and that had caused the vat to now be under
consideration.

mr. stephanopoulos yes , what the president referred to
this morning. these groups came forward and said this is something
that has to be considered.

q those are the circumstances that have changed \?
that 's the only difference between now and when he emphatically ruled
it out that groups have asked it to be considered \?

mr. stephanopoulos that 's what he said.

q is that true \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q was there , in fact , some understanding that sin
taxes would not produce enough money for the health care benefits \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not going to get into the
deliberations.

q but , george

mr. stephanopoulos no. what the consideration is , as
the president said , groups came forward and said this is something
you ought to consider. the working groups are looking at it.

q is that the only thing that 's changed since his
prior statement and your prior statement on the vat \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q can you explain how those groups how that
information got to him that groups wanted it \? was it just reading
the newspaper or did groups make presentations \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think the groups as you know ,
the health care task force has met with dozens of groups.

q but this is the president 's knowledge that these
groups had come forward.

mr. stephanopoulos i think he was referring to what
was coming to the working groups. obviously , there have also been
published positions in the newspapers.

q have certain groups briefed him on the group 's
presentations to them \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if they 've briefed him
i mean , how detailed the briefings have been. i know that the
working groups decided to look into this after being pressed by these
groups.

q what kind of arguments did the groups make that
were persuasive enough that the president would change the position
that he had enunciated previously \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know , it 's just they 've had
longstanding positions that this would be a good way to finance
health care.

q the president was n't aware of those longstanding
positions \?

mr. stephanopoulos he may have been at some level.
obviously , he 's been a governor for a long time and he knows the
basic arguments for and against a vat tax.

q what we 're trying to figure out here you 're
telling us that the only change , the only thing that affected this
change in the president 's attitude toward the vat between february
and now

mr. stephanopoulos the president 's attitude has n't
necessarily changed. i mean , he has not made a decision.

q i know , but the president said that it was off the
table. so did you. and you 're saying that the only thing that 's
changed is the positions of these groups , except you 're also
describing them as longstanding positions. i do n't see the change.
if these groups have n't had any change in their position that 's been
made to the president

mr. stephanopoulos well , they 've made the
presentations to the health care task force.

q there 's no relationship at all between the fact
that sin taxes that he had said suggested in february that he
favored will not produce enough revenue to finance

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think he ever suggested
that they would produce all the revenue.

q well , he suggested that he thought that those were
appropriate ways to finance health care.

mr. stephanopoulos he did say that. i do n't know that
he said anything to refute that.

q but , in fact , has the task force discovered that
there would n't be enough revenue from those taxes to finance the kind
of core benefits

mr. stephanopoulos again , i do n't think that the task
force ever suggested that there would.

q george , if he advocated a vat tax , would that break
his promise not to raise taxes on the middle class to pay for his
programs \?

mr. stephanopoulos i ca n't comment on a hypothetical
situation.

q but does that promise would that promise not to
raise taxes on the middle class to pay for the programs prevent him
from seeking a vat tax \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president has made no decisions
on the vat tax. when he does , we 'll tell you and we 'll explain the
implications then.

q which specific groups can you cite business ,
labor or otherwise whose recommendations to the health care task
force has prompted this consideration \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't have the specific. i just
do n't have that.

q george , can you tell us to what extend these other
alternatives , for instance , the employer tax or the sin taxes or
other financing options are also still on the table and what these
options are \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , as members of the task force
and representatives of the working groups have said , they are looking
at a wide variety of options. i think that ira magaziner said that
there are 20 different options under consideration. but i'm not
going to comment

q what 's the scope

mr. stephanopoulos i'm just not going to comment on
them , no.

q what 's the scope of the need \? how much are you
talking about that has to be produced by one or a combination of the


mr. stephanopoulos that 's what the health care task
force is looking at.

q since there 's not going to be any briefing on the
miyazawa visit , two questions one , generally what does the
president hope to use that meeting for , but more specifically , is his
task complicated by the japanese anger over the vancouver note and
the remark about market access at the press conference \?

mr. stephanopoulos the vancouver note \?

q does no mean yes.

q yes and no.

mr. stephanopoulos well , i do n't know. i saw the
prime minister 's press conference where he was asked the question
about that note and he gave a very gracious and complete answer when
he was asked the question. the questions of trade are something that
certainly will be discussed between the prime minister and the
president. there is obviously a trade imbalance between japan and
the u.s. that we want to do something about.

q also in those comments the prime minister made he
suggested that the united states should come down heavy on him in
terms of trade. are you going to oblige \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think the president will state
our views on trade very clearly and our views on the trade deficit
very clearly. i do n't necessarily want to agree with your
characterization of the prime minister 's comments.

q that we need specific export targets , specific
numerical targets is that what he 's going to discuss with
miyazawa \?

mr. stephanopoulos they 're going to have a broad
discussion of a wide range of trade issues. i do n't want to get into
those specifics until after the meeting.

q why \?

q that 's the crux of the issue , right \? whether or
not does the president believe that without specific numerical
targets , it is really , as he said in his press conference , sort of
hopeless that this is going to change very much \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president believes that we must
have pressure on japan to turn the trade imbalance around. i do not
want to get into the specifics of how that would be done.

q but does the president believe that their stimulus
package announced yesterday will rectify the imbalance \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think , first , the president wants
to get a full briefing on the stimulus package from prime minister
miyazawa himself , and then he 'll make the comment on it.

q how about the russian aid package \? there seems to
be some confusion about how the u.s. views that , secretary
christopher saying or bentsen saying the japanese may need to do
more , the japanese saying that that 's not what they heard \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , we 're going to continue to
work with all our allies in the g 7 , and we 're going to continue to
press for help for russian reform , russian democratic reform. and i
think that , so far , we had a very good announcement out of tokyo and
we 're going to continue to work with our allies for bilateral
packages.

q do you think the japanese need to do more \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're going to continue to work
with all our allies to do as much as we can.

q secretary christopher was asked today on the today
show this morning what he thought of margaret thatcher 's comments on
the bosnia policy. and he said , it 's a rather emotional response.
mr. stephanopoulos over an emotional issue.

q right to an emotional problem. does the white
house condone that kind of remark \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think that secretary
christopher 's remarks speaks for itself. the president believes also
that this is a deeply troubling situation that we 're trying to find
answers for.

q but that specific rather emotional response
specific term \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , it speaks for itself.

q in connection with that , does n't it seem that with
the numbers of people who are being killed at this very moment , is it
good american policy to put off some decisions that might be made now
to help boris yeltsin win a referendum \?

mr. stephanopoulos for example \?

q to take stronger action , to take military action
air strikes , anything that can be done \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president believes that what
must be done now is to push harder for sanctions. he is also as
you know , the administration has been discussing lifting the arms
embargo. he believes those are the appropriate ways to increase
pressure at this time.

q what is your response to the critics who would say
that the u.s. is now stymied by trying to help boris yeltsin retain
the presidency \?

mr. stephanopoulos they 're wrong. we 're pressing hard
for the serbs to come to the negotiating table. we 're pressing hard
for increased sanctions , and we 're talking to our allies about the
arms embargo.

q you were putting great store in vance and owen
getting people to agree to that. now , vance and owen have both said
that military force to some extent would be acceptable. does that
change your thinking \?

mr. stephanopoulos clearly , we 're going to listen to
whatever people who have put so much time into a situation have to
say. but at this point , the president is moving forward on sanctions
and talking about the arms embargo.

q a follow up on a dee dee comment this morning. she
said she would be able to provide some administration officials who
could document the effect the sanctions are having in bosnia. are
you going to be able to do that , or do you have anything

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think that 's what she said.

q that 's exactly what she said.

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think that 's true. but
what she said we would look into the situation of what kind of
evidence can be provided in bosnia. obviously , if there are
connections between the bosnian serbs and the serbs in belgrade and
we are tightening the screws on the serbs in belgrade , that will have
an effect over time. i do not know day by day , minute by minute ,
what kind of help is being given between the two and what the exact
effect has been. but , clearly , we are slowing the shipment of goods
into belgrade. we are having an effect on the serbs there. what
kind of effect that will eventually have on the bosnian serbs i do n't
know. but one thing i would say is if it were having no effect at
all , i do n't know why they 'd be fighting it so much.

q are the first lady 's tax returns going to be
released \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think there 's a joint tax return.
and it will be probably later today.

q is the president considering signing an executive
order banning discrimination against homosexuals in the federal work
force as part of the gay rights march here next week \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think there 's any proposal
for that at this time , not that i know of.

q it 's something that the president promised during
the campaign that he would do.

mr. stephanopoulos i have not seen any i do n't
think it 's anything that 's on his plate right now.

q is he meeting with gay rights leaders at any point
on this issue \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know about on this issue.
i assume that he 'll meet with representatives of the gay and lesbian
community sometime soon , as he meets with representatives of lots of
different groups and communities.

q do you know if that 's scheduled

mr. stephanopoulos it 's probably going to be tomorrow.

q probably going to be tomorrow \? (laughter.)

q it 's a good thing you asked.

q who 's probably going to be there \? (laughter.)

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know.

q how long

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know. that 's all i know.

q do you know if it 's at 3 00 p.m. tomorrow \?
(laughter.)

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know what time it is. i
do n't even know for sure if it 's going to be tomorrow.

q environmental groups have asked him to make a major
speech next week of some kind. is that going to happen , do you know \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if they 've asked , but
i think the president has always planned , as he did last year , to
give a speech on earth day and i expect that he will. if it 's not
exactly on earth day , it might be a day before or something like
that.

q is he planning to sign or announce the signing of
the biodiversity treaty in connection with earth day \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , i do n't know the specific
timing of something like that , but it 's certainly something under
discussion and something we 've been working on.

q campaign finance reform \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're working on it.

q do you think it will be next week \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm just not sure.

q the biodiversity treaty is something you 're working
on \? i missed the question.

mr. stephanopoulos yes , something we 're working on.
he asked if it was ready to be signed , and i said i did n't know
anything about that but it 's something we 've certainly been working
on.

q do you know what organizations might be represented
in this meeting with the gay and lesbian groups \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't.

q do you know if he is going to reconsider being out
of town on the day of the march \?

mr. stephanopoulos he 's got to be at the senate
meeting in jamestown , and i believe he 's also going to be giving a
speech to the american association of newspaper publishers in boston
on sunday , as he did last year.

q would you have told us if she had not pressed you
on the question \?

mr. stephanopoulos on what \?

q on the gays.

mr. stephanopoulos when we went through the
president 's schedule for the day , certainly.

q \? george , what day is the publisher 's speech \? is
that sunday \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think it 's a sunday.

q and saturday he 'll be in jamestown \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q so you 're just going to be in jamestown for one
day \?

mr. stephanopoulos no , i'm not sure. i do n't know how
long the senate thing goes. it might go overnight. i just do n't
know.

q you would have made the gay meeting public , right \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm certain if we had the meeting
i do n't know about open to the press , but we would have told you
about it.

q i mean , because it is , as far as i can tell , the
first time in history a president has met in the oval office with

mr. stephanopoulos i did n't say it was going to be in
the oval office. (laughter.) but i did n't i'm not say that it 's
not , but i did n't say that it was. (laughter.)

q at the white house in the bush administration
gay officials were invited to a bill signing ceremony and the white
house had to repudiate having done that. so i just wanted to make
sure

mr. stephanopoulos well , the president would n't do
anything like that.

q certainly not.

q what marching orders did the president give to
general vessey \?

mr. stephanopoulos they had a very good discussion for
about half an hour today. he wanted the most important thing was
he had a full accounting for american pows and mias. he will
obviously look into the circumstances surrounding this new document.
the president stressed that he wanted the fullest possible accounting
and said that only when we have that can we even consider any changes
in our policy towards vietnam. he 'll be looking at vietnam 's
response to the questions raised by the document and he 'll also look
into investigations on discrepancy cases , increased efforts on
remains , implementing trilateral investigations and access to
military archives.

and ambassador toon also briefed the president on the
activities of the joint commission and on the document.

q vietnam says it 's a fake. what is the dod analysis
at this stage \?

mr. stephanopoulos it 's not completed yet , and it 's
also the first thing that general vessey will bring up with the
vietnamese.

q a number of defense officials have been saying that
they think that the 600 or so prisoners referred to are , in fact ,
non americans that the vietnamese had captured who they referred to
as americans from time to time. do people

mr. stephanopoulos we do n't have any final
determination. we 're going to wait for the complete review when we
have it , we 'll make a judgment.

q i know you do n't have any final determination , but
given all of the intense public interest in this , do you think that
that 's a likely possibility \?

mr. stephanopoulos i just do n't want to characterize
it in any way until the review is complete.

q george , was there a topic scheduled for the speech
in boston \?

mr. stephanopoulos no.

q is the president going to have a press conference
tomorrow with miyazawa \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think so , but i'm not positive.
yes , i expect , yes.

q was toon in with vessey \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q he was in on the meeting \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q what was the question \?

mr. stephanopoulos was ambassador toon in with vessey ,
and the answer is yes.

q do you have any response to the wall street journal
report this morning the president 's distressed about some of his
press clippings and that perhaps he 's distressed with you about that \?

mr. stephanopoulos no. well , i do have a response. i
think the article was highly misleading to the extent that it implied
that the president has had restricted access to the press. i would
point out that he 's answered 358 questions on 77 occasions , more than
any of his predecessors. i would also point out it also

q how many questions \?

mr. stephanopoulos three hundred fifty eight , on 77
occasions.

q how many were while he was jogging \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , no , that 's actually a very
good question , andrea. and i would point out further that the
article also implied that these questions were only answered at
tightly controlled photo opportunities , which is just patently false.
he 's had 13 press conferences in either the east room , the oval
office or the roosevelt room or the briefing room , in addition to
questions taken at photo opportunities , and that is only the

q oval office press conference when was that \?

mr. stephanopoulos he 's answered questions in the
east room. he 's had five in the east room , he 's had one in the oval
office , he 's had one in the rose garden , he 's had one or two in the
roosevelt room. and this is just to the white house , washington
press corps. in addition to that , he 's had 17 interviews with local
television anchors. he 's met with the editorial board of the
portland oregonian. he 's had an hour long interview with dan rather.
he 's had interviews with local press from california , florida and
connecticut

q can you address the question of the attitude \? the
article implies that he does n't

q why does n't he like us \? (laughter.)

q did you really get blamed for that post story \?

q the story is that you are you held responsible
for it.

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think i'm going to comment
about this.

q are you denying that the president has shown
displeasure publicly \?

mr. stephanopoulos i am not commenting on the
discussions between the president and myself.

q did the president write that letter to chris
webber \?

mr. stephanopoulos what \?

q the letter to the university of michigan basketball
player \?

mr. stephanopoulos oh , yes.

q that is an authentic letter \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q since the president first talked about the vat in
february , he said at the time that he thought there probably should
be exceptions made in basic necessities such as food and clothing.
does he still hold that position given the impact it could have \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , i just ca n't comment on a
proposal he has n't made.

q george , does the president have some agenda for
this meeting with the gay leaders tomorrow \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , i think it will just a
general meeting on the wide range of issues that they care about
including aids and other issues civil rights.

q the military issue \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm certain it will come up.

q is he using this event to name the aids

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't think so.

q george , what specifically is the president doing to
prepare for tomorrow 's meeting with the prime minister miyazawa \?

mr. stephanopoulos he 's had briefing memos. he 's had
general discussions with members of the treasury department , the
trade representative and others.

q report yet \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if he has the report
referred to in the times , but ambassador kantor was here to brief him
today.

q he was \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q does he intend to use any of these instances that


mr. stephanopoulos again , i do n't know that the
report 's been presented. but obviously , the president will press
hard in any case where he thinks that a violation has occurred.

q in terms of the wall street journal , the thrust was
that there 's a real schism here a hostility. do you think he
feels that way \?

mr. stephanopoulos not at all. as i said on the
record in the article , i think the president likes reporters. again ,
i think that the thrust of the article was still misleading. the
thrust of the article was that in some way , some attitude which the
president may or may not have is affecting access when , in fact , he
has the most open , accessible administration than have any in recent
history.

q can we come up to your office \? (laughter.)

mr. stephanopoulos if you 're invited.

the press thank you.

end 1 34 p.m. edt

57 04 15





from ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser)
subject top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans
nntp posting host solomon.technet.sg
lines 38



top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans



10. institute a national sales tax to pay for the socialization of
america 's health care resources.

9. declare war on serbia. reenact the draft.

8. stimulate the economy with massive income transfers to democtratic
constituencies.

7. appoint an unrepetent socialist like mario cuomo to the suprmeme court.

6. focus like a laser beam on gays in the military.

5. put hillary in charge of the ministry of truth and move stephanopoulos
over to socialzed health care.

4. balance the budget through confiscatory taxation.

3. remind everyone , again , how despite the democrats holding the
presidency , the majority of seats in the house , and in the senate ,
the republicans have still managed to block his tax and spend programs.

2. go back to england and get a refresher course in european socialism.

1. resign , now !



copyright (c) edward a. ipser , jr. , 1993

be sure to look for
slick willie 's first very own book of top ten lists
available soon in paperback.

from gsmith@lauren.iwr.uni heidelberg.de (gene w. smith)
subject re mr. cramer 's 'evidence'
organization iwr , university of heidelberg , germany
lines 17

in article philc5hsii.gft@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
writes

naw , i think you are. while both organizations may , on paper , support the
abolition of the age of consent , there the resemblance stops.

one supports the removal of a coercive law , the other a paper facade
to legitimize sexual relations with children.

i get it. one organization wants to abolish age of consent laws ,
whereas in contrast the other wants to abolish age of consent laws.
this makes it respectable to belong to one organization , but not the
other.


gene ward smith brahms gang iwr ruprecht karls university
gsmith@kalliope.iwr.uni heidelberg.de

subject re stop putting down white het males.
from as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia)
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
lines 32

in c50fhg.mea@ocsmd.ocs.com mark@ocsmd.ocs.com (mark wilson) writes

yuri villanueva (elmo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu) wrote
pbray@envy.reed.edu (public account) writes

in article 1993apr2.180839.14305@galileo.cc.rochester.edu
as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia) writes
in 1993apr2.064804.29008@jato.jpl.nasa.gov
michael@neuron6.jpl.nasa.gov (michael rivero) writes

we are told , by u.s. congresswoman barbara jordan , that we are biologically
incapable of compassion.
personally , i doubt she said anything of the kind , but if
someone can provide the original quote , in context , with source
(for , ahem , cross checking) , i would we willing to agree
she is full of sh t. naturally , if no one can provide these
bits of data , the paraphrase listed must be disregarded ,
and its poster regarded as full of sh t. ok , so which will it be \?

i followed up without a thought of double checking...if i double checked
every fact people vomited onto the table here on the net , i 'd never have
time to sleep. but to pass the buck to the person who originally posted
that quote...

...well , michael \? take it away ! (wild applause)

drewcifer

bi andrew d. simchik schnopia !
as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu treewater

words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes

from mcgoy@unicorn.acs.ttu.edu (david mcgaughey)
subject re high speed rail is bad
organization texas tech university
distribution tx
lines 32

bmich@cs.utexas.edu (brian keith michalk) writes
a few weeks ago i found out about some of the politics that
is going on with the texas bullet train , and was appalled at some
of the apparent underhanded tactics to push this thing through
without any public say whatsoever. so , i wrote up a short
editorial thing and posted it , hoping to get some discussion.

i suppose editorials do n't do it here. so now i am asking for
the general opinion of the net about the proposed high speed
train.

what do you think \? i personally think it is a stupid idea , and
that there are a few people somewhere who are going to get very
rich from this deal.


my opinion is this in a society whose economy is primarily based on
capitalism , the role of government should be to provide those goods and
services that need providing for the general public 's good. but government
should supply those necessary goods and services only when it is impossible
for a private enterprise (or individual) to make money from providing them.
i agree with some of the other posts that this train probably can not make
money and will rely heavily on state tax dollars.

the question , i think , then becomes do we , the general public , need the train \?

i certainly do not , nor will i ever , need this train in lubbock , texas. with
the inexpensive air travel provided between dallas and houston , i do n't think
people in dallas or houston need it either.

david mcgaughey
texas tech university

from system@garlic.sbs.com (anthony s. pelliccio)
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
organization antone 's italian kitchen and excellence in operating network
x newsreader rusnews v1.01
lines 47

kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes

tfarrell@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (thomas farrell) writes

funny , but i 've seen a lot more than 10 or 15 seconds of that video , and
i still think the police involved were guilty. i do n't think there 's any
excuse they could possibly come up with that would make what they did
ok. i do n't care if rodney king was satan himself , there 's just no
excuse. now , whether they did it because he was black or they did it
because they wanted to beat up on somebody they were arresting is
another entirely separate question that i have insufficient information
to make any kind of conclusion about.


how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives o
n
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that
took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \? oh yeah , did you watch
the start of the video when king got up out of his prone postion and charge
the cops \? sorry , the video cuts both was when you sit and watch it start to
finish.



i have to agree with you... the police may have carried it a bit too far
but rodney king was no angel either. and i do n't think any guilty
verdicts should have been returned. i'm sure you know why they handed
down guilty verdicts on two of the officers. it 's quite simple really ,
it was a compromise to avoid rioting in the places where minorities
think it 's right to riot. i hate to say this , but i would have liked to
see them riot with everyone prepared. it would be open season if your
skin was even slightly brown.

hey , my motto is , you do n't fuck with me or my stuff and you do n't get
killed. it 's just that simple.

tony


anthony s. pelliccio , kd1nr ae yes , you read it right , the
system @ garlic.sbs.com man who went from no code
(thhhppptt ! ) to extra in
flame retardent sysadmin exactly one year !

this is a calm .sig !



from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re national sales tax , the movie
lines 66
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr16.164750.21913@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca golchowy@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca (gerald olchowy) writes

in article 9304151442.aa05233@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes
well , it seems the national sales tax has gotten its very

own cnn news logo !

cool. that means we 'll be seeing it often.

man , i sure am glad that i quit working ( or taking this
seriously ) in 1990. if i kept busting my ass , watching
time go by , being frustrated , i 'd be pretty damn mad by
now.

i just wish i had the e mail address of total gumby who
was saying that clinton did n't propose a nst .


actually , jerry brown essentially did...and clinton , in his demagogue
persona , condemned brown for it in the crucial ny primary last year.

however....

why do n't the republicans get their act together , and say they
will support a broad based vat that would have to be visible
(the vat in canada is visible unlike the invisible vats they
have in europe)
and suggest a rate sufficient to halve income and corporate
and capital gains tax rates and at a rate sufficient to give
the clintons enough revenue for their health care reform ,

the republicans are , in general , fighting any tax increase.
there is also worry that a vat would be far too easy to increase
incrementally.

(btw , what is different between canada 's tax and most of
europe 's that makes it visible \? )

and
force an agreement with the democrats that the top income tax
rate would then be frozen for the forseeable future and could
be increased only via a national referendum.

this would require a constitutional amendment , and congress
enjoys raising taxes too much to restrict themselves like that.
(besides , with the 2 3 majority necessary to pull that off you 'd
have a difficult time forcing anything like that.)

why not make use of the clintons to do something worthwhile...
shift the tax burden from investment to consumption , and get
health care reform , and a frozen low top marginal tax rate
all in one fell swoop.

primarily because it 's a practical impossibility to freeze
tax rates.

however , this is something that bothers me. we 're always talking
about consumer confidence and consumer spending as gauges for the
economy. if they really are important , would n't shifting taxes to
consumption provide a disincentive to spend money \?


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from eck@panix.com (mark eckenwiler)
subject re the state of justice
organization nwo steering committee
lines 52

in 1993apr15.143320.8618@desire.wright.edu , demon@desire.wright.edu sez
a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the
impact , not from the fire.

thoughts \?

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

there 's this minor thing called interest of finality repose . what
it means is that parties are n't dragged into court over and over again
because the losing side discovers some new evidence. i do n't know
about you , brett , but i suspect gm had the resources to find just
about as many expert and fact witnesses as it wanted before the trial
started. letting them re open the case now is practically an
invitation to every civil litigant on earth to keep an ace in the hole
in case the verdict goes against him.

btw , in federal criminal cases , rule 33 does permit a motion for a new
trial based on . . . newly discovered evidence if made within 2
years of the verdict. (emphasis mine.) if you 're trying to make a
backhanded point about criminal justice in a discussion that has
little to do with criminal trials as the estimable david brock did
in his amusing wsj piece last week save your breath.



or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be
believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

yup. which is why they shoulda been brought around the first time
through.


and what about members of the previous jury parading through the talk
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against gm \? should n't that be enough for
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial \?
whatever happened to jurors having to be objective \?

unless there 's some reason to believe that this supposed bias predated
the trial (as opposed to being a product of it) , and that gm was
unfairly prevented from discovering it (by venireman concealment or
otherwise) , why should gm be allowed to complain \?


moral always choose the right sort of parents
before you start in to be rough
george ade
mark eckenwiler eck@panix.com ... ! cmcl2 ! panix ! eck

from mikea@zorba.gvg.tek.com (michael p. anderson)
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
distribution usa
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 11

in article 15413@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

what they broke in the dnc for is still open to serious question.

some tape archivists suggest what they were after had something to do with
the kennedy assasination. let 's hear all of the tapes real soon , shall we \?


mpa



from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re fillibuster
lines 43
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article c5dsyr.325@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com , mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes

in article c5buph.fcp@dscomsa.desy.de
hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

the filibuster does not make sense because the senate is elected as a last
gasp assembly. it is designed to be the repository of doddery old men with
no power.

phill , i do n't know which senate you 're discussing , but it ai n't
ours.

phill probably thinks that the us senate is supposed to be the equivalent
to the uk 's house of lords.

the status of the house of lords today is quite different to its status
in 1789.


which just goes to show that where the us is concerned phill still has no
idea what he is talking about.

maddison and hamilton were both studying existing forms of government for
several years before they wrote the federalist papers. that the us system
is based to a considerable degree on the uk model is pretty widely accepted.
at the time there was no other major country with a representative body.
the french plebicite had been suppressed for 140 years and its restoration
eight years later would mark the start of the french revolution.

after the uk system the major influences were the dutch system and of course
the classical systems. nobody seriously suggests that rome or greece were
models though because the political systems of both countries were acknowleged
disasters. the main lesson learnt from greece was that unless a federal
state was constructed a war would be inevitable. the greek democracies were
always fighting amongst themselves which is how rome managed to invade. had
the federal consitution been rejected the new roman empire in the shape of
britain would quite certainly have reabsorbed much of the colonies in due
course. moreover the states would have been at each others throats as soon
as the louisiana purchase situation arose during the napoleonic period.


phill hallam baker

from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject re why is tax evasion not considered unpatriotic \?
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
lines 37

in 1993apr2.125134.3780@hemlock.cray.com rja@mahogany126.cray.com (ben 's dad) writes

in article c4tauw.mrz@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com , mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
in article 1pasrg ife@s1.gov lip@s1.gov (loren i. petrich) writes

the title is self explanatory isaac asimov once pointed out
that curious fact.

are you saying that it should be considered unpatriotic if you do not give
everything you own to the state.

are you saying that it should be considered unpatriotic if you do not give
your life in battle for the state \? the pc (patrioticly correct) certainly
think so.

i thought that kind of system collapsed
when the soviet union did.

no , the pentagon is still standing and collecting names for the draft.

if that 's not what you meant. at what point does paying more taxes cease
being patriotic \?

your money or your life. which is more important \?

nice dodge. i give it a 9.2.

now to answer your questions. i do not believe that there should be a
draft. the armed services should be voluntary. can you say the same
about taxes.

i 've answered your question. would you now answer mine.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from s5ugxk@almserv.uucp (girish kumtheker)
subject how many beibg spent at waco by batf \? \?
organization fannie mae
distribution na
lines 18

hi ,


wonder how much money is being spent at waco by batf \?

are we paying because batf messed up and have made this
a prestige issue \? \?


girish





girish kumthekar unix technical support

e mail address s5ugxk@fnma.com

from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
lines 14

in 1993apr15.170715.29896@igor.tamri.com donb@igor.tamri.com (don baldwin) writes

think about it should n't all drugs then be legalized , it would lower
the cost and definitely make them safer to use.

i think so. and i do n't use drugs , outside of the legal ones (alcohol
and coffee).

i'm addicted to chocolate myself.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from dos@major.panix.com (dave o'shea)
subject re if drugs should be legalized , how \? (was good neighbor...)
organization department of redundancy department
lines 22

wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr) writes

however , legalizing it and just sticking some drugs in gas stations to
be bought like cigarettes is just plain silly. plus , i have never
heard of a recommended dosage for drugs like crack , ecstasy , chrystal
meth and lsd. the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine
cigarettes , pot and heroin.

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican idea
that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and simply
decriminalize cocaine , marijuana , heroin , lsd , etc. please explain why
the idea of allowing recreational drugs to be bought like cigarettes
is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for nicotine...

i'm all in favor of drug legalization , but i do see some problems with
it. my hope is that people disposed to doing so would simply overdose
quickly , and be done with it , before making a mess of thisgs.


let me get this straight medical treatment costs too much and is
inefficient , so we 're going to let government make it better \?


from ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser)
subject government mandated energy conservation is unnecessary and wastful , study finds
nntp posting host solomon.technet.sg
lines 94



government mandated energy conservation is unnecessary and wastful , study finds

washington , dc the energy tax and subsidized energy efficiency
measures supported by president clinton and energy secretary hazel
o'leary are based on faulty assumptions , a new study from the cato
institute points out.

according to jerry taylor , cato 's director of natural resource studies ,
we are not running out of sources of energy. the world now has almost 10
times the proven oil reserves it had in 1950 and twice the reserves of
1970. proven reserves of coal and natural gas have increased just as
dramatically.

when standards of living , population densities , and industrial
structures are controlled for , the united states is no less energy
efficient than japan and more energy efficient than many of the group
of seven nations.

energy independence provides little protection against domestic oil
price shocks because the energy economy is global. moreover , since the
cost of oil represents only about 2 percent of gross national product ,
even large increases in the price of oil would have little impact on the
overall u.s. economy.

market economies are , on average , 2.75 times more energy efficient per
1 , 000 of gnp than are centrally planned economies.

utilities' subsidized energy efficiency measurs , known as demand side
management programs , encourage free riders , overuse of competing resource
inputs , an competitive inequities. furthermore , dsm programs do not
reduce demand.

taylor concludes that government mandated energy conservation imposes
unnecessary costs on consumers and wastes , not conserves , energy that
subsidizing energy conservation technologies will stymie , not advance ,
gains in energy conservation and that central control over the lifeblood
of modern society energy would transfer tremendous power to the state
at the expense of the individual.

energy conservation and efficiency the case against coercion is no.
189 in the policy analysis series published by the cato institute , an
independent public policy research organization in washington , dc.



available from
cato institute
224 second street se
washington , dc 20003








the cato institute

founded in 1977 , the cato institute is a public policy research
foundation dedicated to broadening the parameters of policy debate
to allow consideration of more options that are consistent with the
traditional american principles of limited government , individual
liberty , and peace. to that end , the institute strives to achieve
greater involvement of the intelligent , concerned lay public in
questions of policy and the proper role of government.
the institute is named for cato 's letters , libertarian pamphlets
that were widely read in the american colonies in the early 18th
century and played a major role in laying the philosophical foundation
of the american revolution.
despite the achievement of the nation 's founders , today virtually
no aspect of life is free from government encroachment. a pervasive
intolerance for individual rights is shown by government 's arbitrary
intrusions into private economic transactions and its disregard for
civil liberties.
to counter that trend the cato institute undertakes an extensive
publications program that addresses the complete spectrum of policy
issues. books , monographs , and shorter studies are commissioned
to examine the federal budget , social security , regulation , military
spending , international trade , and myriad other issues. major policy
conferences are held throughout the year , from which papers are
published thrice yearly in the cato journal.
in order to maintain its independence , the cato institute accepts
no government funding. contributions are received from foundations ,
corporations , and individuals , and other revenue is generated from
the sale of publications. the institute is a nonprofit , tax exempt ,
educational foundation under section 501(c)3 of the internal revenue
code.

the cato institute
224 second street s.e.
washington , dc 20003

from decay@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (dean.kaflowitz)
subject re i thought commercial advertising was not allowed
organization at t
distribution na
lines 254

in article c50ske.3ft@voder.nsc.com , matt@galaxy.nsc.com (matt freivald x8043) writes

in article 164905 in talk.politics.misc , decay@cbnewsj.cb.att.com
(dean.kaflowitz)

in article c4rt3t.ewp@voder.nsc.com , matt@galaxy.nsc.com
(matt freivald x8043) writes

1) is an unborn child a human being at any point during pregnency \?

in my opinion , at all points during the pregnancy it is human.
you 'll have to define what you mean by human being for me to
answer the question as put.

a parallel q is a person of color a human being \?
a you 'll have to define what you mean by `human being'.

to answer your irrelevant question , yes a person of color is human ,
but i still do n't know what you mean by human being and you have
merely begged the question without responding. by trying to inject
the notion of race into the discussion , you muddy the waters without
adding any insight whatever. the same parallel question could
be is a polydactyl person a human being \? you still have not
answered what you mean by human being. please do so.

i would suggest that legal precedent defines a human being (i.e. , a person
whose rights are protected by the constitution and the law) as someone with
a functioning brain.
could you cite some of those precedents for me , or the basis of this
definition \? while the law does allow the removal of extraordinary
means of sustaining life in cases of brain death , this in itself
does not lead to your conclusion of how the law defines a human
being. however , at least you defined human being in a tenuous
fashion. that is , a person whose rights are protected by the
constitution and the law.

for my answer to your question , i refer you to roe v wade and
subsequent supreme court decisions , which define to what
extent a fetus is protected by the constitution and the law.
certain judges have concurred that slavery is not a violation of
human rights therefore , it is not.

you wo n't answer the question and instead drag in irrelevancies.
if you want a definition of human being that does not depend on
the vagaries of law , but holds solid whatever the law may rule ,
provide it for me.

i would suggest that your blind faith would not likely hold up if the
shoe were on the other foot. the brain life death paradigm is one that
i suggest as one consistent with other legal definitions. it clearly
does n't matter to you whether an unborn child has any rights or not ,
however , so the point is lost on you.

more irrelevancies. as larry margolis pointed out , the law
has made special exceptions in order to include fetuses , but does
not follow your version of human being. and as he pointed out ,
brain death is not a means of determining who has the rights
of the living , but rather who has died. there is a significant
difference.

what i am wondering now is , has your argument so failed you that
you feel it necessary to drag out irrelevancies and leave the
thread you started \? you got answers to your questions when
you began baiting me , if you recall , after you had made some
ridiculous remarks about adrienne regard and , having been corrected ,
changed the subject with your remarks about having a discussion
of substance. if you really wanted a discussion of substance ,
why then do you disregard logic and substance in order to toss
silly accussations , e.g. it really does n't matter to you...
if it matters to you , then why not define human being and seek
some substance \? you 're not going to convince a logical person
of the rightness of your position unless you apply some logic
and show some meaning to your words.

2) if she is , then why does the mother have the right to kill
her when she is in the womb but not after she has passed
through the birth canal \?

because a woman has a right to have any object which threatens her
health and is within the confines of her body removed. the other
side of the argument would give rights to the fetus that would not
be granted to an adult human. if , for example , you were occupying
the body of another , for whatever reason or through whatever means ,
the reason and means being irrelevant , that other would be able to
remove or have you removed. if that removal required your demise ,
i see no reason in law that such a removal could not be effected.
rather than examining a hypothetical thought experiment , let us examine
a real , though rare , situation siamese twins. if one siamese twin has
the other surgically removed , knowing that it will cause death (and
barring some emergency where they will both die anyway) , it is
murder.
is it \? have you any support for this assertion \? furthermore , your
analogy is completely inapplicable. siamese twins have an equal
claim to any body parts they have in common. try again.
what establishes this equal claim beyond your assertion \? if it
is merely a matter of which came first , cannot one kill the other since
they both have equal claim \? what if one has more motor control than
the other \? does that establish a superior claim \?

as others point out , one is sacrificed for the other depending on
which has the better chance at survival. again , your analogy
fails. not precedence , but possession makes a difference here.
a woman 's womb is indisputably her own. also , i see you ignore
my statement that you would grant rights to a fetus that would
not be granted a born human being. was that due to its inconvenience \?

you see , the right to life is granted to adult humans in the
same sense as it should be to the foetus at some point prior to birth.
are siamese twins ever separated in the womb \? or is this
right you assert for siamese twins , which i do n't even think is
true as stated or valid as an analogy , one that exists after birth \?
freivald , your entire argument here is a failure.
interesting way of trying to combine two essentially orthogonal concepts.
the point is that it is murder for one siamese twin to kill the other ,
regardless of their status of physiological dependence or interdependence.

is it \? please cite a precedent and the basis of the ruling.

it would be difficult for one siamese twin to kill the other inside the
womb , and even if it were possible i doubt that a case could be made for
premeditation or neglegence. note the use of the phrase it should be
in my post.

you simply assert things without any support. your analogy is
not accurate and your assertions are unsupported. try this on
for size. it is not murder for one siamese twin to kill
the other in the womb. there. we now have equal arguments.
but the idea is illogical. for one siamese twin to kill the
other in the womb would likely be to kill itself as well. the
systems are dependent on each other for life. i'm still struggling
to see anything analagous here and failing to do so.

of course , the situation is not a perfect comparison it may well be that
one siamese twin deliberately initiates oppression or coersion against
the other. this is clearly not the case with an unborn child.
and this last statement from you is a total non sequitur. the
comparison is far worse than you give it credit for.
are you going to let this assertion stand on its own also , or do you
plan on following up with a reasoned argument \?

your argument is from fantasy island. your comparison is a total
failure , as i have demonstrated already , and has no basis in
reality , neither legally nor medically. and for you to assert
that it is not a perfect comparison because of the impossible ,
that of coercion or oppression , is ridiculous. as i said ,
you give the analogy too little credit for failure. on the one
hand you start this by saying you want to take a real , rather than
a hypothetical , situation , then you fly off into siamese twins
murdering one another in the womb or coercing or oppressing each
other in the womb when the reality of the situation you describe
in now way matches your version. as i said before , decisions
are made regarding which twin lives and dies in situations where
they cannot both survive. and , furthermore , as i have already said ,
there is a difference between an equal claim to organs and a claim
that is unequal. you seem to be asserting that a fetus has a
claim on a woman 's womb. when the fetus is born , what happens to
its claim \? and by what reason do you assert its claim \?

3) if a parent has the right to choose to not take responsibility
for their own child , why are there laws and penalties against
child abandonment \?
this last question is irrelevant and something of a non sequitur.
can you establish some relevance or even some sense for it \?
if at some point an unborn child is a human being , the parents clearly
have the same responsibilities toward her as any other parents have toward
their children.
again , what is the relevance \? you have established no sense of when
that point is , you ignore the significant difference between a fetus
and a born child (the dependence of a born child can be transferred
to another party , while that of a fetus cannot a born child does
not live within the body of another human being while a fetus does ,
thereby representing potential and often actual harm to that
body , as in the case of one of our talk.abortion participants who
suffers from epilepsy and to whom pregnancy represents a significant
health risk , or as in the case of a woman i know , who chose to
continue her pregnancy , but spent her entire pregnancy confined to
a wheelchair and suffering great pain from constriction of some
nerve) , and your argument is not an argument against abortion
generally , but at best an argument against abortion at some
time during the course of pregnancy.
again , a quest for common ground. most of the pro choice people i
have spoken to in person (none of them pro abortion activists) concede
that the child has a right to life at some point that supersedes all
of the mother 's rights except that of her own life. as is often the
case in emotionally charged issues , the activists have a very different
outlook from the mainstream.

you have n't answered the question. the situations are not analagous.

the dependence of a born child is not transferred instantaneously it
takes time and effort. incidentally , it is the pro choice side , not
me , arguing that the government should make it easy for parents to
abandon their children to the state.

again you avoid the question. dependence can be transferred , and
it is not as slow as you seem to think.

as to the anecdotal evidence of real human tragedy , there is ample
on both sides. i would hate to be in the position of the mother in
nyc who has to tell her daughter that she lost her arm in a botched
abortion attempt.

yes , and i 'd hate to have been the one to tell dr gunn 's children that
he was murdered by a religious , pro life fanatic. please do
try to stay relevant.

the kindest thing i can say about these responses of yours is
that i can see you are trying to say something , but the result
is a mish mash of negligible value.
sez you.

clever comeback. i congratulate you on the readiness of your wit.

in article 164906 in talk.politics.misc , decay@cbnewsj.cb.att.com
(dean.kaflowitz) writes

ground covered in another post deleted

if at some point an unborn child is a human being , the parents clearly
have the same responsibilities toward her as any other parents have toward
their children.

and no parent can be forced to supply bodily resources toward their children ,
even if necessary to save the child 's life.

as was this. to make it painfully clear , you are not
obligated to donate a kidney to save your child 's life
under law.

again , the confusion between action deliberately taking away the life
of a child and inaction refusing to run out in front of a bus to save
a child .

what happened to that claim to bodily organs where life is at stake \?
why does this parent now have an indisputable right to his or her
kidney when previously the parent did not , by your standards \? what
is different about the two situations \? i see i have to spell this
out for you since the meaning was too subtle for you. in the one
case you do not recognize a difference between a fetus and a born
child (you ask why a born child cannot be abandoned but a fetus
can) , and in this case you recognize a significant difference
between the fetus and born child where the lives of the two are at
stake. you ca n't have it both ways. action and inaction are
irrelevant to the principle , but you are wrong about the inaction
anyway. ask any of the numerous women who post here and have
borne children how inactive their pregnancy was. to have a
healthy , live child , a woman does more than hang out , eat as
she chooses , plays volleyball like she always did , drinks at
parties with her friends , etc. she behaves very differently , and
the provision of her resources to a fetus may be no more voluntary
than the beating of her heart , but it is far from inactive.

dean kaflowitz


from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 21

in article 1993apr17.022222.28105@news.cs.brandeis.edu , st923336@pip.cc.brandeis.edu (blort ! eeeep ! hwaaah.) writes
actually , i was rather surprised to see an article on this subject
(i.e. the new , inproved survey saying that roughly 1 of men are gay)
on the front page of the new york times recently (i think it was
on thurs , 15 april). the headline was something to the effect of
new survey finds 1 of men are gay

i was shocked , not because the new york times was running a story
on a sex survey (although that was part of it) , but because they thought
that this news was actually important enough to warrant front page space.
i mean , how many people actually care how many people are gay (as long as
you know how to find avoid them if you want to) \? i do n't.

if you do n't care , why was so much effort put into promoting the
10 lie \? because it was important to scare politicians into
obedience.

matt

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from mdouglas@netcom.com (hokh'ton)
subject re race and violence
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution usa
lines 93

in 1993apr13.212441.26562@gtx.com al@gtx.com (alan filipski) writes

even though this city (phoenix) has a relatively small black
population , black people seem to be responsible for a disproportionate
amount of violent crime. yesterday , black men robbed a cafeteria , beat
the employees for no apparent reason , and shot one dead , even though
they were being cooperative. a few days ago , a car full of black men
opened fire on a car containing a young white couple and their baby ,
possibly because they did n't like the way the man was driving. the
baby was slightly injured. these incidents are not even unusual.

even if a white person starts out without racial prejudice (as , after
all , we all do) and no one teaches them to be prejudiced , it 's
sometimes hard to see how they can avoid becoming so , based on their
own observations and instinct for self preservation. we always taught
our children that racial prejudice is wrong (not only bad , but also
mistaken) , but how do you counteract the effect of these kinds of
incidents \?

what 's the answer \? how can we work against racial prejudice when
incidents like this keep fanning the flames \? what can we say to deny
that racial prejudice is a rational response to our environment \? is
it \? should we \? since the 60 's , i have thought the only hope is through
integration based on ignoring race and treating each person as an
individual , but so many either preach divisiveness by emphasizing race
or validate racism by their actions. where does it lead \?



( alan filipski , gtx corp , 2390 e. camelback road , phoenix , az 85016 , usa )
( internet al@gtx.com uucp uunet ! gtx ! al phone (602)224 8742 )


alan , you can start by teaching your children that the perpetrators
of crimes no more represent the black community than racist hateful whites
represent the majority culture (although there are many ethnic minorities
who have fallen into the very trap that you are struggling with , and believe
otherwise). the trap is the easy way out.
for yourself , i think it would be a good idea to realize that the
demographics related to the crimes you speak of have less to do with race ,
and much to do with socioeconomic status and disenfranchisement. you 're
going to find higher crime within any community comprised of any ethnic
group or subgroup that has become dysfunctional , whatever the factors
leading to that dysfunction. with ethnic minorities it is more usually than
not , as i said , socioeconomic disenfranchisement.
if , for example , you lived in an area where there were very few
blacks , but quite a few poor for generations whites , you 'd see the crime
statistics reflecting the dysfunction of those white people. would you then
worry about whther your children would begin to see whites as undesireable
or whatever \? the trap springs into action when our innate compunction to
define us and other raises its little voice. the trap becomes dangerous
when we stop to listen to that little voice and stop thinking like rational
humans.
it 's interesting that blacks are traditionally seen as the or the
most criminal element in many of our urban areas. i do n't know the racial
makeup of phoenix , so i ca n't speak to your situation. however , i live in
san francisco , a city that loves to tout its ethnic diversity . here , we
have black gangs , hispanic gangs , asian (yes , the model minority ) gangs ,
and even a few white gangs. the asian gangs have become a particularly
troublesome element for law enforcement here , mainly due (i think) to their
propensity for engaging in organized criminal activities. but ask people on
the street and they 'll , 8 out of 10 times , tell you that black gangs and
crime are what they most fear. during the disturbance in los angeles last
year many of the rioters and looters were not black. some were even white ! i
remember being amazed at television news scenes that showed looting mobs
where there were maybe one or two blacks at most ! my perceptions , gleaned
from tv news , were further corroborated by numerous friends and relatives
that live in los angeles. this may have been the country 's first truly
multi ethnic riot. yet i know from face to face and online discussion that
in the minds of america the popular perception is that it was a black
riot !
in closing , i 'd like to say that you raise some interesting points
that really need discussion. our country has spent too long ignoring the
racism (and its attendant ills) that is very much a part of our culture. as
a people , we are afraid to face up to some hurtful truths , and the problem
becomes compounded daily . we cannot afford to do it much longer. i truly
believe that the well being of all of us depends on changing our current
course of denial and repression.
i wish you and your children , and all other people , of all colors ,
luck in avoiding the trap .
peace , my brother.
m.





hokh'ton the crystal wind is the storm ,
mdouglas@netcom.com and the storm is data ,
michael douglas llyr and the data is life.
player 's litany (the long run)



from dunnjj@ucsu.colorado.edu (dunn jonathan james)
subject re abolish selective service
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 42

muellerm@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (marc mueller) writes

considering that clinton received a draft notice and got out of it (he admits it) the political feasibility of him abolishing it is not something he would
be inclined to risk any extra exposure on.

as a libertarian (with a small l) who voted for clinton , i think that he
should abolish the selective service and the draft. if his conscience
forbade him to go to war in vietnam , it should forbid him to perpetuate
this system of government sanctioned slavery.

agreed. congress took money from nasa and fha to fund the second seawolf.
the shipyards are still building los angeles class submarines and there
is a lack of asw foes to contend with. the navy is considering reducing
the number of attack subs to 40 (navy times) and that would entail
getting rid of or mothballing some of the current los angeles class.
politically , general dynamics is in connecticut and we will get
seawolf subs whether we need them or not.

if our government would pay attention to serious domestic issues (the economy)
and choose to stay out of other people 's wars (iraq , bosnia , somalia) ,
we would not be in this fix. an anyway , could n't the jobs be replaced by
improving our domestic situation \? (i'm not for continued deficit spending ,
but if clinton and congress want to spend , i 'd rather they improve the
infrastructure than fight other people 's wars.)

in addition , more bases need to be closed. probably long beach naval station
and others. the navy is talking about three main bases on each coast being
required to home port a total fleet of 320 ships.
the question is whether les aspin and clinton will be able to face down
a pork happy congress.

a novel idea getting away from naval bases , what about refurbishing
decommissioned air force bases as airports \? this would be so much cheaper
than building them from the ground up (denver 's new airport is one of the
most appalling examples of pork barreling and cronyism i have seen in
my lifetime). even if no more airports are needed , i'm sure bill gates
or ross perot would love to have their own private airfields , and the
money from their purchases could be applied to the public debt.

jon dunn

all e mail flames will be deleted without reading

from kevin@rotag.mi.org (kevin darcy)
subject re who be conservative on this.....
organization who , me \? \? \?
lines 31

in article 1993apr5.005204.29158@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu mcochran@nyx.cs.du.edu (mark a. cochran) writes
kevin@rotag.mi.org (kevin darcy) writes
in article 1993apr2.155820.16998@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu mcochran@nyx.cs.du.edu (mark a. cochran) writes

the sc allows restrictions after 'viability' (a term never medically defined)


any physician who ca n't make a reasonable stab at determining whether a given
fetus is viable or not is not qualified to perform an abortion.

kebbin shows that he does not know the difference between determining
the viability of an individual fetus , and providing the universally
accepted medical definition s of viability

i was not discussing universal definitions in this post , mark. please
refrain from dragging in irrelevancies.

do you agree with my statement above about physicians being unqualified if
they ca n't determine viability \?

since we know
that there are some physicians out there who are qualified to perform
abortions , then obviously some medical definition of viability is being
employed.

on an case by case basis , viability is relatively easy to determine.

and that 's good enough for the law , mark. so why do you keep whining that
viability is n't defined \? what purpose does your whining serve \?

kevin

from erics@netcom.com (eric smith)
subject re trickle down (was 1937 was dan quayle , genius
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 36

garrett@ingres.com writes

rn11195@medtronic.com (robert nehls) writes...

jason k. schechner (jks2x@holmes.acc.virginia.edu) wrote

in article 1pf22minnd7c@srvr1.engin.umich.edu jwh@citi.umich.edu writes

what decade did you live in \? unemployment dropped during the 80 's ,
inflation dropped during the 80 's and interest rates dropped during
the 80 's.

this all may be true , but we 're paying for it now , through the
nose. our current recession (and some would argue the world 's

first off , we 're not in a recession. we 've had a record number of months of
straight economic growth. even the democrats are admitting that the
recession ofcicially ended in march of 1991.

this months 's unemployment rate in california was 9.4
sure feels like a recession to me.

maybe we should ask the 83 , 103 people who were laid off this january whether
or not we 're in a recession. that was a figure that was reported in the
new york times. there is no official figure , because the bureau of labor
statistics stopped government tracking of layoffs eight months ago due to
budget cuts.

(the above information was published in harper 's index , harper 's magazine.)


eric smith the day dan quayle is our president is the day
erics@netcom.com shelley winters runs with the bulls in pamplona.
erics@infoserv.com dennis miller
ci 70262 , 3610


from mcartwr@auvm.american.edu (martina cartwright)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
article i.d. auvm.93096.030733mcartwr
1993mar28.022903.13575@ncsu.edu 93087.042722mcartwr@auvm.american.edu
mar28.195002.34060@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
93087.190106mcartwr@auvm.american.edu 7166@pdxgate.uucp
1993apr5.233224.10069@lmpsbbs.
organization the american university university computing center
lines 53

in article 1993apr5.233224.10069@lmpsbbs.comm.mot.com ,
bhv@areaplg2.corp.mot.com (bronis vidugiris) says

in article 7166@pdxgate.uucp a0cb@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (chris bertholf) writes
)mcartwr@auvm.american.edu (martina cartwright) writes
)
)
) the official and legal term for rape is the crime of forcing a female
) to submit to sexual intercourse.
)
)please , supply me with some references. i was not aware that all states
)had the word female in the rape statutes. i am sure others are surprised
)as well. i know thats how it works in practice (nice n fair , not ! ! ) , but
)was unaware that it was in the statutes as applying to females only ,
)uniformly throughout the u.s.

i agree mostly with chris. it is (unfortunately , imo) true that the fbi
figures for rape based on the 'uniform crime report' report only female
rapes. however , some states (such as illinois) are not tabluated because they
refuse to comply with this sexist definition !

the worms crawl in
the worms crawl out
the worms post to the net from your account

insofar as several liberal jurisdictions are concerned , the essential
elements of rape are gender neutral. nonetheless , i decided to provide
a number of references to support my original argument. black 's law
dictionary (every law student lawyer 's friend) defines rape as unlawful
sexual intercourse with a female without her consent. the unlawful
knowledge of a woman by a man forcibly and against her will. the model
penal code (the statute proposed by the national conference of commissioners
of uniform state laws or other organization for adoption by state legislatures)
defines rape as a male who has sexual intercourse with a female not his wife
is guilty of rape if he (a) compels her to submit by force or by threat of
imminent death.... (mpc @213.1(1)(a))

indeed the following jurisdictions states have statutes similar to the mpc

alabama code of ala. @13a 6 61 (1992)
arkansas ark.stat.ann. @5 14 103 (1993)
district of columbia d.c. code @22 2801 (1992)
georgia o.f.g.a. @16 6 1 (1992)
idaho idaho code @18 6101 (1992)
maryland md.ann.code.art. 27 @462 (1992)
mississippi miss.code ann. @97 3 71 (1993)
new york (check case law) n.y.c.l.s. penal @130.35 (1993)
north carolina n.c. gen.stat. @14 27 2 (1992)
puerto rico l.p.r.a. @4062 (1993)

ta ,

martina

from rstevew@armory.com (richard steven walz)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
organization the armory
lines 94

in article 1993apr5.000007.27707@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu mbond@nyx.cs.du.edu (mimi) writes
in article 1993apr3.211910.21908@news.acns.nwu.edu dmeier@casbah.acns.n
u.edu (douglas meier) writes
in article 1pkmo9inng7@senator bedfellow.mit.edu wdstarr@athena.mit.ed

(william december starr) writes

and what difference does it make \? if homosexuals should not be treated
as equals with heterosexuals in the eyes of the law then it does n't
matter if they comprise an overwhelming majority of the population , and
if they should then it does n't matter if , numerically , they 're only an
infinitesimal minority , right \?

and if it makes no difference , then shoving a false number down my throa

should n't be a high priority. after all , why should a minority group ne
d to
inflate their numbers in order to justify the rights they claim they des
rve
i.e. extra privileges they ask for \?

if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and
battery. why must we add gay bashing to the list \? is n't this a sort of
double jeopardy \? or am i just being a fascist again \?



douglas c. meier this space for rent
northwestern university , acns
this university is too commie
lib pinko to have these views. dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu


you know , i have thought about the issue of if someone beats up a
homosexual , or a black person , etc. , should the crime be specified
as something special. shit , beating up anybody , regardless of race
and sexual orientation should be a very serious crime. if you
pick out those crimes which are committed against the opposite sex ,
different race , or a different sexual orientation , is this a form
of favoring those groups over other groups. hmm.. i mean , i think
that a crime committed against all people should be treated the
same. but , i know that there are many people out there who are
very prejudice against people who are different than they are. and
perhaps hate crimes laws are the only way to punish the bastards
appropriately. but , why should a person who commits a crime against
a wealthy protestant white by a wealthy protestant white be treated
on a lower level. is n't this discrimination against the wealthy
white person.

hmm.. any input out there \? as a black person , i here about all
sorts of stories where fellow blacks are persecuted and beat up
because of their race. this really tears me up. but , a crime
against a white by a white should also be treated as a heinous
crime.

please respond. i would like to hear what other views are out ther.

ciao'
mimi

the federal government has used such laws to allow mutliple charges in
order to prevent more crimes than would nromally occur just from two people
being pissed off at each other. the federal government has an interest in
the intent of the perpetrators in the pursuit of preventing violations of
civil rights. it 's the way they broke the back of the klan , by putting a
lot of people away for a very long time for harrassing blacks specifically.
it is a principle that has been well recognized as constitutionally valid
since over 100 years ago. it has been used whenever a select group was
getting bashed or harrassed more than any other person would just for being
part of a minority. it is the only way we made the defeat of the south
stick after the civil war. people who harrassed free blacks , when normally
they would n't find themselves harrassing just anyone walking around were
expeditiously tried and jailed for 5 to 8 years until nobody wanted to try
it anymore. now with the 14th amendment guarantee of equal protection under
the law , the law can use multiple crime and severe penalty involving intent
as much as is needed to protect even one human that is a hated minority to
somebody. they can call out the national guard just for them , as they did
the school girls in alabama during desegregation in the 1950 's , and the
president can nationalize the state militia and turn the guns of the
militia that were being used to bar blacks right around to point at the
thousands in the crowd with an order to shoot that they would have to obey
or face possible death by firing squad under the uniform code of military
justice for failing to obey a direct order while under arms ! and by god ,
they did ! those southern boys turned right around an fixed bayonets ! and
the governor was left standing and was arrested by the federal marshalls
that had brought the order to nationalize the guard. and that 's why we need
such an ability in federal jurisdiction.
rsw


richard steven walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429 1200
515 maple street 1 without safe and free abortion women are
santa cruz , ca 95060 organ surrogates to unwanted parasites.
real men would never accept organ slavery and will protect women.

from cjp @pitt.edu (casimir j palowitch)
subject re clinton president 's trip to pittsburg sic
organization university of pittsburgh
lines 37

in article 1ql6bginnklu@life.ai.mit.edu clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92) writes

statement by the press secretary

the president will travel to pittsburgh on saturday , april
17 to talk about his job creation plan and its impact on the
state of pennsylvania , where it would create as many as 3 , 818

would \? ha haaaa haa ha haaa

how the hell can they come up with a number , specified to the units
column , on something as complicated as this \?

face it , it 's the perceptions that matter here , folks , not the facts.
especially this one

full time jobs and up to 21 , 240 summer jobs. he will make a


according to the pittsburgh post gazette , that means over 7200 new jobs
for allegheny county (metro pgh) alone !

haaaa haaa ha ha haaa heh heh haaaa snif

doing what \? i hope it 's fixing the potholes on my street.

let 's face it , folks , we 're in a depression and this is the wpa.

clinton 's really coming here to beat on sen. arlen specter , who happens
to be vacationing in africa (do n't know whether to laugh or cry)



casimir j. (casey) palowitch in 1996 , there will be two kinds
slavic cataloger of computer professional those
u. of pgh. library systems who know nextstep , and those
cjp @pitt.edu without jobs.

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re hard times investments was (no subject given)
article i.d. usenet.1prvpu mn9
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 33
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , riggs@descartes.etl.army.mil (bill riggs) says


i do n't believe in the wave theory .


you do n't have to. it believes in you.


horses. she keeps telling me that inflation is coming back , and to lock
in my fixed rate mortgage as low as possible.


well , looking at our new government pals , i'm inclined to
agree. i do n't much believe in our money , either. )


maybe you 'd like to invest in some foreign currency.


oh , ho ho ! if only you knew ! )

yup , i'm definitely checking out foreign currency , thanks to
to this newsgroup. it sure does n't take much thinking to realize
what direction the u.s. is headed.


(sigh speculators never learn.)


oh , ho ho ! speculator \? ! me \? ! no , no , i'm going with a sure
thing. sure as bust in california real estate . )

from starowl@bolero.rahul.net (michael d. adams)
subject re california insurance commissioner endorses federal legislation to protect consumers from scam insurance companies
article i.d. rahul.c51d0n.3fw
reply to starowl@a2i.rahul.net
organization d service actuarial consulting
lines 12
nntp posting host bolero
x header ignore ignore ignore ignore this line

rick@sjsumcs.sjsu.edu (richard warner) writes

very simple. an 'insurance commissioner' is a bureaucrat a regulator.
it is his her duties to make rules to enforce laws.

...and to make life difficult for us actuaries.....


michael d. adams (starowl@a2i.rahul.net) champaign , il southeast al

thrush believes in the two party system the masters and the slaves.
napoleon solo (from the man from u.n.c.l.e)

from carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca
lines 20
distribution ca
nntp posting host beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov

in article 1993apr15.162552.5510@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article 1qjtmjinnq45@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov , carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion) writes
i have come to the conclusion that the tv stations here in la
want a riot to happen when the verdict comes in.

why is this surprising \? then the times can get a few more
pulitzers the same way they did last year.

i suppose all media want something to happen , otherwise what would
they report that 's their job. (duhhh to me ! )

but it 's not so much surprising that they want a riot as it is amazing
how they carry that desire across in not so subtle ways (at least to
me...)

carlos.

i as much as any other man am in favor of having the superior position
assigned to the white race abraham lincoln
...ames ! elroy ! jpl devvax ! beowulf pituco ! carlos

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re top ten responses to ed 's top ten lists
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 16
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , mconners@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (michael r conners) says

in article c4zreh.c7s@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) write
s

the real question should the feds bail out steve jobs next (a la chrysler)
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost \?


no. the real question should the feds bail out ibm ( a la chrysler )
so that important 80k manufacturing jobs would n't be lost \?

it could be part of the jobs bill



from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton press availability with russian press 4.4.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 220
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu





the white house

office of the press secretary
(vancouver , british columbia)

for immediate release april 4 , 1993


press conference by the president
with russian press

canada place
vancouver , british columbia



2 46 p.m. pdt


q i had two questions for both presidents , so you
could probably answer for boris , too. (laughter.)

the president i 'll give you my answer , then i 'll
give you yeltsin 's answer. (laughter.)

q the first is that this is the meeting of the
presidents , so the money that 's being promised is government
money , and naturally it 's going to be distributed through the
government. but you 've indicated that three quarters are going
to be going to businesses. so the question is how the russian
businesses themselves are going to be consulted , if ever \? what
are the priorities , because there are several association of
russian businessmen existing already , so will they be invited to
participate in setting up priorities for investment \?

this is the first. and second , to you. we know
that polls , public polls in america do not show that americans
are very enthusiastic about giving this aid. like newsweek polls
say that about 75 percent do n't approve it , and new york times
published that 52 percent support if it just prevents civil war
42 percent if it fosters democratic reform and only 29 percent
if it just personally supports yeltsin. how are you going to
sort of handle this problem that americans themselves are not
very enthusiastic \? thank you.

q i have a question , i'm sorry is there going
to be a translation of everything into russian \? no , just the
answers. just the answers. okay.

the president the answer to the first question is ,
it depends on what kind of aid we 're discussing. for example ,
the funds that will be set up for financing new businesses will
obviously go to those businesses who apply and who seem to be
good risks and make the application. the privatization fund will
be used to support the privatization of existing public
enterprises. then there are some other general funds in the
democracy corps and other things which people in russia will have
some influence over the distribution of.

with regard to your second question , let me say that
i would think that there would be people in both countries who
would not feel too warmly toward simply the american government
giving money to the russian government. there 's opposition to
that in russia. and in our country , throughout our whole history
there has been an opposition to foreign aid of all kinds. that
is , this has nothing to do with russia. if you look at the whole
history of america , any kind of aid program has always been
unpopular.

what i have tried to tell the american people is , is
this is not an aid program , this is an investment program that
this is an investment in our future. we spent 4 trillion
trillion on armaments on soldiers and other investments
because of the cold war. now , with a democratic government in
russia , with the newly independent states , the remainder of them
working on a democracy and struggling to get their economies
going , it seems to me very much in our interest to make it
possible to do whatever we can for democracy to survive , for the
economy of russia to grow because of the potential for trade and
investment there , and for us to continue the effort to reduce
nuclear weapons and other elements of hostility on both sides , on
our side and on the russian side.

so i do n't see this as an aid program this is an
investment for the united states. this is very much in the
interest of the united states. the things i announced today , the
second stage of the program , which i hope to put together next
week , in my view are things that are good for my country and for
the taxpayers and workers of my country.

russia is a very great nation that needs some
partnership now , some common endeavor with other people who share
her goals. but it would be a great mistake for anyone to view
this as some sort of just a charity or an aid issue. that 's not
what it is , it 's an investment for america and it 's a wonderful
investment.

like all investments , there is some risk. but
there 's far less risk with a far greater potential of return than
the 4 trillion we spent looking at each other across the barrier
of the cold war.

q mr. president , first of all thank you very
much , indeed , for coming here and talking to us. in the memory
of the living correspondents , this is the first time an american
president is doing this to the russian press corps , so it 's kind
of a very measured breakthrough.

i have two questions. one , in your introductory
remarks of the other press conference , you mentioned in brief
that you discussed the start ii and start i issues. could you
tell us did you reach an agreement with president yeltsin as to
what might be done in order to have ukraine join the ratification
of start i and the npt regime \? and my second question is , how
confident you are that the united states congress would be eager
to support you in lifting jackson vanik and other restrictions
inherited from the cold war \?

president clinton first , we discussed the issue of
ukraine with regard to start i and npt , and generally , with
regard to the need to proceed to have the other independent
states all be non nuclear but also to have the united states
develop strong relationships with them. we know that one thing
that we could do that would increase , i think , the willingness of
the ukraine to support this direction is to successfully conclude
our own negotiations on highly enriched uranium , because that
would provide not only an important economic opportunity for
russia , but also for ukraine , and it would show some reaching out
on our part. but we agreed that basically the people who signed
off on the lisbon protocol have got to honor what they did , and
we agreed to continue to press that.

i , myself , have spent a good deal of time trying to
reassure ukraine 's leaders , specifically the president and the
foreign minister , that i want strong ties with ukraine , that the
united states very much wants a good relationship with ukraine ,
but that , in order to do what we need to do together to
strengthen the economy of ukraine and to have the united states
be fully supportive , the commitment to ratify start i and to join
the npt regime is critical.

what was the second question \?

the president with regard to jackson vanik and
cocom , i would make two points first , i have agreed with the
republican and democratic leaders in the congress that we will ,
as soon as i return , have a list of all the legislative and other
restrictions , some of them are regulatory in nature , imposed on
relations between the united states and russia , that are legacies
of the cold war. and we will see whether they 're how many of
them we could agree to do away with right now , at least among the
leadership of the congress.

with regard to jackson vanik , i think there will be
an openness to change the law if the congress is convinced there
are , in fact , no more refusniks , no more people who wish to
emigrate who are not being allowed to. if the fact is that there
is no one there who would have been who the law was designed
to affect , then i think that the desire to keep the law will be
much less.

with regard to cocom , my guess is , and it 's nothing
more than a guess , that the leadership of congress and indeed my
own advisers , might prefer to see some sort of phased movement
out of the cocom regime. but i think they would be willing to
begin it in the fairly near future.

q mr. clinton , when i read your speech in
annapolis , i got the impression that you have a completely
different personal and i stress that personal , not
political approach towards russia , compared to the approach of
mr. bush. could you formulate in a few words , what is the
difference between you as a personality and your approach the
difference between your approach to russia and the approach of
mr. bush \? and who made you why did you cite akhmatova in the
last part of your speech \?

the president let me say , first , i do not wish to
compare myself with president bush or anyone else. i ca n't say
what was in his heart about russia. i can say that since i was a
boy , i have been personally fascinated with the history , the
music and the culture , and the literature of russia. i have been
thrilled by russian music since i was a serious student of music
for more than 30 years now. i have read major russian novelists
and many of your poets and followed your ballet and tried to know
as much as i could about your history.

and i went to the soviet union but it was then
the soviet union you may know it was a big issue in the last
presidential campaign that i spent the first week of 1970 alone
in moscow and did not return again until three days before mr.
yeltsin was elected president. but all that time i was away , i
was following events there very closely and hoping for the day
when we could be genuine partners. so i have always had a
personal feeling about russia.

i remember , for example a lot of you know i like
music very much. one of the most moving experiences for me as a
musician was when leonard bernstein took the new york
philharmonic to moscow and played shostakovich 's fifth symphony
to the russians. and he played the last movement more rapidly
than anyone had ever played it before because it was technically
so difficult. that is something i followed very closely when it
occurred.

these are things that have always had a big impact
on my life. and i had just always hoped that someday , if i ever
had the chance to , i could play a role in seeing our two
countries become closer partners. (applause.)

the press thank you.

end3 06 p.m. pdt




from cwinemil@keys.lonestar.org (chris winemiller)
subject representation of territories \? (was re the 11 , 250 , 000 , 000 , 000 lunch)
distribution tx
organization none
lines 31

boyd@turtle.fisher.com writes

in article ws0s2b1w165w@keys.lonestar.org , cwinemil@keys.lonestar.org
(chris winemiller) writes
btw , is anyone besides myself peeved that non us citizens (puerto
ricans , etc.) are very close to having full representation in the u.s.
house of representatives \?


sorry chris , puerto ricans are us citizens.

ok. i stand corrected. i guess , then , that the comments about payoffs
(i.e. , pork ) to puerto ricans that others have been making still
stands \?

now , everybody , how about some opinion on the following related topic

should the people who are natives of u.s. territories have
representation in the u.s. house of rep 's or the u.s. congress \?
the u.s. constitution sets up the house of representatives to represent
each state in proportion to its population , and the senate to represent
each state equally. what should be done with u.s. territories like
puerto rico \? does anyone have knowledge about how this was handled in
the past , such as with the louisiana territory or the northwest
territory \?

chris


chris winemiller internet cwinemil@keys.lonestar.org
uucp texsun ! letni ! keys ! cwinemil

from spp@zabriskie.berkeley.edu (steve pope)
subject re mow bodycount
organization u.c. berkeley erl
lines 17
nntp posting host zion.berkeley.edu

any thoughts on who is going to count all of the gorgeous bodies at
the mow \? the press \? the white house staff \? the most junior
senator \? the king of the motss bi \?

just curious as to whose bias we are going to see when the numbers
get brought out.

probably , law enforcement people (park service police and d.c. cops) ,
who will use aerial photographs and extrapolate based on the
density of the crowd in small regions.

these sort of techniques derive from army intelligence and cia
methods of estimating troop strength , and tend to be
methodologically skewed to always come up with inflated numbers ,
so as to justify bigger budgets.

steve

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re still waiting for evidence , mr. cramer
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 46

in article mortalc4wxln.8s2@netcom.com , mortal@netcom.com (sam lowry) writes
in article 15033@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article 1993mar19.142816.15709@rational.com , kima@excalibur.rational.com (kim althoff) writes
in article 14992@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
gay men constitute at least 20 of all child molestations. whether
this is because gay molesters are unusually common , or have unusually
high numbers of victims , sort of misses the point , does n't it \? it
means that whichever is the case , homosexual men are remarkably
hazardous to children.

clayton says

you are incorrect. the most recent survey data i can find shows that
26 of molestation is exclusively homosexuals , 4 is bisexual (victims
are both male and female) , and the remainder is exclusively heterosexual.

so what you are saying is that 74 of the child molestations are
committed by heterosexuals. i cannot see the correlation you cite

bisexuals are heterosexuals \? since when \?

which concludes that by being homosexual , you will molest children or that
by being homosexual you will have the propensity for molesting children.

i have n't said that homosexual child molester , simply that is more
likely.

if 26 of the molestations are by homosexuals , why are you so concerned
about creating a relation between the two \? if you had evidence that
95 of the molestations are committed by homosexuals you might find a
relationship. ok , where is the realtionship you make \?

the one that is shown when nambla marches in gay parades.

also , what is the reason people molest \? from human sexuality and a
psych class or too i have taken the overwhelming voice says that people
commit these acts as power trips and to feel in control. this has nothing
to do with sexual orientation.

you mean that s m , because it 's a power trip , has nothing to do with
sexual orientation \?

mortal@netcom.com

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re lincoln slavery (re top ten tricks you can play on the american voter)
article i.d. optilink.15236
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 54

in article 1993apr2.055109.5833@rigel.econ.uga.edu , depken@rigel.econ.uga.edu (craig depken) writes
in article 1993mar31.224355.21442@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
the argument that slavery was a dying institution was often made by

(is)

historians , mainly southerners , who sought to divert attention from the
institution as the central issue of the civil war. in fact , however ,
the argument is specious , at best. more recent scholarship from the
last 20 30 years demonstrates rather conclusively that the cotton sugar
tobacco economy and its reliance on slavery was increasingly dominant in
the south prior to the civil war.

this is because the south did not receive the massive momentum of capital
intensive growth that the northern states did. compare the northern
agricultural system with the southern and you will see a major difference
in the capital to labor intensity.

capital and labor are one and the same in a slave economy. except that
capital does n't reproduce quite as readily as slaves did.

slavery was a dying institution before the cotton gin , yes , but not
in 1850.

it is true that cotton suffered from price depression in the 1840 's
the period used to claim that slavery would not have lasted in the
south.

that is not the argument that i have heard. it would not have lasted because
the growth in the north would not have been sustained for much longer without
spilling over to the southern states , i.e. northern industry would have
migrated capital to the southern states , and with that would have come
immigrant labor to the ports of the south , e.g. charleston , savannah , mobile ,
new orleans , etc. this would have put the breaks on the slave market and
slavery would have been out moded by the capital intensity of competing
agriculturalists. those that insisted on keeping slaves because of their
cruel hearts and hatred for black people would have been driven out of
business. simple capital to labor ratio...read michael parkin microeconomics
2nd edition , and any other basic economics book.

this assumes that the slave holder dominance over state governments
would not have caused the passage of laws to keep out capital from the
north. since slave holders were prepared to do almost anything else
to destroy free markets in order to maintain slavery , i do not doubt
that they would have passed laws to cripple any serious competitive
threat. thomas sowell 's market and minorities argues that the
maintenance of slavery , and the costs it imposed on state and local
governments , discouraged not only capital formation , but also outside
capital investment in the southern states.

craig a. depken , ii

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot)
subject drug use up among u.s. eighth graders
organization oklahoma state university , computer science , stillwater
keywords youths drugs lsd inhalants
lines 87


the article that follows was taken from the wednesday , april 14 , 1993
issue of usa today ( drug use up among u.s. eighth graders by mike
snider , p. 6d).

a new national survey says drugs are easier to get , more teens are
using them and fewer deem drug use as risky.

for the last two years , government officials have trumpeted results
from the national high school survey as signs that the drug war is
being won. but this year , officials are retreating drug use by
eighth graders has risen , according to the survey of 50 , 000 students
nationwide.

possible reason for the increase more experimentation. why \? if
drug use dropped during the '80s , eventually some students will
have fewer drug using contemporaries who act as examples of
substance abuse 's drawbacks , says social psychologist lloyd johnston ,
one of the survey authors. each new wave of youths must be given
the knowledge , skills and motivation to resist using these drugs ,
johnston says.

this type of resurgence is possible , says eileen shiff , author of
experts advise parents (delta , 14.95). but that 's not the issue ,
she says. the prevalence of alcohol and drugs among teens today
could result in more alcoholic adults decades from now.

aggravating the problem baby boomer parents who experimented with
drugs and alcohol as teens trying to be friends , not parents , to
their children. i 've even seen parents serving kegs of beer to
their underage kids and friends , shiff says. for a recent graduation ,
shiff and other parents organized an all night , lock in party where
no booze or drugs were allowed. we need to fulfill that parental
role , otherwise the peer group takes over , she says.

officials may talk about the war on drugs , but they really have n't
done anything that i 've seen , says suzanne linkous , scottsdale ,
ariz. , 16 , a volunteer who talks with teens about drugs , dating and
other issues on a peer counseling and suicide hot line. linkous , a
member of usa today 's teen panel , says there 's always going to be
experimentation with drugs.

a real war on drugs could be waged education wise , she says. but
some do n't want to give kids the facts. they think it will give
them ideas it 's the same with birth control. i think you should
give the kids the information or have it accessible through classes ,
pamphlets and speakers , she says.

education efforts need to start as soon as kids get in school in
kindergarten , says dallas owens , 17 , teen panelist from miami shores ,
fla. i remember in kindergarten , i used to see (drugs). i think
kids in the 10th and 12th grades have already made up their minds
(about using drugs) , he says.

scare tactics in public service announcements are n't working only
one commercial has gotten it right , he says. the commercial opens
with two good looking girls in the restroom talking about having
no prom date. then they take a hit off a joint. that hits home
because it 's not attractive , he says. you ca n't be doing drugs if
you want somebody to like you.


adolescents' choices

drugs used by eighth graders in the last month
estimated , per 100 students
1991 1992 pct. chg.
alcohol 25.1 26.1 4
cigarettes 14.3 15.5 8
marijuana 3.2 3.7 16
amphetamines 2.6 3.3 27
lsd 0.6 0.9 50
cocaine 0.5 0.7 40
crack 0.3 0.5 67

source university of michigan institute for social research ,
1993 report


scott kennedy , brewer and patriot

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
the bible through the barrel of a gun... atf spokesman
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets
the constitution through the barrel of a gun... me



from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re roe v. wade
distribution na
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 42

in article c4xawp.tak@watson.ibm.com , margoli@watson.ibm.com (larry margolis) writes
in 1993apr3.041411.23590@ncsu.edu dsh@eceyv.ncsu.edu (doug holtsinger) writes
abortions destructive of the fetus must be permitted , even
just before birth , if they promote what the supreme court
calls ``health''

yes , doug , we all know that roe v. wade prevents states from prohibiting
abortions necessary to preserve the life or health of the woman. only
very stupid people (such as yourself) confuse a discussion of mental health
related to jane doe , who was in a mental institution , and attempt to claim
that this same argument could be applied to a woman who decided she wanted
an abortion because she was having a bad hair day .

as you well know , the facts are that there are about 100 third trimester
abortions performed in this country annually , and those are only done for
serious health reasons.

larry margolis , margoli@yktvmv (bitnet) , margoli@watson.ibm.com (internet)

hmmm. human gestation period is something like 39 weeks. that means
third trimester abortions are those done after 26 weeks. in consulting
a 1989 world almanac , i see that 1 of abortions in 1983 were done at
21 weeks or more. that 's about 1268 abortions in 1983 after 21 weeks.
unless the number of abortions performed has dropped dramatically , or
a lot of abortions are done between 21 and 26 weeks , i think you are
wrong.

by the way , roe v. wade allowed states to adopt very , very broad
prohibitions on third trimester abortions , but some states , such as
california , declined to do so. it was reported that what finally
stopped third trimester elective abortions in the bay area was n't law ,
but that the only hospital doing them ran out of nurses , then doctors ,
willing to do them. not surprisingly , the bay area now chapter was
terribly upset about this.

i remain pro choice , but when pro choicers compare abortion in a
clinic to a religious ritual in a church , you have to start wondering
a bit if the pro life criticism of abortion as modern human sacrifice
does n't have a grain of truth to it.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's public schedule 4.15.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 51
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release march 14 , 1993


public events on the president's schedule for
thursday , april 15 , 1993

10 20 am est the president meets with leadership of law
enforcement organizations the rose
garden

open press

3 00 am edt the president meets with the national
ambassador for the march of dimes birth
defects foundation the oval office

tv pool , open still photo , writing pool

3 15 am edt the president meets with mosaic minstrels of
new york , ny the rose garden

open photo , writing pool

3 30 am edt the president meets with the berwick , pa ,
high school bulldogs , aaa state football
champions the south lawn

open photo , writing pool

upcoming events on the president's
schedule



april 16 , 1993 the president meets with
japanese prime minister
miyazawa , the white house

april 26 , 1993 president clinton meets with
president amato of italy , the
white house

30 30 30



from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject the state of justice
organization acme products
lines 23
summary gm 's quest for justice

a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact , not
from the fire.

thoughts \?

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

and what about members of the previous jury parading through the talk
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against gm \? should n't that be enough for
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial \?

whatever happened to jurors having to be objective \?

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from paul@hsh.com (paul havemann)
subject re gore throws out the first ball. and media coverage of it
distribution usa
organization hsh associates
lines 30

in article 1993apr13.122543.1682@hemlock.cray.com , rja@mahogany126.cray.com (russ anderson) writes

in article c5e2ja.849@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com , mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
this past thursday vp gore threw out the first ball at the home opener for
the atlanta braves. according to the news reports he was quite loudly booed.
(no , dr. norman , these were not your typical beer swilling red necks.)

personally i would n't have paid any more attention to the incident except
that the evening news when describing the event , went on to comment that
being booed was nothing unusual since it was normal for audiences to
boo at this point since the celebrity was delaying the start of the game.

what a bunch of crock. i have never heard of any incident in which the
thrower of the ceremonial ball has been booed before.

dan quayle got roundly booed in milwaulkee last year. (i was listening
on the radio). this was the game that quayle told the brewers players that
he would like to see them play the orioles in the alcs.

it 's come to this , has it \? defending al gore by comparing him to dan quayle \?
i 'd say that about says it all... back to the pit with ye , back to alt.fan.
dan quayle ! begone !



paul havemann (internet paul@hsh.com)

they 're not just opinions they 're caffeine for the brain !
(up to 50 milligrams per cynical observation.)
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000 mg. keep reading.

from neal@magpie.linknet.com (neal)
subject re rnitedace and violence
organization manes and associates , nyc
distribution usa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 28

i am glad that you recognize that people should not engage in denial
and repression , and should acknowledge such. the united states , with
its people , have recognized that repression has taken place , with the
loss and outright abrogation of civil liberties and constitutional
protections of citizens. this recognition has taken the form of the
civil rights law (let 's just discuss the federal level for now) , such
as 18 usc 241 et. seq. , 42 usc 1981 et. seq , et. al.
with this recognition of repression , at times manifested in the
form of collective guilt , i want people to recognize denial.
though it can be said that white people numerically commit more
crimes in the united states , because white people are a majority ,
it can also be said that black people commit a disproportionate
amount of crime in the united states , in their relation to their
numbers in population.
my views are out of experiences when i was a police officer
in a large metropolitan area , and of a citizen. unless people
account for their behavior , and for the behavior of their immediate
community , nothing will improve.

regards ,

neal







from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton public schedule of the president 4.5.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 34
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 5 , 1993




public schedule of the president
tuesday , april 6 , 1993



11 15 am est president clinton delivers remarks with
egyptian president mubarek , the east room ,
the white house

open press




future schedule of the president


april 16 , 1993 president clinton meets with japanese prime
minister miyazawa , the white house


april 26 , 1993 president clinton meets with italian
president amato , the white house

from goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
nntp posting host dzoo.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma
lines 48

in article 1993apr15.215912.1807@martha.utcc.utk.edu pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes
in article c5jobh.7zt@apollo.hp.com goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writes
in article 1993apr14.122758.11467@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jlinder@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jeffrey s linder) writes
in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.c
om (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.

immunizations for children in this country are already free if you care to
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the irresponible parents
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done.

in case you have n't noticed , clintonites are pushing a universal health
care access program. access here means that folks who do not give
a damn about immunizing their children will have health care services
delivered to their doorsteps.

i 've read about more than a few of these programs that ran into
problems in convincing parents to get their children immunized even
when they were delivered to their doorstep. (i do n't know , maybe
that sheet they have to be informed of about possible risks , side
effects , and bad reactions scares them.)

the immunization program is just a useful first step . among other
things , the money will go to pay for creating and maintaning a
a computerized innoculation database on all u.s. children.
(code named big mother... just kidding , the name will be children
defense database , or something like that.)

once the money is spent and little or no tangible results achieved ,
the goverment will have to start knocking down doors , in some
neigborhoods , and bribe parents in others (probably the ones that
are paying kids for attending the school what a fantastic idea ! )



david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's.


from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary promoting competition does not depend upon libertarians
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 60
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article c5kh8g.961@cbnewse.cb.att.com doctor1@cbnewse.cb.att.com (patrick.b.hailey) writes
in article 1993apr15.170731.8797@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

these two paragraphs are from two different posts. in splicing them
together it is not my intention to change steve 's meaning or misrepresent
him in any way. i do n't think i 've done so.

as noted in another thread (limiting govt) , the problem libertarians face
is insuring that the limited government they seek does not become the
tool of private interests to pursue their own agenda.

it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams. just
as marxism fails to specify how pure communism is to be achieved and
the state is to wither away , libertarians frequently fail to show how
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human
condition.

patrick 's example of anti competitive regulations for
auto dealers deleted.
here 's what i see libertarianism offering you
...
this does not seem to me to be a utopian dream , but basic human decency
and common sense. a real grass roots example of freedom and liberty.
and yes , not having a few people acting as our masters , approving or
rejecting each of our basic transactions with each other , does strike me
as a wonderful way to improve the human condition.

thanks awfully ,
patrick

let me try to drag this discussion back to the original issues. as
i 've noted before , i'm not necessarily disputing the benefits of
eliminating anti competitive legislation with regard to auto dealers ,
barbers , etc. one need not , however , swallow the entire libertarian
agenda to accomplish this end. just because one grants the benefits of
allowing anyone who wishes to cut hair to sell his her services without
regulation does not mean that the same unregulated barbers should be
free to bleed people as a medical service without government intervention.
(as some many libertarians would argue.)

on a case by case basis , the cost benefit ratio of government regulation
is obviously worthwhile. the libertarian agenda , however , does not call
for this assessment. it assumes that the costs of regulation (of any
kind) always outweigh its benefits. this approach avoids all sorts of
difficult analysis , but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic ,
to say the least.

i have no objection to an analysis of medical care , education ,
national defense or local police that suggests a free market can provide
a more effective , efficient means of accomplishing social objectives
than is provided through statist approaches. with some notable
exceptions , however , i do not see such nitty gritty , worthwhile
analysis being carried out by self professed libertarians.

jsh

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from bhayden@teal.csn.org (bruce hayden)
subject re hate crimes laws
nntp posting host teal.csn.org
organization colorado supernet , inc.
lines 59

thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes

in article 1993apr5.050127.22304@news.acns.nwu.edu dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes
in article 1993apr4.011042.24938@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com
(steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr3.211910.21908@news.acns.nwu.edu
dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes
...
if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and
battery. why must we add gay bashing to the list \? is n't this a sort of
double jeopardy \? or am i just being a fascist again \?

() to deter an epidemic of gay bashing that has not been deterred by
assault laws.

so we ought to make beating up a homosexual more illegal than beating up a
straight \?

and who 's advocating that \? hate crimes laws are aimed at the motivations
of the acts. just like premeditated homicide is treated stricter than
heat of passion homicide.

but you still get into trouble. for example how often are crimes
of violence not hate crimes \? the question is then who are you
hating \? if its another gang member , then its better than if
the person you hate is of a differnt color \?

also , is it realistic to declare that crimes of hate are worse
than crimes of gross negligence \? (like random drive by shootings
where they ca n't be hate crimes because the shooter does n't know
who he is going to hit he just shoots into the crowd).

() no , it is not double jeopardy. a single act may lead to multiple
charges and multiple crimes.

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right shade. a single
act should never merit more than on charge.

so if i set off a bomb in the world trade center , i can only be charged with
more than one murder , and not the other five deaths and extensive property
damage \? after all , the bomb was a single act.

first , i heard today that there is a good chance that the u.s. instead
of new york is going after the bombers. this means no capital punishment.

secondly , double jepardy does help keep the government from going after
you for first one murder , then the next , etc. a sovereign has essentially
one chance with a single fact pattern (such as the world trade center bombing).
that is why the bombers will in all probability be tried for all the
deaths , as well as the property damages , as well as conspiracy , at once.
of course , as we discovered in the rodney king case , there are two
sovereigns , neither of which can try you twice for the same crime.

bruce e. hayden
(303) 758 8400
bhayden@csn.org


from deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu (david matthew deane)
subject re public hearings on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues
reply to deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 10

well , the message was interesting (and long) , but twice \? oh well. personally ,
i loathe libertarianism , but my disagreement is philisophical , not tactical.
election law reform is a good idea. you would not believe what kind of stunts
the creatures of the 2 party system are capable of pulling.

david matthew deane (deane@binah.cc.brandeis.edu)

when the words fold open ,
it means the death of doors
even casement windows sense the danger. (amon liner)

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 28

in article c5og5h.4de@exnet.co.uk , sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes
in article 15409@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article mjcugley.93apr14110319@glenturret.maths and cs.dundee.ac.uk , mjcugley@maths and cs.dundee.ac.uk (womble with attitude) writes
absolutely nothing , seeing as there is no table for heterosexuals.
if , as you claim , the supposedly higher promescuity amongst homosexual
males makes them an insurance risk , you need to be show that
heterosexual males are less promiscuous than homosexual males.
without the data on heterosexual males , we cannot make a comparison
between promiscuity rates of heterosexuals and homosexuals.

mjcugley@maths and cs.dundee.ac.uk (world)
or mjcugley@uk.ac.dund.maths and cs (uk)

well , the obvious point to make is would straight men fuck like rabbits
if the oppertunity presented itself \?

i reckon any man would go wildly promiscuous if presented with a
huge variety of willing partners. the question here is not of being

that , i suppose , says a lot about how screwed up you are.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
xavier



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from jac2y@virginia.edu ( jonathan a. cook jac2y )
subject re damn furriners be taken over
organization university of virginia
lines 34

kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu writes

kaldis , you are a worm.

rank balderdash ! america 's reputation abroad has become tarnished
because of feckless and pusillanimous cowards who apparently do not
have the requisite gonads to stand up for american honor and dignity.

translation it 's them damn liberals again !

the american way may not be the only way , and you may not consider it
to be necessarily the best way , but , by god , it 's our way and we 're
going to stick with it ! if you ca n't go along with the program , then
perhaps you should consider moving elsewhere.

who gave you the authority to create and enforce this rather
hazy thing called the american way \? this is a democracy , and
we do n't need to stick to it or stick up for it unless we so
choose. remember that , ted , from civics class in greeley , co \?

that is exactly the problem with canadians ! they do n't stand for
anything with certitude.

nice generalization.

you pipsqueak ! you mouse ! if you are sorry to intrude then why do
it \? do n't you have the courage of your convictions \? hell , do you
even have any convictions to start with \? what kind of example of
manly dignity is this \? sheesh !

coming from such a crass example of manly dignity , he must
feel really hurt.

jon , jac2y@virginia.edu

from rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy)
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 10

this is as bad as the did you know japan bashing of 2 weeks ago. after
finding this set of postings for the third time i hope no one shows up.

i do n't know why fools insist on posting to every group. it just
agrevates people.

rod anderson n0nzo the only acceptable substitute
boulder , co for brains is silence.
rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu solomon short
satellite n0nzo on ao 16

from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re is la burning yet \?
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 18

in article 4892@master.cna.tek.com mikeq@freddy.cna.tek.com writes

i hear the jury reached a verdict.

where did you hear this \? i seem to have missed it.

is la burning yet \?

no. will l.a. burn \? no. (regardless of the verdict.)

i'm not near a radio.

count your blessings.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

organization city university of new york
from f36si@cunyvm.bitnet
subject re most recent u.n. members \?
lines 4

179 czech republic 180 republic of slovakia they were admitted early
this year. liechenstein was also recently admitted. also san marino.
both within the last 12 months. incredible what passes for a nation sta
state nowadays.

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 10
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , paul@hsh.com (paul havemann) says

all together now... c'mon , you know the words... meet the new boss ! same as
the old boss ! and the chorus we wo n't get fooled again !

hmmm. can i , eh , get a little side bet on this one \?




from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re f o cus health one payer system b.s.
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
distribution na
lines 54

ujsnyder msuvx2 memstvx1.bitnet@mizzou1.missouri.edu writes

there is never any mention of how much working canadians have to
pay in taxes for their free health care system.

oh , really \? \? \?

i know that more than 50 of an average daily worker 's salary goes
towards taxes in canada mainly because of this free health care.
it looks like we are pretty lucky so far.

i know that when working in alberta , ontario and quebec , i was aware
that i was paying for health insurance e.g. , in toronto , ohip fees
were listed seperately on my pay stub.

while i'm not the only canadian who favours lower taxes and cutbacks
in spending , health insurance is n't on the table. see our polls ...
a better one might be the july 1st polls conducted for macleans (our
major english newsmagazine) by decima research ... decima president
allen gregg is considered one of the world 's top poll researchers ,
and mulroney 's conservatives have relied on him to keep in power in
the face of impossible election situations. i have n't had a chance
to see this year 's version due to our library , but previous ones
before the americans started their assault and disinformation had
shown satisfaction at 97 and switching to an american all private
system had support within statistical noise. the decima polls are
considered definitive. even the new reform party , a breakoff of
traditionalists from the conservatives with a mildly libertarian
faction , hold our public health insurance as an untouchable but that
just a few people have to be reminded that it 's not free (the average
canadian european is more fiscally naive than their american
counterparts on issues like these).

personally , i feel that the universal health insurance approach used
in canada , france and germany paying to private health providers in
a nominally free market not unlike america 's , minus hmo 's depends a
lot on values in those societies different from the u.s. the basic
health needs for life are not viewed as market , but the insurance does
allow the market to address that basic health care is not viewed on
the level of ownership of a vcr as americans would see it. plenty of
room is left for expenditure of private funds as extra insurance or as

lastly , there were noises about how the canadian system was not
containing costs , but , in fact , their system is currently bankrupt.

please explain this one , hopefully in a way that canadian readers
besides myself can understand and concur ...

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from lwb@cs.utexas.edu (lance w. bledsoe)
subject urgent ted frank wanted for killing aj teel...
article i.d. im4u.1pspp7inn3ea
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 307
nntp posting host im4u.cs.utexas.edu

...his account that is.

many important issues , and some not so important ones , are discussed here
on the net on a daily basis. i have just been informed of what i feel is
one of the most important things that we could ever discuss the
out and out censorship of one of our fellow posters because some people
do n't like what he says or thinks.

we have all seen the postings here by aj teel. although many of us have
not agreed with their content , i'm sure most of us have been at least
somewhat interested in them. i , for one , am greatful to live (i thought)
in a country where people like mr. teel are allowed to say what they please.
if i do n't wa n't to read it , i can just skip on by , or unsuscribe. but ,
unfortunately , some people cannot let others live and let live. they feel
an overwhelming need to snuff out the little bastards. now it seems that
mr. teel will be with us no more , due mainly to our brother , and cheif
net police , ted frank.


please help aj teel regain net (post) access and correct this injustice.

are you on ted's hit list \?
are your thoughts correct \?
is your account safe \?
has your sysadmin been contacted by the thought police \?

i thought the nlg and the aclu supported people with diverse opinions. not !


please read the following forwarded messages from aj teel so that
you may understand this vial act for what it is...

forwarded

newsgroups alt.activism , alt.conspiracy , talk.politics.misc , misc.legal
subject officer ted frank , thought police badge number nwo 666
summary ted wins the argument by killing his opponent !
expires
distribution
organization university of colorado , boulder
keywords nwo ted frank

well , well , well... thanks to eck@panix.com (mark eckenwiler) and
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) , my account is to be axed.
i guess that the information i am presenting is just toooo difficult
for them to deal with. they (only ted and mark) have complained to my
sysadmin some unknown number of times to get me off the net. (in his
defense , mark sent only one message and it was not that bad it has
been posted in one of the newsgroups however , it was not directed
at me as would be common practice and i am very good at responding
via netmail...)

while i disagree with ted , i would not send mail to his sysadmin
to get him axed. name calling was not enough jumping on every post
i made was not enough ignoring specific points when they were not
what the desired picture was not enough simply ignoring me if i
am such a kook was not enough. even now i do not wish to have him
axed , but i do wish to express my disgust about this. argumentum
ad silence your opponent um \? ! i would have thought he would have
wanted me to stay around just to have someone to yell about and
seem sooo wise... (to himself , i think).

the issue that seems to be is the following an advertisement \?
apparently , ted and mark think so...

1) i posted an article from around one year ago as it was taken
off the net from last year. if reposting an article
constitutes posting an ad , then i am guilty. this post
did have a name and address and , yes , a price. if one
had posted the address and subscription price of newsweek ,
would that be an ad \? i get nothing from showing this stuff.
2) i posted a list of documents showing examples of the kind of
proof that was requested by ted frank. he then complains
to my sysadmin saying that i am advertising and , lo and
behold , poof , there goes my account. this one had an
address in it ! oh , no ! i guess that means it is an ad !

if you value the alternative view i have been discussing , or value
its discussion even if you do not agree with it , i ask that you send
a note saying as much to me to show to the sysadmin. they rarely get
ya know , that user on your net was real helpful... or whatever they
only get i do n't like what that user is doing because... .
please do not send the note to the sysadmin. i need to take it to them
in a manner that has at least a chance of getting through.

in my files here are hundreds of responses from people saying thanks for
the info or could you send me such and such \? or your posts are
very interesting... keep it up. and only a handfull of go aways . but ,
i guess the fact that i have decided not to waste my time trying to
convince ted is a net offense tm of such magnitude as to warrant
a message complaining about me. (knock , knock... my name is ted and
and this is mark... we 're from the thought police. seems you have
some pretty dangerous ideas here , and we 're here to confiscate them... )
nwo indeed !

guess i will have to go back to the drawing board and come up with
a new plan... thanks ted and mike. hope you are happy.
i will be on for a few more days and then... that 's all folks !
your comments and support are requested. i can no longer post
to news. i ask what this has accomplished... is there some benefit
from making alternative views simply vanish \? not in my book.
seems the easiest way to win an argument is to make the opposing side
shut up. images of waco.... ah , but alas... and all this when i am in the
process of typing in a letter to me from the tax collector saying that
a lien was removed due to a letter that i wrote challenging jurisdiction.
oh , well... it takes time to come up with the info requested , and i
was just getting started.

it should be noted that ted frank has been accused publicly over 40
times of being an nwo supporter and has never made an statements to the
contrary. further , what are ted frank 's motivations for getting me axed \?
we all know that some people are getting paid to collect info on people
on the net that are of interest to the government , and ted sure seems
to have a personal interest in debunking me. hmmm... just who does
he work for \? the university of chicago which he attends ( \? ) is well
known as one of the biggest nwo supporters...

and finally , if anyone would be able to help me find a new account here
in the boulder denver area , i would greatly appreciate it. i am in the
process of installing linux and so will be able to do uucp or maybe
a tc ip connection. any help here would be greatly appreciated. since i
am longer be able to post news and will no longer have email very
soon , i hope that anyone who wishes to contact me will do so via

a. j. teel , sui juris
c o usps box 19043
boulder , colorado , u.s.a.
postal zone 80308 9043

or leave me voice mail at c o (408) 281 0434



selected messages from ted frank via sysadmin follows


with explicit reservation of all rights (u.c.c. 1 207)
regards , a. j. teel , sui juris (ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu)




from barb@locutus.cs.colorado.edu mon apr 5 14 39 21 1993
received from locutus.cs.colorado.edu by dendrite.cs.colorado.edu with smtp id aa14777
(5.65c ida 1.4.4 for ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu ) mon , 5 apr 1993 14 39 19 0600
received by locutus.cs.colorado.edu with smtp id aa15908
(5.65c ida 1.4.4 for ajteel ) mon , 5 apr 1993 14 36 54 0600
message id 199304052036.aa15908@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
to ted frank thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
subject re list of documents
cc cstmr@locutus.cs.colorado.edu , csops@locutus.cs.colorado.edu ,
ajteel@locutus.cs.colorado.edu , vaxops@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
reply to trouble@cs.colorado.edu
in reply to your message of mon , 05 apr 93 13 29 06 cdt
date mon , 05 apr 93 14 36 51 0600
from barb@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
status or



please ask to stop advertising his wares on the network. thank you.
editor 's note \? \? \?

in article 1993apr5.154256.5169@colorado.edu ajteel writes
start of document doclist.txt.lis
documents now available

bill medina , sui juris
post office box 70400
sunnyvale , california , u.s.a.
postal zone 94086 0400

(79 lines deleted).


resolution


thank you. he has been warned before. we are taking action.


barbara j. dyker department of computer science
manager , computer operations campus box 430b , ecee00 69
barb@cs.colorado.edu university of colorado
(303) 492 2545 boulder , co 80309 0430


from barb@locutus
.cs.colorado.edu mon apr 5 15 50 36 1993
received from locutus.cs.colorado.edu by dendrite.cs.colorado.edu with smtp id aa15809
(5.65c ida 1.4.4 for ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu ) mon , 5 apr 1993 15 50 34 0600
received by locutus.cs.colorado.edu id aa16069
(5.65c ida 1.4.4 for ajteel) mon , 5 apr 1993 15 50 27 0600
date mon , 5 apr 1993 15 50 27 0600
from barbara dyker barb@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
message id 199304052150.aa16069@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
received by next.mailer (1.87.1)
received by next mailer (1.87.1)
to ajteel@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
subject your account
cc vaxops@locutus.cs.colorado.edu , usenet@locutus.cs.colorado.edu ,
mozer@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
status or

...

i had already warned you that your inappropriate use of
your account here must stop. you have used your account
here as a soapbox for your political sui juris agenda.

...

date tue , 23 mar 93 13 26 43 0700
from barb@locutus.cs.colorado.edu
to ajteel@locutus.cs.colorado.edu


also , if you are reported for any more commercial
announcements , your account may be disabled.

editor 's note what commercial advertisemnets are we talking about \?

from barb@bruno.cs.colorado.edu
to a.j. teel ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu
date tue , 23 mar 93 17 26 40 mst


...

as long as
they are n't causing any problems , we typically do n't
mind. ...we have received two complaints about the
content of your messages so far (at least one of which i
consider valid) which already constitutes excessive
in my book. just do n't let it happen again.

editor 's note i wonder who the other post was from \? \? !

from laszlo@eclipse.cs.colorado.edu thu mar 18 01 40 15 1993
to ted frank thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
subject re bouncing

cc cstmr@eclipse.cs.colorado.edu , csops@eclipse.cs.colorado.edu
reply to trouble@cs.colorado.edu
in reply to your message of wed , 17 mar 93 21 05 59 cst
date thu , 18 mar 93 08 40 15 mst
from laszlo@eclipse.cs.colorado.edu



in article 1993mar18.012344.6213@colorado.edu ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu
bounced names
garry@research.att.com
bill@kean.usc.mun.ca
jad@hopper.virginia.edu
kima@gator.rational.com

hello all
i am having trouble reaching the following (keeps bouncing).
if you sent me mail and have n't gotten a response , check here.
also , can anyone tell me why these are bouncing \? i used
the reply in elm which should send it right back , right \?
with explicit reservation of all rights (u.c.c. 1 207)
regards , a. j. teel , sui juris (ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu)

...

editor 's note the reason for posting the header lines from the bounced
messages was to show what the problem was and hopefully correct it.

ted frank it 's inexcusable to post 150 lines of bounced mail headers to four
newsgroups.
a simple four line post would have been sufficient.


resolution

lazlo
yes i agree. but our policy is to not watch everypost someone here
makes.
we generally let the net itself take care of inappropriate postings
by flaming the user into shape (which i assume this is ment to be).
we (cs operations) do n't like to get involved in this stuff (unless
its illegal , repetitive posts of 1gig gifs , harassment , or something
else that offends the community in general). my suggestion is that
you take it to email and explain what a post for bounces should look
like or tell him to rtfm

laz
editor 's note obviously , ted had no such intention of doing so...

ted frank however teel should have mentioned that though
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu his advice is legally sound , if you follow it
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail.
standard disclaimers james donald , in misc.legal

editor 's note from this .sig , it seems obvious that ted frank has an
axe to grind... why that particular quote \? .... hmmm... sure makes me wonder.




lance w. bledsoe lwb@im4u.cs.utexas.edu (512) 258 0112
ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free.


from brow2812@mach1.wlu.ca (craig brown 9210 u)
subject re stop the sexularhumanistoppression former my beloved damn ferigner 's be taken over
organization wilfrid laurier university
lines 35

in article c5hiu1.8a9@spss.com gregotts@spss.com (greg otts) writes
in article c5hcrw.dn3@junior.bintec.de muftix@junior.bintec.de (juergen ernst guenther) writes

i never understood why canadians , mexicans , brazilians etc. accusing
us. people for imperialism though think of them as the americans .

not few europeans think of you all as americans (and of the us. as
a bunch of blasphemeous trash that god has to extinguish sooner or later ... )

.m.

it would not be surprising that a continent that produced fascism , communism ,
and two world wars might have quite a few people who tend to think of other
people as trash that should be extinguished sooner or later. i seem to
remember a gut called hitler who felt the same way. one wonders what would be
the fate of europe if god had extinguished this nation of blasphemeous trash
before 1917. (not that i believe in gods.) how many millions of people through
out the world would have to die because no force could stop the insane , bloody
european imperialism \? thankfully the imperialistic us helped put an end to
these games so that the rest of the world can sleep alittle more safely. thus , i
could care less what not few europeans think so long as they ca n't do anything
about it.

greg otts

these opinions are entirely my own.


but remember that had god extinguished the blasphemous trash of europe (and
imperialism with it) , the united states would not exist today to put an end
to those games ....begs the question , which came first , the chicken or the
egg \? \? \?

c.brown


from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re getting off to an early start !
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 61

patrick townson ptownson@eecs.nwu.edu writes
so ... the jury will be making its announcement at 7 00 am saturday
morning pacific time .... 10 00 am eastern time. why such an ungodly
hour \?

maybe by making the announcement at 7 00 am on the west coast ,
they figure all the rioters will be asleep , giving the troops
time to move into place.

since the actual verdicts were not known by the authorities , it was
smart not to allow friday night for fighting (sorry , elton) and to
seal them for this morning. also , it allows for maximum daylight to
wear down and frustrate any potential troublemakers , as well as give
more preparation time.

i guess we can look forward to a weekend of rioting , eh \?

are you a local news intern \? (

the mayor of los angeles , in a press conference about 3 00 am
saturday morning , ...

actually , that was 8 pm 'cos it was shown live on our 11 pm news
and cut into cnn 's 11 o'clock sports (sorry , but i did n't watch
the devils islanders game ! no sportschannel ...).

meanwhile , following the announcement of the jury 's verdict , the
judge , jury and assorted court personnel will be evacuated from the
building via helicopters landing on the roof of the courthouse. they
ca n't even walk out through the front door with their heads held
high.

we had cutovers to la 's knbc on our wnbc , and i did n't recall this
detail. but i 'll not comment further on that ...

wo n't the rioters have a surprise waiting for them when they wake
up later today !

a net contact in l.a. tells me that the alert will remain over this
weekend , as some elements may find excuse over the not guilty verdicts
on three of five charges (the aiding and abetting). those acquittals
seem to balance out the fact that rodney king himself was not any kind
of angel that night , speeding and fleeing et al. however ... another
consideration is any street celebrations over the two convictions on
the excessive force charges (koons for incompetance , and powell for
overreacting both guilty as heck even from the view of nypd cops
interviewed) that might get out of hand. ) also , some elements
may take the acquittals as an excuse to challenge the cops (a dumb
move , obviously). and , koreans are still scared and certain people
are really mad over how they have armed themselves in the last year.

a commander from nassau , long island was questioned about how his
people would have handled rodney king , and he said we 'd have let
him roll around in the dirt 'til he got tired , then handcuff him .

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from tfarrell@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (thomas farrell)
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
article i.d. lynx.1993apr15.222023.1521
organization northeastern university , boston , ma. 02115 , usa
lines 10

in article c5hfr2.cpa@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes

so you feel that the defendents should have been convicted regardless of the
evidence. now that would truely be a sad day for civil rights.

i do n't know about everybody else , but to me , they should have been
convicted because of the evidence , which in my mind was quite
sufficient.

tom

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 17

in article c5l780.apu@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy) writes
kaldis writes
the fact that she was wearing a miniskirt with no underwear was
presented as evidence that she was a prostitute , and the court
apparently found this compelling.

ah , i know women who wear miniskirts without wearing underwear , and
they are not prostitutes.

do they have a history of working in massage parlors , and telling
co workers there that they are prostitutes \? do they frequent truck
stop parking lots at 4 00 am , without id on any sort \?

greg hennessy , university of virginia

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re i thought commercial advertising was not allowed
organization corporation for open systems
distribution na
lines 47

in c50sjg.3eu@voder.nsc.com matt@galaxy.nsc.com (matt freivald x8043) writes

in article 164633 in talk.politics.misc , bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw) writes

and ms. regard , please do n't give us the trite you ca n't legislate
morality nonsense again there is little else that is legislated ,
including the moral concept of rights .

really \? pure socialism had this belief , and fell flat on its ass by
attempting to follow such reasoning. suppose you pass a law that
states that i must love my neighbour , regardless of race , religion ,
etc. how exactly do you plan to enforce such a law \? better yet , how
do you plan to measure compliance \? and even if you overcome those
two obstacles , how will you ever know if i have become more moral
or not \?

you either missed the point or are being somewhat disingenuous i have
never heard anyone suggest that you can legislate what people think.
laws are based on either expediency (i.e. traffic laws) or morality (i.e.
human rights) , as far as i can tell , and the majority are based on the
latter.

once more around the racetrack. see the original statement that it is
nonsense to believe that you cannot legislate morality. i simply stated
that they can pass all the laws they want but not a single one of them
will make you or i more moral people. they may make us act in a moral
manner , but our actions are only a reflection of the unwillingness to
risk punishment. they say nothing about whether we have become more
moral or not. perhaps the distinction is too fine.



matt freivald

tog


i'm not a feminist i'm for equal rights !

if you do n't believe in abortion , do n't have one !
if you do n't believe in slavery , do n't own one !
if you do n't believe in murder , do n't commit one !

pro child. pro family. pro life.

these are my opinions only and not those of my employer ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !


from rstevew@armory.com (richard steven walz)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
organization the armory
lines 68

in article 1993apr5.050127.22304@news.acns.nwu.edu dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes
in article 1993apr4.011042.24938@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com
(steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr3.211910.21908@news.acns.nwu.edu
dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (douglas meier) writes
...
if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and
battery. why must we add gay bashing to the list \? is n't this a sort of
double jeopardy \? or am i just being a fascist again \?

() to deter an epidemic of gay bashing that has not been deterred by
assault laws.

so we ought to make beating up a homosexual more illegal than beating up a
straight \? silly me , thinking that the issue was that we are all people , to be
treated equally. thanks for straightening me out.

wrong , if a bunch of faggots from the tenderloin decide to go straight
bashing and they selectively target a heterosexual man and beat the bloody
fuck out of him , they would get charged as well under all the federal laws
that exist about violation of civils rights. the focus of their intent is
his sexual orientation , and so the law applies to them as well. the
national government retains the right to make any laws necessary to
sufficiently deter and punish any crime against someone 's civil rights
until that behavior becomes so well punished that nobody even tries it !
the fact is , that at last count , gays were not beating straights for their
sexual orientation. thus , the law is getting applied only to the straights
who indulge themselves. the federal government or judiciary has the right
to enforce the 14th amendment guarantee of equal protection under law even
if it takes 1000 possible charges against people who would violate them. go
read your constitutional law. we broke the back of the kkk 's harrassment
campaign with the same strategy in the early 1900 's. so many went to jail
and for so long that it cut the heart out of the kkk.
rsw

() no , it is not double jeopardy. a single act may lead to multiple
charges and multiple crimes.

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right shade. a single
act should never merit more than on charge. that 's almost like if four cops
got acquitted from cruel and unusual punishment charges , and the country went
and tried them again and again until they... oh.... never mind.

this mutation as you call it , protects your little butt too , if you
happen to be somewhere where you 're the wrong shade for somebody else 's
taste. if it can be shown that the motive for the assault on you was
racially motivated , then the full power of these extra laws that bring more
charges and punishments will come against those who harmed you. the first
use of such laws was well over a hundred years ago , and constitutional
scholars of all conviction recognize that this right reserved to the
federal government is well established and not just some short lived
peculiarity , too ! go read some constitutional law for awhile. maybe you 'll
get it.
rsw

douglas c. meier
dmeier@casbah.acns.nwu.edu





richard steven walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429 1200
515 maple street 1 without safe and free abortion women are
santa cruz , ca 95060 organ surrogates to unwanted parasites.
real men would never accept organ slavery and will protect women.

from paul@hsh.com (paul havemann)
subject re top ten excuses for slick willie 's record setting disapproval rati
organization hsh associates
lines 26

in article 2671@emoryu1.cc.emory.edu , libwca@emory.edu (bill anderson) writes
shapiro@sofbas.enet.dec.com (steve shapiro) writes

oh , and btw , its william jefferson blythe clinton.

regards ,
steve.


no , it 's not and i really fail to understand the use of that name
as an insult. do you feel that being adopted implies some sort of
moral failing \?

yes , it is you could look it up. and spare us the thin skinned
indignation , please what 's sauce for four years of using george herbert
walker bush and j. danforth quayle as an insult is sauce for william
jefferson blythe clinton. do you feel that calling a president by his full
name implies some sort of disrespect \? hint this is a rhetorical question.



paul havemann (internet paul@hsh.com)

they 're not just opinions they 're caffeine for the brain !
(up to 50 milligrams per cynical observation.)
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000 mg. keep reading.

from gmw0622@venus.tamu.edu (mr. grinch)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization grinchco
lines 73
distribution world
nntp posting host venus.tamu.edu
summary feasibility considered
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr18.174237.11229@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...

i'm not sure why you do n't consider it an option. no one suggests that
such analysis should be left to regulators. in fact , the re inventing
government movement provides just such a cost benefit approach to the
analysis of public spending. libertarians would do well to learn more
about it.



okay , let me try to explain this.

when one votes for such a creature as a senator or , worse yet , a president ,
one votes not for specific policies but for a general package which must cover
all issues for 4 or 6 years. as such , one 's influence is highly diluted.
i might add that , even if one were free to vote on individual regulations ,
the vast amount of time required for considering a particular regulation ,
combined with the very small chance of one 's vote making a difference , would
make it unreasonable to expect the voter to make an intelligent decision
with respect to specific regulations.


sorry , but it strikes me that it is the only feasible approach. what is
not feasible is a wholesale attack on all government regulation and
licensing that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent
tasks.

i'm not sure what you mean by feasible in this case. do you mean that
are impossible in priciple , or merely that it would be undesirable in
fact \?


actually , the only areas of public spending above that strike me as
generating substantial support among libertarians are police and defense.

2 of the four you saw fit to mention , and education of minors is always
another possibility , since minors are generally considered not to be
responsible to make their own decisions as adults are.

(it is an interesting aside that as committed as libertarians claim to
be to a principle of non coercion , the only areas of public spending
that they frequently support involve hiring people with guns....hmmm...)

you say this as if it were surprising , yet in fact a necessary consequence
of libertarian philosophy. all non coersive functions should be dealt
with privately , therefore it follows that the only functions remaining to
the state are the coersive ones.


perhaps you have. may i suggest that you consider that revolutionaries
frequently generate support by acting as protectors of geezers ,
mothers and children. governments that ignore such people on the grounds
that we do n't have much to fear from them do so at their own peril.

much more likely it 's drunken teenagers. the groups in questionare more
likely
to be worse off during and after a revolution than before. in the unlikely
event that you missed my earlier sarcasm , let me say this directly
the idea that such programs as social security or afdc should be considered
defense (an idea which has been advanced in ths and other newsgroups) is
so absurd a lie as to be unworthy of consideration. do you seriously
dispute this \?


i do n't want to seem patronizing , but you still seem to be laboring
under the delusion that under a socialized economic system it is reasonably
intelligent and honest persons (like yourself) who make the decisions.
i feel any third party added to a transaction is every bit as likely to be
ignorant or corrupt as the buyer or seller. i do n't expect you to agree
with me , but you explain why you feel i'm wrong \?


mr. grinch

from acheng@ncsa.uiuc.edu (albert cheng)
subject re hard times investments was (no subject given)
article i.d. news.c52t8l.5ch
organization nat'l ctr for supercomp app (ncsa) @ university of illinois
lines 10
originator acheng@shalom.ncsa.uiuc.edu


in article 1938@tecsun1.tec.army.mil , riggs@descartes.etl.army.mil (bill riggs) writes
my mother in law , who grew up in germany , does n't believe in
money at all. she started out as a real estate developer , and now raises
horses. she keeps telling me that inflation is coming back , and to lock
in my fixed rate mortgage as low as possible.

if time is really hard , can a bank selectively call in some mortgage
loans early \? what if the bank folds , can its creditors call in the
loans \?

subject re stop putting down white het males.
from ripbc@cunyvm.bitnet
organization city university of new york
lines 31

from baba@tymnet.com (duane hentrich)
btw , i'm a walc (white aryan lapsed catholic)


d'baba duane m. hentrich baba@tymnet.com

i would like to go on record as objecting to mr. hentrich calling
himself an aryan. the word `aryan' is of sanskrit origin and occurs first
in the hindu scripture , the rigveda. it seems to have been a tribal term
but may have had connotations of good character. such connotations
are quite explicit in the sayings of the buddha who called his religion the
eightfold aryan path. the word was borrowed by the german scholar
max mueller who used it as a synonym for `indo european' , but then the
nazis proceeded to steal it and started pretending that `aryan' is
synonymous with `nordic' which seems highly unlikely. the people who
originally called themselves aryas , the iranians , noprth indians , the afghans
and possibly the kurds , are none of them nordic. so the use of the word
by westerners , though meant with apparent good humor in this case , is
nontheless inappropriate. the only westerners who may have some claim
to call themselves aryans (by descent) are the celts who seem to have wor
shipped a god called aryaman who is mentioned in the rigveda.

if you want to check what i am saying , look at mallory 's book , ``in
search of the indo europeans or , just look at the encyclopedia britannica.
the reason this usage is offensive is that most of ancient indian literature
as well as religion is directly or inderectly due to the aryans and
for westerners to butt in is really not nice , not to mention the horrible
things done by germans to jews , using a word to which the germans have
no clear claim.

rohit parikh

from drevik@utkvx.utk.edu (drevik , steve)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization university of tennessee computing center
lines 32

in article c5jobh.7zt@apollo.hp.com , goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writes...
in article 1993apr14.122758.11467@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jlinder@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jeffrey s linder) writes
in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.c
om (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.

immunizations for children in this country are already free if you care to
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the irresponible parents
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done.

i do n't know where you live , but this is not the case nationawide.
perhaps your state or municipality has put together the funds to
do so , but in my area and most areas where i know people , immunizations
cost .

sorry to shatter your stereotypes.



in case you have n't noticed , clintonites are pushing a universal health
care access program. access here means that folks who do not give
a damn about immunizing their children will have health care services
delivered to their doorsteps.




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's.


from muellerm@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (marc mueller)
subject re pork ( c 17 c 5 was (re abolish selective service )
nntp posting host irlsp
organization vanderbilt university school of engineering , nashville , tn , usa
lines 48

in article 1993apr16.174304.26360@ra.msstate.edu fpa1@ra.msstate.edu (fletcher p adams) writes
muellerm@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (marc mueller) writes
fpa1@trumpet.cc.msstate.edu (fletcher p adams) writes

eliminate the c 17 transport.

wrong. we need its capability. sure it has its problems , ........

if you read aviation week , the c 5 line can be reopened and the c 5s
would be delivered a year earlier and cost a billion less for the
program. politically , though , the c 17 is popular pork.

i do read av week and do n't remember this. could you supply the date
of the magazine \?

aviation week march 15 1993 p.48

the cbo estimates that matching the capability of 100 c 17s would
require 70 c 5s at a total cost of 14.4 billion. this option is still
more than 10 billion cheaper than completing the c 17 program , which
the cbo estimates will cost 24.7 billion.

sorry , i was nine billion off. the c 5s would be ten billion cheaper.
as for c 17 vs. c 5 , the c 17 ca n't carry as much
but has more capability ( read can land at smaller airfields of which
there are more of ) than the c 5. now is the c 17 pork \? it depends
on whether your job relies on it or not. ) in california right now ,
i would say that it is not pork since due to peace dividend so many
people are out of work.

well , california voted overwhelmingly for change , right \?
the argument to continue military programs just to support jobs is
a poor one. it 's kept quite a few bases open that should have been closed
years ago , wasting billions of taxes.

the question is whether les aspin and clinton will be able to face down
a pork happy congress.

marc mueller

huh \? should n't that read the question is whether a social pork happy
les aspin and clinton will be able to face down a jobs pork happy
congress.

fpa


marc mueller

from doctor1@cbnewse.cb.att.com (patrick.b.hailey)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
organization at t
lines 63

in article 1993apr15.170731.8797@isc br.isc br.com steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

these two paragraphs are from two different posts. in splicing them
together it is not my intention to change steve 's meaning or misrepresent
him in any way. i do n't think i 've done so.

as noted in another thread (limiting govt) , the problem libertarians face
is insuring that the limited government they seek does not become the
tool of private interests to pursue their own agenda.

it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams. just
as marxism fails to specify how pure communism is to be achieved and
the state is to wither away , libertarians frequently fail to show how
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human
condition.

part of what started this was my earlier example of illinois , usa requiring
anyone doing more than x automobile transfers a year (x 10 , i think)
to become licensed as a used car dealer. in addition , it requirs anyone
with a used car dealer 's license to own at least 10 cars at a time , all the
time.

let me continue with this example and try to answer steve 's questions.

steve , let 's say you have the talent and inclination to fix up and resell
cars. either you 've gotten good enough at it in your spare time to bump
up against these limits , or you would like to do it full time but these
stupid , arbitrary laws prevent you from starting out small and pulling
yourself up. so i'm protected from a hungry neighborhood competitor willing
to take a low profit while working extra hard to fulfill my needs , and you 're
protected from doing what you want with your life.

here 's what i see libertarianism offering you

your money is truly yours it belongs to you. you can use it to buy a car.
if you use it to buy a car , it is truly your car it belongs to you. you
can use your money to fix up that car. since it is your car , you can sell
that car.

your life is truly yours it belongs to you. it matters not if someone
thinks that it 's wrong for you to buy and sell 10 cars within 12 months
rather than , say , 9 cars. they may dissaprove , but it is not their life or
their money , it is your life and your money.

my money is truly mine it belongs to me. i can use it to buy a car.
perhaps your car. perhaps that 10th car , the one that someone , somewhere
dissaproves of you selling and , presumably , of me buying.

that someone could go to the government and insist that the government make
us stop it. but the government would be powerless to stop us from doing
what we like with our own property , in the abscence of fraud or agression.
and it would be powerless to stop us from associating with each other.

this does not seem to me to be a utopian dream , but basic human decency
and common sense. a real grass roots example of freedom and liberty.
and yes , not having a few people acting as our masters , approving or
rejecting each of our basic transactions with each other , does strike me
as a wonderful way to improve the human condition.

thanks awfully ,
patrick


from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re damn ferigner 's be taken over
article i.d. cos.bob1.734037895
distribution world
organization corporation for open systems
lines 34

in c4v13w.dup@apollo.hp.com nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes

in article bob1.733696161@cos bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw) writes
in c4ruo8.77r@apollo.hp.com nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes

norway (where you appear to be posting from) is just such a
place , although it has always escaped my understanding just
what the appeal , to allegedly rational people , of such a
scheme might be. what gives king olav v (or whoever it is
now my atlas is from 1987) the right to any special legal
status or title based on a mere accident of birth \?

to begin with , it 's quite inexpensive compared to here , what with our
having six former presidents still alive , drawing pensions , expense
accounts , and secret service protection.

maybe so , but they were , after all , president. in the corporate
world it 's sop for retiring senior executives to be given nice
pensions , etc. the point is that they performed a service and
this is part of the compensation package. the only service
royals have to perform for their free ride is being born.

we might be better off had some of our former presidents done nothing.


peter



ps . . . which is not to say that some of our presidents have
not provided a service for the country too dissimilar from what
occurs when a bull services a cow (for those of you familiar
with cattle breeding).


from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 33

in article c5jobh.7zt@apollo.hp.com goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writ
es
in article 1993apr14.122758.11467@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu jlinder@magnus.a
cs.ohio state.edu (jeffrey s linder) writes
in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr
.c
om (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.

immunizations for children in this country are already free if you care to
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the irresponible parents
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done.

in case you have n't noticed , clintonites are pushing a universal health
care access program. access here means that folks who do not give
a damn about immunizing their children will have health care services
delivered to their doorsteps.



excuse me for sticking my nose in , but any parent parents who do not allready
immunize their children (especially if it is already free) , do n't deserve one
frigging dime of tax money for health care for themselves , or public health
care service.

(i know the immunization program and the coming national health care issue are
slightly seperate issues , but anybody who would n't help their kids , do n't
deserve my tax help).

ryan

from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization university of virginia
lines 15

in article 15416@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
that describes some straights and nearly all homosexual males.

can you provide any evidence that does n't ahve massive selection
effects \?

no , i thought not.

just slander on your part.


greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject re the state of justice
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 26

in article 1993apr16.131041.8660@desire.wright.edu demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
in article 1qksa4inni7m@shelley.u.washington.edu , tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) writes
what kind of witnesses \? if we are talking about witnesses who were at
the accident , or were otherwise directly involved (e.g. , paramedics ,
emergency room doctors , etc.) , then they should have been used at the
first trial. you do n't get a new trial because you screwed up and
forgot to call all of your witnesses.

they are two witnesses who did n't come forth until after the first
trial. while it would be tough luck for gm if they new about these witnesses
beforehand , imo this constitutes new evidence .

the test is n't whether gm knew otherwise that would reward gm for its
stupidity. the test is whether gm reasonably should have known of their
existence. it works both ways if gm had won the trial , and the plaintiff
turned up two witnesses who came forward after the first trial who should
have been located beforehand , too bad , so sad no new trial.

like tim said , you do n't get a new civil trial because you screwed up
the first time around. unlike the criminal justice system , repose is
much more important in the civil justice system.

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr)
subject re abolish selective service
organization northeastern law , class of '93
lines 18
nntp posting host nw12 326 1.mit.edu
in reply to william@fractl.tn.cornell.edu


in article 1qpvj2 dfp@fitz.tc.cornell.edu ,
william@fractl.tn.cornell.edu said in response to dave borden

you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice
somthing for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you \?
to bad. what is immoral is people like you and the current president
who do n't have any idea why this country still exists after 200
years.

william if the reason that this country still stands after 200 years
is that it uses military conscription to force young men to fight for
causes that they do n't believe in strongly enough to volunteer for
military service in support of , then perhaps the fact that the country
is still standing is not good news...

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu


from phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
subject re part 4 (re looks like clayton must retract
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random.
distribution ca
lines 48

in article 1ppi1ginng19@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion) writes
does the greatly increased rates of incarceration amongst
blacks show that they are dysfunctional or that the majority
of them support criminal activity \?

is n't this a matter of demographics \? does n't this simply show
that since criminal behaviour is common (or apt to be common)
in the 18 34 (insert your favorite correct numbers here) year
old range and since the percentage of blacks in this range is
higher than in other groups , then it follows statistically
that more blacks in prison is an expected result \?

note that i have n't said anything about blacks being given
stiffer or longer sentences than other groups. i'm sure this
has to have an effect on the issue of over representation of
blacks in prison...

blacks have the same ( 2 ) crime report rate , arrest rate , and incarceration
rate for violent crimes.

so i doubt that for violent crimes , that there is any inherent bias mechanism
present.

there is a wider discrepancy for all crimes for blacks wrt to 3 categories.

interestingly enough , the discrepancy is the largest in the southern
united states where blacks are incarcerated well below the average in
the rest of the united states ! which points to an anti bias against wrt
blacks.

in any case , for violent crimes and burglary and drug selling , blacks are
reported 53 , arrested 44 , and are present in jails prisons 47 (1988).

considering that 12 of the population is black , 6 are black males , and
some percentage of that is out of the high low age groups , we do have a
situation where (if i remember my old calculations right) 4 of the
population commits almost half of the really nasty crimes.

blacks with similar histories (crime) to whites get the same sentences ,
except in the south , where they receive around 20 less on paper ! !




there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)

from dil8596@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
subject re stop putting down white het males.
nntp posting host vaxb.isc.rit.edu
reply to dil8596@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
organization rochester institute of technology
lines 33

it may be a little late to reply to your tirade and also on an inaapropriate
board but along with all of the so called great things the white male has done they have also contributed to society by means of mass genocide , the theft of
ideas and cultures , creating and the perptration of historical lies throughouttime among many other horrible activities.
but every culture has its upside and its downside. it seems to me that the
white male (must be extremely ignorant to qualify for the following if
you 're not disregard) and western culture are the only things that look to
actively classify things as good or bad , worthy or unworthy (ya dig)
it can be seen with slavery and the manipulation and destruction of the
american indians civilization. nothing but selfish acts that benefit one
group of people (and not even their women get or got respected or regarded as
equal ai n't that some stuff)

white men not being specific but in a lot of cases are just wack or have
wack conceptions of how the world is to serve their purpose.

just look at david koresh throughout history (i may be shortsighted on this one so excuse my predjudiced ignorance) only white men associate themselves withbeing god. no other culture is ignorant or arrogant enough to assume such a
position. and then to manipulate and mislead all those people.

hmmm... i 'd say look in your history books but since it seems that history
has been written to glorify the exploits of white men you 'd only find lies.

awww that 's enough already from me because this has nothing to do with sex or this board. if ya 'd like to continue this discussion e mail me and we can
compare and contrast ideas

i like conflict it 's educational when the
communcation is good......................

my .02 worth

(i apologize to those who thought this was going to be about sex but i was
prompted by a response i found up here)

dave lewis frisky hands man

from rick@howtek.mv.com (rick roy)
subject re so why does clayton cramer fixate on molesting children
organization howtek , inc.
reply to rick@howtek.mv.com (rick roy)
x mailer uaccess macintosh release 1.6v2
lines 76


in article 1993apr04.071624.14068@armory.com (talk.politics.misc , alt.sex , soc.men) , rstevew@armory.com (richard steven walz) writes
in article 93093.073457ripbc@cunyvm.bitnet ripbc@cunyvm.bitnet writes
i think the dialogue would go better if (at least some) gays
showed awareness of a practical issue. for example. men and women use
different toilets. hence men who are likely to abuse girls have that
avenue closed to them. there are many other situations where it is easy
to prevent sexual abuse between the two sexes through such measures and
social conventions. it is harder to prevent it with gays but if those
gays who do not abuse children (nor want to) became aware that this is
a practical problem that we can solve with good will on both sides , then
we can have protection for parents and children at the same time as
protection for gays in those ways that are of importance to their
pursuit of happiness in their own way.

just a thought

rohit parikh

sorry , rohit , but you are responding to someone well recognized as a
flaming nut , i.e. , clayton cramer. he must have been abused by a man and is
living his life in an attempt to vilify all men who like sex with other men
something slightly similar to the way his assailant liked it with him. he
will alter or misrepresent anything he finds to try to prove that there are
homosexuals who wish to rape little boys like he was coming out of the
woodwork. there is no hope for him. in all probability he is secretly gay ,
which compounds his neurosis in his own mind , by thinking that someone else
made him that way. i do n't personally see how someone like him could walk
and chew gum at the same time , as mentally crippled and dominated as he is
by his fantasies.

he would have you believe that the figures on the percentage of people who
like to do it with the same sex sometime or all the time is way smaller
than it is , but then he will virtually assert that everyone 's queer and
they 're trying to get him. he actually believes , despite all evidence that
homosexuals do some huge disproportionate amount of child sexual abuse ,
even though he insists that there may be as few as 1 of them in the male
population ! if there were that few of them in the population , san francisco
would currently be empty , because a significant portion of them have sought
a tolerant atmosphere in that city , and the numbers simply do not work when
you add up their home town origins. there is nothing to be gained by
communicating with clayton cramer , he is unable to listen to anyone.
rsw



richard steven walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429 1200
515 maple street 1 without safe and free abortion women are
santa cruz , ca 95060 organ surrogates to unwanted parasites.
real men would never accept organ slavery and will protect women.

sorry , but i do n't see how the response applies to what was posted.

unless i am badly mistaken , rohit is suggesting that protecting boys
from men is different than protecting girls from men. there are situations
in which boys and girls are apart from members of the opposite sex
(due to social convention or whatever) and thus are safe (in at least
some sense). these same situations do n't (necessarily) protect the
children from abuse by members of the same sex.

if we can understand that , it 's not such a tremendous leap to suggest
that if we all think about it hard , someone may come up with a
practical solution (or even a partial solution) to some of the situations
in which children are made vulnerable to homosexuals who wish to abuse
them. by working together with good will on both sides , we may be
able to start solving problems without restricting anyone 's freedoms.

mr. walz on the other hand is using rohit 's post as an excuse for
personal attacks on mr. cramer. while mr. walz has n't (by a long
stretch) been the only one to flame mr. cramer , it is no less childish
and it only serves to weaken any other arguments he may make in the
future.


rick roy usenet rick@howtek.mv.com america online qed
disclaimer my employer 's views are orthogonal to these.
the early bird got worms.

from roy@panix.com (roy radow)
subject re a loathesome subject
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 59

in 1ppjruinnhnt@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion) writes

in article c4y3dd.l1n@panix.com roy@panix.com (roy radow) writes
but this does not imply that all relationships between youth
and adults are exploitative and abusive.

the critical factor here is whether the sexual activity is forced
or whether it is an activity that is consensually agreed upon and
freely engaged in by the people involved.

when a child is forced there is often damage , on the other hand ,

wholeheartedly agree here.

consensual relationships are often found to be positive experiences
for all concerned.

why do i find this hard to believe \?
care to convince us \?

carlos ,

why not check out some of the scientific research that has been
done in this area and convince yourself.

research around the world indicates that the issue of coercion is
the critical factor.

for those interested in research on the topic i can suggest , li et al
(england) , constantine (united states) , and sandfort (the netherlands).
i especially like sandfort 's research for he actually quotes what the
boys who are involved in the relationships have to say.



children and sex new findings , new perspectives by larry constantine
floyd m. martinson (eds.). little brown co. , boston , 1980.
boys on their contacts with men by theo sandfort , global academic
publishers , elmhurst , new york , 1987.
perspectives on paedophilia by brian taylor (ed.). batsford academic
educational ltd. , london , 1981.
paedophilia a factual report by frits bernard. enclave , rotterdam ,
the netherlands , 1985.
sexual experience between men and boys by parker rossman. maurice
temple smith ltd. , middlesex , great britain , 1985.
children 's sexual encounters with adults by c.k. li , d.j. west t.p.
woodhouse. gerald duckworth co. , london , 1990.


yours in liberation ,

roy



roy radow roy@panix.com ...rutgers ! cmcl2 ! panix ! roy
north american man boy love association for a packet containing a sample
bulletin , publications list and membership information send 1.00 postage
to nambla info , dept.rr , po box 174 , midtown station , nyc ny 10018.

from gadfly@cbnewsi.cb.att.com (gadfly)
subject re california insurance commissioner endorses federal legislation to protect consumers from scam insurance companies
organization at t
distribution usa
summary whatever you say.
lines 96

in article 15389@optilink.com , cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
you mean , since your philosophy took over , the economy has almost
collapsed.

excuse me , my philosophy \? you do n't have any idea what my philosophy
is. the american economy has had its ups and downs through a number of
prevailing economic philosophies. but then , economics is hardly a science.

in my lifetime , your philosophy socialism masquerading as a liberal
welfare state has been in ascendancy.

yo earth to clayton my philosophy \? i have never discussed this with you.
i know it 's a minor point , but , gee , dude , you have no idea what economic
and political principles i adhere to. but do n't let that stop you you 're on a
roll. just ascribe to me whatever you want i know you 'll choose wisely.
after all , i do believe in personal responsibility.

no , i mean exactly what i wrote the welfare system of the new deal is
wholly inadequate to cope with the current state of affairs.

absolutely. so the response of socialists is take us even further
into socialism.

duh. what else would you expect a socialist to do \?

flash in the pan \? no , your subculture has utterly dominated the
tv and movie industries for two decades now.

my subculture \? my , we 're getting personal. the only subculture i see
dominating the tv and movie industries is money . if you 'll buy it ,
they 'll sell it. and as recent movements to boycott tv advertisers have
shown , they 're very sensitive about what sells. whatever happened to
personal responsibility , anyway \? or am i personally responsible for
the decline in that , too \?

to the extent that people have been encouraged to not be responsible
for themselves , yes.

(a) just when and where have i encouraged people not to be responsible
for themselves \? be specific but do make up random dates and heinous
acts as you see fit.

(b) you and i have encouraged many people to do many things. how does that
in any way make our audiences less responsible for their actions \? is there
a finite amount of responsibility , so (cf. conservation of energy) as
i become more responsible for an occurrence by encouraging it the actual
perpetrator becomes correspondingly less so \? at what point does the
perpetrator become completely innocent altogether \? you know , this lends
a whole new meaning to the term the moral high ground .

oddly enough , all the unskilled or semiskilled people i know manage
to find employment almost immediately. maybe she needs to move to a
cheaper part of the country , where jobs are plentiful , and the cost
of living is lower.

the west side of chicago is about as cheap as it gets squalor city.
tell me about all these places where it 's cheap to live and jobs are
abundant i 'll pass them on.

sonoma county.

i will pass the info on. out of curiosity , what kind of jobs would these
be \? what 's the demographic mix wrt race , age , culture \?

lots of employment , and utterly surrounded by socialists. well , i suppose
that 's the sort of environment that would attract socialists , or at least
not dissuade them.

no , it 's that areas with a lot of wealthy breed socialists all the
spoiled rich kids , feeling guilty about their wealth. but not guilty
enough to give it away they just look for politicians to take my
more limited wealth away.

life 's a bitch , ai n't it \? man , you 've got to get out of fornicalia have
you considered someplace perhaps geographically distant but politically
more friendly to you , like , say , indiana \? or maybe utah \?

well , i doubt that much of this goes to drugs there is n't much left after
buying food , and there is very little in the first place. sure , you read
about such cases now and then , but that 's what makes them news. show me
your statistics about afdc abuse.

i can tell you that relatives i have known , the drugs came first , the
food was secondary.

i do n't doubt it , but unless you can show me statistics to the contrary
i will persist in my apparently dogmatic socialist belief (hey , if you say
so) that most afdc money really does for better or worse in the long
term feed fdcs.


ken perlow
16 apr 93 27 germinal an cci
gadfly@ihspc.att.com

...l'audace ! toujours de l'audace ! encore de l'audace !

from chaudhary amar@yale.edu (amar chaudhary)
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
organization yale university science engineering unix(tm) , new haven , ct 06520 2158
lines 111
nntp posting host minerva.cis.yale.edu




top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue



10. men in uniform are persona non grata in the home of our commander in
chief.

9. algore 's enviro mentalism will make the clean air act look like an
industrial policy.

8. higher taxes are once again the prescription for all that ails america.

7. tax dodging is unpatriotic draft dodging is a symbol of pride.

6. beaded curtains hang from the oval office windows.

5. socialism may be dead in the ex soviet union but we are told to prepare
for the nationalization of our health care resources. (these people
must be inhaling something.)

4. not quite free love but eating flowers is considered healthy.

3. the feminazis have a president in the white house whether the rest of
us realize it or not.

2. slick may be the first draft dodger to send american troops into
combat.

1. slick may be unpopular with middle class americans , but he 's a big hit
on campus with the professorial class.



copyright (c) edward a. ipser , jr. , 1993


here 's my own top ten response to mr. ipser 's list


10. it 's about time we have a president that might actually stand up to the
military. our men and women in uniform must learn that the world does not
revolve around them , and that one of the things they 're out there defending
is our right to be critical of them , even denounce them.

9. let me explain something to you. environmental policy and industrial
policy must go hand in hand. our nation , and indeed , our planet cannot
afford to continue ignoring this as was done over the last twelve years.
our industrial environmental position has been downright shameful ! we
must have active government support of the key industries such as ,
telecommunications , microelectronics , medical , biotech , and environmental
tech. meanwhile weed out old , inneficient , high polution , industries
that are better left to other nations. this will make us richer , help
produce new jobs , and help the environment. to give credit where credit
is due , i heard a lot of this in a speech by senator john kerry (d ma)
tonite. in addition , it 's time we get really , really serious about
issues like overpopulation , globabl warming , and ozone depletion. the
planet on which we live should be our utmost priority !

8. it just so happens that that it takes money to make this country work ,
to provide the services that people need , and to help solve the problems
that need to be solved. granted , some things can probably be done more
efficiently for less money , and should be. but some things are going to
cost more money and i'm sick and tired of hearing everyone whining about
taxes all the time. you want to live in my country , you pay your fair
share !

7. i ca n't believe what hypocrites people are when they ask people to give
up their lives for their country and then complain about taxes. if you 're
willing to send me off to die for some stupid obsession with fighting an
enemy which at best does n't affect us and at worst really should be our
friend , then you have no right to tell me you should n't pay taxes !

6. hey , i think the beaded curtains add a lovely 60 's esque touch !

5. look , canada , europe , and japan manage to provide health care for their
citizens (and , yes , basic health is a human right which people are
entitled to). if these nations are n't capitalist enough for you , then
i guess we 've found something better than capitalism ! there is nothing
sacred about the capitalist system , and if something , be it socialism
or anything else , works better , then i say let capitalism die.

4. make love , not war !

3. contrary to popular belief , it is possible to be a male and a feminist
at the same time. to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity
to a majority of the population is just plain wrong , and trying to force
them into some sort of tradition role is even worse. women certainly
have as much to offer this world as men , and the day that gender
discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the revolutions of
the past few centuries seem like reform bills. i look forward to it.

2. see number 10.

1. hey man , acadamia rules ! !



amar chaudhary

peace , land , at matzoh !
ac in dc in 2008 !

none of the opinions here necessary reflect the opinions of yale university or
anyone or anything associated with it , except for me , of course )

please post reponses or send them to chaudhary amar@cs.yale.edu



from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re will italy be the next domino to fall \?
lines 101
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article c5gk0w.j8h@newsserver.technet.sg , ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes

will italy be the next domino to fall \?



socialism may have collapsed in eastern europe and the soviet disunion
but it lingers on in western europe and the united states. it remains
the primary ideology in the hearts and minds of the liberal academia
and media. but all the political correctness they can muster may not be
sufficient to hold back the economic forces that threaten to spread
socialism 's collapse from the second world to the first. indeed , it is
becoming more apparent every day that socialism may not even survive
the turn of the century.

ed of course has never demonstrated remarkable knowlege of socialism ,
or any other political system come to that.

while the swedes have already discarded their third way and the
french have made history by turning out the socialist party in a
record setting defeat , it is italy that appears most precariously
on the edge of its political existence.

that leaves germany , japan and the uk as examples of a country where the
right wing government is on the verge of collapse. oh and of course the usa
which just elected a socialist government )

italy , today , is a basket case even by european standards. it has
introduced 17 new taxes in 5 months and public sector revenue is at or
near the 50 of gdp mark.

etc , unfortunately you ca n't pin this on the left or the right , both are
to blame. both sides are equally deep into the corruption scandal. the only
untained party is the northern league which is a bunch of nationalist
separatists and the communist party which has collapsed.


in spite of this political gluteny , it has
an annual deficit exceeding the sum of all other ec countries and a
public debt 2.5 times that of latin america. italy is understandably
having serious trouble selling its treasury bonds in the markets. and
while italy is an extreme case , it is anything but unique all
european governments appear headed in the same direction in spite of
their nominally non socialist governments.

unfortunately , europeans being , well , europeans , it is very unlikely
that they will discover american style liberty. instead , they will
likely lurch from socialism to fascism as quickly as they had moved
from fascism to socialism never pausing along the way to reasseses the
role of government , itself. i hope i am wrong.

ed should take a look at the budget deficit regan and bush created together
before he starts to make claims about europe collapsing based on the budget
deficits here. none of them are serious on the usa scale.

and here in europe we have zero interest in ed ipser type freed thank you.
we do not want our countries to be run by a narrow elite of rich lawyers
for the benefit of the super wealthy. we are quite happy with social
democracy and despite the fuss made in time and newsweek there is remarkably
little being done to reverse the social welfare reforms brought in by
socialism.

the problem with socialism is that it started with the aims of free education
and health care and provision of the welfare state. this has been achieved
across the whole of europe , only the usa is struggling to catch up. the
problem for socialism is what to do now it has succeeded.


nobody ever claimed that the collapse of socialism would be pretty.
the decline of the nation state will probably lead first to anarchy
since politicians always cut essential services before pork. los
angeles has rampant crime and frantically waits for the next wave of
riots but it has a spanking new subway that nobody wants to use and
which , like every other public transit system in the world , will never
be economically viable. (if you were trying to extort tax payers ,
which would you cut first , mass transit or police protection \? )

ed starts to discus la , presumably he thinks that it is in europe. on
the other hand he most probably has n't heard of a european city.

thus does the world hurtle toward chaos even as the 21st century
approaches.

rather the opposite. what is happening in italy is that the communist party
has collapsed. this has meant that the grand coalition between right and
left wing parties to keep out the communists has also collapsed. the
magistrates have seized this opportunity to crack down hard on fraud and
corruption and have arrested half the politicians. the fact that the socialists
are in charge this week is incidental , the right is into the corruption just
as baddly.

what looks likely to happen is the fringe parties are going to do much
better in the next election. most of the parliamentary deputies are going
to get replaced and the parties are going to be forced to look to people
who are free of any hint of corruption. look out for a parliament of
pavarotti 's and porn stars.


phill hallam baker


organization city university of new york
from f36si@cunyvm.bitnet
subject re billaryklintonkligue illegal war
lines 5

the operation going on in somalia is a peacekeeping peaceenforcement
operation where force may be used. it is not a war. it is also legal
under international law , which is higher than us law. the operation
is occuring under the ageis of the united nations. ca n't get a higher
authority than that on this earth.

from gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
subject re z magazine health care reform (march 93)
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare)
organization phds in the hall
lines 95

sorry , harel et al , but our doctors and most hospitals are still
private in canada as well as in much of western europe.

harelb@math.cornell.edu (harel barzilai grad brown) writes

h e a l t h c a r e r e f o r m
by camille colatosti
z magazine (see bottom) , march 1993

...
the single payer model , sometimes called national health insurance ,
eliminates private insurance companies and removes health care from
employment. the government provides free health care to all u.s.
residents. and there are no out of pocket costs.

wrong. in better ec countries that use pure (but public) health
insurance (like we use in canada) rather than self enclosed hmo like
socialized medicine , 30 of our costs comes from private supplementary
insurance and or copayments. france magazine 's summer 1992 edition
has a fantastic presentation of their basic insurance coverage ,
including a sample chart of copayment percentages. for 1 30 days ,
you 're covered for 80 of the public hospital rate , 100 afterward.
with extra private insurance , you can get into a private hospital and
be covered for any differences beyond the public hospital rate. the
public insurance covers 100 beyond 30 days , or the same cash amount
for a private hospital and the difference is paid out of pocket or
according to your supplementary private insurance. over 2 3rds of
french have some form of extra private insurance. so , 30 of health
costs in europe are out of private funds and not gleaned from other
taxes. the gdp figures are combined public and private expenditures
for total outlay using the same methods that yield the 13 14 figure
for the u.s.

that the french had deductibles and copayments in their insurance fund
is to their credit ... i am in the minority for advocating such back
in canada (to make the canadian insurance look more like real health
insurance which actually it is). the new reform party , a breakoff
of traditionalists from the conservatives with a mildly libertarian
faction , hold our public health insurance as an untouchable but that
just a few people have to be reminded that it 's not free (the average
canadian european is more fiscally naive than their american
counterparts on issues like these).

i'm one of the few people who favour copayments (forget about
leftists , even our conservatives attack me for it on the canadian
newsgroups) to make it look more like real insurance , 'cos the 100
insurance payment is hidden (unlike in france) and if you did n't know
it , you 'd believe it actually is socialized medicine (american
conservatives libertarians and canadian leftists are the only ones who
seriously call it that). canadians are n't worried about the
americans , who spend 14 we 're worried about the french and germans
who spend 7 to our 9 ... so the insurance is looking at things that
should n't be paid for out of general funds like physicals for
insurance policies , sick notes , electrolysis , etc. the reason that
the canadian health insurance has n't spiralled out of control despite
being open and universal is that unlike americans , there is no urge to
spend all of your benefits' worth , and more if you can ... we 're a
different culture.

like the play or pay model , managed competition leaves in place two
elements of the current health care system that reformers most often
criticize the private , for profit insurance industry and the
employer based system of coverage. managed competition compels
employers to enroll their workers in large pools of health insurance
customers. entire industries may , for example , sponsor a pool or
network. insurance companies , doctors , hospitals and other health
care providers then bid for the pool 's business , competing in
theory on the basis of price and quality.

managed care relies on hmo 's , which are unknown in most western
nations that use only public health insurance like canada , france
and germany (i'm canadian , and my german father in law to be says
of hmo nhs approaches , we left that behind with east germany ! ).
sure , hmo nhs controls costs because you have managers strangling
doctors with budget strings.

in canada , we use the public health insurance approach as in france
and germany , with all private doctors and both private and public
hospitals. it is all pure insurance without hmo 's. the divisions
are different , with the germans using a couple hundred interlinked
sickness funds over a century old while canada divides by their
provinces (who run the insurance fund and set local fees with the
doctors monopoly federal funds cover the fees disbursed.)

with such an open ended system , it 's no surprise that canada is 2 to
the u.s. in costs all insurance is the most expensive way to go. the
french and germans use the same approach but have larger populations
in more compact geography to improve scales of economy.

gld

je me souviens
gary l. dare
gld@columbia.edu go winnipeg jets go ! ! !
gld@cunixc.bitnet selanne domi stanley

from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 6

too many.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

from bram@byron.u.washington.edu (bram currie)
subject mow bodycount
article i.d. shelley.1qksooinnihu
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 16
nntp posting host byron.u.washington.edu


any thoughts on who is going to count all of the gorgeous bodies at the mow \?

the press \? the white house staff \? the most junior senator \? the king of
the motss bi \?

just curious as to whose bias we are going to see when the numbers
get brought out.




bram


bram currie bram@u.washington.edu

from neal@magpie.linknet.com (neal)
subject re race and violence
organization manes and associates , nyc
distribution usa
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 8

i replied to your message , however , it is listed as a new topic with
the title rnitedace and violence . possibly line noise or error
caused to post as a new topic. i see it here as 100.

regards ,

neal


from cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
subject re af ats red army fraction (raf) communique
reply to cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
organization north coast public access nix , cleveland , oh
lines 33

as quoted from c115184.734895755@assn119 by c115184@cs.ualberta.ca (merth eric william)


in article c4vbm1.gs0@ncoast.org , cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton) writes

as quoted from c4vctb.j1h@dscomsa.desy.de by hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)

is n't it wonderfull the way people can make the sadistic and indescriminate
murder of the bader meinhof gang sound like altruism \?

gee phil , i 'd remember where you are and that these people are monitoring the

net. i 'd also remember that they have about as much sense of humor as ed


damn. it is n't big brother after all \? and all this time i thought that all
those revolutionaries , while blowing things up and killing the odd
innocent person in the process , really did love all us proles. ('cause
everybody knows that dialectical materialism will save you even
if it has to get you killed first ).
what a fool i 've been.

what you fail to see is that in order to make a nightmarish stew of psychosis
and repression , you have to break a few eggs. you the evil productive
elements in society , are those eggs....

damn the spirit , full speed ahead....



you 're like a bunch of over educated , new york jewish aclu lawyers
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in
arkansas holly silva

from kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm)
subject re kyle k. on rodney king
distribution usa
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 19

thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes

in article c5lp0y.fdk@news.cso.uiuc.edu kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm) writes
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit \?

i'm curious why you think that particular adjective is important.


i'm curious why you took a beign statement and cross posted it to several
different news groups , including something along the lines of alt.discrimination look rodney king is black and large. i have several large black male friends , and they are referred to as being large black men ( to their faces , and by
themselves ). you know , ted , i have a large number of adjectives for you ,
but i will spare you most of them because i try not to get into personal
flame wars. let me just say that i think your action of cross posting this
was total bs , and you 're trying to start some crap. hopefully , others will
see through your trite little game and not play along.


from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's remarks at town hall meeting
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 530
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu






the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 13 , 1993


remarks by the president ,
secretary of education richard riley and
secretary of labor robert reich in
goals 2000 satellite town hall meeting

chamber of commerce building
washington , d.c.



8 30 p.m. edt


secretary riley good evening and welcome to all of you
in the thousands of communities around the country that are taking
part in this satellite town meeting for the month of april.

you know , today is april 13th. in 1743 , thomas
jefferson was born , 250 years ago. i think that 's appropriate to
mention at the beginning of this meeting because since that time he
has been , of course , a person who has been one that we 've all
followed in terms of our democracy and the importance of education
here in this great country. the success of our democracy according
to jefferson really depends upon the success of our educational
system.

his philosophy of government , his belief in the
importance of education is also very meaningful to our special guest
here this evening. tonight we 're so pleased to have with us
president clinton. he 's come over from the white house to join us in
the chamber of commerce studios.

mr. president , it 's good to have you. we thank you for
taking the time to visit with these communities here on the satellite
network and we welcome you here this evening.

also we have with us secretary of labor robert reich.
and , bob , it 's certainly pleasant to have you with us this evening
also.

i have some questions for our two guests , and i'm sure
many of you do , too. so please call us if there 's something that
you 'd like to ask. the number is 1 800 368 5781 or 5782. in
washington , d.c. the number is 202 463 3170 or 3171.

i believe the president has a few words that he might
want to share with us. and , mr. president , i 'll ask you to do that
at this time. it 's great to have you.

the president thank you very much , mr. secretary.

i'm glad to be here with my friends , dick riley and bob
reich also members of my cabinet at the headquarters of the
chamber of commerce to support the effort that the chamber is making ,
along with its center for work force preparation , to help to examine
tonight the whole critical question of how to move our young people
from school to the work place.

i want to compliment the chamber on all their efforts ,
recognizing that without an educated work force we ca n't grow this
economy or remain competitive , and recognizing that we all have to
work together business and government , labor and educators to
make things happen.

this satellite town meeting is a good example of that
kind of working together. and if you 'll forgive me a little home
state pride , i want to say a special word of thanks to the wal mart
corporation , headquartered in bentonville , arkansas , for providing
several hundred of the sites for this town meeting tonight. i
appreciate that a lot , as well as the sites that are provided for all
the rest of you.

i have tried as hard as i could to move toward
constructive change for this country. secretary riley talked about
this being thomas jefferson 's 250th birthday. if thomas jefferson
believed in anything , he believed in these three things first , in
education second , in real personal liberty , freedom of religion ,
freedom of speech , freedom of association , freedom of the press and
third , in the absolute imperative of changing as times change.

if you go to the jefferson memorial here in this
beautiful city , which is now bedecked with all of its wonderful
cherry blossoms , you will see jefferson saying that we have to change
with changing times.

for us here in america , that means reducing our deficit
and increasing our investment and putting our people first so that we
can compete in the world. we 're here to talk about that tonight
about what we can do to educate and train our people better. unless
we do that , none of the efforts that all the rest of us make in
government , even to bring the budget into balance , even to increase
our investment in other things which will grow jobs , will last in the
long run.

we also have to have people who can carry their load.
and in a world where the average young person will change jobs seven
or eight times in a lifetime , that begins with the education system
and continues into the work force where education must go on for a
lifetime. it 's not just important what you know , but what you can
learn.

and if i might , i 'd like to close just by emphasizing
we 're doing our best to try to have the most innovative partnership
between the labor department and the education department and the
private sector to build a good school to work transition. and we 're
trying to get off to a good start this summer with a program that
would create more than 700 , 000 new summer jobs , including many
thousands that have a strong education component so our young people
can be learning and working at the same time.

dick , i think i ought to stop there. that 's a good
place we can begin , i think , the discussion.

secretary riley thank you so much , mr. president.

each month we get together and talk about ways that all
citizens can work towards reaching the national education goals. and
tonight , we 'll focus on goal five , and how communities such as yours
can prepare students for this world of work.

this week , the education department and the labor
department are hosting a conference here in washington , d.c. called
summer challenge , a program of work and learning , to america 's youth.
the aim is to use some special funds from president clinton 's
proposed economic stimulus package to provide educationally enriched
jobs and summer school programs for young people in disadvantaged
areas of the country.

mr. president , let 's talk a minute you alluded to it
somewhat about the summer youth challenge. your program calls
for more educational enrichment in the summer jobs. and why in your
words is that so important \?

the president i think it 's important for two reasons.
first of all , a lot of the young people we 're trying to reach may
have had trouble adjusting to school and learning. and while we want
them to have a good experience with a real job , we also want them to
continue to learn during the summer because we know from a lot of
research that a lot of kids that have trouble learning in school may
forget as much as 30 percent of what they learned the previous year
over the summertime. and that is a very unproductive thing for
schools to have to take up a lot of time teaching what they already
taught before.

secondly , we want to help these young people progress ,
not only in terms of work , but in terms of learning. we want to
abolish the artificial dividing line between what is work and what is
learning because we think that the best and most productive workers
will have to be lifetime learners. and we think that this experience
could maybe drive that point home and prepare these young people to
succeed in school , or at work , or in college as they go on.

secretary riley well , i think the fact that these are
disadvantaged kids that gap , that lag you mentioned as they go
into the next year , is really even greater.

secretary reich , of course , you have training programs
throughout the year. and i wonder is you have any comment about this
educational component of training.

secretary reich well , what we 've learned , mr.
secretary , is that for many young people , whether it 's for the summer
or for the year , actually on the job work experience combined with
education is one of the best ways of learning. many young people ,
for example , have a lot they have a difficult time learning
geometry. but when they actually are there building something or
working on something , and they can see the exact and direct
application of geometry , they understand what it 's used for. and a
lot of young people just that sense of connection between
education and the world of work is terribly , terribly important.
it 's important during the summer , but it 's important for a lot of
young people even beyond the summer.

secretary riley thank you.

mr. president , you 've called for a youth apprenticeship
program , school to work transition. and i wonder if you would tell
us a little bit about your concept of that and how you see it
developing.

the president well , first of all , let 's talk about why
it 's important. most new jobs that will be created in this decade
will not require a four year college degree , but most of them will
require some learning and skills that go well beyond what most people
get in a high school diploma.

if you look at the last 10 years , the average salaries
of young people that had at least two years of good post high school
education was a good salary that went up over the decade. the young
people who had less than that tended to have lower wages that did not
go up , and in many cases in real terms fell over the decade , because
they were n't productive , they were n't more valuable to their
employers.

so we think america has a big economic interest in
trying to ensure that all the young people who get out of high school
but do n't go on to college make a transition to work , which includes
two years of further training either in a community college , a
vocational setting , or perhaps on the job. and what i have done in
this budget , as you know , is to give you and secretary reich some
funds and some incentives to try to work in partnership with states
and with the private sector to build these programs state by state in
a way that would be customized essentially by the business community ,
based on the needs of the economy in any given area. it could
revolutionize long term the quality of the american work force and
the earnings of american workers.

secretary reich i should add , mr. president i think
you know this from your experience in arkansas and many of the
people watching this program that the business community and
educators , labor groups are already in many of our communities , many
of our states , building a school to work transition program. in
fact , there 's an awful lot of ferment , a lot of excitement. the
people watching this program probably are the ones who are most
directly involved in that. and more power to them. secretary riley
and i are going to do everything we can to build on the successes
already out there.

secretary riley bob , we 're going to be talking tonight
about youth apprenticeship and tech prep , the co op learning
career academies. and what features all those programs that deal
with this subject what are some of the features that every one of
these school to work programs might have that are important \?

secretary reich well , one thing that we 've seen and
you and i have been working at this for a long time , and you much
longer than i we 've seen that active involvement of the business
community is absolutely essential. and i'm so delighted that we 're
doing this in the headquarters of the chamber of commerce. the
chamber of commerce of the united states is committed to doing these
kinds of programs training , education , retraining and we 've
aimed to work very closely with the chamber.

the business community is going to be actively engaged
in developing almost an audit of the kind of jobs that are needed and
helping the educators , community colleges , technical institutions
develop curricula that are relevant for the jobs of the future.

communities have got to come together. i mean , this is
one of the most important things. you 've got to have all of these
players in a community come together and work together and cooperate
together. you know , too often we have the educators over here and
the business leaders over here , labor groups over here and everybody
is talking , but they 're not really working together in a common
strategy.

and the third and final ingredient i would say , dick ,
would be a commitment to excellence a commitment both to academic
excellence and also to skills development excellence. this is not a
tracking program we 're talking about for kids who are not going to
make it. this is a program that every young person ought to be
eligible for. if they want to go on beyond that to four year
college , that 's fine. that ought to be permissible. but we 're
talking about the foundation of learning about jobs , the foundation
skills for on the job learning.

and again , those are the critical components. it 's
already being done.

the president i think if i might just interject one
point based on my personal experience at home the business
community has a critical role to play , not simply in saying here are
the job skills that are needed and here 's what ought to be taught ,
but also in monitoring that excellence. if you have the right sort
of partnership there , the people who are paying the taxes and who are
going to then be hiring the workers are not going to permit the
second rate programs to survive if they have any way to shape and
influence them. so i think that 's very important.

and when we try to , if you will , fill in the blanks at
the federal level , trying to set some standards and provide some
funds , one of the things that we want to be sure and do is to make
sure that the employer has a heavy amount of influence over the
quality of these programs , because that 's really what 's going to
determine whether the whole thing is worthwhile.

secretary riley that 's great. we 've been talking , of
course , about school to work and also the jobs and economic recovery
program for this summer and fall. but let 's talk just a moment about
long term school reform. it 's something especially close to me. mr.
president , i wonder if you would give us some of your ideas for the
communities out here on goals 2000 legislation that i think will be
coming forth before too long.

the president well , as you know , back when you and i
were both governors , we spent a lot of time working on our public
schools and we tried to be very candid with our people in saying that
a lot of these things were going to take some time to materialize.

i had a hand in writing the national education goals
that the governors drafted , along with representatives of president
bush 's administration back in 1989. and what we 're going to try to
do this year with your leadership is to introduce legislation in
congress that will actually define the things that the national
government ought to do to try to help the local schools and the
children of this country and the adult learners , too , meet those
goals making sure that when by 2000 , people show up for school
ready to learn that we get a 90 percent on time high school
graduation rate that children at the 4th , 8th , and 12th grades are
confident in the subjects they 're supposed to know that they are
second to none in math and science that are schools are safe ,
disciplined , and drug free. and , of course , the fifth goal i took
them out of line to say this the last is that we have a system of
life long learning in this country.

and each one of those goals there 's a national role , a
state role , a school role , school district role , and a private sector
role. and what you 've attempted to do in this bill you 're going to
introduce with me in the next few weeks is to define what our job is
and then to give the rest of america a way of defining what their job
is and seeing whether we 're actually meeting the standards of quality
that we need to meet.

it 's very exciting. so far as i know , nothing quite
like it has ever been done in the form of federal legislation before.
not mandating and telling people what they have to do with their
money , but actually setting up a framework for excellence and
partnerships so that we can do our job. i'm really excited about it.

secretary riley well , i am , too. and i think really
it will be an entirely new role for the federal government in terms
of its relationship with states , serving as a partner really to
support and facilitate and to help out in these education reform
efforts , all driven by high standards. that 's the point.

bob , let me ask you one question , and then we 'll get to
the telephone calls. it 's about the same subject. we have , of
course , skills standards that are going to be part of goals 2000 , and
i wonder if you would comment on that.

secretary reich well , you know , we have 75 percent of
our young people who do n't graduate from college. very often they
do n't have very many alternatives. they do have a wonderful system
of community colleges and technical institutions , but if we had
national skill standards to which they could aspire and which
employers would understand as a national credential , many of these
young people would actually find that they were much more eligible
for jobs.

everybody does n't have to go to college. other
countries you have smaller proportions of their population going to
college , but you have a whole level of people who have certain
technical , preprofessional skills. we can do it in this country. if
you do n't go to four year college you 're not a loser. and we want to
develop those national skill standards. we 're going to be working
with the states , with the education department , with a lot of private
industry in developing those standards. and i think they will be the
kinds of things that enable our vocational and technical and other
institutions to rally around , as well as our business community.

secretary riley well , that 's great. why do n't we go
ahead and go to the telephone. we have a call , i see mayor bruce
todd of austin , texas.

q yes , mr. president and mr. secretary reich and
riley , we certainly appreciate the opportunity to join you today. we
have some dedicated professionals and volunteers here in austin who
have heard what you have said and are very appreciative. let me
simply say , amen to some of the comments made already. we agree with
much of the tone that the clinton administration has taken , and are
very supportive.

we have been successful here in austin of tripling our
summer employment program over the last four years. we expect to
have over 2 , 000 employed this year in the summertime perhaps as much
as 3 , 500 with the federal assistance.

much of the question that we had designed you have
answered in your opening comments , so we must be thinking alike. but
the question essentially involved what initiatives after labor day
would be appropriate. we know summertime is important. year round
is even more important. and what kind of initiatives at the federal
level might be proposed to meet the needs of the youth on a year
round basis \? and perhaps more importantly , how can families and the
local community be more involved using the federal initiative \? that 's
something that we believe is very important to success in this
effort.

secretary riley mr. president.

the president i think i 'll give everybody a chance to
answer the question , bruce , but let me first thank you for calling ,
and thank you for all the great work that you 're doing in austin.
i 've seen some of it and i 've always been very impressed.

first , with regard to the summer program , we hope we can
structure it in a way that will enable us to continue the summer
program and that will move a lot of these young people back into
schools under circumstances that might allow them to do some work in
the private sector , too. we hope that secretary reich is going to
try to set up a system where we create a lot of private sector jobs
to be matched with the public sector jobs this summer. and we 're
working on that.

secondly , in the program that i have presented to the
congress over the next five years , what we are attempting to do is to
build in an amount of investment that 's quite substantial for job
training programs , for school to work programs , all of which give
heavy , heavy weight to local community input just the question you
asked but do provide some federal investment dollars , which we
hope you can put with local dollars to keep people working and being
trained on a year round basis.

and i will say again , to echo what secretary reich said
a moment ago , to try to break down the barrier between what is seen
as work and what is seen as learning. an awful lot of young people
actually have quite high iqs , but actually learn so much better when
they 're doing than when they 're reading or just listening. so we
hope that the community involvement part of it will be permanent , and
we hope that if the whole budget passes and we do have 200 budget
cuts and more than 200 , actually , in the budget and some revenue
raisers , and some new money for education and training , that we 'll be
able to do just what you seem to want based on your question.

bob , do you want to say anything \?

secretary reich well , you took most of the words out
of my mouth , mr. president , as usual. but let me just add one thing ,
and that is that one of the most important aspects of post high
school for a lot of young people who are not going on to college , in
addition to the school to work program , simply is the availability of
jobs. and we 've got to get this economy moving again , obviously.
it 's terribly important to get this recovery program , to get the
economy back on track. that 's sort of the prerequisite to everything
else. if we do n't get the economy back on track we have i
think this is the 16th correct me if i'm wrong , mr. president i
think is the 16th month we have had seven percent unemployment or
greater. this is a jobless recovery. a lot of those kids are going
to be getting out of school in june. and even if we did everything
right , they would have a very , very hard time getting jobs.

secretary riley thank you both. of course , goals 2000
will be a permanent , long term thing that will certainly reach into
next year. it will involve , if passed and we certainly hope it
will be action plans with every state where we can be working
together to reach for the goals in a number of different ways. and
then the state , with all the various school districts , a very
important part of that will be citizen and parent involvement. and i
think everybody will see a great energy out there , once we get that
moving.

the next call is dr. harry heinemann , new york.

doctor \?

q good evening , mr. secretary. it is a pleasure to
be on with you this evening. as you may know , bridging the school
and work has been central to la guardia 's educational program since
its inception in the 1970s , and that includes the college , the two
alternative high schools that operate on our campus , and the linkages
we have forged with the local schools. we have found this to be an
extremely effective learning strategy.

and over the years , we 've come to believe that there are
several principles that are very important in bridging the school and
work. and these include integrating theory in the classroom with
practice in the workplace , with providing all students early exposure
to careers , as well as providing opportunities for them to reflect
upon these experiences while they strengthen their skills and
lastly , the critical role of the liberal arts , particularly in the
development of high performance competencies.

my question , then is how can the general education
faculty and the academic curriculum be more closely integrated with
transition to work experience \? and what mechanisms and strategies
can you suggest to achieve this integration \?

secretary riley well , thank you very much. i think
and we 'll get a response from you all on that , and very interesting
work going on there. we 're going to have three people , our next
guests on the program this evening , that will be some specialists
in that area that you 're speaking , and i 'll certainly pass that on to
them and we can discuss it later.

you all care to comment any comments you might have \?

the president i 'd just like to say , if i might , one
thing. i want to reemphasize this and i do n't think i'm being as
clear about it as i 'd like , although i think at least one of the
people who will be on the second panel will be able to say it more
explicitly than i. i think this whole concept of applied academics
is very important. and i think that we have to basically abolish
what i consider to be a very artificial distinction between what is
vocational learning and what is academic learning.

i think we should keep the liberal arts going. i think
we should have a strong component for people who are in the
vocational program.

secretary reich it seems to me that we also need to
rethink our entire tracking system , because a lot of these school and
work combinations are important for mainstream students. they 're
important for all students. it 's not just a special group of
students that needs them.

some of the experiments that i 've seen around the united
states dick , i'm sure you 've seen them as well are mainstream
experiments. they 're mainstreaming all the students. at 11th and
12th grades they 're giving them a combined work and school experience
and then a transition program. and again , the kids can either go on
to college if they want they can go on to technical community they
can go on to an entirely a large variety of possibilities and
career directions.

but we have to get away from the stigmatizing that often
goes on with young people who simply are doing job related or work
related work within the classroom , within our schools.

secretary riley thank you , very much. i think that 's
going to be the last call that we have time for. mr. president , i
think you 've got to move on to another matter , and i want to thank
you and secretary reich for being here. we appreciate your time and
your ideas , and it 's been a tremendous help to us.

end9 00 p.m. edt




from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re a loathesome subject
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 18

in article 1993apr13.174636.15142@ads.com , henry@ads.com (henry mensch) writes
carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion) wrote
just curious (do n't have to answer if you feel uncomfortable)
how many times have you had sex with boys \?

why do you care \? if a total stranger asked you how often you had sex ,
would you answer \?

henry mensch booz , allen hamilton , inc. henry@ads.com

this is so typical of homosexuals constantly making excuses for
child molesters.




clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from dak988s@vma.smsu.edu
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization southwest mo state univ
lines 32
nntp posting host vma.smsu.edu
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2

in article 1993apr15.021021.7538@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article c5huh1.241@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
think about it should n't all drugs then be legalized , it would lower
the cost and definitely make them safer to use.

yes.

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine
legality.

why not \?

where do they get these people \? ! i really do n't want to waste time in
here to do battle about the legalization of drugs. if you really want to , we
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is !

you think that you all have it bad....here at good ol' southwest missouri
state u. , we have 2 parties running for student body president. there 's the
token sorority fraternity faces , and then there 's the president and vice
president of norml. they campaigned by handing out condoms and listing
their qualifications as , i listen really well. it makes me sick to have
a party established on many of the things that are ruining this country like
they are. i think i 'll run next year. (

darin j keener , dak988s@vma.smsu.edu
pc the idea that catering to splinter groups is the way to go.







from acunerbb@csugrad.cs.vt.edu (b. bilal acuner)
subject turkish preisident turgut ozal passed away
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va
lines 6
nntp posting host csugrad.cs.vt.edu

turkish president turgur ozal has passed away today after a heart attack in ankara at 11 00 am gmt .
mr. ozal was 66 years old.

bahadir acuner
acunerbb@csugrad.cs.vt.edu


from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
article i.d. optilink.15210
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 29

in article 1993apr3.165155.1@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz , quirke a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz writes
cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
i thought i was clear. because homosexuals support laws to force
employment of homosexuals against the will of some employers , they
are attempting to interfere with private acts between mutually consenting
adults.

ok , i 'll leave others to discuss your use of statistics , but i think i'm
able to discuss liberterian ideas.
the ideas are good. they seek to maximise individual rights by keeping
governments out of transactions between consenting adults. if an employer wants
to discriminate against a group , she he should be allowed to to maximise their
freedom. the discriminatees can go elsewhere.
unfortunately , it does n't relate to maximising total individual rights
within a community. if an employer or shopkeeper or whatever can discriminate
in this way , then the freedom of the discriminatee goes down. because people do
not live in perfect economic conditions , with perfect mobility , unlimited
numbers of potential employers of their skills , unlimited places to buy goods ,
the liberterian argument leads to a decrease in the amount of liberty in the
community.

you mean , if a large part of the population supports discrimination
against homosexuals , they will be injured. but if a large part of the
population supports such discrimination , how did that law get passed \?

tony quirke , wellington , new zealand. quirke a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from ssoar@tekig5.pen.tek.com (steven e soar)
subject re supply side revenue
distribution na
lines 22

in article c5217t.j5b@newsserver.technet.sg , ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes

the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the deficit to a level
above where it was when reagan left office.

which , considering the amount bush congress added to it , would be a
not inconsiderable achievement.

while we 're on the subject , i also believe that the supply side claim that
reducing taxes raised revenue is also false , because they typically factor in
socsec taxes , which were raised a considerable amount , at the same time that
income taxes were cut. if you look at income tax revenue alone , it fell after
after the cuts began , and did n't recover for several years. by then , record
deficits were well entrenched.

chew on that awhile.

crunch , crunch

steve soar



from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 53

in article c5iak2.5zh@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy) writes

clayton cramer

but what came out , in much lower profile reporting , was that the
victim was a prostitute , and the man had not paid her hence the
false accusation.

there was no evidence the woman in question was a prostitute , the
defense merely alledged that she was.

the fact that she was wearing a miniskirt with no underwear was
presented as evidence that she was a prostitute , and the court
apparently found this compelling.

even clayton knows the difference. err , perhaps clayton does n't know
the difference.

clayton does indeed know the difference. greg apparently does n't.

the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the marines
were engaged in self defense.

no , the judge found that the prosecution did not carry out the burder
on proof.

because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the
marines were engaged in self defense. got it , knucklehead \?

a small clipping from clarinews , under fair use guidelines

new hanover district court judge jacqueline morris goodson ruled in
the benchtrial that the state failed to carry its burden in proving
the marines acted to cause injury.

because , in part repeat after me , the judge found that there was
some credible evidence that the marines were engaged in self defense .
hopefully , one of these days you will understand.

interesting that in 2 of the 3 cases clayton does what he accuses
others of doing.

with respect to credibility , i would rate clayton cramer an order of
magnitude higher than a) the news media , and b) homosexuals.

but i never thought clayton was consistent.

clayton is indeed consistent. and so are you.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

from jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 56

in article 1993apr15.165139.6240@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article c5ij7h.l95@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1993apr15.021021.7538@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes
in article c5huh1.241@news.iastate.edu , jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
i really do n't want to waste time in
here to do battle about the legalization of drugs. if you really want to , we
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is !

read i do not know what the fuck i'm talking about , and am
not eager to make a fool of myself.


oh , you foolish person. i do know what the fuck i'm talking about
and will gladly demonstrate for such ignorants as yourself if you
wish.

the legalization of drugs will provide few if any of the benefits
so highly taunted by its proponents safer , cheaper drugs along
with revenues from taxes on those drugs reduced crime and reduced
organized crime specifically etc , etc

if you would like to prove how clueless you are , we can get into
why again a lot of wasted posts that i do n't think this group
was intended for and something easily solved by you doing a little
research.


from a pragmatic standpoint , there certainly is some justification
if it is a vice people will commit anyway. shall we criminalize
alcohol again \? if the re legalization for alcohol were done from



making you look bad is too damn easy. the vast social and historical
differences between alcohol and other drugs make this comparison
worthless.



vice statutes serve
only to make it more expensive for the rich and more dangerous
for the poor , as tim so eloquently put it. people will , however ,


and so it shall be if the government (by the people) decides that
these vices are detrimental to the society as a whole.


and why , pray tell , is aids victim in snear quotes \? are you of
the revisionist sort that thinks there is no such thing as the aids
plauge \? or do they just deserve it \?


the overwhelmingly vast majority (get the point)
of aids cases are contracted thru behavioral choices. nuff said.


from julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
nntp posting host eddie.jpl.nasa.gov
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca
lines 73


in article c513wj.75y@encore.com rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins) writes
julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas) writes
in article c50fnh.cvo@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
with a tip of the hat to david letterman for making the top ten format
so popular

top ten reasons that conservatives do n't want to aid russia

looking around who \? where \?
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia. many other
conservatives do as well.

yes , it was nixon who was most vocal about giving money to russia. it
makes me proud to be a libertarian. it appears both conservatives and
liberals prefer to cold war until you win , then nurse the enemy back to
health for another go around.

enemy \? sounds like that 's the viewpoint of the stereotypical rednecked
conservative 'always been commies , always will be.' i suggest you
listen very carefully to the stuff yeltsin and his people are saying
and compare that with the very anti west slogans coming from his
opponents in the russian congress. i sure know who i want to back.

oh , btw , germany has sure come back as a terrible enemy after wwii ,
has n't it \?

it 's like subsidizing the wealthy countries (japan , germany , etc.) with
free defense , and then trade warring with them because of the economic
competition. it 's like subsidizing tobacco farmers while paying
bureaucrats to pursuade people not to smoke.

better to let them degenerate into civil war \? remember all those
nuclear weapons in russia. i cannot imagine that they would not
be used in a civil war. if nationialists take over and , even if
they prevent a civil war , most feel they must take back large
parts of land that are in other countries (like ukraine.) i also cannot
imagine ukraine giving up land without a fight , possibly nuclear.

how does this affect us \? well , we are on the same planet and if
vast tracks of europe are blown away i think we 'd feel something.
a massive breakup of a country that spans 1 6th the planet is
bound to have affects here. (of course , there is also the
humanitarian argument that democracies should help other
democracies (or struggling democracies).)


i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing
stupid , frivilous things with our money \? then i think , the constitution
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money
from my paycheck and gives it to needy countries \? seriously.

seriously. everyone has different opinions on what is stupid.
my two causes are aid to russia and a strong space program.
someone else will champion welfare or education or doing studies
of drunken goldfish. that is why we have a republic and not a
true democracy. instead of gridlock on a massive scale , we
only have gridlock on a congressional scale.

btw , who is to decide 'stupid \? ' this is just like those who
want to impose their 'morals' on others just the sort of
thing i thought libertarians were against.

actually , my politics are pretty libertarian except on this one issue
and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. it seems
that libertarians want to withdraw from the rest of the world and
let it sink or swim. we could do that 100 years ago but not now.
like it or not we are in the beginnings of a global economy and
global decision making.

julie
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else

subject re cbs ny times poll on health care alternatives
from jwh@citi.umich.edu (jim howe)
reply to jwh@citi.umich.edu
organization ifs project , university of michigan
nntp posting host tarkus.citi.umich.edu
lines 31

in article 1993apr6.175543.19590@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
thought others on the net might be interested in a selection of findings
from the new york times cbs news poll on national health care. i 'll leave
it to doug fierro to enter the entire article if he chooses. what follows
is a selection of the findings. (paraphrased without permission. any
errors are mine , not the times. the ny times does n't make mistakes.)

poll results deleted

the economic and political ignorance of most americans can be truly scary.
price controls and government intervention. the surest route to
disaster. it 's amazing , people never seem to learn from history (or
common sense). price controls do not , and cannot work. i would have
thought our last experiment in the 70 's would have been enough to
dampen the belief that price controls can actually work. as for
government intervention , people never seem to get the irony of what
the are saying. we are told that entitlements are the biggest portion
of the budget and they must be 'controlled'. we are presented with
horror stories of waste and fraud in almost all government agencies.
we are shown stories about the miserable treatment our veterans get
in our government run hospitals. we are just now seeing stories about
how social security is n't going to cut it in the future (as if that
should come as any surprise). and yet , people choose to ignore all
of that and believe in the fairy tale of the government coming to
the rescue. simply amazing.



james w. howe internet jwh@citi.umich.edu
university of michigan uucp uunet ! mailrus ! citi.umich.edu ! jwh
ann arbor , mi 48103 4943

from golchowy@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca (gerald olchowy)
subject re help fight the clinton administration 's invasion of your privacy
organization university of toronto chemistry department
lines 16

in article 9308@blue.cis.pitt.edu cjp @pitt.edu (casimir j palowitch) writes
the clinton administration wants to manage your use of digital
encryption. this includes a proposal which would limit your use of
encryption to a standard developed by the nsa , the technical details of
which would remain classified with the government.

this cannot be allowed to happen.


it is a bit unfair to call blame the clinton administration alone...this
initiative was underway under the bush administration...it is basically
a bipartisan effort of the establishment demopublicans and
republicrats...the same bipartisan effort that brought the s l scandal ,
and bcci , etc.

gerald

from jfh@rpp386 (john f. haugh ii)
subject re representation of territories \? (was re the 11 , 250 , 000 , 000 , 000 lunch)
reply to jfh@rpp386.cactus.org (john f. haugh ii)
organization river parishes programming , austin tx
distribution tx
lines 17

in article cmi32b1w165w@keys.lonestar.org cwinemil@keys.lonestar.org (chris winemiller) writes
does anyone have knowledge about how this was handled in
the past , such as with the louisiana territory or the northwest
territory \?

those areas became states.

puerto rico has the population needed to become a state. but the ethnic
mix there is such that puerto rico will probably never become a state.

i say we cut them loose. if they do n't want to become a state , we
should n't continue to subsidize their existence.

john f. haugh ii pgp 2.1 ! 's ... ! cs.utexas.edu ! rpp386 ! jfh
ma bell (512) 251 2151 dof 17 @ 's jfh@rpp386.cactus.org
look up ponzi scheme in a good dictionary it will have a picture of joe
liberal handout right next to it. stop federal spending. cut the deficit.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re lincoln slavery (re top ten tricks you can play on the american voter)
article i.d. optilink.15238
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 16

in article 1993apr2.154232.29527@princeton.edu , glhewitt@phoenix.princeton.edu (gary livingston hewitt) writes
in article 1993apr2.055109.5833@rigel.econ.uga.edu depken@rigel.econ.uga.edu (craig depken) writes
to which is concluded...
the south only wanted free trade ! ! !

no , they wanted slavery. if free trade was in their economic interests
under that regime (which it was) , then free trade they wanted too. but

gary l hewitt glhewitt@phoenix.princeton.edu

of course , free trade and slavery do n't make much sense together in
a phrase anyway. perhaps mr. depken meant , low import tariffs , but
that is quite a bit less than free trade.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 51

in c5l0v1.jcv@news.cso.uiuc.edu dans@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (dan s.) writes

brian@gab.unt.edu (brian drakula stone) writes

(no axe to grind here i'm just a scientist and i hate to see statistics abused.)

pity you did n't say something about the use of statistics to justify
targeting and persecuting a minority , then.

men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male. i have had sex three
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin.

i am a hetero man and have had sex with one woman in my life (my wife). it is
very pleasing to me to be able to say that. i hope you have the same feeling
as i do. i also wish that you could (if you wanted) experience the joys and
trials of being committed to someone for life (there is something about marriage
that makes the commitment much greater than one might expect).

what in the tree makes you think we queers can't experience that commitment \?
what 's stopping us from committing to one partner for the rest of our lives \?
i have every intention of doing so , once i find the right person...and
whether that person is male or female , i seriously doubt that a church
ceremony public vow licence will make any difference whatsoever in the sort
of commitment i experience with that person. you have no conception of the
difference marriage makes since you have never known any other way.


statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default hetero...

do n't forget about the culture. sadly , we do n't (as a society) look upon
homosexuality as normal (and as we are all too well aware , there are alot
of people who condemn it). as a result , the gay population is not encouraged
to develop non promiscuous relationships. in fact there are many roadblocks
put in the way of such committed relationships. it is as if the heterosexual
community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays
are immoral. my , if we allowed gays to marry , raise children ... we might
just find out they 're as moral as we are , ca n't have that can we \?

you 're getting to the right idea here...just be careful of making statements
like the above , and you 'll be part of the solution and not the problem.

just some thoughts. flame away. )

no flames necessary. )

drywid

bi andrew d. simchik schnopia !
as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu treewater

words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes

from rcollins@encore.com (roger collins)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
organization encore computer corporation
nntp posting host sysgem1.encore.com
lines 116

julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas) writes
in article c513wj.75y@encore.com rcollins@ns.encore.com (roger collins) writes
julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas) writes
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia. many other
conservatives do as well.

yes , it was nixon who was most vocal about giving money to russia. it
makes me proud to be a libertarian. it appears both conservatives and
liberals prefer to cold war until you win , then nurse the enemy back to
health for another go around.

enemy \? sounds like that 's the viewpoint of the stereotypical rednecked
conservative 'always been commies , always will be.'

ok , i should have said former enemy. i was being sarcastic about what
interventionists want to do.

i suggest you
listen very carefully to the stuff yeltsin and his people are saying
and compare that with the very anti west slogans coming from his
opponents in the russian congress. i sure know who i want to back.

could we back him without forcing others to back him at the point of a
gun \?

have you considered a non interventionist policy \? if market reform does
happen , russia will certainly get private capital at private risk to
help their economy. they will even have incentive to do so for the same
reason. if they do n't reform , then our government will probably
consider them enemies anyway and rather spend money to hurt rather than help
them.

then their 's the ideological point. we want to win russia over to
our type of government a type where the rulers can rule without limit
over everyone 's finances \?

it 's like subsidizing the wealthy countries (japan , germany , etc.) with
free defense , and then trade warring with them because of the economic
competition. it 's like subsidizing tobacco farmers while paying
bureaucrats to pursuade people not to smoke.

better to let them degenerate into civil war \? remember all those
nuclear weapons in russia. i cannot imagine that they would not
be used in a civil war. if nationialists take over and , even if
they prevent a civil war , most feel they must take back large
parts of land that are in other countries (like ukraine.) i also cannot
imagine ukraine giving up land without a fight , possibly nuclear.

how does this affect us \? well , we are on the same planet and if
vast tracks of europe are blown away i think we 'd feel something.
a massive breakup of a country that spans 1 6th the planet is
bound to have affects here. (of course , there is also the
humanitarian argument that democracies should help other
democracies (or struggling democracies).)

if a 1.6 billion gift was that important to our well being , could n't it
be raised voluntarilly \? people already give over 100 billion a year to
charity.


i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing
stupid , frivilous things with our money \? then i think , the constitution
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money
from my paycheck and gives it to needy countries \? seriously.

seriously. everyone has different opinions on what is stupid.
my two causes are aid to russia and a strong space program.
someone else will champion welfare or education or doing studies
of drunken goldfish. that is why we have a republic and not a
true democracy. instead of gridlock on a massive scale , we
only have gridlock on a congressional scale.

it seems instead of gridlock on any scale , we have aid to russia ,
expensive space programs , national charity that does n't help the poor ,
and probably , studies of drunken goldfish. i think limited government
is more key than how democratic it is.

btw , who is to decide 'stupid \? ' this is just like those who
want to impose their 'morals' on others just the sort of
thing i thought libertarians were against.

that was an opinion , and libertarians are very big on free speech.

actually , my politics are pretty libertarian except on this one issue
and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. it seems
that libertarians want to withdraw from the rest of the world and
let it sink or swim.

if you are pretty libertarian except on this one issue then you should
be very libertarian. consider it a compromise. how much money would
your fellow russia aiders have to give to russia if those you oppose
were n't using the same government machine to steal money from you
and your group for causes you do n't support \?

we could do that 100 years ago but not now.

people have been saying that for hundreds of years.

like it or not we are in the beginnings of a global economy and
global decision making.

all the more reason to depend on the free market which can more
efficiently process information , than to depend on rulers for decisions
on complex issues.

julie
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else

roger collins

sometimes it is said that man cannot be trusted with the government
of himself. can he , then , be trusted with the government of others \?
or have we found angels in the forms of kings to govern him \? let
history answer this question.
thomas jefferson , first inaugural address

from v140pxgt@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (daniel b case)
subject re eight myths about national health insurance (pt ii)
organization university at buffalo
lines 147
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
nntp posting host ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu

in article 1993apr18.001116.19872@news.columbia.edu , gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes...
the difference in the litigation environment is reflected in the fees.

lack of defensive medicine and near absence of malpractice is really

why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure insurance


then why do we really need national health insurance then \? would n't it just make
more sense to find some way to cut down on the cost of malpractice insurance \?

and maybe that 's not such a good thing. i also read somewhere that it is next to
impossible in canada to litigate against the health system class action suits
are nearly impossible , and you ca n't sue the provincial health officials at all.


part of the deal for using the all insurance approach like the french
and germans do (hey , why do n't they criticize france and germany \? is
it because too many people take french and german in college to make
the accusations stick \? ( ) was to preserve the doctors independance.
since the provincial wings of the cma are the ones that go to bat when
the fee schedule hikes are presented , the politically bent doctors
were just cackling when they realized the cma would grow in strength
rather than diminish , especially when unopposed unlike in socialized
medicine approaches like britain 's national health service.

oh no. do n't let the ama know about this. they have enough power as it is. ask
most americans whether they 'd like the doctors' lobby to get more powerful.

for non life threatening things , market arguments adequately cover why
certain procedures are in scarcer demand. i have md friends who ca n't
make a living as specialists back in manitoba not due to the insurance
rates but because they wo n't get enough customers the cma medical
monopoly 's grip on doctors licencing (as in the us) aside so they
must move to larger places. however , this does not refute debunking
of waiting lines for urgent and routine care , as has been done in the
u.s. by consumers reports , health policy studies cited by prof. dennis
e. shea on usenet , cnn , nyt , etc.

well , yeah , tell us about the national defense medical centre outside ottawa.
theoretically it 's limited to service personnel , but some studies i 've heard
about have suggested that about half the patients there are civilians who not
only have connections but are n't urgent at all.

the problem is , in a system where hospitals' annual budgets are approved by the
government , how do you keep political considerations out of medical decisions \?
i bet that if you 're an mp or mpp , or good friends with one , you 're put on any
hospital 's urgent care list no matter how minor your problem. which is ok
unless you 're someone who gets bumped off the list for some bigshot.

wouldn't national health insurance mean that americans who are now
fully insured might have to settle for less \?

in canada , provincial insurance covers all health costs except dental
care , eyeglasses , prescription drugs , ambulance service , and private
hospital rooms , so many canadians do end up buying some private
insurance. a policy to cover all of these things runs about 40 to 40
a month.

hmm. how much difference would it make in the figure of percentage of gnp spent
on health care if dentistry and optometry were included in the accounting \?
maybe canada spends proportionately just as much on health care as we do.


of course , the one thing to note is that in the canada france germany
case , private insurance offloaded the basic coverage to the public
sector. they realized they were keeping low risk high profit extra
insurance for things like private semi private rooms (vs. ward
accomodation) , dental , glasses , etc. for corporate or personal
benefits , they 'll have nothing to do with you if you want to be
covered for basic care.

at that point , they would n't even consider a voucher approach
to broker the universal coverage and sell policies to make up
the difference in the federal guidelines and market stuff.

so what happens if the health care systems financially collapse. bob rae , the
second least popular man in ontario , warned ontarians a few years ago that if
they did n't stop cross border shopping in such huge numbers , the services they
expect from the province just wo n't be there in a few years (fortunately for
them (and less fortunately for the retailers here in western new york) the
canadian dollar went back to a more realistic value). he did n't say so , but i
knew he meant the ohip. what would happen if his warning turned out to be the
truth \? would the private insurers take up the slack \? they 'd be under no
obligation to. of course , they could eventually make money again , but if what
you say is true , they 'd be loathe to do so (and out of practice in handling
such basic services , too).




wouldn't free care encourage people to run to the doctor for every
ache and pain \?

people who get free treatment do go to the doctor and hospital about
a third more often than those who have to pay a share of their medical
bills.

still , canadians who pay nothing at the doctor 's have a lower
per person health bill than we do.

it is free in that there are no deductibles nor copayments (two
things which i advocate to make the canadian insurance look more like
real health insurance which actually it is). i know that when
working in alberta , ontario and quebec , i was aware that i was paying
for health insurance e.g. , in toronto , ohip fees were listed on my
pay stub manitoba did not collect at paycheque time , but only
annually at income tax time (built into the tax rate). only fiscal
naifs will proclaim that it 's free , along with the canadian left for
that is part of their brainwashing agenda.

would that it were free. americans would start another revolution if they had
to pay taxes at canadian rates.

isn't the private health insurance industry just too big
and powerful to kill \?

dismantling the health segment of our insurance industry would be
politically thorny , in the quiet words of one advocate for a
national plan. some 1 , 200 firms now sell more than 192 billion in
health insurance. they 'd put up a hard fight. not only has the industry
grown eightfold since canada shut down its own health insurers , but
our government leaves politicians more open to lobbyists than does
canada 's parliamentary system.

health insurance does exist in canada and in western europe , its
just that it does n't cover basic care. you can opt out in canada
and germany , but you 'll have to go uninsured as a result because
there are too few other people that do so i.e. , no market.

when private insurance realized how much money they 'd make without the
risks involved in basic insurance (e.g. , neurosurgery) versus deluxe
amenities (e.g. , having to call granada tv to replace a rental set on
the fritz in someone 's private hospital room) , they started to pat
themselves on the back for their social responsibility. in quebec
last spring , a consortium of private insurers publicly warned against
any thoughts of privatizing routine , low cost parts of that province 's
public health insurance plan.

again , i doubt americans would like giving the insurance companies that much
power. i half wonder if the canadian health insurers did n't go along with the
provinces and the federal government years ago because they knew that there was
a good chance of the public system going bust in the long run , and then
afterwards they could clean up (okay , this sort of contradicts what i said
higher up. but it 's another possibility). they 'd have an added bonus when
arguing against government involvement in their industry as they could then
point to its failure instead of just citing theoretical principles.

from visser@convex.com (lance visser)
subject re abolish selective service
nntp posting host dhostwo.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 46


dave borden (borden@head cfa.harvard.edu) wrote
the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.

more gridlock talk from another relic of the past. the
selective service system creates jobs and is an investment in
the future of america......and whats wrong with that \?

we need jobs because at this point in the recovery , the economy
should have generated 10 billion jobs and since it has not , the
government has to step in and help. shutting down selective service
would cost good jobs and we ca n't do that.

what we really need is to involve selective service in a more
closely directed manner. we need the selective service involved
in environmental protection , high speed rail , commuter aircraft ,
civil rights , national service and health care. every dollar
we put into selective service now will get us 10 less spending
in future.

i really believe now to think about it that selective service
is long past due for the creation of a cabinet position.


your not beyond hope , just get back on america 's side and
start doing your part for change. what bill needs from you
now is support for the economic stimulus and health care reform.
you need to devote all your energies to fighting gridlock and
supporting change. get on the team. after all , the evil has
been banished from washington and the time for complaint
is past being neccessary.

and remember , bill clinton cares. he may someday even have
a town meeting in your city. if your an appropriate sort of
person , if you phrase your questions properly and show the
proper respect and awe , you might have the chance to ask mr ,
president your question in person.



from dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be)
subject re defense against the detractors...
organization university of oregon
lines 93
distribution world
nntp posting host oregon.uoregon.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 1993apr2.021154.18039@colorado.edu ,
ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes...
in article c4tdab.a4o@panix.com eck@panix.com (mark eckenwiler) writes
in 1993apr1.141455.16433@colorado.edu , ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu sez
(i would have thought you would have found better means
of refuting or responding to the substantive points and information in
the s.b.

the s.b. needs no refutation by me. the patent absurdity of your
beloved great book speaks for itself.

your ignorance is clearly showing itself again , mark.
why do n't you read the post and show us all where the
silver bulletin is wrong. it is an expose' of the
corruption and fraud in government. or do you feel
that our wonderful state is just nifty and sweet \?

fine. if you think it 's an expose of corruption and fraud ,
please prevent a jury question. do n't just reassert your
opening statement.

. . .
for those in the dark , i wrote to teel 's sysadmin noting that a) he
wastes bandwidth by posting identical messages (long ones) to several
newsgroups independently (instead of cross posting) , and b) he has
improperly used his posts to advertise goods for sale.
a) i was requested to post to those groups
and they were getting deleted... by whom \?
b) the goods for sale was a method of showing the
source and obtaining further info...
and the message in question was retrieved in its entirety
from the net. i simply reposted it from one year ago.

would there be a complaint if i had posted an article from
newsweek then posted the address and subscription price \?
how about the subscription info for the american law review \?
bit of a double standard \? yeah... think so...

no indication that was what happened until now. editing down is
always possible.

. . .
readers more careful than a.j. will note that the complaint (appended
below) expressly disclaims any wish to suppress teel 's postings merely
because they are infantile , irrational , and tedious.
more name calling , mark \? is that your best shot \?
oh , i see. the reason for your sending that letter
had nothing to do with your opinion of my information...
right. clearly your motivations were the best interest
of all of those poor users who could not speak for themselves.
if we were n't talking about attempted censorship(sp \? ) , it
would be funny...

further , your perception (for want of a better term) is not
the feedback that i have been getting via email and others.
the keep it up ! 's outnumber the go away ! 's at least 20 to 1.

it would be interesting to hear who the responding parties are.

i , for one , have no intention of being a slave. you may
be so if you like. just remember where you heard that
on tribute day (april 15). i am not a 14th amendment
taxpayer slave ssn holder etc. are you \?

for discussion purposes only

do n't let the irs see this , mr. teel.

. . . .
and by the way , the reference to ucc 1 207 is made
in pari materia with my common law rights. 1 207
is the recourse and 1 103 is the remedy.

and , as has been noted more times than we care to count , about as
likely to stand up in court as the twenty seven eight by ten
color glossy pictures the stockbridge , mass. , police , took for
use as evidence against arlo guthrie. (as anyone who knows
alice 's restaurant is aware , he pleaded guilty to littering , was
fined 50 , and told to pick up the garbage.)

daniel reitman

how not to write a deed

one case involved the construction of a conveyance to grantees jointly , as
tenants in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the
survivor thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the
said parties hereto , equally , jointly , as tenants in common , with equal rights
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the survivor thereof
at the death of the other.

the court held that the survivorship provision indicated an intent to create a
joint tenancy. germain v. delaine , 294 ala. 443 , 318 so.2d 681 (1975).

from rhockins@enrico.tmc.edu (russ)
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster
distribution na
organization etc organization
lines 46

in article philc5ht85.h48@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes

not at all. you are apparently just another member of the religious left.


not at all. i am not a member of the religious left , right , or even
center. in fact i do n't consider myself very religious at all this will
probably result in flames now ) . in fact phil , you should leave
religion out of it. it just clouds the issue.

show me all these environmental disasters . most of them are n't. and the
natural disasters we have had individually far outweigh the man made ones.

how typical. so you think we should n't avoid these 'events' i shall
refrain from the word disaster since it seems to upset you so much. (
when we can. in case you did n't realize it , the natural disasters oops ,
sorry events you are refering to we have no control over. man made
ones we do.

i guess you missed the show on ch 20 earlier this week about the disaster
oops there i go again... i meant to say event on the exxon valdez.
just a natural every day occurance to spread oil on 300 miles of beach. i
would like to know which natural event hey i remembered not to say disaster
that would be similar to this.

most of your so called disasters (love canal , times beach , tmi) are n't
disasters at all.

hmm , i suppose you could be right. they are as natural as a tree , or a
sunrise. not !

so look , if you want to worship trees (or owls or snails or whatever) , fine , do
so. but don't try to push the scaredness of your religious off onto me.


so look , if you want to worship a oil slick ( or toxic waste dump or live
in a house that has a cesspool in the front yard ) , fine , you have my
permission to do so yea right like you need my permission... , it just
wo n't be in the neighborhood where i live. but don't try to push your
shortsighted tunnelvision views off on the rest of us.


russell hockins there are people who believe that there is
innovative interfaces , inc. no such thing as an environmental disaster.
pretty weird... ai n't it \?
my own opinions no one elses packet ka6foy @ ki6yk. nocal.ca.na.usa

from mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization gordian costa mesa , ca
distribution ca
lines 13

in article 1qjtmjinnq45@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov , carlos@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (carlos carrion) writes
i have come to the conclusion that the tv stations here in la
want a riot to happen when the verdict comes in.

why is this surprising \? then the times can get a few more
pulitzers the same way they did last year.


michael thomas (mike@gordian.com)
i do n't think bambi eyes will get you that flame thrower...
hobbes to calvin
usnail 20361 irvine ave santa ana heights , ca , 92707 5637
pabell (714) 850 0205 (714) 850 0533 (fax)

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton press briefing by george stephanopoulos 4.14.93
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 996
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu





the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 14 , 1993



press briefing
by george stephanopoulos


the briefing room


12 40 p.m. edt


mr. stephanopoulos i guess i'm just prepared to take
questions today.

q george , bob dole says that the clinton
administration 's policy on bosnia is a failure and that he wants the
united states to take the lead in lifting the arms embargo so that
the bosnian muslims can defend themselves.

mr. stephanopoulos as you know , president clinton has
said that that suggestion is under active consideration. obviously ,
this is a tragic situation in bosnia. and if the bosnian serbs do n't
come to the negotiating table in a constructive way , we 'll look
seriously at pressing for lifting the arms embargo. in the meantime ,
we 're going to continue to press for a tough sanctions resolution in
the u.n. we 're going to continue to work on the serbs to come to the
negotiating table. but the prospect of an arms embargo is something
the president certainly will consider if the serbs do n't come to the
table.

q how much longer are you going to give them to come
to the table , george \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're working on that right now.

q it 's been a long time.

q on february 19th , the president mentioned the value
added tax in ohio. and when he was asked about it later by
reporters , he said quote that is a radical change in the tax
system of the united states. it 's something i think we may have to
look at in the years ahead. questioned again about it later he
says , it is not something that is now under consideration. if we
start considering it , i 'll tell you. it was n't a trial balloon or
anything , he said. i was just discussing the tax response to a
question. donna shalala , quoted in usa today this morning quote
certainly we 're looking at a vat. what 's gone on \?

q the same with alice rivlin this morning.

mr. stephanopoulos the health care task force is
reviewing a number of options. they have n't made any decisions yet.
and as i have said from this podium time and time again , we 're not
going to comment on decisions that have n't been made.

q but you have also said from this podium time and
time again

q wait a minute. whoa , nelly. whoa.

q that that was not under consideration.

q yes. clinton says , it is not something that is
now under consideration. is that no longer true \?

mr. stephanopoulos i believe the working group , as ms.
shalala says , has looked at this prospect , but no decisions have been
made of any kind.

q well , i know. but he said he 'd tell us about it if
it was ever under consideration. i take it that now he is and he
did n't tell us about it or

mr. stephanopoulos did he say if it was under
consideration or if it was something to be proposed \?

q if we start considering i 'll tell you.

mr. stephanopoulos if it 's something to be proposed \?

q if we start considering it , i 'll tell you.
that 's a direct quote.

mr. stephanopoulos the task force has looked at a
number of different options. they have not made any decisions yet.
the president has not made any decisions yet. this is one of the
proposals under consideration by the task force was to go out and
cast as wide a net as possible for different ideas on how to reform
the health care system. they have cast a very wide net. they have
looked at hundreds of different proposals probably thousands of
different proposals. but the president has not made any decisions.

q well , is the president aware of their consideration
of this option \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if he 's been briefed
on any preliminary conclusions or anything like that from the task
force on this specific proposal of any kind. i do n't know that
that 's gotten to his level. he started yesterday to go through with
the task force a very wide range of decisions and i do n't believe
that that 's been presented to him , no.

q well , he 's not relying on the usa today to tell him
what his task force is considering in the way of taxes.

mr. stephanopoulos no , he 's going through it in a very
deliberate fashion. there are a number of decisions that have to be
made. i do n't know that this proposal has reached that decision
making point.

q if this is still under consideration , that 's a
change , at least from what we 've been told by dee dee , i think about
three weeks ago or so. she said , that is not an option , talking
about the had a big argument with somebody over this , so i
remember it specifically and said it not once , but twice. is that
not the case \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , i do n't know if this has
been presented to the president as something that is being looked at
at some level in the task force.

q it was ruled it out , though. i mean , unlike other
options that you 've kept in the mix , this one specifically was ruled
out.

mr. stephanopoulos again , this is something that is
being looked at , but no decision has been made of any kind. i mean ,
it does n't it 's not necessarily material until you get to the
decision making phase. the working groups are looking at hundreds of
different options.

q if it was ruled out before and it 's not ruled out
now , then something has changed , george. yes , no \?

q when a guy says in february

mr. stephanopoulos well , the working groups are
looking at the widest possible range of options.

q so something 's changed. they were n't looking at it
before they 're looking at it now.

mr. stephanopoulos well , i do n't know if the working
groups have gotten to that point yet. they are casting a very wide
net.

q how was it possible that you and dee dee were able
to sell definitively rule it out as an option previously and now
are saying that , in fact , it is being considered \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , the working groups are
looking at a wide range of options. they have not

q do you deny that you and dee dee ruled it flatly
ruled it out on several occasions in the past month \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't deny that i mean , those
are the president 's words. those are very clear.

q subsequent to the president 's words , do you deny
that within the last month you and dee dee have both publicly ruled
it out \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know about the timing. i
think what we did was refer back to the president 's words and say
they stand.

q so do n't they stand any longer \?

q march 25th , clinton said for the next four to five
years it was ruled out.

mr. stephanopoulos well , those words the president
did say that in february. the working groups are on a separate
track , and as i said , i do n't believe

q separate from the president \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't believe this has been
presented to the president.

q are they considering something that the president


q has ruled out \?

q has ruled out \? i mean , will the president
consider a vat tax \?

mr. stephanopoulos again , the working groups have not
presented this to the president. they have looked at a wide range of
options. i suppose that if an argument is made , he will clearly
listen to it. that does not mean he has decided to do it.

q can we put this another way \? in his answer in
ohio , he looked at the vat in terms of restructuring the whole tax
system. under those that was the circumstance that he said it
might be considered at some future point. is that no longer the
case , or is that the only way that he can see a vat emerging \?

mr. stephanopoulos i guess i'm not sure exactly what
you 're asking.

q he talked about the vat in the context of a
restructured tax system , not as a specific way to finance health
care , for example.

q or anything else.

q or anything else.

q it was always in the context of substituting for
other taxes at a time of a dramatic overhaul of the whole tax system.

mr. stephanopoulos right.

q has that change , too \?

q is that still his view \?

mr. stephanopoulos i have n't spoken about those
specific comments. i think i can just go back to it are the
working groups have they examined the possibility of a vat \? yes ,
they have.

q certainly we 're looking at a vat , she said.

mr. stephanopoulos they have examined the possibility
of a vat. has it been presented to the president \? has he made a
decision \? no , he has not.

q what kind of a deal do you have when you 've got the
president 's appointed task force , obviously not oblivious to his
ruling something out except in the context of some huge down the line
reform , goes ahead on its own and considers a tax which he has
specifically ruled out in any context other than much later , and then
goes ahead and announces that that 's what they 're looking at \? is the
president concerned about that sort of thing \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think that the president 's
concern is to make sure he gets the best health care proposal
possible. he 's concerned with making sure that they have the most
thorough process for examining all the possible alternatives , all the
different alternatives. if a decision is made to go forward with
something like that it 's certainly something the president will
explain and justify. but no decision has been made along those
lines.

q what does it mean exactly , though , when the
president rules something out \? does it mean it can get back on the
table later if a more persuasive argument is made \?

mr. stephanopoulos that 's just that 's indisputably
true. if you but , at the same time , he has not ruled it in. he
has not made a proposal.

q what makes him open to it now when he was n't open
to it before \?

mr. stephanopoulos he 's certainly willing to listen to
the argument.

q was he willing to listen to the argument for a
short term tax this year , and he was n't willing to listen to it in
chilicothe \? he 's now open to it

mr. stephanopoulos the context of his comments was
that it was not something he wanted to be clear that this is not
something he was proposing , not something he was floating.

q not something he was considering. those are his
words it 's not something that 's now under consideration. if we
start considering it , i 'll tell you. you 're now acknowledging , are
you not , that it is under consideration and

mr. stephanopoulos i'm acknowledging that the task
force has studied this proposal. i am also stating that the
president has not made a decision on it.

q but the door is open for the president to
reconsider including this as part of

mr. stephanopoulos obviously , the working groups are
looking at it. again , but the president has not made a decision.

q do you know if they will make a presentation on
behalf of the vat to him \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know that. i assume that
if i do n't know what stage they are it in proposing. i do n't know
that they 're going to make the conclusion that this is something they
should present to him. i know this is something the working groups
are looking at.

q do you understand , george , that none of us are
asking these questions in context of a decision that the president
has made , only about what the president is considering \?

mr. stephanopoulos i understand that , and i am
acknowledging that the working groups have examined the issue of a
vat.

q and the president will consider it \?

mr. stephanopoulos i assume that he will consider the
argument if it is presented to him.

q does that mean the president that working groups
think that when the president says no , he means maybe \? (laughter.)

mr. stephanopoulos i think that means that the working
groups are trying to do the most thorough job possible.

q george , can i ask you another question about
bosnia \?

mr. stephanopoulos sure. (laughter.)

q no , he wants us to stay on this.

q let 's do gays in the military. (laughter.)

q no , he got out of that swamp.

q i think we 've gotten the bottom line on that vat.
reggie bartholomew , your special ambassador in belgrade , today said
that if the serbs do not accept the agreement that has been worked
out quote we will do our part to pursue the lifting of the
arms embargo together with our allies. that seems to go a bit
further than what you 've just said

mr. stephanopoulos sounds almost exactly what i just
said.

q well , do you accept in other words , you accept
what reggie

mr. stephanopoulos well , the president has said that
this is something that 's under consideration. it is something he
will consider if the current actions do n't bring the serbs to the
table.

q is n't there some kind of timetable here \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes , there is a timetable. there 's
going to be a vote on the u.n. resolution in about 10 days.

q that 's on sanctions , that 's on tightening the
sanctions.

mr. stephanopoulos that 's right , that 's sanctions.
and we believe that that will ratchet up the pressure , and we hope
that that will bring the serbs to the table. as you know , mr.
bartholomew also met with mr. churkin of russia , and they are also
working on ways to bring the serbs to the table. we will continue to
pressure them in many different ways and this is one possible option
as well.

q the question is whether there 's a timetable for
consideration or a vote on a decision on lifting the arms embargo ,
not the sanctions.

mr. stephanopoulos the next vote in the u.n. is on
sanctions. as far as i know , there are no votes scheduled on lifting
the arms embargo. but it is something that we have discussed both
internally and with our allies.

q why did reggie bartholomew tell the serbs that the
u.s. would do that \? what was the point of his telling them that \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , clearly , i mean , this is
something that 's under consideration , and this is something that we
take quite seriously if they do not come to the table. they should
know the consequences of failing to come to the table.

q have they been given a deadline \?

q warren christopher has been saying the same thing
and it has n't seemed to change the serbs' behavior in the least. why
should the serbs take any heed of a threat to lift the arms embargo
when so far everything that 's been done has had no effect on the
fighting in bosnia \?

mr. stephanopoulos i just do n't accept the premise of
your question. it has had an effect the embargo is having an
effect.

q what effect \?

mr. stephanopoulos if the serbians choose not to heed
our warnings , then they will face the consequences.

q what effect has it had in bosnia \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , the effect that it has had on
the serbians , it has tightened up they are not getting their
shipments through. we can brief more fully

q in bosnia , george. in bosnia what effect has it
had \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , it 's hard to say if it 's
stopped the aggression to date. that is why we 're continuing to
press for the serbians to stop. but we believe that over time we
will continue to weaken the serbs and that will have an effect.
i'm not saying it 's going to happen overnight it clearly has n't
happened overnight. but we believe that over time the sanctions can
weaken the serbs. if it fails to work and if the serbs fail to come
to the negotiating table , we 'll move forward with the embargo.

q is n't there a working deadline , george , of the 24th
the same date as the u.n. the scheduled u.n. vote \? has n't the
united states said , along with many of the other nato allies , that if
the serbs are n't willing to sign on to the peace accord by then , that
we 'll seek have n't we said that we will seek

mr. stephanopoulos we 've said continually we 're going
to

q but on that deadline \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't have a specific date , but
we 're going to move forward with the resolution , the u.n. resolution ,
by around that time. and if that fails to take effect , if that fails
to bring the serbs to the table , we will clearly consider other
actions.

q is n't this awfully incremental \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're taking a step by step
approach. we 're ratcheting up the pressure and we 're going to
continue to do that.

q is there a possibility , george , that by the time
all these incremental steps are taken the serbs will have achieved
their goals and then what 's the purpose \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think the purpose is to get the
serbs to stop the aggression. we are pursuing that goal on many
different fronts. we are pursuing it through the u.n. we 're
pursuing it through direct talks we are pursuing it through
tightening the sanctions. and we will consider lifting the arms
embargo. we are turning the screws up on the serbs and we will
continue to do that.

q but if the efforts have been unsuccessful in
getting the serbs to stop the aggression how effective will any
campaign be to have the serbs give back what they 've gained \? i mean ,
once they 're entrenched

mr. stephanopoulos i ca n't speculate on that. we 're
going to continue to press for them to come to the table now. we 're
going to continue to find ways to stop the aggression. but i ca n't
see into the future.

q george , on the stimulus package , house republicans
say they 're going to hold a series of town meetings on saturday to
try and explain the details of your package. they cite polls which
show that the more people learn about it , the less they like it.
what 's your strategy to counter that \?

mr. stephanopoulos the strategy we have is the one
we 're going to continue. as you saw , the president today pointed up
the very real benefits of the summer jobs program that this package
will provide 700 , 000 new summer jobs this summer for kids in inner
cities and suburbs to do productive work. we are also going to point
out the benefits of the highway money , the investments in highways.
we 're going to point up the benefits of immunization. we 're going to
point up the benefits of head start. we are going to say that the
republicans have a choice they can take action to create jobs or
they can perpetuate the gridlock of the last four years.

q does it concern you , though , that the house now ,
the house republicans are after you as well as the senate \?

mr. stephanopoulos the house republicans voted against
it before. they made a mistake then they 're making a mistake now.

q george , does it strike anybody in the
administration that it 's a bit strong to describe , as the president
did this morning , the summer jobs program as quote a
reaffirmation of a promise of america \?

mr. stephanopoulos not at all. i think it 's the
promise of america to give kids a chance to reach their full
potential.

q government funded jobs \?

mr. stephanopoulos to give people a chance to work \?
absolutely. that is the promise of america.

q i want to follow up on something i asked yesterday
where does 700 , 000 summer jobs , where does that figure come from \?

mr. stephanopoulos that is on top of. i did look at
it. there are currently 600 , 000 summer jobs in the pipeline. this
will be on top of the 600 , 000 , so it will be a total of 1.3 million.

q the 700 , 000 would be created by the stimulus
package \?

mr. stephanopoulos yes.

q where does that number come from \? because we 've
been told all along that the stimulus package would create 500 , 000
new jobs. and according to panetta , that breaks down to something
like 200 , 000 full time jobs and 150 , 000 summer jobs.

mr. stephanopoulos yes , but the summer that 's when
you do their full time equivalence. i mean , 700 , 000 individuals will
receive jobs this summer. when you calculate it for the full time
job effect , you have to do i do n't know what the exact formula is.

q seven hundred thousand part time jobs

mr. stephanopoulos 150 , 000 or

q one to four because it 's three months.

mr. stephanopoulos thank you.

q can i follow up on that \? did the president
misspeak this morning when he said that some of the government money
for these summer jobs will pay for private for kids to work in the
private sector \?

mr. stephanopoulos not necessarily. i mean , i think
that there will be grants available. that 's one of the ways that you
pay for the jobs. at the same time , he 's also issued a challenge to
the private sector to hire kids on their own as well.

q tax dollars , for instance , would pay for kids to
work at time warner \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think the time warner is actually
somebody coming forward and actually doing a grant. that 's going to
be the bulk of it. there could be isolated instances , though , where
there would be grants to businesses.

q has the president spoken with any senate
republicans this week \?

mr. stephanopoulos
no , but there 's been a lot of contact with senate republicans in the
white house.

q at a lower level. but the president has n't \?

mr. stephanopoulos the president has not , no.

q getting any closer to get the votes \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're continuing to work on it.

q anybody leaning your way \?

q on haiti , the new york times seems to be reporting
something of a breakthrough in aristide 's attitude towards the coup
leaders. can you confirm that there has been this change , and what
impact will it have on the process \? and what did pezzullo have to
say yesterday in his report \?

mr. stephanopoulos pezzullo did brief the principals.
i ca n't confirm what 's actually happening in the talks. i would
leave that to the negotiators themselves. but mr. caputo has
returned to haiti. we have received a briefing here at the white
house from ambassador pezzullo. and as we have said time and time
again , we believe that assurances of security are important to a
final resolution to a broader political settlement.

q george , yesterday you offered some selective
breakdowns of how the stimulus would impact some states and cities.
can we get a complete breakdown by state of how these jobs would be
impacted \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think we have it for most states ,
yes. and i think we can get it out.

q could you make that generally available \?

mr. stephanopoulos i believe we can.

q and could you do it by the component of the
stimulus \? in other words

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if we can do i know
that we can do it by summer jobs and other jobs. i do n't know how
deeply it can be broken down. but clearly , we can break it down into
summer jobs and other jobs.

q and can i follow up \? is this the information that
jeff eller and the rest of the white house is using in the ads in the
states \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know if they 're ads , but
they 're press releases.

q can you describe what those press releases contain \?

mr. stephanopoulos all we 're doing is pointing out the
benefits of this package to various states. for instance , i know
that today senator dole is heading up to vermont and new hampshire.
and i would point out that the stimulus package , the jobs package
creates 1 , 000 jobs in vermont. it creates 2 , 000 jobs in new
hampshire. and the people of those states should remind him that
this is important.

q where are the releases going \?

mr. stephanopoulos they go to the states.

q to whom \?

mr. stephanopoulos we can get them. it 's no problem.

q can we get it \?

q why do n't you put them out here as well \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think we can.

q this afternoon \? would that be possible \?

mr. stephanopoulos i 'll have to check. i do n't know.
but as soon as we can.

q are you focusing these press releases on states
where there are moderate or pragmatic republican senators \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think we 're trying to get as many
as we can. it 's actually quite difficult to pull this together and
we 're doing our best. we 're putting them out as we get them.

q why are you so closely tracking senator dole 's
schedule \?

mr. stephanopoulos i was just following it.

q are press releases going along to states where he 's
visiting \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not sure. i think that
probably there are press releases going to vermont. (laughter.)

q will there be a man in a chicken suit waiting \?
(laughter.)

q george , as the president goes about the business of
defending what 's in his stimulus package , he does n't address what
seems to be the republicans' main point , that you 're funding it with
deficit spending rather than if it 's so important , why not come up
with the funding for it seems to be the republican argument. and
how do you answer that \?

mr. stephanopoulos what was answer is , we are paying
for it over time. and if you look at our budget , we pay for this
package over time. we believe right now the economy needs a jump
start for jobs.

q you 're not claiming , are you , that that does n't add
to the deficit this year \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm saying we 're paying for it over
time. i did n't say that.

q i know that , george. but i mean , from the
beginning , the question we do have annual budgets and things
deficit spending will pay for that this year , will it not \?

mr. stephanopoulos this year they clearly will. but
over time our budget fully pays for this program.

q what you 're saying is that there are savings that
would cover this if it were this year in future years \?

mr. stephanopoulos absolutely. that 's exactly what i
said.

q i know that , but there is going to be outstanding
debt , it will add to the national debt from this year

mr. stephanopoulos no , we 're reducing the deficit by
500 billion 514 billion over the next four years.

q you mean you 're reducing it below what it would
have been \?

mr. stephanopoulos exactly.

q in fact , you 're adding a very large amount to the
national debt over the period of

mr. stephanopoulos but we 're reducing it far more from
what it would have been. that 's true.

q washington type reduction. (laughter.)

q you 're getting to be a grumpy old man.

q george , has any decision been made about the white
house or the president 's participation in the gay rights march coming
up in a week and a half \?

mr. stephanopoulos we 're working on the president 's
schedule now. i believe he 's going to be at the senate democratic
retreat in jamestown that weekend.

q will he address it by phone \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know about that. it 's a
little far out , but i believe he 's going to be in the senate retreat.

q so will he have the leaders in a day or two before
the speech \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know. i would expect that
at some point he would meet with the leaders of some of these groups.
i do n't know the schedule on it , though.

q will there be an aids czar appointed prior to or in
conjunction with the event \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm just not sure.

q april 22nd is earth day. what is the president
going to do to mark that , and is it the case that he is going to sign
the biodiversity treaty that day \?

mr. stephanopoulos i know there 's been some work on
the biodiversity treaty. i do n't know about signing it that day , but
i would expect he 'll have a statement on earth day or right around
then.

q where is the work on the biodiversity treaty \?

mr. stephanopoulos i 'd have to check with katie
mcginty. i just know that there 's been some work done , but i do n't
know exactly what.

q when is earth day \?

mr. stephanopoulos the 22nd , i think.

q why is it you know that he is going to have a
statement on earth day but you do n't know if he 's going to have a
statement on the gay rights march \?

mr. stephanopoulos i said i do n't know if he 's going
to meet or when he 's going to meet.

q do you have a statement on the gay rights march \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't , actually , no. i would n't
be surprised if he did , though.

q do you have some details on the miyazawa visit \?

mr. stephanopoulos it 's a working visit on friday and
the president is looking forward to that in discussing a number of
issues including russian aid and the japanese stimulus package and
the trade issues between the two countries.

q there was some expectations that a second aid
package to russia was going to be unveiled at the g 7 meeting and , if
i understand , it has n't happened. why is that or what 's the status
on that \?

mr. stephanopoulos the g 7 meeting is still going on
and , as you know , secretaries bentsen and christopher have talked
about the outlines of a possible package. but we 're going to
continue to consult with congress and our g 7 allies on that.

q \? we will not then make any kind of announcement
during the two day meeting \?

mr. stephanopoulos the meeting 's not over yet.

q is that when you 're going to make one \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not ruling out the possibility.

q the president 's going to announce it tomorrow.

q bentsen said that.

q yes , bentsen said it would be tomorrow.

q so did christopher.

mr. stephanopoulos i 'd have to look at that , but i
believe it is more likely that the announcement will come out of
tokyo.

q george , has there been further consideration here
about going to sending the president out to los angeles \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know that there 's it 's
not something we 've ruled out. we do n't have a date set for it.

q george , you all have a position or do you support
immigration 's plan to settle 4 , 000 iraqi prisoners in the united
states \?

mr. stephanopoulos it 's the first i 've heard of it.

q george , there was a report today about the

q fortunately. (laughter.)

q about the pace of appointments and says that
president clinton is behind president bush in the number of positions
that people have been nominated for. are you going to speed up the
pace of nominations or where do you stand with it \?

mr. stephanopoulos we filled 814 of the president 's
appointments. and it 's broken down we have 384 schedule c 147
noncareer ses 213 pas full time. i'm not sure what that means
(laughter) 70 pa full time. and this is about the same it 's
about the same pace of president bush. obviously , as you move along
farther , once you each level of appointment actually has a
multiplier effect and frees up far more appointments. so we expect
the process to speed up. but we 're at the pace of bush. obviously
we 'd like to get these done as quickly as possible.

i would point out that the fbi background checks and the
background check is far more comprehensive and it takes more time
than our predecessors , and that is part of the holdup. but we 're
working on it.

q is that because of nannygate \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think that 's an awful big part of
it , yes.

q in the story this morning , you were at
approximately the same pace as bush in making appointments , but way
behind in winning confirmations.

mr. stephanopoulos that 's where the background checks
comes into play. that 's the problem.

q that 's the background checks problem \? because i
mean , you have a democratic senate

mr. stephanopoulos no , that 's not the you make the
appointments , and then it takes quite a bit of time to fill out all
the forms and have the background checks done. that 's exactly where
the problem is.

q what 's the president doing this afternoon , and
what 's on the plan for tomorrow \?

mr. stephanopoulos he 's got some meetings just
office meetings this afternoon for the most part , on a variety of
issues that probably a half dozen different issues. and then
he 'll be tomorrow we 'll have an event , probably again focused on
the stimulus and jobs package out of here at the white house. and
friday is the miyazawa meeting.

q will you be releasing his tax return tomorrow ,
george \?

mr. stephanopoulos either tomorrow or friday.

q is there going to be a pre briefing regarding the
japanese prime minister 's visit tomorrow \?

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know about tomorrow , but
we 'll probably get something done , as we usually do , for these
visits.

q was reverend jackson here this morning and do you
know what that was about \?

mr. stephanopoulos he was here. he met with a group
of us here at the white house , including mack mclarty.

q who \?

q reverend jackson.

mr. stephanopoulos reverend jackson. mack mclarty ,
me , gene sperling , bruce reed , jeff watson , mark gearan.

q talking about haiti \?

mr. stephanopoulos we talked about general urban
policy. he is about to go to los angeles. he was just back from
mississippi , where we had a good victory last night and he 's going
on to los angeles.

q did he request the meeting \?

mr. stephanopoulos actually , no. he 's in continual
contact with the president. he had written a letter on a variety of
issues , and so we asked him to come in and talk about it.

q george , dole is having a fundraiser for jeffords
tonight in vermont. have you guys been in contact with jeffords at
all on this \?

mr. stephanopoulos i think there 's been some contact ,
sure.

q can you tell us about the contacts \?

mr. stephanopoulos i'm not sure

q do you know who contacted him or what was said \?

mr. stephanopoulos i know that howard paster talked to
him and they just has a general talk about the package.

q and did he express his support for it now , or is he


mr. stephanopoulos i ca n't divulge the details of the
conversation , but there have been conversations.

q the l.a. times is reporting that abortion
elective abortions is likely to be included in the basic health care
package. is this something the president is considering \?

mr. stephanopoulos again

q along with the vat \? (laughter.)

mr. stephanopoulos it 's certainly something that 's
been looked at , but no decisions have been made.

q what was the question \?

mr. stephanopoulos the l.a. times story on whether
abortions will be covered by the president 's health plan.

q did the president in his meeting did you in your
meeting with reverend jackson ask his advice , solicit his advice
about what kind of stance the white house should take in the wake of
the verdict in l.a. \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , we certainly talked about the
situation in los angeles and the long term prospects for economic
development and other issues.

q for instance , did you discuss whether it would be
helpful for the president to go there or not \?

mr. stephanopoulos well , we discussed a wide range of
issues related to los angeles. that was certainly one of them.

q letting you perhaps go out on the way you came in ,
i need to go back to bosnia just for a second and ask

mr. stephanopoulos oh , good.

q your reaction to margaret thatcher 's comments
that you 're just sitting by and watching a massacre.

mr. stephanopoulos well , we 've been pushing very hard
on a number of fronts for more aggressive action. we will continue
to do that.

q can you tell us if you 've made any progress in your
talks on the stimulus package getting a compromise \? i mean , we do n't
have any feel except talks are ongoing. have you talked to like 20
people or

mr. stephanopoulos i do n't know the numbers. we 've
talked to several people and we 've had wide ranging sessions.

q anyone leaning your way \?

mr. stephanopoulos i ca n't get into that. we 're just
going to keep working through tuesday.

the press thank you.

end 1 10 p.m. edt

56 04 14





from ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser)
subject re supply side economic policy (was re david stockman )
nntp posting host solomon.technet.sg
organization technet , singapore
distribution na
lines 29

in article ufk gqu00wbke7cx5v@andrew.cmu.edu ashish arora ashish @andrew.cmu.edu writes
excerpts from netnews.sci.econ 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po..
by not a boomer@desire.wrig
...

the deficits declined from 84 9 , reaching a low of 2.9 of gnp before
the tax and spending hike of 1990 reversed the trend.

brett
is this true \? some more details would be appreciated.

yes , sadly , this is true. the primary reason , and the essence of the
details that you are seeking , is that the grahm rudman budget controls
were working. in fact , they were working so well that unless the feds
did something , they were going to have to start cutting pork. so bush
and the democrats got together in a budget summit and replaced
grahm rudman with the now historic grand compromise in which bush
consented to raise taxes in exchange for certain caps on spending
increases.

as it turned out , the taxes killed the reagan expansion and the caps
on spending increases were dispelled by clinton in his first act as
president (so that he could create his own new plan with more tax
increases).

the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the deficit to a level
above where it was when reagan left office.

chew on that awhile.

from cj@eno.esd.sgi.com (c.j. silverio)
subject re tieing abortion to health reform is clinton nuts \?
reply to cj@sgi.com
organization sgi developer docudramas
lines 27


in article c4z3xw.3ef@news.cso.uiuc.edu , parker@ehsn21.cen.uiuc.edu writes
i like the way people call it cruel and unusual punishment , as if
imprisonment is n't cruel , too. lethal injection pales in comparison.
and , they have a death sentence because they were convicted of a cruel
and unusual crime .

it 's not what they did that matters. it 's what you do and
what i do and what we do in response that matters. do we
lessen ourselves by killing in response to killing \? it 's
vengeance. that 's all. it 's no deterrent. it serves no
purpose but to slake somebody 's blood lust.

it would be nice , though , if we never convicted someone of a crime they
did n't commit , and it would make the death penalty much more justifiable.

yeah yeah yeah... and sure would be nice if we did n't apply the
death penalty disproportionately to minorities. i 'll revisit my
opinion on the death penalty when there are more whites up for
it than blacks. i.e. , when hell freezes over.


c j silverio cj@sgi.com ceej@well.sf.ca.us
the people causing the trouble were socialists and homosexuals ,
the typical sort of person who opposes us. don treshman ,
ex klansman , leader of the pro life group rescue america ,
on bbc tv , 2 april 1993.

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re clinton president 's remarks at town hall meeting
lines 25
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1qia48inngta@life.ai.mit.edu clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92) writes


secretary riley good evening and welcome to all of you
in the thousands of communities around the country that are taking
part in this satellite town meeting for the month of april.

you know , today is april 13th. in 1743 , thomas
jefferson was born , 250 years ago. i think that 's appropriate to
mention at the beginning of this meeting because since that time he
has been , of course , a person who has been one that we 've all
followed in terms of our democracy and the importance of education
here in this great country. the success of our democracy according
to jefferson really depends upon the success of our educational
system.

i wonder if he realizes the irony of a federal secretary
invoking a rabid anti federalist in support of federal education
programs \?


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 14

in article 1993apr17.024646.28396@news.cs.brandeis.edu , st923336@pip.cc.brandeis.edu (blort ! eeeep ! hwaaah.) writes
would n't one expect more heterosexual men than gay men to be
promiscuous simply due to a larger group of potential partners \?

just a thought.

matt

you might except that gay men are much more promiscuous than
straight men which shows how damaged and screwed up gay men are.


clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization university of virginia
lines 18

clayton cramer writes
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population.

did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing
to admit to being a member sexual minority (homosexuality) are more
willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority (highly
promiscious) \?

i did n't think that you did.


greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from starowl@bolero.rahul.net (michael d. adams)
subject re how many heterosexuals are there \?
nntp posting host bolero
reply to starowl@a2i.rahul.net
x header ignore ignore ignore ignore this line
organization d service actuarial consulting
lines 11

kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes

too many.

agreed. we need more folks to admit they 're bi.


michael d. adams (starowl@a2i.rahul.net) champaign , il southeast al

thrush believes in the two party system the masters and the slaves.
napoleon solo (from the man from u.n.c.l.e)

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 75

in article c5k5lc.cyf@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (la
wrence c. foard) writes
in article 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes


from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.

1) so what \?

so there are less gays , then the gays claim.

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers
gather in washington dc. after all if there are only 6million of
us then this is an event unprecidented in history...


dream on. abortion and african american civil rights rallies do n't even bring
in half of that.

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners....


i was wondering why i was n't getting laid.

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population.

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those
who said they where homosexual \? or is that number to inconvient for
you....


if it 's more , then who cares \?

it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

fuck off


actually , i bet you more gay bi men are as not as promiscuous as gay men ,
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and
with social pressures , probably would at least try.


join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .


did you know that is is a fact that homosexuality was comparatively high in
hitler 's storm troopers (sa) before he came to power. i wonder if they got to
put the triangles on themselves......

ryan

from zippy@hairball.ecst.csuchico.edu (the pinhead)
subject re formal rebuttal to the presumption of jurisdiction
1993apr5.144853.3842@cae.prds.cdx.mot.com
organization california state university , chico
lines 21
nntp posting host hairball.ecst.csuchico.edu
in reply to dan@cae.prds.cdx.mot.com 's message of 05 apr 1993 06 48 53 pst

in article 1993apr5.144853.3842@cae.prds.cdx.mot.com dan@cae.prds.cdx.mot.com (dan breslau) writes
... an amazing illustration of disconnection from reality.

glad to see that you agree that the current government is reticent
about admitting the sovereignty of the people ! speaking from personal
experience , i have had judges illegally assume jurisdiction even after
i demanded that the da prove such jurisdiction on the record , and the
da stood mute. i have also had an appellate court uphold such action
and hide behind california rules of court , rule 106 ( the judges of
the appellate department shall not be required to write opinions in
any cases decided by them , but may do so whenever they deem it
advisable or in the public interest. ). that is reality , i agree.





ronald cole e mail zippy@ecst.csuchico.edu
senior software engineer phone 1 916 899 2100
optx international
the bill of rights void where prohibited by law

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re tieing abortion to health reform is clinton nuts \?
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 37

in 1993apr5.170349.10700@ringer.cs.utsa.edu sbooth@lonestar.utsa.edu (simon e. booth) writes

in article 1993apr2.230831.18332@wdl.loral.com bard@cutter.ssd.loral.com writes
sbooth@lonestar.utsa.edu (simon e. booth) writes
sandvik@newton.apple.com (kent sandvik) writes
we already kill people (death penalty) , and that costs even more
money , so you could as well complain about this extremely barbaric
way of justice.

but the death penalty is right.

and how expensive can an execution be \? i mean , i think rope , cyanide
(for the gas) , or the rifles and ammunition to arm firing squads are
affordable.

now , perhaps lethal injection might be expensive , in that case , let 's
return to the more efficient methods employed in the past.

oh , sure , the death penalty is fairly inexpensive , but the trial and
sentencing can run millions.


strychnine unless you wanna cut costs by skipping the trial and
sentencing... you murderous little rat bastard

why as a matter of fact , i was thinking of that as a way to make
the system more efficient. and the only murderous rat bastards are
aboritionists.

yeah , simon 's no rat bastard , he 's the head attack puppy )


simon


tog


from barnett@convex.com (paul barnett)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
nntp posting host zeppelin.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 15

in c50fnh.cvo@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

top ten reasons that conservatives do n't want to aid russia

edited

now that 's funny ! (remembering that good humor always dances
uncomfortably close to the truth)

i ca n't wait to see the inevitable flames. )


paul barnett
mpp os development (214) 497 4846
convex computer corp. richardson , tx

from paul@hsh.com (paul havemann)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
distribution usa
organization hsh associates
lines 47

in article c5fjsl.6is@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com , mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
on the news last night clinton was bashing the republicans for stonewalling
his so called stimulus package.
it seems that one small item within this package was going to pay for free
immunizations for poor kids.
so now clinton is claiming that the republicans are holding the health of
poor kids hostage for blatantly political gains.

aside from the merits (or lack thereof) of another free immunization program ,
just what is such a program doing in a bill that is supposedly about
creating jobs.

jobs \? what the hell have jobs to do with it \? it 's another touchy feely
program from the new , vapid administration. the fact is , the major claim
made for universal immunization that all children will be immunized
has absolutely no validity. several states already have u.i. programs , have
had these programs for years . the result on average , their success rates
are no better than the national average. it seems that the gummint has n't
yet figured out a way to make parents bring their kids in. yet another case
of shameless demagoguery from the new democrats , the agents of change.

if clinton is so hot to get this immunization program , why does n't he and
the democrats just introduce it as a stand alone bill. is n't it possible
that clinton is the one doing the blatant political (read pork) manipulations
here. he is telling the republicans , pass my muti billion dollar package ,
or i will go to the people and tell them that you are opposed to
immunizing poor kids.

what \? clinton using this issue for partisan gain \? do tell.

i have never thought highly of clinton , but stunts like this lower my
opinion of him even further.

i thought one of clinton 's campaign themes was that he was going to be
a new kind of politician. this kind of manuevering would have made lbj
proud.

all together now... c'mon , you know the words... meet the new boss ! same as
the old boss ! and the chorus we wo n't get fooled again !



paul havemann (internet paul@hsh.com)

they 're not just opinions they 're caffeine for the brain !
(up to 50 milligrams per cynical observation.)
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000 mg. keep reading.

from rick@sjsumcs.sjsu.edu (richard warner)
subject re california insurance commissioner endorses federal legislation to protect consumers from scam insurance companies
organization san jose state university math cs dept.
lines 29

johne@vcd.hp.com (john eaton) writes

nigel allen (ndallen@r node.hub.org) wrote
here is a press release from the california department of insurance.

california insurance commissioner endorses federal legislation to
protect consumers from scam insurance companies

i may be a little dense but i would have thought that protecting consumers
from scam insurance companies would be the prime objective of something
called the cal insurance commission. if they are n't accomplishing that now
then why do we need them \?

very simple. an 'insurance commissioner' is a bureaucrat a regulator.
it is his her duties to make rules to enforce laws. he she cannot
make laws. if there is no law that covers a specific subject , say
scam insurance companies , a regulator cannot create one. so they have
to go to a proper legislative body to get such a law enacted. for
the california insurance commissioner , there are two possible legislative
bodies the california state legislature and the u.s. congress. we all
know how little the california state legislature accomplishes , esp.
along the lines of insurance reform legislation (negative movement). so
garamendi wants the feds to do it , because (a) he has a better chance
of getting a federal law through , and (b) since many of the scam
companies work across state lines national borders , it is better to
have a law that reach out into other jurisdictions.

john eaton
! hp vcd ! johne

from bernard@sirius.gte.com (bernard silver)
subject re bill conklin (et al) 's letter
1993apr3.231858.27507@midway.uchicago.edu
organization gte laboratories incorporated
lines 27
in reply to thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu 's message of 3 apr 93 23 18 58 gmt

in article 1993apr3.231858.27507@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank) writes
in article 1993apr3.223215.20655@colorado.edu ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes
well , the two nifty letters giving concrete proof that the
income tax is voluntary and giving specific procedures for stopping
withholding , et cetera have been out there for a while now.
there has been no refutation to date. have the nay sayers
finally given up as defeated \? sure would like to hear there reasons
for disbelief at this point.

probably because you have yet to respond to the refutation i 've posted.
teel , it 's bad enough you post this bs , it 's even worse that you do n't
even try to defend it when it gets torn to pieces , but then posting
that no one 's looked at it and gloating when all facts point to the
contrary point to a severely deluded mind.

what i found interesting about conklin 's letter is the
6 cases he has won against the irs. now , assuming that
these cases really exist and were one by him (anyone checked \? )
they may have nothing to do with his major tax claim. the irs fought
one of his deductions. defending your deductions seems puny when
you believe that there is no need to file in the first place !


bernard silver
gte laboratories
bsilver@gte.com
(617) 466 2663

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re if drugs should be legalized , how \? (was good neighbor...)
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 22

in article 1qpakjinniq2@senator bedfellow.mit.edu wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (wil
liam december starr) writes

in article 1993apr16.171354.3127@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu ,
rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) said

however , legalizing it and just sticking some drugs in gas stations to
be bought like cigarettes is just plain silly. plus , i have never
heard of a recommended dosage for drugs like crack , ecstasy , chrystal
meth and lsd. the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine
cigarettes , pot and heroin.

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican idea
that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and simply
decriminalize cocaine , marijuana , heroin , lsd , etc. please explain why
the idea of allowing recreational drugs to be bought like cigarettes
is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for nicotine...


yeah , cancer is pretty cool , is n't it.

ryan

from mvp@netcom.com (mike van pelt)
subject re anyone interested in facts \? here 's a few
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 19

oops , i forgot to set read permission. it 's fixed now.

ftp netcom.com
login anonymous
password your@email.address
cd pub mvp
binary
get clinton.zip

you need pkzip 2.x or the latest net.zip to un deflate this.

economic stats since day one , plus all of the myriad ways slick willie
and the gang of 535 are preparing to do it to us. from ron brown 's
desk , so any distortion is pro democrat , can you believe it \?

let 's face it , when it comes to utilities , microsoft has mike van pelt
performed about as well as a savings and loan. these are mvp@netcom.com
the guys , remember , who put backup and restore not to mvp@lsil.com
mention edlin on your hard disk. lincoln spector

from richw@mks.com (rich wales)
subject sick and tired (was re bill conklin (et al) 's letter)
reply to richw@mks.com (rich wales)
organization mortice kern systems inc. , waterloo , ontario , canada
distribution na
lines 92

replying to a.j. teel

well , the two nifty letters giving concrete proof that the
income tax is voluntary and giving specific procedures for
stopping withholding , et cetera have been out there for a
while now.

humbug. those letters do n't provide concrete proof of anything at all
in the absence of any case law that demonstrates the method will actu
ally work for ordinary people in everyday situations.

specifically , show us some case law in which the courts have ruled that
income tax is illegal and or that ordinary working types do not have to
pay income tax (and that they can legally avoid paying income tax with
out declaring themselves to be churches or some such silliness). this
issue is sufficiently important that i think we have a right to expect
something squarely on point from the us supreme court (in the case of
federal tax) or a state 's supreme court (for a state 's income tax).

unless you can do that , i for one am unwilling to call your material
concrete proof .

there has been no refutation to date. have the nay sayers
finally given up as defeated \? sure would like to hear their
reasons for disbelief at this point.

refutation \? \? refutation of what \? you have n't made a case yet. you 've
posted plenty of claims , but you have n't given us any valid reason to
believe that any court in the us will agree with you. your claims seem
on the surface to deviate so radically from the legal mainstream that i
feel the burden of proof is still on you to show that your arguments
have any merit whatsoever. and the cases you 've cited involve such
strange situations that i see no reason to assume that the rulings are
applicable to anyone else , or that they will ultimately stand on appeal
to the supreme court.

why ca n't you just cite us a case in which joe schmoe , a regular
employee earning regular wages from a regular company , refuses to pay
his income tax , gets hauled into court , is convicted of wilful tax eva
sion , and then has his conviction overturned by the us supreme court
with a landmark 7 2 majority ruling that income tax is indeed totally
voluntary \? what , you say \? no such case exists \? hmmm , i wonder why
not why have n't you \?

shall i conclude that the point has been received and the
opposition has forfeited the field \?

with all due respect , you can conclude anything you want. i just hope ,
for your own sake , that you do n't conclude that anyone in a position of
authority in the united states or any legitimate or illegitimate polit
ical subdivision thereof is going to agree with your conclusions.

for that matter , i confess i'm thoroughly confused as to why you would
be looking for court rulings in your favor anyway since i thought you
told us earlier that every court in the us has been in cahoots with big
banking interests since the 1938 admiralty jurisdiction coverup thing.
do you honestly expect us to believe that they 'd go to all the trouble
to subvert the system , and yet would still promptly slink back into
their burrows in the face of anyone who knew enough to invoke the right
combination of magic spells and mystic mumbo jumbo \?

not only that , but why do you even care what the us courts say anyway \?
did n't you tell us a while back that you 've disavowed all attempts by us
officials to classify you as a 14th amendment federal citizen \? when
the fbi comes to haul you away for tax evasion , why do n't you just tell
them they 're out of their jurisdiction and should go back to washington ,
d.c. , where they belong \?

or maybe we should all just go back to mediaeval common law , which you
suggested would be better than all these statutes , codes , and the like.
if you want to renounce society 's legal framework , fine we can just
declare you an outlaw , ok \? , and anyone who sees you driving on the roads
with no license plate on your car and no driver 's license in your wallet
can just take you like a game animal and stew you for their supper (with
plenty of veggies and a pinch of salt , but without prejudice ucc 1 207).

sorry , everyone , it 's getting late , and i'm sick and tired of all this
garbage. if i know what 's good for me , i 'll just clam up and stop try
ing to refute this nonsense , and if anyone falls for it and winds up in
jail for tax evasion or what not , it 'll be on their own head.

needless to say , none of the above represents the opinions of my current
employer who , in any case , is a canadian and does n't really need to
care too much about us tax law. i , on the other hand , am a 14th amend
ment federal citizen , with a us passport to prove it , and plan to keep
on filing form 1040 's for the foreseeable future (though i will probably
not owe any us income tax due to the foreign earned income exclusion
and or the foreign tax credit).


rich wales richw@mks.com mortice kern systems inc. (mks)
35 king st. n. waterloo , ontario , canada n2j 2w9 1 (519) 884 2251

from julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas)
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians
nntp posting host eddie.jpl.nasa.gov
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca
lines 137

in article c51qr5.duu@encore.com rcollins@encore.com (roger collins) writes
julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas) writes
i suggest you
listen very carefully to the stuff yeltsin and his people are saying
and compare that with the very anti west slogans coming from his
opponents in the russian congress. i sure know who i want to back.

could we back him without forcing others to back him at the point of a
gun \?

if we had backed him strongly early on i doubt there would be the
problem there is now. many russians became disillusioned with democracy
and reforms when they felt , rightly imo , that the west did n't care.

yeltsin was virtually promised massive aid (once bush got over his
gorby mania.) this probably kept him from dismantling the congress
and calling for new elections. well , the aid did n't come through
and we did n't make sure it went to the proper places and now the
anti reformers are gaining strength where before they were in
hiding.


have you considered a non interventionist policy \? if market reform does
happen , russia will certainly get private capital at private risk to
help their economy. they will even have incentive to do so for the same
reason. if they do n't reform , then our government will probably
consider them enemies anyway and rather spend money to hurt rather than help
them.

if they do n't reform i do n't believe in giving them money. however ,
i think this is too important to take a non interventionist approach.
this is what really bugs me about libertarianism it sounds like
'it 'll all be the same in a hundred years time. no need to do
anything.'


how does this affect us \? well , we are on the same planet and if
vast tracks of europe are blown away i think we 'd feel something.
a massive breakup of a country that spans 1 6th the planet is
bound to have affects here. (of course , there is also the
humanitarian argument that democracies should help other
democracies (or struggling democracies).)

if a 1.6 billion gift was that important to our well being , could n't it
be raised voluntarilly \? people already give over 100 billion a year to
charity.

despite the wishes of libertarians , this society is a far way , and getting
farther , from being libertarian. perhaps voluntary gifts would work if
we had the proper framework but we do not have it. we have to face the
problem now , not in x years when we have a libertarian dream society.

right now there are huge stumbling blocks to trade , let alone charity.
there are still limitations to high tech exports. nasa ca n't buy
proton launch vehicles from them. sure , the market may be able to
help a great deal but it ca n't right now. there are too many obstacles.
instead of fighting against the aid you should be fighting to
tear down the obstacles the market and charities have to face.

seriously. everyone has different opinions on what is stupid.
my two causes are aid to russia and a strong space program.
someone else will champion welfare or education or doing studies
of drunken goldfish. that is why we have a republic and not a
true democracy. instead of gridlock on a massive scale , we
only have gridlock on a congressional scale.

it seems instead of gridlock on any scale , we have aid to russia ,
expensive space programs , national charity that does n't help the poor ,
and probably , studies of drunken goldfish. i think limited government
is more key than how democratic it is.

well , i think limited government is primarily democratic due
to it being limited. but the main question is how do you transform
a state run economy and monolithic government into something that
even remotely looks like ours \? (btw , sometimes it seems that our government
is trying to go the opposite direction) it is not going to be
painless and not going to be easy. we simply cannot wait to
help when they have the 'proper' government. they 'll never
get there without the aid. it may be too late already.


btw , who is to decide 'stupid \? ' this is just like those who
want to impose their 'morals' on others just the sort of
thing i thought libertarians were against.

that was an opinion , and libertarians are very big on free speech.

and i'm just excercising mine.


actually , my politics are pretty libertarian except on this one issue
and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. it seems
that libertarians want to withdraw from the rest of the world and
let it sink or swim.

if you are pretty libertarian except on this one issue then you should
be very libertarian. consider it a compromise. how much money would
your fellow russia aiders have to give to russia if those you oppose
were n't using the same government machine to steal money from you
and your group for causes you do n't support \?

as i also said above , another problem i have is with transformation .
a libertarian society is not going to happen painlessly or overnight.
i have seen nothing about how to take our current government and
society and turn it into a minimal government and a responsible
self sufficient populace.


we could do that 100 years ago but not now.

people have been saying that for hundreds of years.

they did n't have nuclear weapons 100 years ago. nor instantaneous
communications nor travel to virtually anyplace on the earth in
less than a day.


like it or not we are in the beginnings of a global economy and
global decision making.

all the more reason to depend on the free market which can more
efficiently process information , than to depend on rulers for decisions
on complex issues.

yes , depend on the rulers of the free market and the businesses. rulers
do emerge somewhere and they will never represent the opinions of
every person on the planet.

there must be checks and balances. checks on the government when
it gets out of bounds and checks on industry when it gets out of
bounds. putting all your hopes on the benevolence of the market
is , to me , just like putting all your hopes on the benevolence of
government.


julie
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else

from garrett@ingres.com
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
summary pathelogical liars
news software vax vms vnews 1.4 b1
keywords
organization ask computer systems , ingres product division
distribution usa
lines 36

in article 1993apr15.175829.22411@oracle.us.oracle.com , mfriedma@us.oracle.com (michael friedman) writes...
in article 1993apr14.231117.21872@pony.ingres.com garrett@ingres.com writes
in article philc5ht1t.gwa@netcom.com , phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes...
correct. jfk was quite disgusting in that way. the reports of the women that
he coerced via power of the office are now in the dozens. today , we' d
call for immediate resignation for that kind of behaviour.

i guess coercing women into having sex is much worse than stealing , breaking
and entering , rigging national elections , starting secret wars that kill
hundreds of thousands , and using the powers of your office for personal
gain like nixon did. not !

garrett , you are a really pathetic liar.

is n't name calling fun !

some of your charges are arguable , but most of them are obvious lies.
i challenge you to present us with any evidence that nixon stole ,
rigged a national election , never mind elections , or used the powers
of his office for personal gain.

what do you think happened at watergate \? what do you think they broke into
the building for \? it was n't to just look around. do i have to draw you
a picture \?

you ca n't because there is absolutely no evidence that any of these
events occurred.

whatever...


who said anything about panicking \? snapped authur. garrett johnson
this is still just culture shock. you wait till i 've garrett@ingres.com
settled into the situation and found my bearings.
then i 'll start panicking ! douglas adams


from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re we 're from the government and we 're here to help you
summary historical examples and the us constitution
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 76
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 1993apr8.200326.27560@infonode.ingr.com albeaj@jima.b17d.ingr.com (jim albea) writes


in article 1993mar24.235606.15959@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

ouch , now that really hurts. i'm being accused of no breadth nor depth
to my historical knowledge because i'm unwilling to agree that economic
inequality leads to poverty and from there to social and political
instability . you go read your history again. poverty is the main
engine of social instability (in this context , we 'll put aside religious
turmoil , mass migrations , etc.).

well , the fact of the matter is that poverty is imperfectly related to
social and political instability , while economic inequality is much more
strongly related. in virtually all major revolutions including
england (the puritan revolution) , france , russia and china , the
revolutions occurred as economies were undergoing substantial long term
growth and poverty was declining. what sets off revolutions is massive
inequality coupled with a perception on the part of those at the bottom
that social change is possible.

if poverty (were) the main engine of social instability , this typical
historical pattern would not hold. in fact , revolutions would have been
far more typical before the nineteenth century than since that time.

much deleted...

gee , jim , if you 'll check the constitution you 'll find in order to...
promote the general welfare...do ordain and establish this constitution...
i'm surprised you missed it. it 's right there in the first paragraph. i
would have thought you would have made it at least through the preamble.

you almost got it right , and it was a good try , but you should follow your
own advice. the preamble to the constitution does read as you have quoted
but let us not forget that after all it is only the preamble. it is not
a binding part of the constitution and carries no weight in the law. that
poor tortured paragraph has got to be one of the most unfortunate passages
in the english language witness the legions of blowhards like yourself who
think those vague flowery phrases are part of the law of the land. do you
really believe that a politician only has to give lip service to promoting
the general welfare to be within the limits of the constitution \?

sorry , buddy , but some other blowhards managed to include the general
welfare in another portion of the constitution.

article i section 8 the congress shall have the power to lay and collect
taxes...to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general
welfare of the united states...

i guess they wanted to make sure everyone understood they meant what they
said in the preamble.

just to make sure you 've got the point , let 's do a little experiment. what
if the constitution read as follows \?

preamble we the people , to promote the general welfare , do ordain
and establish this constitution for the united states of
america.

constitution the federal government shall have one function and one
function only to provide for the defense of the nation.


but as noted above , the constitution does n't say that , does it \?

the government would not then have two functions defense and welfare.

but since it explicitly includes both the general welfare and defense
in article i , section 8 , i guess you 'll grant that botha are constitutional
functions. right \?

jsh

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject re who be conservative on this.....
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
lines 17

in 1993apr2.154706.15557@rotag.mi.org kevin@rotag.mi.org (kevin darcy) writes

congress is not allowed to abrogate the constitutional rights and privileges
already enjoyed by persons , however , unless the abrogation has a rational
reason or a compelling interest to it , depending on which standard is
applied. this is relevant because granting a right to one class of persons
by definition always impinges on the rights of another class or classes or
persons , to some degree. in the case of abortion , establishing rights for
the unborn impinges greatly on the rights of pregnant women. there has yet
to be presented a sufficient justification for such fetal rights.

not to your satisfaction. but the arguments have convinced me , and others.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from sents@dixie.com (jeff sents)
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
organization dixie communications public access. the mouth of the south.
lines 19

paolucci@spot.colorado.edu (paolucci paul) writes

in article c5gpto.kq0@newsserver.technet.sg ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes
top ten signs that it 's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
biased and decidedly not as funny as dave stuff deleted...

i sure hope that someone somewhere is enjoying these lists ...
stuff deleted
i'm no clinton fan , but i'm no ipser fan...

then why not simply stop reading them. this is n't intended as a flame ,
but your post reminds me of the old joke
patient doctor it hurts when i do this.
doctor then stop doing that.

regards ,
jeff



from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re re fillibuster
lines 55
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article 1993apr12.002302.5262@martha.utcc.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes

come to that under the original plan there was n't meant to be anything
much for the federal government to do except keep the british out.

that 's also untrue , but at least we 're wandering a little closer
toward reality. that the articles of confederation fell apart is enough
proof it was there for just a tad bit more.

well yes and no. the federalist papers are propaganda and it is therefore
difficult to determine precisely what maddison etc were up to from them. they
certainly emphasised a limited role for the federal government but this
was not necessarily their true position.

and like the house of lords which it is copied from it was given pretty
wide powers. unfortunately they started to use them and thus the gridlock
set in.

i was n't aware the house of lords had wide powers. i was under the
impression is was pretty powerless compared to the house of commons , and
certainly did n't have almost equal their powers. (the senate is restricted
only that it may not introduce bills relating to raising revenue.)

the senate was less powerful than the house of lords in the period in question.
the stripping of the powers of the house of lords did not occur until 1914
and david llloyd george 's budget. even despite this the house of lords has
considerable power even today and is far from a rubber stamping body.


my reading of the constitution and other writings gives me absolutely
no reason to believe the senate was n't intended to make use of their
law making powers. in fact , grid lock appears to have been designed
into the system , with the senate being a more deliberative body to act
as a check on the more often elected house.

the system is meant to be slow to react , the problem is that it ended up
a bit too slow.


on what basis do you suggest that the senate was supposed to be
some sort of rubber stamp for the house \? you 'll note that while the
president 's veto may be over ridden , the house ca n't do anything about
a veto by the senate.

the preside n't veto was meant to be entirely separate. until bush abused it
in a quite extraordinary manner it was used more in accord with the intent
of being a check on unreasonable legislation. the veto was clearly regarded
as a completely last gasp measure its use was meant to be restricted to
preventing the legislature interfering with the actions of the executive.

the senate is not meant to be exactly a rubber stamp body , it is meant as
a check on unrestrained legislation. that is the extra measure built into
the constitution in favour of the status quo , 60 of the representatives
of the states is not a reasonable restriction.

from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re the tories could win the lottery ...clinton gst \?
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 29

in article 1993apr16.031616.23130@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes

this country is hardly ruined. in fact , it is booming compared to after the
1980 election.

this whole usa has gone to hell and reagan bush caused it , is not only lame ,
pathetic , and old....... it 's wrong.

under reagan bush the economy grew by 1.1 trillion dollars. this is more than
the entire economy of germany , a kind , gentle country , in many peoples'
books. what a joke.

drive down to cincinnati and take a look. not pretty , is it \?
things were much better there in 1980. all that growth went into
the hands of ron and georgie 's pals , and i didn't get a single
dime of it , dammit. and , now , i'm gonna be bled to death by tax
leeches to pay for the damage. f ing great.

oh , here 's another thing. seems like a lot of people in
columbus drive over to marysville and make japanese cars. hm.
i wonder how many american owned companies employ those in
central ohio \? other than ohio state university. )

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

slick willy 's already got his hand in my pocket. i'm just afraid
of what he might grab hold of.

from asper@calvin.uucp (alan e. asper)
subject re top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans
organization usr lib news organization
lines 13
nntp posting host calvin.sbc.com

in article mwalker 160493090617@mwalker.npd.provo.novell.com mwalker@novell.com (mel walker) writes

copyright (c) edward a. ipser , jr. , 1993

this means we ca n't quote ed without his permission. no using these lists
in your .sigs , folks !

oh , darn.
okay , okay , let 's stop slamming ipser , and get on with making fun of other
people.

alan


from gdnikoli@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (greg nikolic)
subject re damn furriners be taken over
organization university of waterloo
lines 59

in article apr.2.23.41.04.1993.607@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
in article 1pa6pt 63r@access.digex.com hess@access.digex.com (paul hess) writes
that drag the us down and cause problems at home and abroad.
rank balderdash ! america 's reputation abroad has become tarnished
because of feckless and pusillanimous cowards who apparently do not
have the requisite gonads to stand up for american honor and dignity.

do n't be ridiculous , kaldis. i suggest you give the ugly american
concept , which i can easily see you demonstrating , a good hard second look.

the american way is not the only way , it 's not necessarally the best
way , and it is incredibly arrogant to even think that.

the american way may not be the only way , and you may not consider it
to be necessarily the best way , but , by god , it 's our way and we 're
going to stick with it ! if you ca n't go along with the program , then
perhaps you should consider moving elsewhere.

dear god. did n't this die out in the fifties with mccarthy and the
blacklists \?

i 've spent quite a bit of time in different provinces of canada and
let me tell you , it is very refreshing to spend time with people who
are not full of arrogant nationalism and empty patriotism.
that is exactly the problem with canadians ! they do n't stand for
anything with certitude.

did n't your mother ever teach you not to generalize \? i am a canadian , and
i stand up for too many things with too much certitude.

the canadians i know well enough to say this about , seem to have a
great deal of pride in their provinces and their country , but they
are n't blinded by flags and ideals like many americans are.
could this be because they are bereft of ideals \?

uh huh. this must explain the world reknowned , record low american crime
rate. i see now , it 's all becoming so clear to me.

well , i 've said too much ,
yes you have.

no he has n't.

but i was so angered by your words that i felt i had to say something.
sorry to intrude.
you pipsqueak ! you mouse ! if you are sorry to intrude then why do
it \? do n't you have the courage of your convictions \? hell , do you
even have any convictions to start with \? what kind of example of
manly dignity is this \? sheesh !

remarkable audacity and misguidance. what you take for your own courage ,
sir , is nothing more than simple loud mouthedness coupled with unrestrained
bragging.


please allow me to introduce myself. sympathy
i'm a man of wealth and taste. for the devil
i 've been around for long , long years. the laibach
stolen many a man 's soul , and faith. remixes

from kme@node 17aa4.bnr.ca (ken michael edwards)
subject re economic stimulus or pork \?
organization bell northern research , research triangle park , nc
lines 73


in article 1993apr2.201514.20021@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

in fact , no one has such a list. the clinton package as presently proposed
includes a variety of recommended spending areas and dollar amounts. it
does not include a line by line list of every project that would be funded.
(congress may include such line items in the bill when it passes.
likewise , it may prohibit spending for specific projects as amendments to
the bill. such amendments , positive and negative , are often pointed to
by those who propose a line item veto or enhanced recision power for
the president.)

some of the 16 billion package is in the form of block grants to states
and localities.

this is why i asked to be 'enlightened'. you are making claims about what
'is' or 'is not' part of this program. but if the block grants go to states
and cities , the mayors list is very relivent.


i 'd suggest contacting your local officials , reading a newspaper with
good coverage of congress (washington post , ny times) , or if you 're
serious about paying attention to these issues , get copies of congressional
quarterly at your library or have your representative put you on the
mailing list for the congressional record. (it 's free.) but be prepared
to invest more time in the effort than it takes to watch the evening
news or read your local paper.

okay scarasm does deserve sacrasm , but i already contact my local officals , my
congress rep. , senators , watch evening news , news programs , and c span.


in addition to the cherry picking that went on with the mayors' wish list ,
congressional republicans selected wish list projects from a variety of
federal agencies , based apparently upon how silly the names of the projects
sounded. i'm not even sure if they bothered to correlate a potential
expenditure of an agency in clinton 's bill with a potential project from
the same agency , but it is clear that the effort was to make clinton 's
potential expenditures appear to be linked to projects with absurd
names. (not to be taken seriously any more than equivalent tactics by
democrats would have been in the reagan bush era.)


the fact is that primetime (tm of abc) has had numberous reposts on such waste
programs that already exist. again , if we are truely intrested in eliminating
the debt , we must remove the deficit , and do away with all pork ! ! !

i realize that it is tempting to believe that government is in the hands
of clowns who are dishonest at best. but such simplistic analysis does
little to advance the cause of public education.

there have been several books written on gov. waste , network news programs
from time to time devote segments to this , and there have been bills proposed
that significantly reduces expenditures without touching external programs by
changing the way 'congress does business' (and make it more efficent).

true , blame is easy , but also is spending someone else 's money.

clinton ran on a platform that he would '...not raise taxes on the middle class
to pay for these (his) programs'. he has proposed a program that is not
specific , that counts on tax hikes to pay for.




ken m. edwards , bell northern research , research triangle park , nc
(919) 481 8476 email cnc23a@bnr.ca ham n4zbb

all opinions are my own and do not necessarily reflect the views of
my employer or co workers , family , friends , congress , or president.

you 'd better call my dad...my mom 's pretty busy.
chelsea clinton

from bhv@areaplg2.corp.mot.com (bronis vidugiris)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization motorola , ccr d , corp , schaumburg , il
nntp posting host 137.23.47.37
lines 21

in article 7166@pdxgate.uucp a0cb@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (chris bertholf) writes
)mcartwr@auvm.american.edu (martina cartwright) writes
)
)
) the official and legal term for rape is the crime of forcing a female
) to submit to sexual intercourse.
)
)please , supply me with some references. i was not aware that all states
)had the word female in the rape statutes. i am sure others are surprised
)as well. i know thats how it works in practice (nice n fair , not ! ! ) , but
)was unaware that it was in the statutes as applying to females only ,
)uniformly throughout the u.s.

i agree mostly with chris. it is (unfortunately , imo) true that the fbi
figures for rape based on the 'uniform crime report' report only female
rapes. however , some states (such as illinois) are not tabluated because they
refuse to comply with this sexist definition !

the worms crawl in
the worms crawl out
the worms post to the net from your account

from starowl@rahul.net (michael d. adams)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
nntp posting host bolero
reply to starowl@rahul.net
organization d service actuarial consulting
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 14

on sat , 17 apr 1993 20 42 58 gmt , greg hennessy observed
in article philc5n6d5.mk3@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes
tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced ....

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism.

is that what they called it when truman forced integration of the
armed forces , despite the opposition of congress and most of the
american public at that time \?


michael d. adams (starowl@a2i.rahul.net) enterprise , alabama

tilting at windmills hurts you more than the windmills. lazarus long

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re using california 's antidiscrimination the sort of case i predicted
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 30

in article c5jv9a.f1b@exnet.co.uk , sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes
in article 15312@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article 1993apr08.092954.13507@armory.com , rstevew@armory.com (richard steven walz) writes
face it , clayton , he was not found guilty , and so what if gays sometimes
make it consensually with 16 year old boys. there are 16 year old gays , you
know. and as i recall , the case of the state rested on the testimony of one
victim who declined to testify , even under threat. i have had teens since
i was 40 , and so have a lot of people. face it clayton , you 're just a jerk !
rsw

richard steven walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429 1200
515 maple street 1 without safe and free abortion women are
santa cruz , ca 95060 organ surrogates to unwanted parasites.

i am always amazed to see people admit to breaking the law and
putting their address in the signature. please tell us more about
this. were they 13 \? 14 \? would you like to make a statement for
the district attorney \?

i had sex with a 13 year old boy , it was great , we did everything ,
well , a hell of a lot. it was fun anyway. oh , and before you turn
purple with rage i was 12 at the time.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !

the walz monster above , however , was past 40 when he molested these
kids , as he says above.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from stephen@orchid.ucsc.edu ()
subject a rational viewpoint was re new study out on gay percentage
organization santa cruz
lines 29
nntp posting host orchid.ucsc.edu

in article c5l0v1.jcv@news.cso.uiuc.edu dans@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (dan s.) writes

do n't forget about the culture. sadly , we do n't (as a society) look upon
homosexuality as normal (and as we are all too well aware , there are alot
of people who condemn it). as a result , the gay population is not encouraged
to develop non promiscuous relationships. in fact there are many roadblocks
put in the way of such committed relationships. it is as if the heterosexual
community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays
are immoral. my , if we allowed gays to marry , raise children ... we might
just find out they 're as moral as we are , ca n't have that can we \?

just some thoughts. flame away. )

dan

this is a very good point. one that i have held for sometime. we do not
allow people to develop on the paths that they choose or desire. even with
heterosexuals we tend to leave some hanging in the sense of knowledge and
information about sexuality and relationships.

it is very difficult for a young person to develop and build a positive
view of themself when they are constantly being told implicitly and explicitly
that they are wrong and immoral.

the concepts about personal relationships are deeply embedded in emotionalism
and fear these fears cover a wide range , but mostly jealousy and lack of trust
seem to be cornerstones of modern day american relationships. we also set on
top of this the concepts of madison avenue attractiveness and standards and put
the pressure on to measure up.

subject re new funding plan for the military
from medkeffjs@hirama.hiram.edu (jeff medkeff)
organization hiram college
nntp posting host hirama.hiram.edu
lines 20

in article c4zi26.34d@wetware.com , drieux@wetware.com
(drieux , just drieux) writes (about the armed services)

ps maybe even privatize the organization , or consider
'out sourcing' various aspects of the dod as a part of
the current 'down sizing' who knows , maybe if we
finally allowed to free market to take control , we will
no longer have a military run by the same folks who are
running the post office.....

pps slow down , and think before you flame , rhetoric is an artform.

well , uh , actually i agree.



jeffrey s. medkeff bitnet medkeffjs@hiramb
po box 1098 internet medkeffjs@hiramb.hiram.edu
hiram , oh 44234 pale ebenezer thought it wrong to fight. but
u.s.a. roaring bill (who killed him) thought it right.

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton remarks to law enforcement leaders
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 227
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu






the white house

office of the press secretary

for immediate release april 15 , 1993


remarks by the president
to law enforcement organizations


the rose garden


2 52 p.m. edt


the president good afternoon. ladies and gentlemen ,
two months ago i presented a comprehensive plan to reduce our
national deficit and to increase our investment in the american
people , their jobs and their economic future. the federal budget
plan passed congress in record time , and created a new sense of hope
and opportunity in the country.

then , the short term jobs plan i presented to congress ,
which would create a half a million jobs in the next two years passed
the house of representatives two weeks ago. it now has the support
of a majority of the united states senate.

all of these members of congress know it 's time to get
the economy moving again , to get job growth going again , to get a
fast start on the investments we need to build a lasting prosperity.
unfortunately , a minority of the members of the united states senate
have used gridlock tactics to prevent their colleagues from working
the will of the majority on the jobs bill.

when congress returns , i ask every senator from every
state and from both parties to remember what is at stake. the issue
is not politics , it 's people. sixteen million of them are looking
for full time jobs and ca n't find them. these men and women do n't
care about who 's up or down in washington. they care about paying
the rent and meeting the mortgage payment , about putting food on the
table and buying shoes for their children , about regaining a sense of
dignity that comes from doing a day 's work and supporting their
families and drawing a paycheck.

they 're asking those of us who have the privilege of
serving to put aside politics and do something now to move our
economy forward. i am prepared to do that. and i have been working
with the senate to come up with an adjusted package that meets some
of the concerns of those who have been blocking action on the jobs
plan. i'm willing to compromise , so long as we keep the focus on
jobs , keep the focus on growth and keep the focus on meeting unmet
national needs.

our opponents have been asking for a smaller package.
today i ask them to join me in determining exactly what kind and what
size package congress can approve that actually meets the needs of
the american people.

but even as we make those reductions and the package
will be smaller , i believe we must address problems that are on the
minds of millions of americans , and one in particular , and that is
the need to toughen law enforcement in our society to deal with the
dramatic rise in violent crime.

so i will ask , even in this reduced package , for an
additional 200 million in federal funding to help local communities
to rehire police officers who have been laid off because of the
fiscal problems caused by the national recession. together , with a
matching effort by local governments , this could put as many as
10 , 000 police officers back on the job , and back on the beat in
communities all across our nation.

at a time when too many of our people live in fear of
violent crime , when too many businesses have closed and too many
people have lost their jobs because people are afraid to leave their
homes , rehiring thousands of officers is one of the best investments
america can make. and i ask both houses of congress to make that
investment in our people 's safety and in their piece of mind.

i believe in the need for strong federal action to keep
the economy going toward recovery and to create jobs. make no
mistake about it i will fight for these priorities as hard as i
ever have. i will never forget that the people sent me here to fight
for their jobs , their future and for fundamental change.

i want to thank the police officers who are here today
and tell you that not a single one of them knew before they came here
that i had determined to ask for more money in this jobs bill to
rehire police officers. they came here because they believe in the
summer jobs portion of the package. and i want them to be free to
talk about that. they came here not out of any law enforcement
concern other than the fact that they wanted the kids in this country
to have a chance to have jobs this summer , to have safer streets and
a brighter and more peaceful future.

i say what i say today not just because it 's good for
law enforcement but because it 's good for the people who live in
these communities. i have always supported community policing not
only because it helps to prevent crime and to lower the crime rate ,
but because it cements better relationships between people in law
enforcement and the people that they 're hired to protect. it reduces
the chances of abusive action by police officers and increases the
chances of harmony and safe streets at the same time.

these are the kinds of things that we are trying to do.
i promised in my campaign that i 'd do everything i could to put
another 100 , 000 police officers on the street over the next four
years. this makes a good downpayment on that. this keeps in mind
the core of the jobs package. and this will help us to move forward.

so i ask the people in the senate who have blocked the
jobs bill , let 's work together. i can accept a reduced package if
you will increase your commitment to safe streets. i do not accept
the fact that we should reduce our commitment to summer jobs or to
building our infrastructure or to doing those other things that will
create real and lasting prosperity for our people. i have done my
part now to end the gridlock i ask you to do yours.

i want now to give the people who are here with me on
the platform a chance to make some remarks and to be heard by the
american people beginning with janet reno , the distinguished
attorney general.




q mr. president , can you tell us do you think that
the jobs package could be put in further jeopardy by controversy over
the suggestion of a vat tax at this point in the congressional
dialogue \?

the president not at all. i think it should have
they would n't have any relationship one to the other. first of all ,
i made absolutely no decision on that. you should know that there 's
a lot of support in the business community and the labor community
people have asked us to consider that because of the enormous burden
of the present system on many of our major employers , particularly
many of those that we depend upon to generate jobs and to carry the
strength of this economy. but i have made absolutely no decision
that would even approach that on that or any other kind of general
tax.

q do you personally believe that the american public
is ready to pay for to have another tax to pay for health care \? i
mean , apart from what business and labor leaders have said

the president i'm not going to speculate on that. i
will say this the real issue is how quickly we can recycle the
benefits of all the savings to cover the cost. i mean , that is
everyone knows that if you do what we 're proposing to do , if you
streamline the insurance system , if you fix the system so that
there 's no longer an enormous economic incentive to over utilize or
over provide certain services , if you provide primary and preventive
care in places where it is n't now , every single analysis shows
absolutely massive savings to the health care system.

the real question is whether you can transfer those
savings to cover those who have no coverage now or those who have
virtually no coverage so that you provide people the security. i
have no idea. the polls say that , but i do n't know. all i know is
the polls that i see in the press that many of you have commissioned ,
they say overwhelmingly the american people want the security of an
affordable health care system.

but i do n't think that has anything to do with this
stimulus , and it certainly should n't have. people want a job first
and foremost. they want that more than anything else.

q now that you 've announced your willingness to
compromise on the stimulus package , can you tell us what parts of
your package you consider vital and uncompromisable \? i assume summer
jobs is one.

the president i want the summer jobs i want the
highway program and i want the police program. i still intend let
me say this i still intend to fully and aggressively push the crime
bill , which did not pass the congress last year. this is a
supplement to that , not a substitute for it in any way. but i think
we need to do that.

i think we need the ryan white funds because of the
enormous health care burdens to the communities that are inordinately
and disproportionately affected by the problems of caring for people
with aids. and there are several other things that i think should be
done. we have to do the agriculture department meat inspectors the
safety of the public depends on that.

there are a number of other things that i do n't i
do n't think any of it should be cut , but i have given senator
mitchell and senator byrd i talked to them. and senator dole
called me yesterday to discuss this , and i told him that i would call
him back. i called him back last night in new hampshire and we
discussed this. and i basically asked them to talk today , and said
that i would not make any statements about any specifics until at
least they had a chance to talk to see whether or not they could
reach some accord.

so i do n't want to be any more specific than i have been
already , and let 's see if they can talk it out.

q when you talked to senator dole and senator
mitchell did you tell them about your increase also , that 200
million , that you want that as part of the package \?

the president i did i told senator i left word
for senator mitchell last night about it. when i talked to senator
dole i do n't remember for sure i do not believe i mentioned it.
but i did tell him that i was prepared to reduce the package and i
wanted to break the gridlock , and i told him that i was working on a
reformulation of it so that in the hope that it would become even
more focused on jobs and the kinds of issues that i thought the
american people wanted us to address. and this is certainly
consistent with that.

thank you.

end3 12 p.m. edt




from jmann@vineland.pubs.stratus.com (jim mann)
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993
organization stratus computer inc , marlboro ma
lines 12
reply to jmann@vineland.pubs.stratus.com
nntp posting host gondolin.pubs.stratus.com

in article 1993apr5.201051.15818@dsd.es.com
bob.waldrop@f418.n104.z1.fidonet.org (bob waldrop) writes

what did this have to do with sf \? and please do n't answer
that a number of libertarians are sf fans or vice versa. i know a
number of sf fans who are also baseball fans but i do n't plan on
posting the red sox schedule.


jim mann
stratus computer jmann@vineland.pubs.stratus.com


from rja@mahogany126.cray.com (russ anderson)
subject re gore throws out the first ball. and media coverage of it
originator rja@mahogany126
lines 37
nntp posting host mahogany126
organization the 1991 world champion minnesota twins !
distribution usa


in article 1993apr15.093957.1213@hsh.com , paul@hsh.com (paul havemann) writes
in article 1993apr13.122543.1682@hemlock.cray.com , rja@mahogany126.cray.com (russ anderson) writes

in article c5e2ja.849@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com , mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
this past thursday vp gore threw out the first ball at the home opener for
the atlanta braves. according to the news reports he was quite loudly booed.
(no , dr. norman , these were not your typical beer swilling red necks.)

personally i would n't have paid any more attention to the incident except
that the evening news when describing the event , went on to comment that
being booed was nothing unusual since it was normal for audiences to
boo at this point since the celebrity was delaying the start of the game.

what a bunch of crock. i have never heard of any incident in which the
thrower of the ceremonial ball has been booed before.

dan quayle got roundly booed in milwaulkee last year. (i was listening
on the radio). this was the game that quayle told the brewers players that
he would like to see them play the orioles in the alcs.

it 's come to this , has it \? defending al gore by comparing him to dan quayle \?

who compared quayle to gore \? mark said he had never heard of any incident
in which the thrower of the ceremonial ball had been booed before. i mentioned
another incident. (and if the media had a liberal bias , i'm sure he would
have heard of the quayle incident.)

if i was to compare quayle to anyone , it most likely would be elmer fudd.

i 'd say that about says it all... back to the pit with ye , back to alt.fan.
dan quayle ! begone !


russ anderson disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect
upon my employer or anyone else. (c) 1993
ex twins' jack morris , 10 innings pitched , 0 runs (world series mvp ! )

from wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr)
subject re rnitedace and violence
organization northeastern law , class of '93
lines 20
distribution usa
nntp posting host nw12 326 1.mit.edu
in reply to neal@magpie.linknet.com (neal)


in article c5ovg2.j24@magpie.linknet.com ,
neal@magpie.linknet.com (neal) said

my views are out of experiences when i was a police officer in a large
metropolitan area , and of a citizen. unless people account for their
behavior , and for the behavior of their immediate community , nothing
will improve.

wait a minute. i agree with you that people have to take responsibility
for their own behavior (i assume that 's what you meant by the word
account ) , but also for the behavior of their immediate community \?

first of all , how immediate are you talking about , and secondly , i
have a lot of trouble with any theory of social behavior or justice
which charges anyone with the duty of taking responsibility for or
accounting for the actions of a different person...

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu


from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution usa
lines 28

in article 1qmtl1 71r@gondor.sdsu.edu cosc0000@ucssun1.sdsu.edu (riyadh al ha
jmoosa) writes
kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study
(discrediting kinsey) says so.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?

my understanding from my psycology classes is that the percentage is
more like 10 12 world wide. i would really like to know your source
for the 1 2 figure.

riyadh moosa.
sdsu chemistry.
cosc0000@ucssun1.sdsu.edu

some survey conducted by the u.s. government and some group (i do n't know
which) did what they were calling on all the news shows this morning , the most
comprehensive survey of sexuality in the past 50 years . not an exact quote ,
but you get the idea.

this low percentage is merely one more in a ton of evidence disproving the 10
theory.

ryan

from mcelwre@cnsvax.uwec.edu
subject secret purpose of falklands war
organization university of wisconsin eau claire
lines 918



secret purpose of falklands war with in visibility technology

dr. beter audio letter 74 of 80

digitized by jon volkoff , mail address eidetics@cerf.net

audio letter(r) is a registered trademark of audio books ,
inc. , a texas corporation , which originally produced this tape
recording. reproduced under open license granted by audio
books , inc.



this is the dr. beter audio letter(r) , 1629 k st. nw , washington ,
dc 20006.

hello , my friends , this is dr. beter. today is april 30 ,
1982 , and this is my audio letter(r) no. 74.

it 's now been almost one month since war broke out in the south
atlantic. on the surface it seems that it 's only a dispute
between argentina and great britain over the barren , wind swept
falkland islands and south georgia island. in reality , it 's far
more than that.

the so called falklands crisis is just the visible tip of a
giant military operation. during this month of april 1982 ,
fierce naval battles have taken place not only in the south
atlantic but also in the south pacific. up to now most of the
hostilities have been kept under wraps by wartime censorship on
all sides. but as i say these words , the naval war in the
southern hemisphere is about to come to the surface.

beginning today , april 30 , a total naval and air blockade of
the falklands by the royal navy has begun. at the same time a
counterblockade has been declared by argentina in the same area.

to be effective , a blockade must be imposed over a period of
time , but the royal navy does not have that much time. winter is
coming on in the south atlantic , and the british supply lines are
overextended. having come this far , her majesty 's navy cannot
simply drop the blockade and sail away in a few weeks time
without drawing blood from argentina. as a result the british
will be forced to undertake military operations very soon no
matter how risky they may be.

there is also another reason why the royal navy now has no
choice but to engage the argentine forces in combat. that
reason , my friends , is that the royal navy has already suffered
losses in secret combat this month. up to this moment there will
be no way to explain away the damage which has been sustained by
the british fleet. only when publicly admitted fighting erupts
will the british dare to admit that they have suffered battle
losses. to obtain that cover story , the british have no choice
but to sail into combat but in doing so , they will be risking
even heavier losses on top of those already sustained. in short ,
my friends , her majesty 's navy has sailed into a trap.

the events now unfolding in the south atlantic carry strange ,
ironic echoes of the past. for weeks now we 've been hearing
countless commentators referring to the british task force as an
armada (quote). the british of all people ought to be very
uneasy with that description. the original spanish armada 400
years ago was renowned as a seemingly invincible fighting force ,
but it came to grief in a naval disaster so complete that it
changed the course of history and it was none other than the
english navy that destroyed the spanish armada.

the original spanish armada put to sea in 1588 during the
reign of england 's queen elizabeth i. the armada was an invasion
fleet carrying thousands of crack fighting men to invade england.
they were met by the daring sea dogs of sir francis drake. drake
and his small , fast ships turned the tables on the spanish armada
by changing the rules of battle. the english fleet was equipped
with new longer range guns , and it stayed upwind and out of
reach. from there the english pounded , smashed , and shattered
the big ships of the mighty armada. when it was all over , barely
half the spanish fleet was left to limp back to port. drake 's
defeat of the spanish armada was a shock to the world. it opened
the door for england under queen elizabeth i to start its
expansion into a truly global empire.

today , 400 years later , history seems to have come full
circle. queen elizabeth ii is witnessing the dismantling of the
world empire whose heyday began under queen elizabeth i , and now
the cultures of england and of spain are once again in
confrontation. once again a so called armada is preparing for
invasion , but this time the armada is british , not spanish. four
hundred years ago sir francis drake was the hero of the day
today , the ghost of francis drake is once again on the scene.

the south atlantic war zone is at the eastern end of the drake
passage around the southern tip of south america. the defeat of
the spanish armada four centuries ago broke the back of spain 's
naval supremacy , and now the defeat of the new british armada may
well break the back of what remains of the once glorious royal
navy.

my three special topics for this audio letter are

topic 1 the military secret of south georgia island
topic 2 the secret naval war of the southern hemisphere
topic 3 the rockefeller fear campaign against nuclear war.

topic 1 when the falkland islands crisis began early this month
it looked at first like a tempest in a teapot. for a century and
a half since 1833 , the islands have been controlled by great
britain. during that entire time , british sovereignty over the
falklands has been disputed by argentina. there have been
countless threats by argentina to seize the islands , which it
calls the malvinas , but the threats have always come to nothing
in the past and britain has never even gotten very worried about
them.

the islands are four times as distant from argentina as cuba
is from the united states , and they are not much of a prize.
after 150 years of occupancy , the falklands are home to fewer
than 2 , 000 british settlers and a lot of sheep. in short , the
remote falkland islands hardly look like something to fight over ,
and yet here we are watching another crisis take place. we are
watching as war erupts between great britain and argentina.

the thatcher government is acting as if it has forgotten all
about its usual preoccupation with the soviet threat at nato 's
doorstep. instead , britain is throwing almost everything it 's
got at argentina aircraft carriers , cruisers , destroyers ,
submarines , assault ships you name it. luxury cruise ships have
even been commissioned and turned into troop carriers overnight.
wave after wave of additional assault troops have been activated
and sent to join the fleet even after it sailed. ships and
submarines have been pulled off station from normal nato duty and
sent to reinforce the task force. the initial 40 ship force has
grown steadily over the past several weeks into an armada
numbering over 70. over two thirds of the entire royal navy has
already been deployed to the south atlantic off argentina.

watching all this , a lot of people are asking what 's this
fight really all about \? the most popular answer suggested in the
major media is oil. vast deposits of oil are known to exist
under the continental shelf between argentina and the falklands ,
but that has been known for nearly 10 years. in no way does it
explain the timing of the sudden military offensive by argentina
this month , and oil explains even less about the argentine
seizure of south georgia island.

south georgia island is 800 miles east of the falklands with
no known oil deposits anywhere near it and compared to south
georgia , the falklands are an island paradise. south georgia
island is covered with rugged mountains , treacherous valleys ,
glaciers , and semi permanent snow. most of it is uninhabitable.
on top of all that , argentina has absolutely no legal or
historical claim to south georgia island. in that respect it
stands in sharp contrast to the falklands.

in the early 1830s the falklands were occupied for a while by
argentine colonists. in 1833 the british expelled them and took
over the island. for that and other historical reasons ,
argentina argues that the falklands really belong to argentina ,
not britain.

but no such argument is possible for south georgia island. it
has always been controlled by britain , never by argentina or
spain. the argentine seizure of south georgia island looks even
more unreasonable from a military point of view. argentina 's
leaders are military men and they think in military terms. they
were well aware ahead of time that far off south georgia island
could not possibly be held for long. by seizing it they were
setting themselves up to absorb a military defeat , as the island
was retaken by britain. so the question is why did argentina 's
military junta bother with the seemingly worthless south georgia
island at all \?

my friends , the answers to all these questions are military ,
not political or economic. south georgia island possesses an
enormous military secret. it 's a giant underground installation
buried under the mountains at the northwest end of the island.
the real reason for the so called falkland crisis is this secret
installation , together with two other similar installations which
i will describe shortly.

the secret military complexes have been in existence for many
years they are not new. what is new is the accelerated nuclear
war timetable of the american bolshevik war planners here in
washington. for the past two months i 've been reporting the
details of this new war plan to you as quickly as i can obtain
and verify them.

the plan calls for nuclear war one to erupt by september of
this year 1982 ! ! it is this fast approaching nuclear war threat
that caused the so called falklands crisis to erupt now.

what is going on now is a coordinated effort to spoil part of
the bolshevik grand strategy for the coming nuclear war. the
mutual enemies of the american bolsheviks here namely , the
rockefeller cartel and russia 's new rulers in the kremlin are
behind the present crisis. they are trying to ruin phase 3 of
the project z war plan which i revealed last month. that phase
is to be world domination by the american bolsheviks after both
russia and the united states have been destroyed in nuclear war
one. as i mentioned last month , the key to this plan is the
existence of secret weapons stockpiles in various places around
the world.

the american bolshevik military planners here in america are
working with other bolshevik agents in key military positions of
other countries to set off war. having done that , they intend to
ride out the nuclear holocaust they have caused , safe and cozy in
government war bunkers ! when the warring nations finally lie
smoldering and exhausted , the bolsheviks will leave the shattered
remains of their host countries. they will rendezvous at the
secret weapons installations and bring their weapons into the
open. they will confront the world with the only remaining
fresh , up to date , powerful military force on earth and using
that military power , they will become the undisputed rulers of
the world that is , they plan to do all this , and they plan to
pave the way for world domination very soon by setting off
nuclear war one in a matter of months. the rockefeller cartel
and russia 's new anti bolshevik rulers are working together in a
race against time to try to head off the bolshevik war plan.

last month i mentioned that the bolsheviks here are
benefitting from war preparations which were started by the
rockefellers long ago. it has only been about three years since
the rockefellers were dislodged as the prime movers of the united
states government by the bolsheviks. since that time the united
states government has been a house divided , torn by internal
power struggles between rival bolshevik and rockefeller factions.
but before that , the united states had been dominated for decades
both economically and politically by the four rockefeller
brothers.

in 1961 the brothers launched a new long range plan for world
domination. it was a two prong strategy , half visible and half
secret , which i first described long ago in audio letter no. 28.
it was a plan for the united states to arm to the teeth in secret
while appearing to disarm gradually. without repeating all the
details , the basic idea was grandiose yet simple. by
deliberately appearing weak , the rockefeller controlled united
states would maneuver itself into a nuclear war with russia.
then the secret weapons , including superweapons , would be
unleashed to smash russia and take over the world.

when they set the grand plan in motion in 1961 , the
rockefeller brothers were looking ahead to a nuclear war by the
late 1970s. their military analysts concluded very early that
the war being planned would have very different effects on the
northern and southern hemispheres. both superpowers , the united
states and the soviet union , are located well up in the northern
hemisphere so are the other full fledged nuclear powers great
britain , france , red china , and india. by contrast , the
strategic targets for nuclear war in the southern hemisphere are
relatively few and far between. in other words , it was expected
that the coming nuclear war would be essentially a northern
hemisphere war.

in an all out nuclear holocaust it is known that serious
radioactive fallout will gradually spread to affect even areas
not initially hit by war. but there are limits to how far the
war clouds can spread. it was discovered long ago that there is
very little mixing between the air of the northern and southern
hemispheres. in the northern half of our planet , cold air from
the north pole works its way southward towards the equator , then
it works its way back to the north as warm air. a mirror image
of this process takes up the southern half of the planet.
northern and southern hemisphere air meet in the equatorial zone ,
but very little of the air changes places.

the military conclusion , my friends , is this the coming
nuclear war could ruin large areas of the northern hemisphere for
generations to come but if the calculations are right , the
southern hemisphere could escape virtually unaffected by the war.
this was music to the ears of the four rockefeller brothers. a
quick look at the globe of the world shows why. the rockefeller
cartel has dominated latin america ever since world war ii. as i
discussed in my very first monthly audio letter , nelson
rockefeller solidified the cartel grip on latin america during
the war. he accomplished this as so called coordinator of
hemispheric defense for then president franklin d. roosevelt.
so that takes care of the south american continent and its
natural resources.

then there is the african continent. there , too , rockefeller
control was already in effect over wide areas of black africa ,
especially south of the equator. all this was thanks to the
efforts of john d. rockefeller iii , as i detailed in audio letter
no. 36.

looking around the globe , the most important remaining land
masses from the standpoint of world domination are australia and
new zealand. thanks to world war ii , both were wide open to the
rockefellers.

the rockefeller brothers decided to establish secret military
installations in the southern hemisphere for use after the coming
war. by this means they expected to become the masters of the
surviving southern half of planet earth after the northern
hemisphere war. then , as the northern hemisphere gradually
recovered from the nuclear holocaust , the rockefeller empire
would be able to pick up the pieces. in this way the third
generation rockefeller brothers expected their family dynasty to
inherit the earth.

in order to control the southern hemisphere militarily after
the war , some means would have to be available to project
military power onto any land mass. for example , revolts against
rockefeller domination would require troops not a blast from the
beam weapons on the moon. the most critical factor for postwar
military domination of the world was found to be a navy. a
minimum of two secret naval fleets would be required one based
in the south atlantic , the other in the south pacific. since the
reserve naval fleets were to be kept secret until after the
northern hemisphere nuclear war , they could not be built in
existing shipyards. new construction facilities had to be built
and they had to be hidden. to hide an entire shipyard is no
small task they take up a lot of space. on top of that , it was
essential that the ships remain hidden after they were built.
the best way to achieve that was to combine the shipyard and
naval base into one over all secret installation. finally , the
secret naval installation had to be invulnerable to nuclear
attack otherwise if its existence were ever discovered
prematurely , the secret navy might be wiped out.

the combined requirements for secrecy , space , and protection
against attack were formidable but one day in 1959 , while all
these plans were still in the early stages of development , the
answer presented itself. during a so called banking trip to
sweden , david rockefeller was given a tour of a unique hidden
naval port. the port is hollowed out from solid granite cliffs
which come right down to the water. the entrance to the port is
a gigantic hole in the side of the cliff which can be sealed off
with enormous steel doors. inside this big doorway on the water
a huge cavity has been hollowed out to accommodate ships.

the rockefeller brothers and their military adviser decided
that a bigger , more secret , better protected version of the
swedish hidden port was just what they wanted. a survey of
candidate sites was then initiated. the site survey covered
coastal areas throughout the southern hemisphere. many areas
were rejected very quickly because the topography was wrong.
other areas were rejected because they were too close to the
equator. still others had to be ruled out because there were too
many people living nearby , making the desired level of secrecy
impossible. finally , it was essential that the sites chosen for
the secret naval installations be totally secure politically.

at last the sites for the secret naval installations were
selected. in the south pacific , extreme southern new zealand was
selected. this is what i was alluding to in audio letter no. 71
three months ago when i called attention to new zealand 's extreme
importance in the coming war.

in order to obtain the necessary space , the secret new zealand
naval installation had to be divided up into two sites located
close together. one is at the extreme southwest tip of south
island where the mountain range known as the southern alps comes
down virtually to the water 's edge. the other part of the
installation is built into the northwest tip of stewart island ,
which is off the tip of south island. the stewart island
facility is hollowed out within a rise known as mt. anglem.

the new zealand location met all the requirements. ever since
world war ii the government of new zealand has been tied even
closer to the united states than to great britain. the location
is far from the equator , and the installations are buried deep
under mountains , protected from nuclear attack. they are also
too deep to be reached by particle beam attacks , and the new
zealand site is well situated to command the entire south
pacific.

in the south atlantic an even more perfect site was found.
that site , my friends , is south georgia island. it is located
perfectly for naval domination of the entire south atlantic. the
tall , rugged mountains provided a perfect location for the secret
installation at the northwest tip of the 100 mile long island.
it is controlled by great britain whose government , like that of
new zealand , was willing to cooperate and south georgia island
was virtually uninhabited except for a whaling station on the
northeast coast. the whaling station was some 50 miles away from
the secret new installation which was being built , but britain
took no chances. in 1965 the whaling station was closed down.
since that time there have been no inhabitants on south georgia
island except for a few dozen alleged antarctic scientists.

construction of the secret naval facilities two in new
zealand , one on south georgia island began in the early 1960 's.
the techniques were adapted from those used previously to build
other large underground facilities , such as the norad
installation inside cheyenne mountain , colorado however these
techniques were adapted in radically new ways to achieve
construction access directly from the sea instead of overland.
in this way , the sheltering mountain was left undisturbed in
appearance both during and after construction.

the cuts in the mountain side which were necessary to let
ships in and out were kept as small as possible and were well
camouflaged. like the swedish hidden naval port arrangement , the
entrances to the secret installations can be sealed up. when
sealed , the entrance is virtually impossible to detect unless you
know exactly where it is and unlike most large construction
projects , there are no tailings or piles of leftover rock lying
around to attract attention. the man made caverns which house
the secret naval installations are enormous , but all the rock and
debris was disposed of at sea.

once the secret naval facilities were built , they had to be
outfitted for ship construction and docksite storage. the fake
disarmament of the united states during the 1960s contributed
greatly to this task. from 1961 to 1968 one man played a pivotal
role in this elaborate rockefeller scheme. he was then secretary
of defense robert mcnamara. all through the 60 's mcnamara
presided over the public paring back of america 's visible
military power. this included the closing down and dismantling
of entire shipyards. what we were not told was where all that
shipyard equipment went afterwards. where it went , my friends ,
was to the new secret installations which were being outfitted in
new zealand and south georgia island !

the secret naval installations have been used as duplication
facilities to reproduce certain ships and submarines designed and
built here in the united states. as defense secretary caspar
weinberger told congress recently , it is cheaper to build two
ships at a time. that is especially true if the second ship is
an exact duplicate of the first. this has become even more true
in recent years through the use of computerized manufacturing
techniques.

the secret naval fleets which have been built at the secret
installations are made up of duplicates exact duplicates of
certain other ships and submarines. they are all nuclear
powered nuclear subs nuclear cruisers nuclear destroyers
and yes , nuclear aircraft carriers , three of them. a secret twin
was built for the u.s.s. nimitz , for the u.s.s. eisenhower , and
for the newly launched u.s.s. carl vincent. all have been
financed through the gigantic cost overruns , so called , that we
constantly hear about in the defense department and all three
carriers have been provided with a full complement of aircraft
whose manufacture was financed the same way !

the ships of the secret american bolshevik naval fleets are
all duplicates of other nuclear powered vessels. even so , the
secret naval ships possess one key difference.

last month i revealed that the so called stealth program has
succeeded in developing a kind of electromagnetic invisibility
shield. this technique makes an object invisible from a distance
by distorting light waves in its vicinity.

a whole new fleet of phantom war planes are now going into
crash production that use this principle and , my friends , all of
the secret american bolshevik navy ships have already been
outfitted with similar stealth field equipment ! the stealth
principle is actually easier to apply to ships than to airplanes
because there is more room for the powerful equipment that
generates the field.

after nuclear war one , the secret stealth navy of the american
bolsheviks would be light years ahead of any other navy left on
earth. it would be perfect for the intended role of world
domination. the rockefellers set it all in motion long ago , my
friends , but three years ago they lost control of the united
states military. now it 's the american bolsheviks who are in
control , and they are bent on war.

these secret naval installations have precipitated what is
being called the falklands crisis.

topic 2 in audio letter(r) no. 73 last month i described
project z , the new bolshevik three phase strategy for nuclear
war one.

an elite group of american bolshevik military planners here
are flushing out the plan right now at a secret war room here in
washington. it 's a plan by which the united states will strike
the first nuclear blow , followed by all out thermonuclear war
with russia.

having set off the holocaust , the bolsheviks here and in
certain other countries plan to rise it out safe in comfortable
war bunkers. finally after nuclear war one fizzles out in
stalemate , they plan to leave behind the ashes of the united
states and her allies. activating phase 3 of their grand
strategy , they plan to unveil their secret weapons , especially
their secret naval fleets. with these they plan to conquer and
rule what is left of the world. the united states as we know it
will be dead and gone but in the eyes of the bolsheviks
themselves , this outcome will constitute victory.

up to now the nuclear war timetable which i first revealed two
months ago is still on track. they are still shooting for
nuclear war to begin by september of this year 1982 ! time is
fast running out.

the bolsheviks here are sprinting as fast as they can toward
war but , my friends , the bolsheviks are not the only runners in
this race. they have two deadly enemies , both of whom are
equally determined to trip up the bolsheviks. one enemy of the
bolsheviks here is the rockefeller cartel the other enemy is the
new anti bolshevik ruling clique in russia and now these two
mutual enemies of the bolsheviks are pooling their efforts in
certain ways.

in audio letter no. 71 three months ago i reported that a
limited , new anti bolshevik coalition was in the works between
the rockefeller cartel and the russians. the january 26 meeting
between haig and gromyko in geneva , switzerland , was a turning
point in the formation of this coalition. it is now a reality ,
and is responsible for the so called falkland crisis now
dominating the headlines. it should be emphasized that this new
relationship between the rockefeller cartel and russia falls far
short of a true alliance. they have very major disputes to be
settled between them , but for the time being they have called a
truce between themselves to deal with their mutual deadly
enemy the bolsheviks here in america.

the first priority of the russians and the rockefellers is to
slow down the bolshevik preparations for imminent nuclear war.
if they can do that , time is on the side of the rockefeller
cartel in certain political movements which i discussed last
summer in audio letter no. 67. a slow down in the nuclear war
timetable will also give more breathing space for additional
anti bolshevik actions to be implemented.

the joint rockefeller russian planners decided by mid february
that military action against the bolsheviks was essential very
quickly. no other type of action had any hope of taking effect
fast enough to prevent nuclear war by the end of this summer.

the exact details of the project z war plan are not known to
either the rockefellers or the russians , but the general outlines
are known to be as i described last month.

it was decided that military action should be devised that
would undermine phase 3 of the bolshevik war plan that is , the
bolshevik controlled secret naval installations and fleets in the
southern hemisphere should be attacked and crippled. by working
together , the rockefeller cartel and the russians were able to
devise an attack plan which neither could have carried out alone.
the rockefeller group , who built and originally controlled these
bases , provided detailed intelligence about the best way to
attack them. the russians with their enormous military machine
provided the muscle to actually carry out the attack.

it was essential to devise a scheme that would enable both
secret fleets in the south atlantic and south pacific to be
attacked. survival intact of either fleet would leave the
bolshevik war plan still workable.

military analysts concluded very quickly that a direct assault
on the new zealand facilities was out of the question. there was
no combination of commandos , frogmen , or other military force
which could possibly keep an attack secret from the outside
world. any attack on the new zealand bases would set off the
very war which the rockefellers and russians want to prevent.

but the situation in the south atlantic was a different
matter. in a way , the greatest asset of south georgia island was
also its achilles' heel. the extreme isolation which protected
the secrecy of the south georgia base also made a covert military
assault feasible. the key lay with argentina and her
long standing claims to the falkland islands.

as i mentioned in topic 1 , the rockefeller cartel has
dominated all of latin america for decades. cartel operatives
were sent to argentina to work out a deal with the government
military junta there. the historic dispute over the falkland
islands was to be used to provide a ruse , a military cover , to
enable the south georgia base to be attacked. the argentine
generals were not told everything about the situation by any
means , but they were told enough to make clear what they were to
do.

as an inducement to cooperate , the argentine leaders were
promised handsome rewards. they were guaranteed that after the
shooting was over , the falkland islands would remain in argentine
hands. this guarantee included the promise of covert military
assistance as needed against the royal navy. and to bolster the
troubled argentine economy , it was promised that the rockefeller
cartel will help develop the immense offshore oil reserves. with
these combined promises of military glory and financial rewards ,
the argentine military junta agreed to the plan.

on march 19 argentina carried out act 1 in the joint attack
plan. a group of argentine scrap metal merchants , of all things ,
landed at the abandoned old whaling station on south georgia
island. supposedly they were there to dismantle the old
buildings and cart them off to sell. while they were at it they
also raised the argentine flag over the work site. the british ,
always nervous about south georgia island , promptly reacted as
expected. the british antarctic survey ship endurance put 22
marines ashore. they drove off the scrap merchants and tore down
the argentine flag.

the incident provided the desired excuse for the argentine
junta to bring the simmering 150 year old falklands dispute to a
boil. from time to time in the past , argentina has claimed that
south georgia is part of the falklands because it is administered
that way by britain. that argument is very flimsy but it now
came in very handy. it was nothing new to hear this from
argentine leaders , so there was no hint of what was really afoot.

during late march , argentine military forces started
assembling for an assault on the falklands. nothing new ,
thought the british high command. argentina has carried out
threatening maneuvers in the past many times. it was believed
that they were about to do it again but on april 2 argentine
forces did the unexpected. after many past false alarms , this
time they actually invaded and seized the islands. all argentine
public statements emphasized the long standing historical claims
to the falklands themselves but just for good measure , the next
day a small argentine force also seized far off south georgia
island. the force was so small that it gave the appearance
initially that it was just a side show from argentina 's point of
view however , the small contingent of 22 royal marines were
overpowered and bundled off the island along with a group of 13
alleged scientists. that was the moment of payoff in the joint
rockefeller russian attack plan.

thanks to the elaborate distraction staged by the argentine
forces , a special commando team got onto the island undetected.
based on the detailed rockefeller information about the base , the
team moved to a location on the mountain directly above the
cavernous secret base. special high speed drilling equipment was
set up by the rockefeller members of the team while the russian
members concentrated on military defense. by late that evening ,
april 3 , the military high command in london finally learned what
was really taking place. the secret south georgia base was under
attack by virtually the only means possible. the joint
rockefeller russian team were drilling a shaft down through the
mountain toward the hollowed out cavern inside. it was only a
matter of time until their drill would break through the ceiling
of the giant hidden naval base. once the hole was made , the next
step was obvious. the rockefeller russian team would put a
weapon of some kind through the hole. the best guess was that it
would be a nerve gas.

the shock waves that went through the highest levels of the
british government on the evening of april 3 can hardly be
described , my friends. the thatcher government , like the
so called reagan administration here in america , is bolshevik
controlled. that 's why margaret thatcher always says , me , too
any time the reagan administration says or does anything against
russia. both governments are party to the secret nuclear war
plan in complete betrayal of the people of their respective
countries , and on the evening of april 3 they suddenly discovered
that their precious war plan was in deep , deep trouble.

immediately the thatcher government started assembling a naval
armada to sail for the south atlantic. haste was the order of
the day. the drilling on south georgia island was proceeding
around the clock. the best estimates were that the drilling
would break through into the roof of the naval base in about
three weeks , on or about april 24. if help did not reach south
georgia by then , the secret installation might be doomed. the
forces stationed at the installation itself were unable to defend
themselves under the circumstances. their mighty naval ships
were ships in a bottle. they did not dare open the bottle to
sail out to fight because the russian commandos were armed with
tactical and nuclear weapons. to open the blast proof entrance
doors would be suicide.

on april 5 , just two days after south georgia island was
seized , some 40 naval ships began moving out of british ports.
the same day lord carrington was sacked as foreign minister. he
was forced to resign , my friends , because he had assisted the
rockefeller attack plan by downplaying the argentine attack
preparations.

that same day , april 5 , new zealand , the home of the other
secret naval fleet , broke diplomatic relations with argentina.
the two hidden new zealand facilities had been placed on red
alert. as a precautionary measure , all submarines at the twin
base were ordered to sea. several surface ships were already at
sea undergoing sea trials , but that still left seven (7) major
ships inside the hidden twin naval base including one of the
nuclear aircraft carriers i mentioned earlier.

on that busy day of april 5 , argentina 's foreign minister ,
costa mendez , was at the united nations in new york. he was
alarmed by the deployment of such a large part of the royal navy.
costa mendez hurried here to washington to seek reassurances from
certain officials. he got them !

for the next two weeks or so the news was filled with stories
about the allegedly slow movement of the british fleet while
negotiations went on. that , my friends , was only a cover story.
the royal navy was actually joining up and moving as rapidly as
possible toward south georgia island. if the task force arrived
in time to save the secret base , a major battle was likely. the
official stories about slow movement of the british armada were
intended to give a cushion of time for that battle. if need be ,
the fleet would have several days to retake south georgia island ,
then it could move on to arrive near the falklands on the
announced schedule. in this way the crucial importance of south
georgia island would be hidden and the big secret preserved.

it was initially expected that advance elements of the british
fleet would reach the vicinity of south georgia island within two
weeks. that would have been soon enough to attack the joint
rockefeller russian commando team and stop the drilling before it
was completed. but russian cosmospheres and submarines made a
shambles of the plan.

key advance elements of the south georgia attack contingent
left ascension island early april 14 , two days before it was
announced officially. shortly after they did so , they ran into
trouble. russian cosmospheres and attack submarines closed in on
a single ship which was critical to the planned counterassault on
south georgia island. the cosmospheres bombarded the bridge and
combat information center of the ship with neutron radiation. in
moments the ship was without any command , its communications and
radar silenced. then a russian sub closed in and quickly
finished off this key british ship with torpedoes. it broke
apart with secondary explosions and sank rapidly. so far as is
known , there were no survivors.

this unexpected shock in the mid atlantic produced two
results , both important

first , it caused a slowdown in the race toward the south atlantic
by the british armada. the task force had to be regrouped into a
configuration better suited for an enroute defense , but that cost
valuable time. public announcements from london about the
progress of the fleet reflected this slowdown. the timetable for
arrival on battle stations near the falklands started stretching
out longer and longer. all this bought extra time for the joint
commando team on south georgia island. the drilling continued.

the other result of the sinking was equally important. word was
flashed to the south pacific stealth navy to prepare for possible
action. it was obvious that the russian navy was getting
involved in the atlantic , which meant that the royal navy could
be in big trouble. during the dead of night , early april 15 , the
seven stealth ships put to sea from their twin secret bases in
southern new zealand. they deployed to a secret operational
headquarters area in the antipodes islands , 450 miles southeast
of new zealand. their electromagnetic shields were operating to
provide protection from attack. these shields make it impossible
to communicate with the outside world or even to see it , as i
explained last month but once they arrived at the antipodes , the
stealth ships hooked up to buoys equipped with shielded
communication cables to the island headquarters. the antipodes
headquarters , in turn , was in constant touch with the south
georgia base by way of a transoceanic cable around the tip of
south america. the deployment of the available ships of the
south pacific stealth fleet was exactly what the joint
rockefeller russian planners had hoped for. the ships had been
flushed out from their essentially invulnerable hiding place in
new zealand !

the british ship 's sinking of april 14 was also followed by
other events. on april 15 the argentine navy started moving out
of port. the same day , alexander haig arrived again in buenos
aires. supposedly he was there as a diplomat , but in reality he
was there as a general , dealing with generals. haig is the top
governmental operative of the rockefeller cartel , as i have
revealed in the past. he was making sure that the argentines did
not get cold feet and back down at that critical moment. four
days later , april 19 , haig left for washington. as he boarded
his plane , haig somberly told reporters , time is running out.
and so it was , my friends , for the secret south georgia base.

the very next day , april 20 , the drill broke through into the
hollowed out cavern of the naval base. bolshevik military
analysts in london had not expected that it could be completed
until at least the following weekend. the british fleet was
still out of range.

the weapon which the commando team inserted down through the
long hole was a small , compact russian neutron bomb. when it was
detonated inside the confines of the huge artificial cave , the
effects were devastating. the intense radiation instantly killed
everyone inside the base. also the heat and blast effects of the
bomb are believed to have damaged all the ships inside
sufficiently to badly disable them.

meanwhile , russian cosmospheres and submarines were converging
on the stealth ships which were near the antipodes islands
awaiting orders. from a distance , the ships were invisible to
the eye due to their protective shields , which also protect
against beam weapon attack but they were sitting ducks for the
tactics which the russians employed.

floating overhead , the cosmospheres located the seven ships
using their psychoenergetic range finding equipment known as prf.
as i have reported in the past , there is no method known by which
prf can be jammed. the cosmospheres radioed the exact locations
of the ships to the attack submarines. the subs were armed
with special non homing , non nuclear torpedoes designed to
explode on impact. more sophisticated torpedoes would have been
thrown off course or detonated prematurely by the protective
shield of each ship but these simple torpedoes just cruise right
through each invisibility field to strike the ship and explode.
within 15 minutes after the attack began , all seven bolshevik
stealth ships were on their way to the bottom , and with them went
their bolshevik commanders and mercenary crews collected from
around the world.

the south pacific action took place just after sunset local
time. the time here in washington was around 2 00 p.m. april 23.
that evening secretary of state haig was seen briefly in public
with the new british foreign minister , francis pym. pym was
wearing the artificial pseudo smile which diplomats are taught
always to display in public. but not haig. haig was grinning
from ear to ear , and no wonder. the joint rockefeller russian
military operation had been a brilliant success. the secret
bolshevik south atlantic fleet had been virtually wiped out ,
bottled up inside south georgia island and the south pacific
fleet , while not totally wiped out , had been badly crippled. by
working together , the rockefeller cartel and the russians had won
the secret naval war of the southern hemisphere.

topic 3 as i say these words , news reports give the impression
that war is about to erupt in the south atlantic , but the real
war in the southern hemisphere is already over. what we are
watching now is the beginning of its bloody aftermath. that
aftermath is the battle for the falkland islands. they have been
promised to argentina as a reward for her role in the secret war.

at this moment the bolsheviks here in washington are pressing
for a public announcement that the united states will side with
britain. as soon as that takes place , military action will heat
up fast around the falklands. britain has no choice but to
fight. she has already suffered casualties which cannot be
explained without a public battle but by fighting , the
bolsheviks in britain are running the risk of a humiliating and
tragic defeat for the royal navy.

meanwhile , the rockefeller strategists here are now
concentrating on a fast building , anti nuclear war campaign. on
all sides now we are hearing about the so called nuclear freeze
movement. there are documentaries , articles , publicity of all
kinds to sensitize us to the terrors of nuclear war. in recent
months , there have even been referenda popping up on election
ballots dealing with the nuclear war issue. medical doctors are
banding together to warn the public about what would happen if
there were a nuclear war.

we are being told that all this is just popping up
spontaneously. we are now 37 years into the nuclear age and
nothing like this has ever gained so much momentum before , yet
now we are supposed to believe that millions of americans have
spontaneously gotten the same ideas at the same time. if you
believe that , my friends , i give up. movements like this never ,
and i mean never , develop without leadership , organization , and
money and plenty of it.

what we are watching is the rockefeller public relations
machine at work. as i 've explained in the past , the rockefeller
cartel cannot afford to let a nuclear war take place. if it
does , they will lose everything because they are not in a
position to control it. instead , the deadly enemies of the
rockefeller cartel , the bolsheviks here , will win out if there is
a war and so the rockefeller faction is now doing everything in
its power to prevent a nuclear war.

the present anti nuclear war orientation of the rockefeller
cartel creates certain temporary common interests between them
and russia but as russia 's new rulers know very well , this does
not spring from any great moral perspective on the part of the
rockefeller group. it 's purely a matter of practical necessity
right now for the rockefellers.

the russians regard the united states as a house divided , and
they are exploiting that division by working in careful ways with
the rockefellers. their first priority is to rid the world of
the deadly bolshevik menace of all out , even suicidal , nuclear
war but once that is done , they know that there will be a day of
reckoning with the rockefeller cartel some day.

the rockefeller group is working toward a definite objective
with their new anti nuclear war propaganda. that objective is
renewed power and power that moves them closer to their old
dream of world government. the bolsheviks here have unwittingly
provided fertile ground for the powerful new rockefeller antiwar
campaign. under bolshevik control , the so called reagan
administration has become so hawkish that it 's scaring people.
the rockefeller antiwar campaign is designed to capitalize on
that latent fear as a tool of power.

these days the smell of war is in the air. the falklands
crisis is helping to make that more intense. the rockefeller
propaganda machine is now paving the way for the argument that
surrender of sovereignty is the only way to avoid war. a new
super united nations of sorts is now in the works to fill the
bill. it will have teeth ! as presently envisioned , the new
organization will be based in geneva , switzerland. the working
name , though this may be changed , is the world nonproliferation
council. the plan is to bring it into being as the outgrowth of
nuclear nonproliferation treaties , but its true purpose will be
to use fear the fear of war to control us all.

last minute summary

now it 's time for my last minute summary. in this audio
letter i have reported on the reasons behind the so called
falkland islands crisis. the crisis erupted because of secret
bolshevik controlled naval installations in the southern
hemisphere. these have been attacked by joint action of the
rockefeller cartel and the russians in an attempt to slow down
the nuclear war timetable. the attacks were successful , but the
results remain to be seen. one result , though , is that the royal
navy has now been drawn into a trap. britain 's waterloo at sea
may well be at hand.

my friends , two factions are struggling for control over our
united states the rockefeller cartel and the bolsheviks. they
differ in style but both seek to control us through fear. if we
are ever to rise above their trickery , it must be through the
power of our lord jesus christ , our only hope. as the scripture
tells us , our lord ...has not given us the spirit of fear but
of power , of love , and of a sound mind. we must learn to wage
peace. as our lord declared long ago , blessed are the
peacemakers for they shall be called sons of god.

until next month , god willing , this is dr. beter. thank you ,
and may god bless each and every one of you.

from tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re tieing abortion to health reform is clinton nuts \?
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 20
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu

in article h3lnrb8@zola.esd.sgi.com cj@sgi.com writes
vengeance. that 's all. it 's no deterrent. it serves no

it seems to deter those who are executed from future criminal activity.

yeah yeah yeah... and sure would be nice if we did n't apply the
death penalty disproportionately to minorities. i 'll revisit my
opinion on the death penalty when there are more whites up for
it than blacks. i.e. , when hell freezes over.

why do n't you compare the rates at which blacks and whites commit crimes \?
blacks commit crimes disproportionately , so in a perfectly fair penal
system , blacks would be disproportionately represented.

(note black vs. white crime rates is not a racial thing. it 's probably
an economic thing poor people are more likely to commit crimes , and blacks
are more likely to be poor. the way to reduce the proportion of minorities
in prison is to increase the wealth of minorities.)

tim smith

from popec@unkaphaed.jpunix.com (william c. barwell)
subject re top ten comments overheard in the secret service lounge
organization unka phaed 's uucp thingy , houston , tx
lines 28

croaker@highlite.uucp (francis a. ney) writes

besides which , we do n't want clinton assasinated , because that would make h
a martyr a la jfk.

it 's a much better deal to have him end his term of office in disgrace , after
watching all his liberal democrat friends on his staff run this nation down t
toilet.

assuming , of course , that the riots a fortnight from now do n't do it for him.


he 'd have to go a far ways to run things down as bad as reagan and bush
did. we did n't have riots but bush got dumped out on his spotty behind.


we 'll see in 4 years.


pope charles slack in our time !

\? s



popec@unkaphaed.jpunix.com (william c. barwell)
unka phaed 's uucp thingy , houston , tx , (713) 481 3763
1200 2400 9600 14400 v.32bis v.42bis

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 31

in article 1993apr16.164638.27218@galileo.cc.rochester.edu , as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia) writes
in 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

possibly because gay bi men are less likely to get married \?

marriage is n't a requirement for a couple staying together.

what was the purpose of this post \? if it was to show a mindless obsession
with statistics , an incredibly flawed system of reasoning , and a repellent
hatemonger agenda , then the purpose was accomplished with panache.

(a) get a clue. (b) get a life. (c) get out of my face. i'm not in yours.

bi andrew d. simchik schnopia !

yes you are. when you and the rest of the homosexual community
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to
hire , rent to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from redekop@gaul.csd.uwo.ca (tzoq mrekazh)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization welsh farm
nntp posting host obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca
lines 16

in article apr.16.20.34.50.1993.6677@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
so , one
should properly write who 's promiscuous \? the answer is many
homosexuals are.

not quite. the answer is many homosexuals , heterosexual , and bisexuals are ,
but then , many are not.

or , more simply lots of people are.



o tzoq i am a good speller , i am c a t , dog...
o o tzoq@uwo.ca b a t , rhode island... `v'
o redekop@obelix.gaul.csd.uwo.ca junyer bear
bernoulli would have been content to die , had he but known such a 2 cos 2phi

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's radio address 4.17.93
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 178
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house

office of the press secretary
(pittsburgh , pennslyvania)

for immediate release april 17 , 1993


radio address to the nation
by the president

pittsburgh international airport
pittsburgh , pennsylvania


10 06 a.m. edt


the president good morning. my voice is coming to
you this morning through the facilities of the oldest radio
station in america , kdka in pittsburgh. i'm visiting the city to
meet personally with citizens here to discuss my plans for jobs ,
health care and the economy. but i wanted first to do my weekly
broadcast with the american people.

i'm told this station first broadcast in 1920 when
it reported that year 's presidential elections. over the past
seven decades presidents have found ways to keep in touch with
the people , from whistle stop tours to fire side chats to the bus
tour that i adopted , along with vice president gore , in last
year 's campaign.

every saturday morning i take this time to talk with
you , my fellow americans , about the problems on your minds and
what i'm doing to try and solve them. it 's my way of reporting
to you and of giving you a way to hold me accountable.

you sent me to washington to get our government and
economy moving after years of paralysis and policy and a bad
experiment with trickle down economics. you know how important
it is for us to make bold , comprehensive changes in the way we do
business.

we live in a competitive global economy. nations
rise and fall on the skills of their workers , the competitiveness
of their companies , the imagination of their industries , and the
cooperative experience and spirit that exists between business ,
labor and government. although many of the economies of the
industrialized world are now suffering from slow growth , they 've
made many of the smart investments and the tough choices which
our government has for too long ignored. that 's why many of them
have been moving ahead and too many of our people have been
falling behind.

we have an economy today that even when it grows is
not producing new jobs. we 've increased the debt of our nation
by four times over the last 12 years , and we do n't have much to
show for it. we know that wages of most working people have
stopped rising , that most people are working longer work weeks
and that too many families can no longer afford the escalating
cost of health care.

but we also know that , given the right tools , the
right incentives and the right encouragement , our workers and
businesses can make the kinds of products and profits our economy
needs to expand opportunity and to make our communities better
places to live.

in many critical products today americans are the
low cost , high quality producers. our task is to make sure that
we create more of those kinds of jobs.

just two months ago i gave congress my plan for
long term jobs and economic growth. it changes the old
priorities in washington and puts our emphasis where it needs to
be on people 's real needs , on increasing investments and jobs
and education , on cutting the federal deficit , on stopping the
waste which pays no dividends , and redirecting our precious
resources toward investment that creates jobs now and lays the
groundwork for robust economic growth in the future.

these new directions passed the congress in record
time and created a new sense of hope and opportunity in our
country. then the jobs plan i presented to congress , which would
create hundreds of thousands of jobs , most of them in the private
sector in 1993 and 1994 , passed the house of representatives. it
now has the support of a majority of the united states senate.
but it 's been held up by a filibuster of a minority in the
senate , just 43 senators. they blocked a vote that they know
would result in the passage of our bill and the creation of jobs.

the issue is n't politics the issue is people.
millions of americans are waiting for this legislation and
counting on it , counting on us in washington. but the jobs bill
has been grounded by gridlock.

i know the american people are tired of business as
usual and politics as usual. i know they do n't want us to spin
or wheels. they want the recovery to get moving. so i have
taken a first step to break this gridlock and gone the extra
mile. yesterday i offered to cut the size of this plan by 25
percent from 16 billion to 12 billion.

it 's not what i 'd hoped for. with 16 million
americans looking for full time work , i simply ca n't let the bill
languish when i know that even a compromise bill will mean
hundreds of thousands of jobs for our people. the mandate is to
act to achieve change and move the country forward. by taking
this initiative in the face of an unrelenting senate talkathon , i
think we can respond to your mandate and achieve a significant
portion of our original goals.

first , we want to keep the programs as much as
possible that are needed to generate jobs and meet human needs ,
including highway and road construction , summer jobs for young
people , immunization for children , construction of waste water
sites , and aid to small businesses. we also want to keep funding
for extended unemployment compensation benefits , for people who
have been unemployed for a long time because the economy is n't
creating jobs.

second , i 've recommended that all the other programs
in the bill be cut across the board by a little more than 40
percent.

and third , i 've recommended a new element in this
program to help us immediately start our attempt to fight against
crime by providing 200 million for cities and towns to rehire
police officers who lost their jobs during the recession and put
them back to work protecting our people. i'm also going to fight
for a tough crime bill because the people of this country need it
and deserve it.

now , the people who are filibustering this bill
the republican senators say they wo n't vote for it because it
increases deficit spending , because there 's extra spending this
year that has n't already been approved. that sounds reasonable ,
does n't it \? here 's what they do n't say. this program is more
than paid for by budget cuts over my five year budget , and this
budget is well within the spending limits already approved by the
congress this year.

it 's amazing to me that many of these same senators
who are filibustering the bill voted during the previous
administration for billions of dollars of the same kind of
emergency spending , and much of it was not designed to put the
american people to work.

this is not about deficit spending. we have offered
a plan to cut the deficit. this is about where your priorities
are on people or on politics.

keep in mind that our jobs bill is paid for dollar
for dollar. it is paid for by budget cuts. and it 's the
soundest investment we can now make for ourselves and our
children. i urge all americans to take another look at this jobs
and investment program to consider again the benefits for all of
us when we 've helped make more american partners working to
ensure the future of our nation and the strength of our economy.

you know , if every american who wanted a job had
one , we would n't have a lot of the other problems we have in this
country today. this bill is not a miracle , it 's a modest first
step to try to set off a job creation explosion in this country
again. but it 's a step we ought to take. and it is fully paid
for over the life of our budget.

tell your lawmakers what you think. tell them how
important the bill is. if it passes , we 'll all be winners.

good morning , and thank you for listening.

end 10 11 a.m. edt




from jim@specialix.com (jim maurer)
subject re 50 , 000 reward !
organization specialix inc.
lines 10

ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes

if you are a united states' citizen and a resident of the
state , then your citizenship is in d.c. and thus are a 14th amendment
citizen. are you a citizen of the state in which you live \? if you are
a resident then you are not .

so the only people who are citizens of a state are ones who do n't live
in that state \? so am i a citizen of 49 other states since i live in
california \?

from peri@cco.caltech.edu (michal leah peri)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 11
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

did n't the new study asked have you engaged in homosexual intercourse
within the last two years whereas kinsey asked have you ever engaged
or thought about engaging in homosexual activity . sort of like the
difference between did you have yogurt this morning and are you
allergic to lactose .



michal

impressive amounts of material can be accreted in this manner.

from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re top ten comments overheard in the secret service lounge
lines 36
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article 1phgakinn9pb@apache.dtcc.edu , bob@hobbes.dtcc.edu (bob rahe) writes

in article 1993apr2.093952.1149@colorado.edu ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes

ed , they are losing their humor. please take a break until they
get funny again ( \? ) , if that is even possible. i liked a few of these ,
but that list is not even sarcastic , just insulting and definitely not
one of your best. i look forward to some better lists after a sabatical \?
ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu

no , they must be working , they are getting lots of these 'complaints'
that they are not funny.... keep 'em coming , it they were n't funny or
bothering them they 'd just ignore them....

if a six year old child does a funny trick and you say well done he will
do it again and it may be funny. then they may repeat it over and over
again bu you still have to pretend its funny even though it is n't any
more. once they are older than six you expect them to realise that doing
the same thing over and over again is n't funny any more.

basicaly ed fails to be amusing because he is merely crass. he does not
make jokes that have any political content beyond attempting to ridicule
their target. calling someone slick willie is not funny even if you put
on a red nose while you say it , it was a good debating point used on the
spur of the moment 12 months ago but now its use merely demonstrates that the
user could n't think of anything original to say.


in the uk there is a tradition of old retired colnels who bore the dinner
guests rigid with their descriptions of old campagns. ed is clearly one
of this type of people who fails to see when a joke is spent.



phill hallam baker

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re tieing abortion to health reform is clinton nuts \?
organization corporation for open systems
distribution na
lines 44

in 1993apr5.172920.11779@ringer.cs.utsa.edu sbooth@lonestar.utsa.edu (simon e. booth) writes

in article bob1.734020014@cos bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw) writes
in 1993apr2.230831.18332@wdl.loral.com bard@cutter.ssd.loral.com (j h woodyatt) writes

sbooth@lonestar.utsa.edu (simon e. booth) writes
sandvik@newton.apple.com (kent sandvik) writes
we already kill people (death penalty) , and that costs even more
money , so you could as well complain about this extremely barbaric
way of justice.

but the death penalty is right.

and how expensive can an execution be \? i mean , i think rope , cyanide
(for the gas) , or the rifles and ammunition to arm firing squads are
affordable.

now , perhaps lethal injection might be expensive , in that case , let 's
return to the more efficient methods employed in the past.

oh , sure , the death penalty is fairly inexpensive , but the trial and
sentencing can run millions.

that 's assuming our attack puppy is willing to grant people trials in
his new order.

and why the hell would i waste my time doing that \? \?

(to a convicted criminal getting a death sentence)

'go directly to hell , do not pass go , do not collect 200'
(judge laughing)

hey puppy , you are getting further around the bend every day. but
i would n't miss your adolescent ravings for the world , everyone
needs a good laugh now and then. )

simon

tog





from muellerm@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (marc mueller)
subject re abolish selective service
nntp posting host irl2
organization vanderbilt university school of engineering , nashville , tn , usa
lines 61

in article 1993apr16.131508.9518@ra.msstate.edu fpa1@trumpet.cc.msstate.edu (fletcher p adams) writes
kmitchel@netcom.com (kenneth c. mitchell) writes
dave borden (borden@head cfa.harvard.edu) wrote
the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.

i'm really surprised clinton has n't already tried to do this. he seems
to want to tackle other irrelevant issues first , so why not this one as well.

considering that clinton received a draft notice and got out of it (he admits it) the political feasibility of him abolishing it is not something he would
be inclined to risk any extra exposure on.


let me say this about that , as a retired navy officer

i agree. cut it. but let 's not stop there.

eliminate the c 17 transport.

wrong. we need its capability. sure it has its problems , very few
airplanes have n't , but getting rid of something we need is not the
answer. what do you want to do , start over a rebuild a new airplane
from scatch \? it 'll have its problems as well and there will be calls
again , for it to be scrapped. the other option is to try to extend
the life of the c 5s and c 141s that are getting extremely old.

if you read aviation week , the c 5 line can be reopened and the c 5s
would be delivered a year earlier and cost a billion less for the
program. politically , though , the c 17 is popular pork.


scrap the seawolf ssn 21 nuclear submarine.
ground the b 2 stealth bomber.

it 'll cost jobs , but i'm for it. we especially do n't need a b 2. the
ssn 21 , i know litttle about.

agreed. congress took money from nasa and fha to fund the second seawolf.
the shipyards are still building los angeles class submarines and there
is a lack of asw foes to contend with. the navy is considering reducing
the number of attack subs to 40 (navy times) and that would entail
getting rid of or mothballing some of the current los angeles class.

politically , general dynamics is in connecticut and we will get
seawolf subs whether we need them or not.

in addition , more bases need to be closed. probably long beach naval station
and others. the navy is talking about three main bases on each coast being
required to home port a total fleet of 320 ships.

the question is whether les aspin and clinton will be able to face down
a pork happy congress.


marc mueller

from em@hprpcd.rose.hp.com (electronic maintenance)
subject incredible new b.b.s.
organization hewlett packard roseville site
lines 39
nntp posting host hprpcd.rose.hp.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1.3 pl7


wow ! ! ! !
did i discover a great bbs ! !
it 's called sovereignty lies in the people
bbs 916 589 4620 14.4 k baud. free and confidential
! fictitious names ok ! subjects and files contained on the bbs

find out how the government has been scamming us ! ! ! !
state citizenship documents and issues.
are you a california republic citizen or a u.s. federal citizen \?
remember there were only state citizens before the 14th amendment ! !
one is subject to federal income tax , one is n't.
did you volunteer to surrender your state citizenship when you got
your social security number \? which one are you \?
tax laws and issues. beat the irs
traffic laws and issues. beat traffic tickets. can you answer this one
what law allows a police officer to arrest you without a warrant when
he issues you a ticket \?
religious truth issues. are all religions scams \? \? \? \?
are all christian religions of the great creator god \? \? \? \?
trust documents and issues.

the sysop told me that instructions to beat traffic
tickets will be on the bbs shortly. beat traffic
tickets without going to court ! ! ! the bbs is great , spread the word ! ! ! !
also how come i do n't hear more people talking about the
federal reserve bank \? just ask yourself these questions

1) why would anyone borrow money from themselves at interest \?
the federal government does not not
the federal reserve bank is private. the american people are
being ripped off royally. 100 of the income tax goes to pay
on the federal debt to the federal reserve bankers. not one
dime goes for services. services like the military and
welfare come from excise taxes and the like.

2) why do we the american people stand for this \? \? \? \? \?

check out the new bbs

from gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy)
subject re the role of the national news media in inflaming passions
organization university of virginia
lines 25

theodore a. kaldis writes
ah , i know women who wear miniskirts without wearing underwear , and
they are not prostitutes.
no , i suppose they must be sluts.

nope. they both are very nice women , whom i'm good friends with.

or do you think its ok to rape anyone when you do n't like the way they
dress \?

gee , both clayton and kaldis engaging in ad hominem arguments.
where \?

calling someone names , as you did. are you ignorant of what an ad
hominem argument is \?

you provided absolutely no evidence , chump.

i provided a quote from the judge. what else do you want \?


greg hennessy , university of virginia
usps mail astronomy department , charlottesville , va 22903 2475 usa
internet gsh7w@virginia.edu
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! gsh7w

from pjs269@tijc02.uucp (paul schmidt)
subject re employment (was re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization advocates for self government davy crockett chapter
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 50

sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes

no. i make a distinction between working for yourself to survive and
paying dues to mother nature in the form of labour and working for
joe propertyowner because you do not have the option of working for
yourself. joe propertyowner stands between you and the earth you
work and expects you to pay him and mother nature for the right
to survive. the property laws create a layer of parasites that get
fat on the fact that people have no option except to work in
factories.

i want people to be able to get the things they need in life. property
ownership may not be ideal , but it is far better at letting people get
what they need to live a productive , fulfulling life.

the first experiment in america , where property ownership was denied ,
caused , starvation , hunger , and death. few people know that the
pilgrims originally tried to have common property to grow food and a
common food store. many people know the hardships they suffered the
first few winters because of it. after arriving , the pilgrims made all
property common. they all shared in the work and the resulting crops
went into a common store. after much debate the new governor bradford
privitized the land assigning plots to each family. according to perry
d. westbrook the change was immediately justified by the increased
industry of the inhabitants and by the larger acreage planted.

bradford himself acknowledged this failure of communism. he wrote the
experience that was had in this common course and condition , tried
sundry years and that amongst godly and sober men , may well evince the
vanity of that conceit of plato 's and other ancients applauded by some of
later times that the taking away of property and bringing in community into
a commonwealth would make them happy and flourishing as if they were wiser
than god. for this community (so far as it was) was found to breed much
confusion and discontent and retard much employment that would have been
to their benefit and comfort.

bradford did not blame this failure on the strangers , but on the basic
selfishness in all men. he wrote seeing all men have this corruption in
them , god in his wisdom saw another course fitter for them. in other
words , according to westbrook , bradford found private enterprise to be
the most suitable economic policy for mankind in its fallen state.

let 's not make the same mistake that the pilgrims made. private
property allows a society to flourish , the alternative brings
starvation , poverty and discontent.

paul schmidt advocates for self government , davy crockett chapter president
706 judith drive , johnson city , tn 37604 , (615)283 0084 , uunet ! tijc02 ! pjs269
freedom seems to have unleashed the creative energies of the people and
leads to ever higher levels of income and social progress. u.n. report

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re re fillibuster
lines 188
organization university of tennessee computing center

in article c5ovfr.c0u@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

in article veal.740.735074621@utkvm1.utk.edu , veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes

if the senate was less powerful than the house of lords , than
we 'd almost have to state that the house of representatives was also.
(in fact , they both were , because the british government had much
greater power than did the american system).

in principle no , in practice yes.

in principle no \? that they had less power of that they should have
had less power \?

the british parliament in principle has absolute power. so does the monarch.
much of the stability of the system rests on what is not defined clearly.
in the case of a clear abuse by one side or the other the other side
can act to remedy the situation.

two institutions with absolute power. cute.

let 's talk practicality , shall we \? if the monarch tried to
do something , what would happen \?

if they were to start from a social welfare model instead of the current
no state subsidy motto they would be better placed. as it is there is
plenty of state money being handed out. the problem is that it is
distributed on the basis of power in congress and not on the basis of
actual need.

bingo. the higher up the governmental ladder the less actual
need matters , because political power can be concentrated at higher
levels , while people with less cloud only find themselves reduced to
in effectiveness.

that was not my point.

but you illustrated the problem very well.

in order to set up a school project in new york state you have to pay off the
other 49 states with pork defense contracts , agricultural subsidies etc.
or to be precise 30 of the states since you need 60 to beat the filibuster.

then why not simply leave new york 's education to new york \? i
remain unconcinved that there is any state in the union which is not capable
of educating its own children if that 's what they want to do.

the point is of redistribution of cash from the poor areas of the ecconomy
to the rich ones.

i am contending that there is no state in the union which does
not have ample wealth , if they choose to spend it , to run a perfectly
acceptable education system. (i further contend that the amount of money
being spent now is more then sufficient , but is being spent badly.)

or vice versa if you are n't a republican.

so , tell me phill. were the republicans also responsible for some
of the huge increases in social programs \? or were they only
responsible for what you do n't like. (i contend it is congress which
is to blame. democrat and republican alike.)

if society
simply writes off any areas of the country that is ecconomically weak you
end up with a basket case ecconomy. there are inevitable cycles in any
business. some of these act in phase to produce the business cycle .
others are countercyclic. localities can experience boom to bust cycles
outside the national trend. to produce a strong ecconomy you need to
ensure that the bust areas do not fall bellow the level where they
cannot be ecconomically rebuilt.

most of our worst areas are still better off than most of europe.
in any case , we 're talking about education .

if the industry in an area collapses
the us as a whole still has a responsibility to ensure that the children
in that area get a good education. in some areas of the us schools are closing
halfway through the year for lack of money.

yes , i live in once such area. you 're woefully ignorant of the
situation.

at the same time some of tennessee 's school districts are closing
down , the governor asked for 7.5 million dollars for bicentenntial
celebration license plats. in almost the same breath he wanted to raise
unemployment compensation and reduce taxes which paid into it.

i do n't know about the rest of the country , but our education
problems stem directly from two problems , neither of which are a lack
of money in the state. (btw , tennessee is considered a tax heaven
and our economy is one of the strongest in the country. i see
a correlation.) 1) what money we spend goes primarly to administration.
the average administrator makes two and a half times what the average
teacher makes , and sucks up an enormous amount of revenue. and 2)
the governor is making a concerted effort to create an education crisis
in order to push for his pet income tax. some of the most idiotic
programs get funded (like state funds for new art in the county seat)
while schools are closing. it 's not a lack of funds. it 's an
unwillingness to spend them on what is more appropriate. education
is the parental hot button. education is always the first to
but cut , because it 's easier to get people to pay for their children
than ugly art.

the u.s. constitution is a nuts and bolts document. the delcaration
of independence was the high brow reasoning. (there are a couple of other
examples , though , such as the reasoning for the power to tax , and the
reasoning for the power to grant permits , both in article i , section 8.)

the declaration on independence cam a decade earlier and has not a line
of justification for the us constitution. you could argue that it went
into the broad concepts but little more.

it spoke very eloquently on government being based on the
consent of the governed.

in fact it is little more than
a protracted whinge. more to do with the price of tea than the design of
a government. it would be a pretty daft idea for a bunch of guys to
sit arround designing the structure of the new government while the little
matter of the british army remained to be settled.

they did it anyway. the continental congress had its own set of
bylaws. it was n't quite a government , but a means of making decisions
had to be created. (however low george washington 's opinion of them were.)

to a certain extend i do believe the veto has become something
it was n't intended. however , i also believe it is inevitable considering
the congress' own abuse of their power to make bills say whatever they
want them to say. unlike most people i think we should n't be worrying
about the veto , which is fine , but of the problem in congress which
almost necessitates its abuse.

the congress is the most democratic body in the whole system.

allow me again to speak heresy against the holy democratic orders.
so what \? the government was built with a very non democratic presidency
with fairly broad powers , including the veto.

it has not only
the fairest system of election but the two year term means that the
members have always got a recent mandate.

yes , and the senate was intended to act as a balance to this.
too much democracy was intentionally avoided. it was considered a good
thing to place non democratic blocks to impulsive action.

on the other hand if the period of election were to be made 4 years in
antiphase to the presidential cycle there would be much less dependence
on fund raising from special interests than there is at present.

so long as congress has something to sell , people will pay for
it. most congressmen rake in more money than they need.

why not \? what is inherently wrong with biasing the system
against action \? historically governemnt action in the u.s. when
dealing with issues with a bare minority and a large minority have
not been successful. when you 're in a position of imposing federal
power on diverse people , why should the federal government not have to
got through something more than a bare majority

in other words david thinks that the reactionaries should need only 41
votes while progressives should need 61.

no , if the progressives do n't want the reactionaries to move
backward , they get the same benefit. 41 of the states is a lot of
people. and historically laws with that sort of minority arent'
very effective , especially since it is usually geographically
concentrated.
when wielding the federal big stick i do n't see why they should n't
have to make a better argument than , more people than not , agree.

now we know why nobody calls the republicans democrats.

i'm not a republican. i'm a republican. )

and no , i'm neither a democrat nor a democrat.

now , i 've asked several times , and all you 've done is answer
it is n't democratic , which i knew before i said it. why should
it be democratic \? we do n't have a true direct democracy , and few
people advocate one. why , then , is this other modification of
democracy to bias it against action so much worse \?


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
distribution usa
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 13

in article apr.15.21.39.43.1993.8726@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study
(discrediting kinsey) says so.

wow , does this mean 2 out of 5 homosexuals will be at the march
on washington \? how very interesting.

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

slick willy 's already got his hand in my pocket. i'm just afraid
of what he might grab hold of.

from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re the tories could win the lottery ...clinton gst \?
lines 42
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article 1993apr15.053553.16427@news.columbia.edu , gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes

cmk@world.std.com (charles m kozierok) writes
gld@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (gary l dare) writes

secondly , any canadian who has worked and participates in the
insurance (it 's a negative option , you have to explicitly decline
it) knows that the premium is deducted separately ...

yes , and some americans actually have a problem with having more
of their money taken from them to pay for others' health care...

but note again , the canadian and german health insurance is voluntary

not true. i am required to have insurance by law. the method of collection
effectively makes it a tax.


... but like basic plus cable , you have to tell them that you do n't
want it ... for example , hutterite colonies in western canada are not
part of it (mennon and hutter were fundamentalist protestants from
germany whose followers left for the new world ... mennonites are a
very diverse lot while hutterites are similiar to the amish). the
american idea being floated today gives you no option but to live
off the land ...

the selfish bastards that they are. unfortunately , that number has
diminished recently , but once president pinocchio gets through
with us , i hope for a reversal of trend.

well here we have the right hoping for more selfish bastards. pity they
do n't look at what 12 years of the regan bush selfish bastard ecconomy
has done to the country.

elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselves ,
thats why they are selfish bastards. bush and regan gave tax breaks for the
ultra rich and paid for them by borrowing against the incomes of the middle
class.


phill hallam baker

from blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne)
subject national sales tax , the movie
x received by usenet.pa.dec.com id aa08871 thu , 15 apr 93 07 42 23 0700
x received by inet gw 2.pa.dec.com id aa05233 thu , 15 apr 93 07 42 12 0700
x received by uiboise.idbsu.edu
(16.6 16.2) id aa27601 wed , 14 apr 93 10 02 10 0600
x to talk.politics.misc.usenet
x cc alt.politics.clinton.usenet
x mailer elm revision 66.25
lines 54



well , it seems the national sales tax has gotten its very
own cnn news logo !

cool. that means we 'll be seeing it often.

man , i sure am glad that i quit working ( or taking this
seriously ) in 1990. if i kept busting my ass , watching
time go by , being frustrated , i 'd be pretty damn mad by
now.

yeah ! free health care ! oh , yeeaaaahhhh !

heh heh

bill makes me feel like dancing !

more amazing predictions from the incredible bromeister !


we take you back to feburary 20th , when the incredible
bromeister predicted

1 , 000 per middle class taxpayer in new taxes

a national sales tax

now , for more aammmaaaazzzzzziinnnnggggg predictions !

i) the nst will be raised from 3 to 5 by 1996.
ooops. they already did it.

okay , then. the nst will be raised from 5 to 7 by 1996.

ii) unemployment will rise !

iii) tax revenues will decline. deficit will increase !
we 'll get another deficit reduction package by 1997 !
everyone will dance and sing !

yup. i'm gonna glancing at watch bail out of here
at 1 pm , amble on down to the lake. hang out. sit
in the sun and take it easy ! ) yeah !

i just wish i had the e mail address of total gumby who
was saying that clinton did n't propose a nst .

to paraphrase hilary clinton i will not raise taxes on
the middle class to pay for my programs

to paraphrase bill clinton i will not raise taxes on
the middle class to pay for my programs


from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject re the state of justice (gm trial)
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 40

in article 1993apr15.143320.8618@desire.wright.edu demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
a judge denied gm 's new trial motion , even though gm says it has two
new witnesses that said the occupant of the truck was dead from the impact , not
from the fire.

thoughts \?

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led
to the previous ruling appear.

on the other hand , it would be kind of scary if there were never a final
verdict , because a party to litigation could keep saying oops ! i forgot
to bring up this evidence , and demand a new trial. you get one bite at
the apple.

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed \?
should n't that be up to a jury \?

it 's up to general motors to find those witnesses in the first litigation.
you 'd be up in arms if a plaintiff suing general motors pulled the same
stunt and made them relitigate an issue that they already lost. it 's not
as if general motors could n't file enough discovery motions to delay the
trial until they found all the witnesses they wanted.

and what about members of the previous jury parading through the talk
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against gm \?

define obvious bias.

should n't that be enough for
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial \?

did gm move for a new trial on those grounds \? no \? perhaps they had a
reason \?

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization university of rochester rochester , new york
lines 35
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu

in apr.17.06.54.41.1993.15825@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes


1) so what \?

so this bolsters the contention that many homosexuals are liars.

this statement is just so blatantly disgusting and free of any implicit
neural activity that i will almost completely ignore it.



join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .

call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .

the above smacks of antihispanic bigotry.

sigh. it 's so amusing to watch bigots point fingers at what they imagine to
be other bigots. i do believe this person meant bean counting . and are
you trying to suggest that only hispanics eat beans \? or that they even have
a monopoly on eating beans \? or that this person is seriously promoting what
is obviously a tongue in cheek .sig \?

you must have a brain somewhere , if you can cause your fingers to type. use
it.

drywid

bi andrew d. simchik schnopia !
as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu treewater

words were n't made for cowards happy rhodes

from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject re capital gains tax increase loses money
distribution na
organization acme products
lines 70

in article c5j8wi.igk@panix.com , eck@panix.com (mark eckenwiler) writes
in 1993apr15.045651.6892@midway.uchicago.edu , thf2@midway.uchicago.edu sez
in article 1993apr14.135227.8579@desire.wright.edu demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes

no , i'm saying any long term investor (the ones likely to have large
capital gains) would be foolish to sell in order to avoid a tax hike that a)
might disappear in any given year and b) be overcome in a year or two by
accumlated gains.

to which my response is so what \? not all people who pay capital gains
taxes are long term investors. more than enough of them are n't for there
to be huge blip whenever capital gains taxes get raised.
i never said that everyone would find this advantageous. i said that
more than enough would for the result to be readily noticeable and distort
trends .

even if brett 's eventual return figures were correct and they
clearly were n't he 'd still be wrong about the cause for the '86
blip because he fails to consider 2 basic factors

you misunderstand. i'm not trying to prove a cause for anything.
merely pointing out that ted 's assertion that the blip in revenues was
caused by selling to avoid the tax ca n't be proven.

1) as ted notes , not everyone is a long term investor. one might find
oneself , as i did in late 1986 , anticipating expenses in the near term
that require selling off holdings. given the choice between waiting a
few weeks (and taking an extra tax hit) or selling in december with
preferential tax treatment , only a fool would choose the former.

not disputed.

2) the fact that brett can now construct post hoc calculations of
what would have been more beneficial to investors is in many respects
beside the point. there was plenty of money style advice given to
unsophisticated investors in late 1986 to sell now and save on
taxes. in case anyone missed it , there was no shortage of similar
advice late last year (in the nytimes , e.g.) , even though that advice
was based not on the foregone conclusion of enacted law (as in 1986) ,
but merely on the assumption that clinton would raise tax rates
(without capping cg taxes , contrary to the current proposal).

it works for any situation. if you believe the market is going up ,
do n't sell.

if believe it 's not , sell. but then you 'd be selling anyways , would n't
you \?

so where is the evidence that a large number of people suddenly decided
that the higher taxes meant they should sell before the year was out \?

there is n't any.

ted 's saying that the increase over the previous year is proof of
that proposition , but i'm saying you ca n't know that the trend of increasing
capital gains revenues would n't account for a lot of that increase.
1986 was the height of the housing boom , remember. people were
trading up like mad.

it 's nice to think that investors always behave in their optimal
economic interest. like assuming weightless ropes and frictionless
pulleys , though , this sort of thinking often fails to describe
accurately what happens in the real world.

indeed.

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook)
subject re sexual proposition sexual harassment \?
organization winco
lines 59

in article 1pkkidinnsrj@senator bedfellow.mit.edu wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr) writes

in article 1993mar30.181636.22756@pmafire.inel.gov ,
cdm@pmafire.inel.gov (dale cook) said

a real world data point a person has a much stronger legal claim for
harrassment (sexual or otherwise) if they make it clear to the
offender that their behaviour is unwanted. if the behaviour persists ,
harrassment is much easier to demonstrate , due to the fact that the
offender knew that the behaviour was unwanted.

no argument here... my original query regarded the question of why the
first sexual proposition made by person a to person b would be
considered to be sexual harassment by some many people. (assuming , of
course , that there does not exist a power relationship between a and b
such that the proposition carries strong implications of extortion right
from word one.)

i can only say that those people are wrong. the word harass means to
irritate or torment persistently i 'd hardly consider one time to fall
under the definition of persistent. additionally , there is no basis
to assume the behaviour is unwanted , unlike an illegal proposition.

of course , i think the original question of offering money for sex is
inarguably harrassment , because the activity is illegal , and could be
presumed to be unwanted by the average citizen.

i have to take issue with this viewpoint... given that (a) prostitution
is a victimless crime and (b) there are literally millions of americans
who participate in some sort of victimless activities which the state
has defined to be criminal (e.g. , prostitution , obscenity , gambling ,
using certain recreational drugs , having non mercenary sex with persons
not one 's spouse in certain states , having unnatural sex with people
regardless of marital status or exchange of money in certain states ,
etc.) , i 'd have to say that the idea that an activity may be presumed to
be unwanted by the average citizen merely because it is illegal is the
sort of sophistry that only a judge could indulge in with a straight
face. (he said , speaking as a law student who 's read his share of
judicial opinions in which reality was not only denied but , in fact ,
actually inverted in order to make the universe conform to the writer 's
politics.)

i was speaking from a legalistic viewpoint. what you say is true , but
the law , in order to make what little sense it manages to make , has to
make some assumptions. assuming that an illegal activity is unwanted
by the average citizen i think is reasonable. certainly , i would need
a preponderance of evidence on the side of the propositioner that there
was a reasonable belief that the proposition was welcome.

the number of people who participate in victimless crimes notwithstanding ,
the fact reamins that under the law , the activity is illegal. to presume
that the proposition is welcome simply because a large number of people
indulge in it is the type of sophistry only a lawyer could indulge in
with a straight face.

...dale cook any town having more churches than bars has a serious
social problem. edward abbey
the opinions are mine only (i.e. , they are not my employer 's)


from william@fractl.tn.cornell.edu
subject re abolish selective service
organization dept of tam cornell univ. ithaca , ny
lines 19
reply to william@fractl.tn.cornell.edu
nntp posting host fractl.tn.cornell.edu

in article 1993apr15.215747.17331@m5.harvard.edu , borden@head cfa.harvard.edu (dave borden) writes
the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.


dave borden
borden@m5.harvard.edu


you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice somthing
for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you \? to bad.
what is immoral is people like you and the current president who do n't
have any idea why this country still exists after 200 years.

from kmitchel@netcom.com (kenneth c. mitchell)
subject re abolish selective service
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 34

dave borden (borden@head cfa.harvard.edu) wrote
the selective service registration should be abolished. to start with , the
draft is immoral. whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now ,
and military experts agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior
with a volunteer army than with draftees. finally , the government has us
on many lists in many computers (the irs , social security admistration and
motor vehicle registries to name a few) and it can find us if it needs to.
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time.
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the deficit a little bit.

let me say this about that , as a retired navy officer

i agree. cut it. but let 's not stop there.

eliminate the c 17 transport. overwight , overdue , overbudget , it was
supposed to carry tanks. new tanks are now too big for the airplane.

scrap the seawolf ssn 21 nuclear submarine. the breakup of the ussr has
left us with a number of sticky military problems , but none of them will
require god 's gift to submarines .

ground the b 2 stealth bomber. i'm sure it 's a great airplane that will do
everything its designers said , but at half a gigabuck a copy , we ca n't
afford for even one to crash. and airplanes do crash.

elmo zumwalt said it best 20 years ago high low . a mix of a few
extremely capable weapons systems and a lot of cheaper ,
moderate capability systems.


ken mitchell the powers not delegated to the united states by the
kmitchel@netcom.com constitution , nor prohibited by it to the states , are
citrus heights , ca reserved to the states respectively , or to the people.


from jmkerrig@vela.acs.oakland.edu (kerrigan john m)
subject re top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans
organization oakland university , rochester mi.
lines 40
nntp posting host vela.acs.oakland.edu

in article c5kmz5.hy4@newsserver.technet.sg ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser) writes
top ten ways slick willie could improve his standing with americans

10. institute a national sales tax to pay for the socialization of
america 's health care resources.

9. declare war on serbia. reenact the draft.

8. stimulate the economy with massive income transfers to democtratic
constituencies.

7. appoint an unrepetent socialist like mario cuomo to the suprmeme court.

6. focus like a laser beam on gays in the military.

5. put hillary in charge of the ministry of truth and move stephanopoulos
over to socialzed health care.

4. balance the budget through confiscatory taxation.

3. remind everyone , again , how despite the democrats holding the
presidency , the majority of seats in the house , and in the senate ,
the republicans have still managed to block his tax and spend programs.

2. go back to england and get a refresher course in european socialism.


snip

and the number one way slick willie could improve his standing with
americans...

(drum roll anton)

1. get himself an appointment with dr. kervorkian and keep it !



john kerrigan a.k.a. jmkerrig@vela.acs.oakland.edu


from gemmellj@merrimack.edu
subject e mail to the hill \? \?
organization merrimack college , no. andover , ma , usa
lines 4

now , that clinton can get e mail , i'm wondering if congress is also
going on line.. if so , does anyone have the address to reach them \? \?
i'm also looking for bill 's e mail address.
please e mail me , i am not a regualar reader of this newsgrouop.

from mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson)
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
organization ncr engineering and manufacturing atlanta atlanta , ga
lines 19

tfarrell@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (thomas farrell) writes
so you feel that the defendents should have been convicted regardless of the
evidence. now that would truely be a sad day for civil rights.

i do n't know about everybody else , but to me , they should have been
convicted because of the evidence , which in my mind was quite
sufficient.

what evidence are you aware of. what was reported in the media , or all of
the evidence that was presented at the trial.

this sounds to me a lot like the first rodney king 5 trial. a bunch of people
who saw 10 to 15 seconds out of a several minute long video , decided that
they knew more than people who had sat through a two week trial.

mob rule is n't any prettier merely because the mob calls itself a government
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money.
wilson 's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related.
mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com

from texx@ossi.com (robert texx woodworth)
subject re ca 's pedophilia laws
organization open systems solutions inc.
lines 54
nntp posting host nym.ossi.com

1

clayton , my man...

you are a tad out of touch....

first , gay comunities all over the country are in the process of excluding nambla
from parades etc.

2

nobody from nambla is gonna get a job in a day care centre. the same liberals you are
upset about are also passing laws that make tough background checks for childcare
people.

3

tell me , how would you feel if your employer fired you for your antigay post on the
internet \? would you be upset \? i`ll bet you would be pissed !
to some , your posts , ight make the company look bad.
while your posts offend me i dont think it would be right for you to get fired over
it.

i dont believe the gay comunity is asking for hiring quotas like the affirmative
action laws of the 60 's did.
my understanding is that the gay community just wants the same rights the srtraights
have. i dont think people should have their leases cancelled when their landlord
finds out they are gay. i dont think that when someone sees someone walk out of
a gay business and then blabs it all over work that the gay person gets fired.
do you really think these are justified \?

4

clayton , i am told you are a parent a couple times over.
have you been following the strip in the paper for better or for worse \?

i honestly want your opinion as a parent on the strip.

do you really care about your childeren
as much as friends of mine tell me \? how much do you care about your childeren \?
how much do you care about other people 's childeren \? do you care about my childeren \?
do you care about my sister 's childeren \?

if one of your kids told you he she was gay , would you throw them out of your home
in the middle of the night \?

would you approve of your childeren driving down to san francisco to trow bottles
at and beat up on gay people \? would you condone your childeren beating up on someone
elses childeren \?


i await your answers to these queastions. please no flaming...
this is to be a civilised discussion , from one father to another.


from ndallen@r node.hub.org (nigel allen)
subject reserve officers say demographics ignored in nominations to close naval , marine reserve centers
organization r node public access unix 1 416 249 5366
lines 53

here is a press release from the reserve officers association.

reserve officers say demographics ignored in nominations to
close naval , marine reserve centers
to national desk , defense writer
contact herbert m. hart of the reserve officers association of
the united states , 202 479 2258

washington , april 13 u.s. newswire the reserve officers
association of the united states has alerted the defense base
realignment and closure commission that the services failed to give
sufficient weight to demographics in recommendations made to close
56 naval and marine corps reserve centers.
in letters to the closure commission and to all 86 members of
congress with affected locations in their constituencies , including
sen. sam nunn (d ga.) , chairman of the senate armed services
committee , roa charged that the developers of the navy marine list
ignored demographics of the civilian population , particularly prior
service personnel.
roa 's executive director , maj. gen. evan l. hultman , aus (ret.) ,
suggested concern that the only plausible alternative is that they
are intentionally attempting to foreclose the naval reserve
components from maintaining even today 's relatively low level of
participation in their parent service 's total force of the future.
he asked the commission to remove from consideration all
locations without sufficient and convincing demographic data to
warrant approval of the requested action.
only a few of the 56 naval and marine corps reserve
installations on this list are large enough to have a significant
impact on the community , if closed , wrote hultman. the major
issue is the cumulative impact of moving or closing such a large
percentage of the existing locations.
hultman reminded the commission , the fact that the vast
majority of the reserve installations on this list do not come
close to meeting the minimal requirements for consideration in this
process certainly supports the thesis that these actions are
simply an attempt to foreclose a substantial role for the navy and
marine corps reserve.
roa also noted that at the end of the 1960s , when the number of
naval reservists was approximately the same as today , there were 480
naval reserve facilities. if the navy recommendations are
approved , there will be less than 200 naval reserve facilities.
facilities on the list include seven naval air stations ranging
from south weymouth , mass. , to alameda , calif. , 28 naval
reserve centers in macon , ga. , and parkersburg , w.va. , to
missoula and great falls. mont. naval marine corps reserve
centers include four in san francisco , fort wayne , ind. ,
billings , mont. , and abilene , texas.
a major marine reserve center on the list is that at el
toro , calif. , plus six others.
30

nigel allen , toronto , ontario , canada ndallen@r node.hub.org

subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
from quirke a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
organization welligton city council , public access.
nntp posting host kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
lines 19

cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes

the liberal gov. wilder vetoed it. which shows that liberals do n't
give a damn about best person for the job , it 's just a power
play.

women are only interested in clothes and shopping
whites are imperialist colonial fascists
blacks are lazy uneducated scum
men are rapists
homosexuals support child molesting

slogans , my dear cramer , are not an adequate substitute for thought.


tony quirke , wellington , new zealand. quirke a@kosmos.wcc.govt.nz
usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea massive ,
difficult to redirect , awe inspiring , entertaining , and a source of mind
boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it. gene spafford , 1992

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president 's remarks on trip to baltimore 4.5.93
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 74
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu






the white house

office of the press secretary


for immediate release april 5 , 1993

remarks by the president
en route to camden yards for orioles opening day game

marc train
en route to camden yards



11 45 a.m. edt

q mr. president , what do you think of jesse jackson 's
protest today \?

the president i think it 's an informational protest.
i think it 's fine. the owners put out a statement few days ago ,
which they say was the first step in , you know , efforts to increase
minority ownership and minority increases in management. i think we
should. i'm encouraged by don baylor 's appointment out in colorado.
and i think it 's time to make a move on that front. so , i think it 's
a legitimate issue , and i think it 's like i said , it 's an
informational picket and not an attempt to get people not to go to
the game. so , i think it 's good.

q do you think they 're moving fast enough \?

the president well , i think that it was a good first
step. and i think you 'll see some movement now. and i think it 's an
issue that deserves some attention , and they 're obviously going to
give it some. and i think that reverend jackson being out there will
highlight the issue. so i think it 's fine.

q mr. president , how about the logjam in the senate
on the economic stimulus plan \? do you think they 'll be able to break
that and get cloture \?

the president i do n't know , we 're working at it. i
mean , it 's a classic there was an article in the paper today , one
of the papers i saw , which pretty well summed it up. they said , you
know , this is a it 's just a political power play. in the senate
the majority does not rule. it 's not like the country. it 's not
like the it 's not like the house. if the minority chooses , they
can stop majority rule. and that 's what they 're doing. there are a
lot of republican senators who have told people that they might vote
for the stimulus program but there 's enormous partisan political
pressure not to do it.

and , of course , what it means is that in this time when
no new jobs are being created , even though there seems to be an
economic recovery , it means that for political purposes they 're
willing to deny jobs to places like baltimore and dallas and houston
and pittsburgh and philadelphia and portland and seattle. it 's very
sad. i mean , the block grant program was designed to create jobs in
a hurry based on local priorities , and it 's one that the republicans
had always championed. just about the only democrat champions of the
program were people like me who were out there at the grassroots
level , governors and senators. i just think it 's real sad that they
have chosen to exert the minority muscle in a way that will keep
americans out of work. i think it 's a mistake.

the press thank you.

end11 50 a.m. edt

from phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
subject temper tantrums from the 1960 's
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random.
distribution usa
lines 40

in article 1993apr5.193616.14521@cbnewsi.cb.att.com gadfly@cbnewsi.cb.att.com (gadfly) writes
now let me get this straight. after a nice , long rant about
how people need to take personal responsibility for their
economic and social lives , all of a sudden 1960 's radicals
(such as me , i guess) are responsible for poor people 's
lifestyles \? tell me how that works or do you think that poor
people are just too dumb to think for themselves \?

there are many reasons for the disintegration of the family
and support systems in general among this nation 's poor.
somehow i do n't think murphy brown or janis joplin is at
the top of any sane person 's list.

you want to go after my generation 's vaunted cultural
revolution for a lasting change for the worse , try so called
relevant or values education. hey , it seemed like a good
idea at the time. how were we to know you needed a real
education first i mean , we took that for granted.

the 1960 's generation were the most spoiled and irresponsible.

the depression had create mothers and fathers that were determined that their
kids would not want for anything going overboard and creating a nation of
brats.

consider the contrast between two famous events in july of 1969.

apollo 11 and woodstock.

which group had large numbers of people that could not feed themselves and
reverted to the cultural level of primitives (defecation in public etc.).

and which group assembled , took care of itself , and dispersed with no damage ,
no deaths , no large numbers of drug problems ....


there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)

from vlad@netcom.com (vladimir kuznetsov)
subject re how many homosexuals are there \?
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution usa
lines 22

in article apr.15.21.39.43.1993.8726@romulus.rutgers.edu kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis) writes
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study
(discrediting kinsey) says so.


yes , i saw today in 6 o'clock news on kcbs here in san francisco
this statistic quoted.

2.2 men had sex with another man.
1.3 cinsider themself homosexual.

i understand of course that because this statistic goes against
common believe and not pc correct it must be complete bs.

thx

vlad

vladimir kuznetsov (408)252 5455
natural intelligence consulting vlad@netcom.com
73437 , 3344@compuserve.com
vkuznetsov@mci.com

from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject the lessons of the nazis re david irving scholastic fraud
lines 112
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in responding to the post below i have considered issues far outside the
scope of revisionism and principally have considered the political
implications of a racist ideology and its inevitable outcome. thus it
is tangentially relevant to soc.history and alt.revisionism but i have directed
followups to t.p.m since it is principally consideration of the political
lessons to be drawn from the history of the nazi party that i deal with.


in article 1993apr14.121823.21851@oneb.almanac.bc.ca , kmcvay@oneb.almanac.bc.ca (ken mcvay) writes

as dawidowicz points out , in the holocaust and the historians , (harvard
university press , 34 38)

...the nadir in hitlerology is reached by david irving 's hitler 's
war. 34 an amateur historian , whose reputation as a german apologist and
as a writer without regard for accuracy or truth won him a measure of
notoriety , 35 irving produced a 926 page work intended to show that hitler
was kind to his animals and to his secretaries , that he was probably the
weakest leader germany has known in this century , and that he did not
murder the jews or even wish to do so , but that the murder was committed
behind his back , without his knowledge or consent.

let us assume for the sake of argument that this was indeed the case \? does
this mean that hilter would have been in any way less guilty of mass murder
because he aquiesced rather than participated as an active and ardent
supporter \?

one of the important things to realise about the nazis is that the system
was far more evil than any single member. once created the nazi party
itself was a murder machine that would inevitably commit genocide , there was
noone within it strong enough to prevent it. remember that hitler did not
originaly lead the nazi party nor was he particularly powerful within it
until his oratory allowed the party to come to power. had hitler reneged
upon the emotiaonal expectations which he had created within the ranks of
his supporters he would have been replaced as he had himself replaced the
old guard who he beleived were unable to grasp the intellectual implications
of their rhetoric.

this is why all parties that espouse nazi style race supremacy ideologies must
be considered as dangerous and as evil as the nazis. the idea that one race
of people is inherently superior to another and that the greatest goal of
humanity is to achieve racial perfection has only one logical outcome ,
the gas chambers of auschwitz.

the nazi party is not simply the tale of a supremely evil single man who
lead an entire country astray , beyond the evil of individuals there was the
evil of the system itself which was self generating and self perpetuating.
hitler was an extreemly evil person who built his party arround an ego
cult centered on the demonstration of his own power , this does not however
mean that he was as entirely free from political constraints as he and
his propagandists worked so hard to assert. the myth that racism can
produce a strong government that can cure a nations ills must be
emphatically rejected. in the same way we must accept a distinction between
a govenrment that demonstrates its strength and one that is able to
govern decisively in the manner it beleives is best. i would accept only the
latter as a strong government since most displays of strength are made
necessary by an essential weakness.

it is important to understand that the nazis were not stupid nor were they
amoral in the sense that they lacked moral scruples. they acted in the
same manner as the spanish inquisition murder and torture in the cause
of morality. the fault of the nazis lies in their axioms , not in their
logic nor in their implementation of those axioms. thus all such parties
such as the national front or david dukes klu klux klan front who assert
the truth of those axioms must be considered for what they are , advocates
of a system that would commit genocide.

the conclusion that hitler was not only responsible but imensely evil is
inescapable from the historical record. it is important though to not let
the conclusion be reached that the nazis espoused a set of ideas that
were basically correct but had an unfortunate proponent. the evils of
the concept of race supremacy are primary. although this most emphaticaly
does not excuse individual culpability this is nevertheless secondary.

no matter what the promises made by a racist , supremacist party upon
election those promises will be broken as soon as circumstances permit.
if this requires the replacement of the leaders that originally made
the pledges , that will occur. hatred is a supreme justifier. it also creates
a dynamic of its own when those in government allow it reign. for many
in government politics is a method of providing a justification for
their own existence through a demonstration of their importance. a
rhetoric of hatred inevitably develops the question of action since the
continued existence of an object of hatred is inevitably a reminder of the
essential impotence of the politician. thus we have the us raid on tripoli
which has little purpose beyond a demonstration of power. it is important
to realise that there is no quantum jump between the politics of the right
and those of the extreeme right but a progression from the reinforcement
of popular predjudice to action being taken on the basis of that predjudice.
in the same way the extreeme left trace their route to despotism through
their assertion of the subjugation of the individual to ideology.

it is important though that in attempting to understand the dynamics
of political systems that this is not used to excuse the participants. the
leaders of a nation take on a supreme moral burden but not only do
so voluntarily are required to stive to do so. thus to take on such a
task without a fundamental examination of the logical progression of
ones set of axioms to its conclusion in itself is a moral crime. furthermore
in taking on such a duty one is obliged to put the interest of the whole
before personal concerns , even of personal security.

although it was inevitable that a party such as the nazis , based upon hatred
and an idolisation of the symbols of power should have saught to commit
genocide it was not inevitable that they should succeeded. each member of
the system had an ability to create a change within it that had a possibility
of changing the dynamic. realising that the individual cannot hope to
control a system does not mean accepting that the individual cannot
affect the system.


phill hallam baker
phill hallam baker

from dans@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (dan s.)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 51

brian@gab.unt.edu (brian drakula stone) writes

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.


is n't is funny how someone who seems to know nothing about homosexuality
uses a very flawed (imho) source of information to pass jusgement on all
homosexual and bisexual men. it would seem more logical to say that since
the heterosexual group of men is larger then the chances of promiscuity
larger as well. in my opinion , orientation has nothing to do with it.

i do n't understand what you are getting at here. if the chances of
promiscuity are larger , yet the rate of promiscuity is lower in the heterosexual
community , does n't that imply that the homo bi sexual population is then
even more promiscuous than the raw statistics imply \?
(no axe to grind here i'm just a scientist and i hate to see statistics abused.)

men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male. i have had sex three
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin.

i am a hetero man and have had sex with one woman in my life (my wife). it is
very pleasing to me to be able to say that. i hope you have the same feeling
as i do. i also wish that you could (if you wanted) experience the joys and
trials of being committed to someone for life (there is something about marriage
that makes the commitment much greater than one might expect).

so... whose promiscuous \?

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals. just because
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world....
statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default hetero...

do n't forget about the culture. sadly , we do n't (as a society) look upon
homosexuality as normal (and as we are all too well aware , there are alot
of people who condemn it). as a result , the gay population is not encouraged
to develop non promiscuous relationships. in fact there are many roadblocks
put in the way of such committed relationships. it is as if the heterosexual
community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays
are immoral. my , if we allowed gays to marry , raise children ... we might
just find out they 're as moral as we are , ca n't have that can we \?

just some thoughts. flame away. )

dan

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re bush 's wi (was clinton 's wiretapping initiative
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 25
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , garrett@ingres.com (the sky already fell. now what \? ) says

in article 9304161803.aa23713@inet gw 2.pa.dec.com , blh@uiboise.idbsu.edu (broward l. horne) writes...
i guess your strength is n't in math. clinton has n't been president for
6 months. in other words , it 's bush's wiretapping initiative.


you 're right , i bailed out in diff eq. nevertheless , i would
suggest to you that there is a difference between a proposed bill ,
stalled in congress and a executive order , crammed down our
throats . do you disagree \?


i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you
have overseas , into protected bank accounts , while
you are still able.

have you \?

went to the post office on friday , got my passport apps in.

my savings have already been converted.



from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary more on limiting libertarians
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 100
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 18apr199320091677@venus.tamu.edu gmw0622@venus.tamu.edu (mr. grinch) writes
in article 1993apr18.174237.11229@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...


okay , let me try to explain this.

when one votes for such a creature as a senator or , worse yet , a president ,
one votes not for specific policies but for a general package which must cover
all issues for 4 or 6 years. as such , one 's influence is highly diluted.
i might add that , even if one were free to vote on individual regulations ,
the vast amount of time required for considering a particular regulation ,
combined with the very small chance of one 's vote making a difference , would
make it unreasonable to expect the voter to make an intelligent decision
with respect to specific regulations.

i'm afraid that i 've lost the thread here. i did n't suggest that all
government regulations be subject to referenda. so i do n't follow the
comments above.



sorry , but it strikes me that it is the only feasible approach. what is
not feasible is a wholesale attack on all government regulation and
licensing that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent
tasks.

i'm not sure what you mean by feasible in this case. do you mean that
are impossible in priciple , or merely that it would be undesirable in
fact \?

i mean that an ideology that treats all government regulation as equally
undesirable and seeks to abolish all regulations is unlikely to draw
support among more than a miniscule portion of the electorate.

furthermore , i am suggesting that such a plan is not feasible in an
industrial society because the weight of litigation and or misery it
would produce would effectively crush productive effort.


actually , the only areas of public spending above that strike me as
generating substantial support among libertarians are police and defense.
(it is an interesting aside that as committed as libertarians claim to
be to a principle of non coercion , the only areas of public spending
that they frequently support involve hiring people with guns....hmmm...)

you say this as if it were surprising , yet in fact a necessary consequence
of libertarian philosophy. all non coersive functions should be dealt
with privately , therefore it follows that the only functions remaining to
the state are the coersive ones.

no , i'm not surprised. i just think it 's interesting that on one hand
libertarians assume a limited government can be decreed , yet on the other
posit an entire government made up of people who carry guns. (i realize
that many libertarians assume that such a government will be
counterbalanced by a fully armed citizenry , but it is worth noting that
widespread civilian ownership of guns does not necessarily prevent the
establishment of totalitarian government , e.g. iraq.)


perhaps you have. may i suggest that you consider that revolutionaries
frequently generate support by acting as protectors of geezers ,
mothers and children. governments that ignore such people on the grounds
that we do n't have much to fear from them do so at their own peril.

much more likely it 's drunken teenagers. the groups in questionare more
likely to be worse off during and after a revolution than before.
in the unlikely
event that you missed my earlier sarcasm , let me say this directly
the idea that such programs as social security or afdc should be considered
defense (an idea which has been advanced in ths and other newsgroups) is
so absurd a lie as to be unworthy of consideration. do you seriously
dispute this \?

yup , sure do. but since i also support the constitutional requirement
that the government provide for the general welfare (article i section 8) ,
i'm willing to justify such programs on that basis.


i do n't want to seem patronizing , but you still seem to be laboring
under the delusion that under a socialized economic system it is reasonably
intelligent and honest persons (like yourself) who make the decisions.
i feel any third party added to a transaction is every bit as likely to be
ignorant or corrupt as the buyer or seller. i do n't expect you to agree
with me , but you explain why you feel i'm wrong \?

well , in the first place , i do n't support a socialized economic system.
i think within limits that capitalism is a fine idea. but it is not
the case that any third party...is...as likely to be ignorant or corrupt
as the buyer or seller. there are multitudes of examples where such a
statement is demonstrably false. regulation of stock market transactions
that provide a reasonable basis for buyers to avoid fraud is only one
example.

jsh

mr. grinch

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 27


from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population. it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 73

in article stevethc5nwnn.49t@netcom.com steveth@netcom.com (steve thomas) wri
tes
in article 1993apr18.001338.21323@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.
acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
no social problem , however great , is worth destroying the freedom in america
.
the destruction of freedom is never an answer to any social problem.

you ca n't even walk down the street at night alone in america because of drug
s.
freedom my ass.

ryan

why exactely ca n't you walk down the street safely \? it it because somebody
will jump out from behind a shadow , and , sell you drugs \? hardly.

or mug me.
on the
other hand , it 's certainly possible that you are walking down the steet of
a bustling lawless part of your metropolitan area. lawless and bustling read
underground economy.

why must you pursue this fantasy that all crime is derived from underground
economies .

there , it may not be a very safe place to be at all.
unless of course you 're there to buy some drugs...

i explained how the wod is a major cause of large scale crime in america. the
head of the guardian angles agrees with me legalize drugs and watch violent

haaahaaaahaaaa

crimes significantly decrease.

as for me , well , i think i 'll go take a walk tonight alone. i feel safe. i
just hope the fda fbi dea batf is n't back at my apartment confiscating all my
property because they found my phone number written on a phone booth that was
also used by a drug dealer.

yeah buddy , this happens all the time. tell me , has it every really happened
to you \? that 's what i thought.

in that sense , i do n't feel safe. i'm an honest ,
law abiding citizen (drug laws included , ftm) , why is it that i fear the
government more than i fear criminals \?


your foolish.

freedom my ass. this is not what the founding fathers (some of whom would be
thrown in prison under today 's drug laws) had in mind. all of these problems
you come up with pale in comparison to the fact that the very fiber of our
country the us constitution is being destroyed. what good would it do

must i ask again , what part \?

even if the wod actually reduced crime we just created a new class of
criminals , headed up the gang 's current leader bill clinton. the dea , etc.
are private armies that answer directly to the president. they possess
advanced weapons and survailance technology. does this sound familiar to
anybody \?

do you support mein furher clinton \? hmmmmmm \? you seem to have come out
against the current adminstration why are you eager to endow it with
even more power \? (power of the most dangerous kind , too).


all i ask is that drugs stay illegal. i do n't think it 's too much to ask.


ryan

from sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher)
subject re employment (was re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
organization exnet systems ltd public access news , london , uk
lines 28

in article c5hf6r.cg3@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com mwilson@ncratl.atlantaga.ncr.com (mark wilson) writes
in c5fg7t.6at@exnet.co.uk sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes

i have to disagree. you do not take your logic far enough.

true , man did not invent the need for food , shelter , warmth and the ilk ,
but man did invent the property laws and the laws of trespass.

i guess xavier has never heard of territoriality in animals. many animals ,
especially preditors will stake out a territory and chase of any members of
the same species that tries to invade their territory.


yes , i have ! was n't there a case of a single lion ruling all the land
from south africa up to egypt across to the congo \? if my memory serves
me correctly there was enough game to feed some 100 , 000 or more lions but he
would n't let the other lions hunt as he wanted it all himself.

he died of a heart attack brought on by being overweight.

good thing too as he had designs on europe , america (north and south) ,
and the falkland islands.

mark.wilson@atlantaga.ncr.com



xavier.

from walsh@optilink.com (mark walsh)
subject re age of consent child molestation
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 20

from article c4zlj8.bun@queernet.org , by rogerk@queernet.org (roger b.a. klorese)
in article 15148@optilink.com walsh@optilink.com (mark walsh) writes

nambla 's presence in the sf gay pride parade says quite a bit.
it says that either the parade organizers want to show support
for nambla , or they themselves have a fundamental misunderstanding
of their rights and responsibilities. i would really , really like
to believe the latter , but i would need some help to do so.

there are dozens of examples of the latter nambla is an especially
glaring one , but hardly the only one.

perhaps , though the exclusion of the gay perotistas in the
sf gay pride parade would make me think that they had some
clue in this regard. dozens of examples \? i do n't know...

mark walsh (walsh@optilink) uucp uunet ! optilink ! walsh
amateur radio km6xu@wx3k aol bigcookie@aol.com uscf l10861
what , me worry \? william m. gaines , 1922 1992
i'm gonna crush you ! andre the giant , 1946 1993

from gadfly@cbnewsi.cb.att.com (gadfly)
subject re california insurance commissioner endorses federal legislation to protect consumers from scam insurance companies
organization at t
distribution usa
summary talkin about my g g generation.
lines 41

in article rlm.93apr2050627@helen.surfcty.com , rlm@helen.surfcty.com
(robert l. mcmillin) rants
the left likes to dodge the issues of morality and behavior , crying that
anyone who raises them blames the victim. nonetheless , as a recent
editorial in the los angeles times pointed out , the free love
advocates of the 1960 's have demolished the poor. it 's one thing to
have children out of wedlock if you 're , say , murphy brown (or someone
like her) , turning over a six figure salary and quite another if
you 're sixteen , have no skills , and no income.

and how did the free love advocates of the 1960 's manage to perform
this demolition forced breeding programs or something \?

by accepting and even celebrating single , out of wedlock parenthood , the
1960 's radicals espousing free love set the stage for catastrophe among
the poor. they must account for this...

now let me get this straight. after a nice , long rant about how
people need to take personal responsibility for their economic and
social lives , all of a sudden 1960 's radicals (such as me , i guess)
are responsible for poor people 's lifestyles \? tell me how that
works or do you think that poor people are just too dumb to think
for themselves \?

there are many reasons for the disintegration of the family and
support systems in general among this nation 's poor. somehow i
do n't think murphy brown or janis joplin is at the top of any
sane person 's list.

you want to go after my generation 's vaunted cultural revolution for
a lasting change for the worse , try so called relevant or values
education. hey , it seemed like a good idea at the time. how were
we to know you needed a real education first i mean , we took that
for granted.


ken perlow
05 apr 93 16 germinal an cci
gadfly@ihspc.att.com

...l'audace ! toujours de l'audace ! encore de l'audace !

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re propaganda re re fillibuster
lines 213
organization university of tennessee computing center

in article c5otox.bji@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

in article veal.740.735074621@utkvm1.utk.edu , veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes

in article c5n4wh.izv@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker) writes

or are they simply propogranda \? we ca n't know what phill really
means because he 's obviously using arguments designed to convince.

i make no secret of what i am up to , i have stated explicitly in posts
that i am a political propagandist on numerous occasions. anyone posting
to this group who is not probably has the wrong group.

for example i have on numerous occasions stated quite clearly that i
beleive that certain factions of the gun lobby are the worst possible
advocates of their cause and i am prepared to do anything in my power
to provide them with a platform because they can convince people far
better than i could hope that many people with a fixation on lethal
weapons are dangerous and derranged.

if you happen to know a political position which does not
have people advocating it who do more harm than good , please point it
out.

some people have even accused me of inventing such advocates purely
for the purpose of having them trash a set of political views. in
fact this would be a futile tactic because i could never hope to
invent a character as dangerous as sybok.athena.edu , a man who i
quite seriously believe to be mentaly ill and a potential psychopath.
unfortunately the local sherifs office have informed me that they
are unable to act untill he attacks someone.

one of the advantages and draw backs of requiring proof
on the part of the government before they may take action against
citizens. (and part of the reason some of us believe weapons should
be available.)

so if you were to ask me what is the point that i am trying to make
from this current argument on the absolute sanctity of the us
constitution what would i answer \?

we are not arguing the absolute sanctity of the u.s.
constitution. in fact , the fillibuster we 're talking about is n't
in the constitution. i objected to your suggestion that the senate
was n't intended to exercise the power it was clearly given.

firstly i see that the current us political scene like the uk political
scene has become tied to special interests. rather than chase the
convenient caricatures put about by the media and polititians themselves
for this gay rights cmapaigners , environmentalists , zionists (i.e.
jews) , foreign lobbyists whatever voting power they have etc. i
sugest that you look at who is really benefiting. the inevitable conclusion
is that it is the major corporations owned by the ultra wealthy that
have benefited. regan and bush created what can only be described as a
welfare state for the rich.

i 'll point out again that reagan only had a republican majority
in the senate during his first term , and his coalition in the house
came apart at about the same time. bush never had any real support in
congress.

the real point is that everybody , everywhere got their pork ,
from the big corporations to the guy i saw last night leaving a
convenience store with an armful of junk food he 'd bought with
food stamps. (he spent more in food stamps on junk than i make in a week
and i'm not on government assitance.)

money was diverted from programs addressing
social needs and poured into the weapons industry in the form of cost
plus profits contracts.

lessee , let 's pull out the old almanac.

in 1980 , total u.s. government budget outlays were 590.9 billion
dollars. in 1992 (est) they were 1.4754 trillion dollars , an increase of
approx. 884 billion dollars.

in 1980 , national defense cost 133.9 billion dollars. in
192 it was 307 billion dollars , and increase of 174 billion dollars.
that leaves an increase of 710 billion dollars unaccounted
for. (this represented an increase of 230 )

in 1980 , income security (which includes retirement programs ,
housing assitance , and unemployment benefits , and i believe welfare)
cost 86.5 billion dollars. in 1992 it was 198 billion dollars , or
more than national defense started. (this represented an increase
of 230 )

in 1980 , the federal government spent 32 billion dollars on
medicare. in 1992 they spent 118 billion dollars. (an increase of
368 )

in 1980 , the feds spent 9 billion dollars on housing
credits and subsidies of that like. in 1992 it was 87 billion.

in 1980 , health care services and research was 23 billion
dollars. in 1992 , it was 94 billion dollars.

agriculture , up 9 billion to 17 billion.

science , up 11 billion to 16 billion.

resource conservation up 7 billion to 20 billion.

education up 14 billion to 45 billion.

veteran benefits up 12 billion to 33 billion.

trasnportation up 13 billion to 34 billion.

about the only things i see which was seriously decreased was under
the energy category , primarily under supply , and community development ,
in the area of disaster relief , and between the two of them
represent a loss of less than 11 billion dollars.

where was this huge diversion \?

in order to rectify this situation there must
be constitutional revision.

not that 's a stretch. if the current government was pushed by
the president to create this mess , would n't one expect it to begin to
equalize once the pressure is gone \?

secondly the form of this revision must take account of the changed
circumsatnces of the role of the federal government.

only assuming that the new role is a positive role we want
to continue. i see very little positive about it.

the constitution
cannot be used to frustrate the democratic process.

the constitution was designed to frustrate the democratic
process , so that the voters could be absolutely sure they were getting
what they wanted by the time it happened. nor do i see putting the
brakes on the democratic process an inherently bad thing. califronia 's
riding the edge and every time they pull their ballot initiative nonsense
it gets worse.

if the peoplr want
to have welfare spending by the federal government they will have
it.

sometimes , or perhaps most of the time , the people should be
told , no , and pointed to their local government.

attempting to prevent this through constitutional trickery only
leads to the constitution being brought into disrepute.

phill , would you do me the very great favor of repeating that
in talk.politics.guns \?

methods will
always be found to bypass such provisions and once the government gets
used to bypassing those provisions they will bypass the others up to
the first ammendment.

cute. we can eliminate violations of the law by eliminating
the law.

this is a major reason why the right to own
guns should be excluded , the implication that this right is equal to
the right to free speech is dangerous.

free speech alone is dangerous , phill.

people know that mass ownership
of lethal weapons causes thousands of murders a year , the dangerous
conclusion they may reach is that the first ammendment may also be
the same dangerous mistake.

ok , phill. all you gotta show me is a clear pattern of
reduction in homicide rates across several countries and that 'll
be it. (not current , mind , you , reduction.)

note however that this is not the slippery
slope argument. it is because the right freedom of speech has been
chained to the privilege to own weaponry that the danger arises. the
advocates of this pivilege must not be allowed to chain freedom of
speech to their cause such that if they fall freedom of speech falls
as well. such actions are not the actions of people genuinely interested
in freedom.


who 's chaining anything to freedom of speech \? by calling
it a freedom \?

thirdly and most importantly i want to discover a mechanism wherby i can
engender intellectual debate as opposed to totemic debate. i consider
the grave threat to civilisation to be the loss of the ability to
reason about the political debate at anything other than the superficial
level. the objection i raise to your basing your case entirely on the
assertion of the supremacy of the us constitution is that the currency
of your argument is limited to the currency of the totem upon which it
is based. the danger of totems is that they can be reinterpreted in
different ways by different people.

phill , you 're a master of subtly changing the subject. i have n't
based my argument against raw democracy on the constitution. i 've
tried to explain why it is n't a good idea. the only time i 've referred
to the constitution is to point out it does n't contain the restrictions
on the veto and the senate you appear to believe were meant , but
just did n't make it in there.

the constitution does n't contain the 41 fillibuster rule.
i only believe that the rule is a good idea. you c n't dismiss that
as venerating the constitution because it is n't in the constitution.

david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher)
subject re using california 's antidiscrimination the sort of case i predicted
organization exnet systems ltd public access news , london , uk
lines 26

in article 15312@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article 1993apr08.092954.13507@armory.com , rstevew@armory.com (richard steven walz) writes
face it , clayton , he was not found guilty , and so what if gays sometimes
make it consensually with 16 year old boys. there are 16 year old gays , you
know. and as i recall , the case of the state rested on the testimony of one
victim who declined to testify , even under threat. i have had teens since
i was 40 , and so have a lot of people. face it clayton , you 're just a jerk !
rsw

richard steven walz rstevew@deeptht.armory.com (408) 429 1200
515 maple street 1 without safe and free abortion women are
santa cruz , ca 95060 organ surrogates to unwanted parasites.

i am always amazed to see people admit to breaking the law and
putting their address in the signature. please tell us more about
this. were they 13 \? 14 \? would you like to make a statement for
the district attorney \?

i had sex with a 13 year old boy , it was great , we did everything ,
well , a hell of a lot. it was fun anyway. oh , and before you turn
purple with rage i was 12 at the time.

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.



from garrod@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu (david garrod)
subject haiti aids hiv immigrants
organization purdue university engineering computer network
distribution usa
lines 23



in case you missed it on the news....the first 16 haitians
of many that tested positive for hiv and were being held on a
base in cuba have been flown to the u.s.
further a u.s. judge has ruled that they must receive
medical treatment or be returned to a place where they could
receive same.

so guess what folks , we taxpayers get to pick up the tab
(just as you might have expected) for people who have never
contributed a dime to the u.s. society.

i think this government has its priorities all screwed up.
if they want to help haitians....how about removing the illegal
government , how about giving them development aid \?
it does not make sense to waste resources on dying non citizens
who will never be productive in either this country or their own.
it does not make sense when the same resources applied or even
just plain given to poor people in haiti could significantly
help 100 people in haiti per 1 aids infected non citizen immigrant.



from lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization itc uva community access unix internet project
lines 47

in article 1993apr16.200354.8045@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes

in article c5k5lc.cyf@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (la
wrence c. foard) writes
in article 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes


from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.

1) so what \?

so there are less gays , then the gays claim.

last i checked i was one person , i have n't even been elected
as a representative for gaydom . should i ascribe every thing
you say as representing every member of the straight community \?

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers
gather in washington dc. after all if there are only 6million of
us then this is an event unprecidented in history...


dream on. abortion and african american civil rights rallies do n't even bring
in half of that.

thats the point. if there are several million queers in dc you had better
start wondering about the validity of the study.


join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .


from matt@physics16.berkeley.edu (matt austern)
subject re the state of justice
organization lawrence berkeley laboratory (theoretical physics group)
lines 14
1993apr15.170239.8211@hemlock.cray.com
1qn73ainnmq9@senator bedfellow.mit.edu
reply to matt@physics.berkeley.edu
nntp posting host physics16.berkeley.edu
in reply to jfc@athena.mit.edu 's message of 16 apr 1993 21 05 46 gmt

in article 1qn73ainnmq9@senator bedfellow.mit.edu jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr) writes

i recommend the book adams v texas , the story of a man (adams) who
was sentenced to death for a crime he did n't commit. most of the book
is the story of the long appeals process , and the problems and delays
caused by not being able to introduce new evidence in certain courts.

and i recommend the movie the thin blue line , which is about the
same case. not as much legal detail , but still an excellent film. it
shows how very easy it is to come up with seemingly conclusive
evidence against someone whom you think is guilty.

matthew austern maybe we can eventually make language a
matt@physics.berkeley.edu complete impediment to understanding.

from mikea@zorba.gvg.tek.com (michael p. anderson)
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
distribution usa
organization grass valley group , grass valley , ca
lines 28

ok phil , you 're right. so far the evidence suggests that nixon was a victim
of overzealous underlings and kennedy was a womanizing disgust o blob with
a dash of megalomania. after crushing the cia and fbi who 's to say kennedy
would n't have created his own version of american friendly fascism \?

unfortunately however , we do n't have all the evidence. so far this nation 's
citizens have been privy to about 12 hours of the total 4 , 000 hours of nixon 's
tapes. what 's on the rest of those babies \? some archivists have alluded that
there is evidence to suggest that nixon and his cronies , including george
bush , were aware of the plot to murder kennedy before he was shot in dallas.

ask your local d.a. what the charges are for the above crime.


and so i must ask you , phil me putz , when all this shit finally comes out
when you and i are old men , i would appreciate the privilege of sticking a pole
up your ass and parading you down main street with a sign on your chest

i was an apologist for the american fascist regime circa 1944 2010

(how 's that for a lovely brecht ian image )


there , that ought to get a reaction. unless i'm in his killfile this week...

mpa



from chloupek@ohstpy.mps.ohio state.edu
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
organization the ohio state university , department of physics
lines 27

in article mattm 140493165729@mcmelmon.apple.com , mattm@apple.com (matthew melmon) writes

yeah , yeah , yeah. anyway , i was under the impression that the marines
in question invited clinton down for the same treatment. while a
bar fight is a bar fight , threatening the commander in chief seems
a rather unprofessional thing for a professional soldier to do...


also , it appears that two of the three marines have some sort of charges
pending against them from another fight they were in a week before.
interesting.

frank




frank r. chloupek
chloupek@ohstpy.mps.ohio state.edu
department of physics the ohio state university
(not just any ohio state university)

there is only one hard and fast rule about the place to have a party
somebody else 's place.
p.j. o'rourke



from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re why not concentrate on child molesters \?
article i.d. optilink.15209
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 42

in article c4vrii.h2@exnet.co.uk , s0xjg@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes
in article 15150@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes
in article c4obck.761@unix.portal.com , drakon@shell.portal.com (harry benjamin gibson) writes
they believe that they have a right to force people to hire them ,
rent to them , and do business with them , regardless of the feelings
or beliefs of the other person.

cramer , you are off your target again. the law forces no one to obey
it. at every point any individual may stand up and say this law
sucks . even you could say this. gay men and women have not forced

you mean they passed a law that does nothing at all \? no enforcement
mechanisms \? as usual , you are wrong.

any off this. changes in the law have been brought about by
democratic processes , those same processes are the ones that protect
you from certain abuses.

yeah , right. i guess the next time a homosexual complains about
sodomy laws , i can just echo your stupidity about democratic
processes and he wo n't have any basis for complaint.

i must admit that i never understood why it is referred to as an
abomination , until i started to read soc.motss , and started finding
evidence that homosexuality is a response to child molestation
which is disproportionately done by homosexuals. (just to make
brian kane happy 30 of molestation is done by homosexuals and
bisexuals , but it is possible that this is because homosexual bisexual
molesters have far more victims than heterosexual molesters.)

no it is n't. no it is n't. no it is n't and it depends on the subset
(note subset ) of abuse you look at.

repeating it three times makes it more correct \?

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

xavier gallagher play

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 15

in article c5navn.f3p@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu , gsh7w@fermi.clas.virginia.edu (greg hennessy) writes
in article philc5n6d5.mk3@netcom.com phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes
tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced ....

ah , ending discrimination is now fascism.

greg hennessy , university of virginia

when you force people to associate with others against their will ,
yes.



clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re clinton president 's remarks at town hall meeting
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 19
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92) says

the president thank you very much , mr. secretary.

kind of working together. and if you 'll forgive me a little home
state pride , i want to say a special word of thanks to the wal mart
corporation , headquartered in bentonville , arkansas , for providing
several hundred of the sites for this town meeting tonight. i



when did bill start doing endorsements \?

will he do the remington shaver ad \?

tune in next week.



from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re foreign media reaction april 1 12 , part 1 of 3
lines 84
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article 1993apr13.234600.14061@r node.hub.org , ndallen@r node.hub.org (nigel allen) writes

here is a press release from the united states information agency.

digest of foreign media reaction from the united states information
agency april 12 (1 of 3)
to national desk
contact anne chermak of the united states information agency ,
202 619 6511

washington , april 13 following is part one
of a digest of foreign media reaction from april 1 12 , compiled
by the united states information agency

terrorism and world insecurity

in recent editorials , iran was universally recognized as
te source of the double threat of state sponsored terrorism
and islamic extremism. but beyond this fear and condemnation ,
journalists found little common ground that would compel both
north and south , and arab and non arab nations to work together
to combat the global threat of terrorism. for example , egyptian
and algerian papers were in the forefront in charging u.s. complicity
in the current instability in the middle east. those commentators
asserted that the united states had promoted islamic fundamentalism
during the afghanistan war and had further added to regional
instability by alternately encouraging iraq and iran.

the cads ! the fact that this is precisely what the us was up to of
course is not mentioned. it is a fact that regan and bush sold arms
to iran , it is also a fact that they supported and armed iraq.

still this is state dept propaganda so none too surprizing.

india 's papers weighed the pros and cons of helping the west to
identify pakistan 's role in promoting terrorism , noting on the one
hand that doing so could bring ruination to islamabad 's kashmir
cause but , on the other , could also bring india 's security apparatus
uncomfortably close to the cia and the mossad. arab papers continued
to portray iraq and libya as being unfairly treated by the un while
israel remains unpunished for resolutions which it has violated.

in the case of lybia there is the problem that the us only decided
that gadffii ordered the bombing after it needed to make peace with
damascus during the gulf war. one day the us is certain that its syria ,
the next lybia. for a strange reason the us will not provide evidence to
lybian courts for extradition proceedings. faced with similar demands the
usa would reject them as would any other country.


concerning northern ireland , president clinton 's message of
consolation to the victims of the warrington bombing was seen in
british tabloids as signalling a tougher stance by the american
government against violence by the ira.

the word is terrorism .


the problem is that after the behaviour of george bush the usa has an
image abroad as doing precisely what it likes and is in its own interests
then comming out with a dysney scripted sugary justification repeating a
fitting combination of the words freedom dignity democaracy or
of terrorism dictatorship etc as appropriate.

the usa could go quite far to mend the bridges with iran. the people there are
rather pissed off because the usa first supported the shah who they
loathed and then supported saddam when he mounted an unprovoked attack.
hardly surprizing after the embassy hostage crisis but iran is meant to be
the country run by unreasonable bigots not the usa so if there is to be
movement it would be easier for the usa to move.

first off they could recognise iraqu 's responsibility in initiating the
iran iraq war. providing technical assistance to iran to get it 's oil
production back up to capacity would also be a smart move , at the moment
iran is above it 's opec ceiling. if they had extra capacity they would
use it and bring down the oild price further which is in our interests.

the iranian clerics would have an interest in seeking a raprochment
simply because a permanent war footing is debilitating. they also need
western technology.


phill hallam baker

from phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random.
lines 20

in article 1993apr17.022222.28105@news.cs.brandeis.edu st923336@pip.cc.brandeis.edu writes
it seems that conservatives are putting a lot of effort into
showing up the 10 figure , but that really does n't make a
difference. like i said , who cares how many there are \? would
the fact that they 're only 1 of the population justify
discrimination against them \? i do n't think so.

uh , well , golly gee whiz. let me see , when the new president , as his first
big policy act tries to force homosexuals (acceptance thereof) on the
military , despite polls showing a consistent 75 against it , and the
minority is only 1 , well , gee , i sure think that is newsworthy.

tells you something about the fascist politics being practiced ....



there are actually people that still believe love canal was some kind of
environmental disaster. weird , eh \?

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em ! (but i 'll rent 'em cheap ...)

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 17

in article c5l4rp.ebm@news.iastate.edu jrbeach@iastate.edu (jeffry r beach) writes
in article 1993apr15.165139.6240@gordian.com mike@gordian.com (michael a. thomas) writes

from a pragmatic standpoint , there certainly is some justification
if it is a vice people will commit anyway. shall we criminalize
alcohol again \? if the re legalization for alcohol were done from

making you look bad is too damn easy. the vast social and historical
differences between alcohol and other drugs make this comparison
worthless.

this meaningless statement makes you look bad.






from dreitman@oregon.uoregon.edu (daniel r. reitman , attorney to be)
subject re winning tax case !
article i.d. oregon.5apr199316063313
distribution world
organization university of oregon
lines 37
nntp posting host oregon.uoregon.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

in article 765445d3219144t87@infoserv.com ,
jamesdon@infoserv.com (james a. donald) writes...
the tax protesters are legally correct , but they are put in jail anyway.

hello \? what the sloan decision means is that the tax protestors
were wrong.

the weakness of the governments legal position is shown by the fact that when
someone protesting tax or gun laws on legal grounds gets a federal jury trial
(very rare) the feds blatantly stack the jury , with the same old faces turning
up time after time.

demonstrate , please ! the rules of procedure make this very
unlikely.

however teel should have mentioned that though his advice is legally sound , if
you follow it you will probably wind up in jail.

for discussion purposes only

which makes it legally unsound. if i were representing mr. teel ,
i 'd try a procedural approach if i could find one , or recommend
he plea bargain. he 's setting himself up to be in hot water.

daniel reitman

how not to write a deed

one case involved the construction of a conveyance to grantees jointly , as
tenants in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the
survivor thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the
said parties hereto , equally , jointly , as tenants in common , with equal rights
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the survivor thereof
at the death of the other.

the court held that the survivorship provision indicated an intent to create a
joint tenancy. germain v. delaine , 294 ala. 443 , 318 so.2d 681 (1975).

from demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer)
subject re supply side economic policy
article i.d. desire.1993apr6.130430.8264
organization acme products
lines 65

in article 186042@pyramid.pyramid.com , pcollac@pyrnova.mis.pyramid.com (paul collacchi) writes
in article ufk gqu00wbke7cx5v@andrew.cmu.edu , ashish @andrew.cmu.edu
(ashish arora) writes
excerpts from netnews.sci.econ 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po..
by not a boomer@desire.wrig
...

the deficits declined from 84 9 , reaching a low of 2.9 of gnp before
the tax and spending hike of 1990 reversed the trend.

brett
is this true \? some more details would be appreciated.

cheers

actually not. brett himself has actually posted the data previously.
what declined from 84 to 89 , as i remember it , was percent
increase in deficit growth , i.e. the rate of growth of the deficit
(2nd derivative of total deficit with respect of to time) decreased.

would you please define nth derivative of debt \? last time i asked
you seem to have disappeared....

and it 's the deficits themselves that came down to 2.9 of gnp. the
numbers are posted in the previous posting.

brett apparently has numbed himself into thinking that the deficit
declined.

cute , paul , but with no numbers you still look foolish.

if you keep spending more than you earn , the deficit keeps
growing.

paul , like many others , is confusing the deficit with the debt.

if you keep borrowing at a lesser rate than you borrowed
previously , the deficit increases. you only decrease deficits when your
income exceeds spending and you use the difference to pay off debts.

not in terms of gnp , the one universally accepted measure of deficits
(at least among rigorous economists )

...
arguments were brilliant. he confirmed , with data , what many of us know
with common sense the boom of the 80 's has nothing to do with government
policy , particularly supply side policy , since taxes do not cause
economic activities. people cause economic activity. more can be

semantics. lindsey proves otherwise. taxes make people change their
economic activities.
or shall we debate whether it is the gun , the bullet , or the person who
does the killing \?

explained by watching population waves roll through the years and
create cycles. he has made models and predictions for years well into
the middle of next century. it will be neat to see how accurate he
is.

or whether this gentleman can win the same praise as lindsey. )

brett

there 's nothing so passionate as a vested interest disguised as an
intellectual conviction. sean o'casey in the white plague by frank herbert.

from cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
subject re lincoln slavery (was re top ten tricks...)
article i.d. optilink.15232
organization optilink corporation , petaluma , ca
lines 37

in article 1993apr4.005634.24695@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article 1993apr3.002339.22888@rigel.econ.uga.edu depken@rigel.econ.uga.edu (craig depken) writes
in article 1993apr2.154232.29527@princeton.edu glhewitt@phoenix.princeton.edu (gary livingston hewitt) writes
labor is a tough one. labor is defined , economically , as the efforts ,
both mental and physical , of humans. capital is defined as intermediate
goods used to create other goods and services. now , if a slave is considered
an intermediate good , then the slave has now been dehumanized and is
simply a machine. not good for the anti slave (i.e. pro human rights)
argument. so , slaves are humans , and they produce labor.

sorry. the question of defining slave labor is no tough(er) than
defining the labor of a horse , an ox , or any other livestock. both
legally and economically in a slave economy , slaves are (not) humans ,
they are livestock.

can you provide some evidence that the slave states regarded slaves as
not humans \? they were outside our society and similar phrases that
basically meant that they did n't have to recognized as having the same
rights as a free person , but they were never considered not human to
my knowledge.

like a horse that pulls a plow , a slave 's labor is the return on the
capital required to purchase and feed him. the parallel is so obvious
i'm not sure how you missed it. after all , its was the liberty to
use their property as they saw fit that motivated southern planters
to emphasize the importance of states' rights.

if that were the case , the slave states would not have passed so many
laws that restricted the freedom of slave owners to do as they wished
with their property. examples laws prohibiting manumission without
legislative grant laws prohibiting teaching slaves to read write.

craig.
steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com

clayton e. cramer uunet , pyramid ! optilink ! cramer my opinions , all mine !
relations between people to be by mutual consent , or not at all.

from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary response to paul schmidt
organization free the barbers , inc.
lines 64
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 1993apr15.013651.11353@tijc02.uucp pjs269@tijc02.uucp (paul schmidt) writes
steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

as noted in another thread (limiting govt) , the problem libertarians face
is insuring that the limited government they seek does not become the
tool of private interests to pursue their own agenda.

believe it or not , we liberals are frequently as opposed to
anti competitive measures as you conservatives. we do n't believe ,
however , that competition will necessarily be protected by the actions
of business interests in a free market. after all , in the example
you cite , it was not liberals that pressed for such regulations , but
good staunch conservative businessmen.

as adam smith so eloquently demonstrated , the free market is not
something that capitalists seek to protect when they can profit from
its elimination. the same point was made by marx a point of agreement
between the two theorists that should tell us something.

i do not want the government to become a tool of private interests.
limited government cannot insure that private interests will not use
this government for their own agenda.

agreed.

but this is not a failure of libertarianism. it is the fact that
utopia is not an option. there is no single system where everything
is perfect.

it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams. just
as marxism fails to specify how pure communism is to be achieved and
the state is to wither away , libertarians frequently fail to show how
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human
condition.

so it is wise to look
for the best solution. if you compare countries to see which ones
people would rather live in , which ones have less starvation , hunger ,
poverty , and misery , you will find that they have a more limitted
government than countries with alot of poverty , misery and suffering.
no , limitted government cannot insure anything , but it sure is better
than the alternative (big government.)

this is a strawman argument and fails on several grounds. in this case ,
limited and big government are not defined. i would point out that
lebanon , somalia , and the former yugoslavia are by some definitions nations
with limited government , while the us , canada , and nations in western
europe (where people would rather live ) are often pointed out as
nations with big government from a libertarian point of view.

the argument is not between those who want limited government and those
who want unlimited government. it is between those who believe
government regulation in a capitalist economy serves worthwhile ends and
those who believe such regulation is neither desirable on empirical
grounds nor justifiable on ideological grounds.

jsh

paul schmidt advocates for self government , davy crockett chapter president

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from ervan@rice.edu (ervan darnell)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
originator ervan@dawn.cs.rice.edu
reply to ervan@rice.edu (ervan darnell)
organization rice university
lines 35


in article 1993apr18.172531.10946@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes
in article 16apr199317110543@rigel.tamu.edu gmw0622@rigel.tamu.edu (mr. grinch) writes
in article 1993apr15.170731.8797@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...
.....
of course , one again faces the question of how one circumscribes government
power (and keeps it circumscribed) in a complex society when it is in the
interest of neither capitalists nor consumers to refrain from using
government power for their own ends. but apart from that little
conundrum...


this is a difficult problem for which there is no obviously good
solution. one approach is simply to try and move political opinion
and hope a new more libertarian consensus lasts for a while. another
approach is to try and amend the constitution. the original
constitution restrained the u.s. government from economic intervention
for 100 to 150 years , depending on just how one wants to count it.
the first amendment , though weakened in many ways , still restrains
government (particularly state and local) , even though on many
particular issues the majority is in favor of censorship. i think
libertarians would be happy with another 100 years of restraint via
an amendment or two (not that i think that 's likely to happen).

not necessarily mr. hendricks , but other posters seem to see this as
a problem with libertarianism , that it cannot be stable. that might
be true , but it is not an objection to libertarianism per se. if
a libertarian political consensus forms for a decade or two and then
falls apart again , we would just be back where we are now. this is
unlike the case for socialism where a socialist consensus that held
for a while and then fell apart would not leave us where we are now ,
but instead with lots of bureaucracy that would be hard to get rid of ,
if not tyranny as the end condition of a strong socialist consensus.

ervan darnell ervan@cs.rice.edu

from lfoard@hopper.virginia.edu (lawrence c. foard)
subject re new study out on gay percentage
organization itc uva community access unix internet project
lines 50

in article 15378@optilink.com cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes


from the santa rosa (cal.) press democrat , april 15 , 1993 , p. b2

male sex survey gay activity low

a new natonal study on male sexual behavior , the most thorough
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since
the kinsey report more than four decades ago , shows about 2
percent of the men surveyed had engaged in homosexual sex and
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual.

the figures on homosexuality in the study released wednesday
by the alan guttmacher institute are significantly lower than
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional
wisdom since it was published in the kinsey report.

1) so what \?

2) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2.5million queers
gather in washington dc. after all if there are only 6million of
us then this is an event unprecidented in history...

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners.
the median number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7.3.

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners....

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson ,
and kolodny showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that
homosexual men are dramatically more promiscuous than the general
male population.

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those
who said they where homosexual \? or is that number to inconvient for
you....

it 's a shame that we do n't have a breakdown for
straight men vs. gay bi men that would show even more dramatically
how much more promiscuous gay bi men are.

fuck off


join the pythagorean reform church ! .
repent of your evil irrational numbers . .
and bean eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . .
call the pythagorean reform church bbs at 508 793 9568 . . . .


from ckincy@cs.umr.edu (charles kincy)
subject re clinton 's immunization program
nntp posting host next4.cs.umr.edu
organization university of missouri rolla , rolla , mo
lines 18

in article 1993apr16.030703.23005@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy) writes
excuse me for sticking my nose in , but any parent parents who do not allready
immunize their children (especially if it is already free) , do n't deserve one
frigging dime of tax money for health care for themselves , or public health
care service.

(i know the immunization program and the coming national health care issue are
slightly seperate issues , but anybody who would n't help their kids , do n't
deserve my tax help).

hmmmmm......what about their kids \?

cpk

it 's been 80 days. do you know where your wallet is \?

slick willy 's already got his hand in my pocket. i'm just afraid
of what he might grab hold of.

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton press release on usia appointments
organization project gnu , free software foundation ,
675 mass. ave. , cambridge , ma 02139 , usa 1 (617) 876 3296
lines 101
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house

office of the press secretary


for immediate release april 15 , 1993



american university president joseph duffey named to head usia ,
mica to chair board for international broadcasting


washington , d.c. president clinton today announced his
intention to nominate american university president and former
state department assistant secretary joseph duffey to be director
of the united states information agency. the president also
designated daniel mica chairman of the board for international
broadcasting.

joe duffey 's expertise in the fields of education ,
communications and foreign affairs is vast and will serve him
well as he takes the helm at usia and works to promote the ideals
of democracy and freedom abroad , the president said.

president of american university in washington , d.c. since
1991 , duffey previously served nine years as chancellor and
president of the university of massachusetts at amherst. in 1977
he served as assistant secretary of state , education and cultural
affairs in the state department. duffey served as chairman of the
national endowment for the humanities under both presidents
carter and reagan.

in 1978 and 1980 , duffey served as a united states delegate
to the general conference of the united nations educational ,
scientific and cultural organization. in 1991 , duffey served as
joint head of the u.s. delegation observing national elections in
ethiopia.

usia , which celebrates its 40th anniversary this year , is an
independent foreign affairs agency within the executive branch
that explains and supports u.s. foreign policy and national
security interests abroad through a wide range of information
programs. among the agency 's programs are the fulbright academic
program , voice of america , the worldnet satellite television
system and a network of overseas libraries and cultural centers.
the agency has more than 210 posts in more than 140 countries.

(more)
press release
pg. 2




mica becomes chairman of the board for international
broadcasting after serving as a member of the board since 1991.

dan mica has done an excellent job on the board of
international broadcasting and i expect he will continue as
chairman to promote the cause of democracy abroad , the president
said.


biographical sketches of the appointees follow


joseph duffey has served as president of american university
since 1991. prior to his tenure at american , duffey served as
chancellor and president of the university of massachusetts at
amherst (1982 91) and as a guest scholar at the brookings
institution (1982). he served as chairman of the national
endowment for the humanities from 1977 82 and as assistant
secretary of state , education and cultural affairs with the
department of state in 1977. duffey holds 14 honorary degrees
from american colleges and universities. in 1980 he was named
commander of the order of the crown by the king of belgium and he
has been a member of the council of foreign relations since 1979.
duffey received a ba from marshall university in 1954 , a bd from
the andover newton theological school in 1958 , a stm from yale
university in 1963 and a ph.d. from the harvard seminary
foundation in 1969. duffey is a member of the national business
higher education forum and a founder and co chairman of the
western massachusetts economic development conference. duffey is
married to anne wexler and has four sons.


daniel mica is a former u.s. representative from the 14th
district of florida and has served on the board of international
broadcasting since 1991. during his tenure in congress from 1979
89 he served on the house committee on foreign relations and
was appointed by president reagan as the congressional
representative to the united nations.


30 30 30




from eck@panix.com (mark eckenwiler)
subject re capital gains tax increase loses money
organization nwo steering committee
distribution na
lines 46

in 1993apr15.045651.6892@midway.uchicago.edu , thf2@midway.uchicago.edu sez
in article 1993apr14.135227.8579@desire.wright.edu demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes

no , i'm saying any long term investor (the ones likely to have large
capital gains) would be foolish to sell in order to avoid a tax hike that a)
might disappear in any given year and b) be overcome in a year or two by
accumlated gains.

to which my response is so what \? not all people who pay capital gains
taxes are long term investors. more than enough of them are n't for there
to be huge blip whenever capital gains taxes get raised.
i never said that everyone would find this advantageous. i said that
more than enough would for the result to be readily noticeable and distort
trends .

even if brett 's eventual return figures were correct and they
clearly were n't he 'd still be wrong about the cause for the '86
blip because he fails to consider 2 basic factors

1) as ted notes , not everyone is a long term investor. one might find
oneself , as i did in late 1986 , anticipating expenses in the near term
that require selling off holdings. given the choice between waiting a
few weeks (and taking an extra tax hit) or selling in december with
preferential tax treatment , only a fool would choose the former.

2) the fact that brett can now construct post hoc calculations of
what would have been more beneficial to investors is in many respects
beside the point. there was plenty of money style advice given to
unsophisticated investors in late 1986 to sell now and save on
taxes. in case anyone missed it , there was no shortage of similar
advice late last year (in the nytimes , e.g.) , even though that advice
was based not on the foregone conclusion of enacted law (as in 1986) ,
but merely on the assumption that clinton would raise tax rates
(without capping cg taxes , contrary to the current proposal).

it 's nice to think that investors always behave in their optimal
economic interest. like assuming weightless ropes and frictionless
pulleys , though , this sort of thinking often fails to describe
accurately what happens in the real world.



moral always choose the right sort of parents
before you start in to be rough
george ade
mark eckenwiler eck@panix.com ... ! cmcl2 ! panix ! eck

from chloupek@ohstpy.mps.ohio state.edu
subject re nc vs hunt (marine gay bashing in wilmington nc) verdict
organization the ohio state university , department of physics
lines 57

in article 1qp5juinngu5@senator bedfellow.mit.edu , wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr) writes
in article 1993apr14.135948.3024@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu ,
tfarrell@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu (thomas farrell) said

a good case \? a f king good case \? the defense lawyer asked the victim
questions like what kind of sexual perversions do you participate
in \? and you think he made a good case \? \? \? \? \?

speaking as someone who 's only about six weeks and a 6 , 900 tuition bill
away from becoming an unemployed slob with a law degree , i 'd really like
to see a transcript of this trial. i 'd especially like to know what
happened immediately after the defense attorney asked that question
(assuming that the reports that he did so are accurate... i'm not
accusing tom farrell of making anything up , but this is the sort of
case that spawns garbled misquotes , false rumors and urban legends like
tribbles). it 'd be nice to think that the prosecutor objected
(irrelevant , prejudicial , inflammatory... take your pick) and that the
judge upheld the objection.

i did hear this question asked during a radio news update of the case. (they
were talking about the ongoing trial and had some audio clips). immediately
after the defense attorney asked the question , there was an objection ! heard
in the background. the clip ended at that point so i do n't know if the
objection was upheld. i ca n't imagine nc is that bad.

the arresting officer said the bastards told him they did it on
purpose and hoped the victim would die , and you think the defense made
a good case \? \? \? \? \? no wonder we 're losing ! we 're aparently not trying
to win !

again , i 'd like to see the transcript... i 'd read the latter bit of that
in the news media (the arresting officer testifying that one of the
defendants calmly asked him about the condition of the homo and said
that he hoped he 'd die) but this is the first i 've heard of the officer
testifying that one of the defendants actually said that he did anything
at all , let alone that he did it on purpose.

this i did n't hear as an audio clip but heard it reported a number of times on
news stories both during and after the trial. now the we did it on purpose
thing is stretching , i think it was something more like he had it coming. if
somebody else remebers better than i on this second point , feel free to
clarify.

frank



frank r. chloupek
chloupek@ohstpy.mps.ohio state.edu
department of physics the ohio state university
(not just any ohio state university)

there is only one hard and fast rule about the place to have a party
somebody else 's place.
p.j. o'rourke



from dave@alex.uchicago.edu (dave griffith)
subject re temper tantrums from the 1960 's
organization university of chicago
distribution usa
lines 14

in article 1993apr14.231117.21872@pony.ingres.com garrett@ingres.com writes
in article philc5ht1t.gwa@netcom.com , phil@netcom.com (phil ronzone) writes...
along with normalized relations with the prc.

normalizing relations with cambodia \? you must be joking. we sponsored
the overthrow of the cambodian government. after repeated failed attempts
of course.

prc people 's republic of china ! cambodia. go play.


dave griffith , information resources , university of chicago ,
department of surgery dave@alex.bsd.uchicago.edu
brain damage was what we were after. the chromosome damage was just gravy.

from clinton hq@campaign92.org (clinton gore '92)
subject clinton president names officials at transp. , comm. , defen. , opic
organization mit artificial intelligence lab
lines 130
nntp posting host life.ai.mit.edu



the white house


office of the press secretary


for immediate release april 14 , 1993



president names officials at
transportation , commerce , defense , and opic



(washington , dc) president clinton announced his intention
today to nominate albert herberger to be administrator of the
federal maritime administration , loretta dunn to be assistant
secretary of commerce for import administration , and christopher
finn to be executive vice president of the overseas private
investment corporation.

additionally , he has approved the appointments of joan yim
to be deputy administrator of the federal maritime
administration , alice maroni to be principal deputy comptroller
of the department of defense , and deborah castelman to be deputy
assistant secretary of defense for command , control , and
communications.

we are continuing to move forward with putting together a
government of excellent , diverse americans who share my
commitment to changing the way that washington works , said the
president. these six people i am naming today fit that bill.

biographical sketches of the nominees are attached.





biographical sketches of nominees
april 14 , 1993


albert herberger , a thirty five year navy veteran who
retired with the rank of vice admiral , is the vice president of
the international planning and analysis center (ipac). among the
positions he held during his naval service were deputy commander
in chief of the u.s. transportation command , director of
logistics on staff for the atlantic fleet commander in chief , and
director of the military personnel policy division for the office
of naval operations. a surface warfare expert and a merchant
marine officer with over eighteen years operational experience ,
herberger is also vice chairman of the national defense
transportation association 's sealift committee. he is a graduate
of the u.s. merchant marine academy and the naval postgraduate
school.

loretta dunn has served on the staff of the senate committee
on commerce , science , and transportation since 1979. since 1983
she has been the committee 's senior trade counsel , responsible
for drafting trade legislation and reports , planning and
conducting hearings , managing legislation on the senate floor and
in conferences with the house , overseeing a variety of executive
branch agencies , including the department of commerce. she was
previously a staff counsel for the committee. dunn holds a b.a.
in history from the university of kentucky , a j.d. from the
university of kentucky college of law , and an l.m. from the
georgetown university law center.

christopher finn is the executive vice president of equities
for the american stock exchange. previous positions he has held
have included senior vice president of the air and water
technologies corporation , chief of staff to senator daniel p.
moynihan , deputy commissioner of the new york state department of
economic development , and chief legislative aide to congressman
james r. jones. finn is a graduate of harvard college.

joan yim is a professional planner with over 17 years
experience in community based planning , policy analysis , project
design and management , inter agency coordination and government
affairs. from 1975 92 , she was with the hawaii office of state
planning as a planner on issues relating to natural resource and
coastal zone management and public infrastructure financing ,
among other issues. currently , she is supervising planner with
the honolulu firm of parsons brinckerhogg quade douglas.
before going to work for the state , she was executive
neighborhood commission secretary for the city and county of
honolulu , and chair on the kaneohe community planning committee.
a democratic national committeewoman , yim holds a b.a. from
connecticut college and pursued graduate studies at the
university of hawaii.

(more)

april 14 , 1993
page two


alice maroni is a professional staff member of the house
armed services committee specializing in defense budget issues.
she previously worked as a national defense specialist in the
foreign affairs and national defense division of the
congressional research service , and as an international risk
analyst for rockwell international. she has written extensively
on defense budget related topics. maroni received her b.a. from
mount holyoke college , and an m.a. from the fletcher school of
law and diplomacy at tufts university. she has also completed
the senior service program at the national war college and
harvard 's program for senior executives in national and
international security.

deborah castleman is currently on leave from rand , where she
is a space and defense policy analyst. she was an advisor to the
clinton gore campaign on space , science and technology , and
national security issues. prior to joining rand in 1989 ,
castleman held engineering positions with the hughes space and
communications group , general dynamics , and electrac , inc. she
served as an avionics technician in the air force from 1974 77.
castleman holds a b.s. in electrical and electronic engineering
from california state polytechnic university , m.s. in electrical
engineering from the california institute of technology , and m.a.
in international studies from claremont graduate school.






from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re getting off to an early start !
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 60

in article 04.17.93b@eecs.nwu.edu ptownson ptownson@eecs.nwu.edu writes
so ... the jury will be making its announcement at 7 00 am saturday
morning pacific time .... 10 00 am eastern time. why such an ungodly
hour \?

i guess its because the news is not what the government wanted to hear
either the police officers have been found innocent or after a week ,
the jury is hung ... neither good news from the government 's point of
view , as they desparately needed some scapegoats in los angeles.

wrong on both accounts.

maybe by making the announcement at 7 00 am on the west coast , they
figure all the rioters will be asleep , giving the troops time to move
into place.

no one is a rioter until they participate in a riot , which is
unlikely to happen , now.

most of the people in l.a. are likely to have gotten up early to
listen to the court announcement.

i guess we can look forward to a weekend of rioting , eh \?

sorry to disappoint you , but this seems unlikely.

the mayor of
los angeles , in a press conference about 3 00 am saturday morning , in
announcing that the jury would give its verdict later this morning
(just an hour away as i write this) would not say what that verdict
is , but i think he was told ... in his press conference he said
anyone rioting will be stopped dead in their tracks ...

i do n't think he was told.
however , his statement was still appropriate.

meanwhile , following the announcement of the jury 's verdict , the
judge , jury and assorted court personnel will be evacuated from the
building via helicopters landing on the roof of the courthouse. they
ca n't even walk out through the front door with their heads held
high.

jury duty is a solemn duty to be taken seriously. it is not meant
to be a source of pride or instant fame.

wo n't the rioters have a surprise waiting for them when they wake up
later today !

well , the many people who got up early to go to the court to hear
the verdict found that justice was served. given your dire and
cynical predictions , i imagine that it is you who will be surprised. )



patrick townson






from alaramor@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (aaron c laramore)
subject re race and violence
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
distribution usa
lines 29

joe ,

as usual , this issue of dysfunction , of bad values , of messed up culture
is easily embraced by non african americans when it comes to explaining
problems in our community. from your post , you apparently find the idea that
something is wrong with african americans , value wise , culture wise or
something , very appealing. i never cease to be amazed at how eager non african
americans are to embrace theories about our problems which basically assert
that something is wrong with us. the socio economic factors which we know help
to produce high crime levels , like poverty , which exists among us in large
proportion , i mean when it comes to discussion of african american problems , we
somehow become exempt from all these types of factors , and the problem is
laid at the doorstep of some neboulous dysfunction we supposedly have. but
nobody attributes crime amongst white americans to dysfunction. no , that has
socioeconomic factors to it , but for africa americans , its gotta be a
dysfunction.

basically , i think this tendency for non african americans to believe that
something is wrong with us exists because non african americans do n't want to
deal with the possiblility that the society is deeply biased against african
americans , and that this is about 80 of the problem. it could not possible be
that the society is so deeply racist and structured against us , that this has
a very effective negative effect on us. no , something is wrong with us.
non african americans are quick to disregard what we have to say , because they
are so busy trying to find something wrong with us , instead of taking a good
hard look at the thing we say are doing us damage. i would get angry if it
werent' so damn typical.

peace aaron

from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re price controls for medical care (was re we 're from the govt...)
summary loss leader argument does not wash
organization not aging , just improving , inc.
lines 76
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article slagle.93apr5075759@sgi417.msd.lmsc.lockheed.com slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com writes
in article 1993apr2.185755.17803@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes

thanks to kim for following up. i was hoping that someone would bring up
the issue of cost compensation. the problem with the argument is that it
fails to explain why kidney dialysis (rd) services have expanded massively in
the last decade. after all , no one is forcing private providers to offer
this service. if they are losing money on the treatment (which according
to information i 've collected from several providers they are not) why
would they not simply limit their losses by cutting back on services
(engage in effective rationing of supply) rather than expand the coverage
to a larger market that must then be compensated by raising prices in
other areas \?

perhaps there is a competitive advantage in there after all. would
not reputable and dedicated physicians prefer to affiliate with an
institution that offers dialysis services \? would they not therefore
tend to admit patients in greater numbers to an institution that
offered a full range of diagnostic and treatment options \?

undoubtedly. in fact , it is the fact that hospitals frequently compete
for physicians rather than for patients that (in part) complicates and
undermines a simplistic free market analysis of the market for medical care.

hospitals tend to lose money on all sorts of high tech , high price
machinery. they manage to make it up on other charges.

once again , there is no evidence that this is true in regard to kidney
dialysis. although price controls have promoted an expansion of services
to a much greater volume of patients , rd is still a profitable service.
otherwise , one would expect to see evidence of rationing rather than the
vast expansion that has occurred.


remember , the notion that you can lose a little on each treatment but
make it up in volume is not good economics even in a free market. )

then how do you explain why grocery stores routinely offer an
array of products at prices below cost \? are not grocery stores
embedded in a relatively free market \?

can you spell loss leader \? i knew you could. grocery stores do not
attempt to make up the loss on an individual product by selling more of
it. in fact , your argument above is that kidney dialysis is a loss leader
for other medical treatments where lost revenue can be regained.

but the evidence does not support this contention. rather , it appears that
price controls have disciplined the market by forcing an expansion of
service and development of improved lower cost technology to provide
comparable benefits. providers continue to profit from rd , they simply
make less on each treatment than they would have if the price had
risen at the rate that uncontrolled treatments have.

there is no question that had price controls forced the price of rd
substantially below its actual cost that some or all of the doomsday
predictions of free market advocates would have been seen restriction
of service , lagging technological development , etc. likewise , it appears
that in the va and armed forces medical care systems , where providers
are government agencies , some of these negative impacts may occur.
(rd patients in the va system in spokane , for example , must travel to
seattle , 300 miles away , for treatment.)

the bottom line , however , is that this is an example of government
intervention (of a rather extreme sort) that appears to have had beneficial
results for both providers and consumers. claims that government
bureaucracy inevitably leads to undesirable outcomes in the marketplace
should take such such cases into account.

jsh


mark

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks)
subject re limiting govt (was re employment (was re why not concentrate...)
summary limited governments versus failed governments
organization just a boomer , inc.
lines 49
nntp posting host thor.isc br.com

in article 16apr199317110543@rigel.tamu.edu gmw0622@rigel.tamu.edu (mr. grinch) writes
in article 1993apr15.170731.8797@isc br.isc br.com , steveh@thor.isc br.com (steve hendricks) writes...


this is a strawman argument and fails on several grounds. in this case ,
limited and big government are not defined. i would point out that
lebanon , somalia , and the former yugoslavia are by some definitions nations
with limited government , while the us , canada , and nations in western
europe (where people would rather live ) are often pointed out as
nations with big government from a libertarian point of view.

well , let me help by explaining the difference between a linited government
and a failed government. a limited government has its powers clearly
circumscribed , but is fully capable of enforcing its decisions within
those circumscribed areas. a failed government is incapable of
enforcing its decisions except sporadicly. two completely different beasts.

of course , one again faces the question of how one circumscribes government
power (and keeps it circumscribed) in a complex society when it is in the
interest of neither capitalists nor consumers to refrain from using
government power for their own ends. but apart from that little
conundrum...

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented. now why do you suppose
that never seems to occur \? ...


the argument is not between those who want limited government and those
who want unlimited government. it is between those who believe
government regulation in a capitalist economy serves worthwhile ends and
those who believe such regulation is neither desirable on empirical
grounds nor justifiable on ideological grounds.


... regulation is such a vauge word...

i would n't call it vague. i 'd call it elastic. all regulation is
not necessarily the same. by opposing all government regulation , some
libertarians treat every system from a command economy to those that
regulate relatively free markets as identical. that 's one reason
many of the rest of us find their analysis to be simplistic.

jsh
mr. grinch

steve hendricks domain steveh@thor.isc br.com
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! isc br ! thor ! steveh
the bulls t. r. hofferbert ma bell 509 838 8826

from kaldis@romulus.rutgers.edu (theodore a. kaldis)
subject re supply sider lightbulb joke
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 16

lip@s1.gov (loren i. petrich) writes

there was once the following joke

how many supply siders does it take to screw in a light bulb \?

none. they let the free market do it.

if the free market places an attractive price on the screwing in of a
light bulb , you can bet your bottom dollar that the light bulb will
most certainly get screwed in and most promptly at that , too.

the views expressed herein are theodore a. kaldis
my own only. do you seriously kaldis@remus.rutgers.edu
believe that a major university ... ! rutgers ! remus.rutgers.edu ! kaldis
as this would hold such views \? \? \?
