from thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu (ted frank)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ...
reply to thf2@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 27

in article c5l2bc.c2x.1@cs.cmu.edu rubinoff @cs.cmu.edu (robert rubinoff) writes
in article 93105.230230u23590@uicvm.uic.edu u23590@uicvm.uic.edu writes
note that bo gritz was on the populist party ticket with david
duke (for veep) in 1988 until he found out that duke was leading
he ticket , when he withdrew his candidacy.

that 's a revisionist account of what happened. gritz was well aware
of duke 's presence on the ticket. given that gritz is not at all shy
about associating and promoting other white supremacists (such as the
christian identity movement or willis carto) , whatever reasons gritz
had to leave the ticket had nothing to do with duke 's presence.

so gritz gave up his
chance to be vice president of the us just to aviod supporting
duke.

i 'd hardly call that giving up his chance to be vice president of the us
the chance of the populist party ticket winning is essentially nil. still ,
it does imply that he does n't want to be associated with duke.

i believe chip berlet has a populist party newsletter from the time with
a photo of gritz happily shaking hands with duke.

ted frank
thf2@kimbark.uchicago.edu i'm sorry , the card says moops.
the u of c law school
standard disclaimers

from hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays)
subject re nazi memoribilia
nntp posting host taos
organization intel supercomputer systems division
lines 38

in article cmay.734085409@helium , cmay@helium.gas.uug.arizona.edu (christopher c may) writes
in 1993apr2.232511.10711@raid.dell.com mikepb@lupus.dell.com (michael p. brininstool) writes

swatikas were also common in american indian markings painted walls etc. is
it the swastika that is bad \?

just want to back this up with a personal anecdote. my grandparents
have a navajo rug made in the 1920 's , which they received in trade
from the weaver while living in flagstaff , arizona. the decorative motif
consists of 4 large black swastikas , one in each corner. what 's more , the
color scheme is black , white , and red. to the casual glance it would
undoubtedly appear to be a nazi relic of some kind. yet they owned it
ten years before hitler and the national socialists came to power.

as i recall , they took it down in the 30 's , and did n't feel quite right
about putting it back up until the 60 's. it still draws comments from
those who do n't know what it is.

having lived , played , and worked on and near the navajo reservation
for a number of years , i can confirm this is an ancient pattern ,
found in petroglyphs dated 800 to 1200 years old.

also , the indians never stopped making rugs with this pattern they
just stopped selling them after the nazi 's pre empted the swastika.

note also that the indian versions use both clockwise and
counter clockwise swastikas.

ob guns it 's the rare navaho family that does n't own a rifle.
they remember being relocated by the us army , and do n't intend to
do it again. the hopi , on the other hand , have a dislike for
weapons , from my experience. perhaps they just hide them better
from strangers.


kirk hays nra life , seventh generation.
the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to
do nothing. edmund burke (1729 1797)

from hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays)
subject re govs. florio , wilder hit airwaves in support of brady bill
nntp posting host taos
organization intel supercomputer systems division
lines 26

in article 1993apr5.015209.29431@ucsu.colorado.edu , fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary) writes
in article 1993apr2.231109.23378@msc.cornell.edu srussell@msc.cornell.edu (stephen russell) writes
obguns i'm moving to arizona everyone carries guns there. if i do n't , what
are the approximate probabilities that i 'll get shot by the end of six months \?

under 1 in 20 , 000 assuming fbi statistics are meaningfull.

of course , if you 're a criminal , or hang around with criminals , or
flash large wads of cash in the wilder parts of town , or utter verbal
bigotry in the right public places , your chances of being shot are much
higher.

avoiding these behaviors , on the other hand , decreases your chances of
being shot.

something like 60 of all murders are criminals killing criminals.
over 90 of murders are committed by people with a prior known
history of violence.

simplistic moral , suitable for my three year old , and most inane
posters bad people do bad things repeatedly.


kirk hays nra life , seventh generation.
the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to
do nothing. edmund burke (1729 1797)

from popovich@cs.columbia.edu (steve popovich)
subject re change of name \? \?
in reply to gs26@prism.gatech.edu 's message of 20 apr 93 17 46 10 gmt
organization columbia university
lines 11

what does this censored from norway think he 's doing telling us
how to run the place \? i wanna know... somebody please 'splain.

guess how norway survived the third reich \? give you a hint ,
it was n't by passive resistance the way the danes did it....

i believe it had something to do with a politician whose name is n't
exactly the most complimentary word nowadays...one vidkun quisling.
we all know what a quisling is , right \? i'm sure everyone can come up
with a few examples right about now .
steve

from chiu@io.nosc.mil (francis chiu)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization san diego state university , college of sciences
lines 20
nntp posting host io.nosc.mil
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7

brent irvine (irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu) wrote

failed to mention the davidians pouring kerosene all over and lighting it in
plain view.

brent , i'm still waiting to see if there are any evidence of how the fire
got started , so i'm not going to tell you who did it... as far as you keep
talking about the davidians pouring kerosene all over , stop and think
for a second if it is possible the stove or lamp was knocked over and
started a fire , and the davidians were pouring water on it (wrong solution
but i doubt i can do much better in their states of mind...) to try to
put it out \?

by the way , just how far where you standing from the davidians when you
saw them setting the place on fire \? oh , in case you are new in town ,
microwave ovens does n't work very well when there 's no electricty. 0

get some facts before you post next time !

f. chiu

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 51

in article lt8keoinn31v@appserv.eng.sun.com fiddler@concertina.eng.sun.com (steve hix) writes
in article c5siaj.ks7@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

why did n't they release the children weeks ago \?

it would have been inconsistent behavior for them to have done so.

some people believe that there is more to life than the physical requirements.

these folks believed that the generally held standards of the surrounding
community (heck , most of the world) were morally wrong , and letting the
children be abandoned to this (godless unbelieving) culture would be condeming
them to eternal loss and separation from god.

by their standards , letting the children go would be abandoning them to a fate
literally worse than death.

the fbi (and batf and media) people working on the issue , i suspect ,
just could n't get their heads into a similar enough (to say nothing of
identical) mode of thinking to realize what they were doing.

physically , there was no reason why the bd 's should n't have given up and come
out a long time ago.

from the point of view of the bd 's , they were up against the wall and had nowhere
to go at all.

they apparently really did love their kids too much to abandon them to a godless
bunch of outsiders...although the end result was horribly twisted.

i did n't say the bd 's were right , i just said that that 's the way they perceived
it.

koresh was a nutcase , and a bunch of other people paid for that.

and the fbi and batf miscalculated and misunderstood what was going on from the
word go.

very likely possible. reminds me of the movie the rapture .




some things are too important not to give away
to everybody else and have none left for yourself.
dieter the car salesman






from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject re need senate bill numbers and house resolution numbers
organization ideology busters , inc.
lines 15

in article c5u7io.umw@hawnews.watson.ibm.com mjp@vnet.ibm.com (michael j. phelps) writes

try the firearms archive. larry cipriani 's instructions follow. by
the way , thanks for the archive larry..

there are a few bills not yet in the archive , but these are the main ones
we need to fight. and thanks to david robinson for scanning so many of
them in for us !

the subdirectory bills are stored in was moved from congress to
congress , that is

godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu usr0 anon pub firearms politics rkba congress

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re the dayton gun buy back (re boston gun buy back)
lines 23
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article c5uchu.ffn@cbnews.cb.att.com lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani) writes

according to wnci 97.9 fm radio this morning , dayton , ohio is operating a
gun buy back . they are giving 50 for every functional gun turned in.
they ran out of money in one day , and are now passing out 50 vouchers of
some sort. they are looking for more funds to keep operating. another
media event brought to you by hci.

is there something similar pro gun people can do \? for example , pay 100
to anyone who lawfully protects their life with a firearm \? sounds a bit
tacky , but hey , whatever works.

ack , what a public relations nightmare just begging happen.

gun lobby pays vigilanties.

nra to shell out dough to gunfighters.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
from steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner)
nntp posting host jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 26

brent irvine (irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu) writes
cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use
on a warm day in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

oh , i see. electricity is a natural right our wonderful government
would never cut off the power to the people they were besieging.
are you really this dumb , or just acting like it for the sake of
argument \?

jason


` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , `
` , ` true love is better than anything , except cough drops. ` , `
` , ` the princess bride (book) , by william goldman ` , `
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu ` , ` , ` , `

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
distribution usa
1993apr17.235338.2819@ucsu.colorad
1993apr19.203606.27625@csd newshost.stanford.edu
lines 45

in article 1993apr19.203606.27625@csd newshost.stanford.edu ,
andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says

in article 93108.172544u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz
u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
the point that i forgot to bring up here (and this has nothing to do with g
bein
a gang member or not) is that it is illegal to carry a concealed weapon in s
thi
area (or in the state of illinois for that matter).

right it nas nothing to do with whther or not the person
is was a gang member , but that 's what kratz inferred....

wrong there are people who can legally carry concealed in il and
there are circumstances under which many people can carry concealed.

is accuracy really too much to expect \?

andy

no it 's not. if you would have read my other post i was accurate. here 's what
i said

material from another post the other point that i
would like to make because i know it 's true (looked this one up in the illinois
this is for you andy
statutes before) is that it is illegal to carry a concealed weapon in illinois.
also for you andy.

and then i went on to say
there is no such thing as a ccw for us ordinary folk here.
end of quoted material

of course i forgot to mention who us ordinary folk are so just for andy i'm
going to go to the library tomorrow and photocopy the part of the illinois
statutes with this information and post it. ordinary citizens can not get a
license to carry a concealed weapon. there are very few people who can. i
even asked my lawyer friend about this and he told me that only certain people
can get licenses for concealed carry. he could n't remember which people but he
knew for sure that regular citizens could n't get that type of license. he told
me to go check at the library for the statutes which i did. i 'll post that
info tomorrow night. until then.......

jason

from dianem@boi.hp.com (diane mathews)
subject re batf fbi revenge
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho
lines 18

am i having a vain hope that an honest investigation will occur on this
thing \? or will it simply be whitewashed under the rug , and business
as usual will continue to be the order of the day in the new order \?
who will be given the official title of thought police , i wonder... \?

and if clinton and friends have their way , (highly likely at this point)
the new order government will also have all the guns... so what if
1984 is going to be ten years late... i think we are going to discover
that we will be paying dearly for putting this fellow in office for decades
to come. even some die hard supporters are having serious doubts about
their savior.

ahem. see the war on drugs , as sponsored by the bush and reagan
administrations. the precedent had well been set for federal agencies to
step on more than a few of what people consider rights. i wo n't make
excuses for anyone , but most of the damage had been done before clinton
even entered the race in '92.


from rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy)
subject incompetent law enforcement can kill
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 40


ever since the siege at waco started the fbi spokesman has been
stressing how unstable and paranoid david koresh was. he stressed how
likely it was the the branch davidians would commit mass suicide. he
was concerned with the safety of the children.

what did the fbi do to defuse the situation , did they try to reassure
koresh \? did the fbi offer medical assistance to the bd \? did the fbi
offer them a supply of water when the bd pump stoped working \? did the
permit koresh to communicate with anyone outside the compound \?

what the fbi did was harass the branch davidians as much as possible.
they kept powerful lights shining on the compound , shut off their
electrical power , put their pump out of action , assaulted their ears
with loud noise , cut off their communication with the outside and kept
limiting their permitter. the stated goal was to put pressure on
david koresh.

was the fbi attempting to get koresh to surrender or were they hoping
to get koresh so mad that he and some of his followers would attack
the the tanks.

it appears that the tactics employed by the fbi did drive koresh over
the edge. the blame for the deaths should be shared by both the
federal experts whose tactics drove koresh over the edge and the fools
at the atf who planed the raid.

stupidity and incompetence of the batf and the fbi leadership have
resulted in the needless death of 90 innocent people.

if every thing had gone as planned 90 people would be alive today.
instead the atf screwed up and caused the death of 90 . incompetent
law enforcement can kill you !



rod anderson n0nzo the only acceptable substitute
boulder , co for brains is silence.
rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu solomon short
satellite n0nzo on ao 16

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 125

thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes

observations from a naive norwegian

yup , you said it. i admire such honesty. )

1) guns are made to kill people , not to shoot target or to
have something more macho than stamps to collect.....

fire an anschutz .22 , then come back and talk to us. you 're letting
ignorance and possibly fear cloud your thinking. either that , or this
is sour grapes because we beat you in the olympic shooting events.
funny , you 'd think biathalon would be a natural sport for the norse. )

2) it is more easy to kill injure someone with a gun than
with a knife or a bat (as in baseball).

precisely. that makes them the best method of defense for the citizenry.
not everybody has the time to train with a gladius , you know , but for
some reason those who prey on others seem to have more free time. to
extend this a bit further , you need only a certain level of competence
to beat another with a range weapon. getting in their face with a
weapon and winning is much more difficult , and requires more training
time the average citizen just does not have. i 've spent a few years
practicing with a sword. i can take the common person armed with one
(though self defense is n't the reason i own one). my kid sister would
have an even chance of beating me , gun vs. gun , with only a month of
training. that makes firearms much better , in our eyes.

3) it 's not very wise to compare two completely different
countries like usa and , let 's say , island on issues like
crime and violence.

excellent point. perhaps you are n't so naive after all \?

4) yes , the problem is people committing crimes , not the tools
beeing used , but 1) should be taken into concideration.

taken into consideration in what respect \? though quite wrong , let 's
make it a blanket statement for weapons in general. this has been
taken into consideration. we call use of them aggrivated assault ,
assault with a deadly weapon , assault with intent to kill , attempted
murder , and a whole host of others , and tack on extra prison time.

we have a very strict gun legislation in norway , but until recently
it was possible for enyone over 18 years to buy a shotgun.
shotguns are used mainly for hunting in norway(...) , but because it
was so easy to accuire one , it was the most used gun in crimes.

in norway i suspect it was about the only weapon available. you conquered
your land (among others) a full millenia before we were thought of , and
shortly thereafter weapons were n't quite so common. i suspect that a few
world wars made a difference too , since in times of emergency weapons
tend to be turned in or donated to needy causes. i'm curious , though ,
were the weapons used in the crimes bought shortly before the crime , or
were they aquired by other means \? any requirements other than just
registering the shotgun \?

and unbelievable the use of guns in crime fell.....
there are now a new law against wearing long knives in public ,
and why should it be allowed \? \?

come on down to honest erik 's used swords ! here 's a slightly used
short sword , the battlefield supremacy weapon of the eleventh
century ! only 39.95 with trade in. easy financing ! sorry , i
could n't resist. you guys still slicing each other with long knives ,
or is this really not a problem \?

what i , as an scandinavian , have problems to understand is that
you (americans) have a more liberal view on guns and violence
than on nudity and sex.
try showing a bare breast on tv insted of violence and murder...

i'm all for that. what gets me is that scandanavians (and yes , i'm only
a couple generations off the longship) used to be some of the most
feared warriors on the planet a mere millenia ago , yet now seem to
spend their time sitting in spas and doing a bit of topless sunbathing.
maybe you had a bit more time , and a more homogeneous culture , to become
civilized with \?

yes , i know a little american history , but is it a civil human
right to have an assault gun in your home and or an handgun
in your car \? \?

yes. we 're too damned violent , partially i believe because we are not
a homogeneous culture and do n't identify ourselves as americans first
and foremost. i'm rather proud of my norwegian and danish heritage ,
whereas i suspect you could n't care less about that 2 welsh blood in
your veins thanks to a raid in ireland back in 1055 \? the time scale
and the homogeneous culture are important. equally important is a
basic philosophical difference in personal versus collective good.
in america , the individual is more important than the masses. personal
liberties are prized above all. this is , sadly , changing of late , but
i trust you notice how this call for freedom makes laws that restrict
individuals for little collective benefit hateful to americans. i 'd
hazard a guess that , were america less interested in freedom and
personal liberty and more interested in collective good we never would
have sent our armed forces anywhere. one poor effect of this culture
we have is that we 're looking out for ourselves and it is quite easy
to identify with only a small segment of the population. my grandmother
tells of being discriminated against back in denmark because she spoke
low dane , whereas others spoke high dane. it was shortly after
world war ii , as i remember , that low dane was abolished so there was
one common dialect. we cannot fathom such a minor thing being a problem ,
because we have even more obvious means of identifying an outsider.

the bad english is not my fault , it 's probably
the keyboard software or the quality of the
subtext on tv......

take heart , yours is better than 90 of what gets posted by native speakers.
any helpful hints for our educational system \? people have this annoying
tendency to drop out of school and sell drugs over here.

) and what kind of name is thomas parsli \? here , you can use my great
grandfather 's before he changed it christian aarskog. that 's a
great one for getting mispronounced. i think that 's why he changed it.
i do n't think he needs it anymore )

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.



from ndallen@r node.hub.org (nigel allen)
subject waco clinton press conference , part 1
organization r node public access unix 1 416 249 5366
lines 282

here is a press release from the white house.

president clinton 's remarks on waco with q a
to national desk
contact white house office of the press secretary , 202 456 2100

washington , april 20 following are remarks by president
clinton in a question and answer session with the press

1 36 p.m. edt

the president on february the 28th , four federal
agents were killed in the line of duty trying to enforce the law
against the branch davidian compound , which had illegally stockpiled
weaponry and ammunition , and placed innocent children at risk.
because the batf operation had failed to meet its objective , a 51 day
standoff ensued.

the federal bureau of investigation then made every
reasonable effort to bring this perilous situation to an end without
bloodshed and further loss of life. the bureau 's efforts were
ultimately unavailing because the individual with whom they were
dealing , david koresh , was dangerous , irrational , and probably
insane.

he engaged in numerous activities which violated both
federal law and common standards of decency. he was , moreover ,
responsible for the deaths and injuries which occurred during the
action against the compound in february. given his inclination
towards violence and in an effort to protect his young hostages , no
provocative actions were taken for more than seven weeks by federal
agents against the compound.

this weekend i was briefed by attorney general reno on
an operation prepared by the fbi , designed to increase pressure on
koresh and persuade those in the compound to surrender peacefully.
the plan included a decision to withhold the use of ammunition , even
in the face of fire , and instead to use tear gas that would not cause
permanent harm to health , but would , it was hoped , force the people
in the compound to come outside and to surrender.

i was informed of the plan to end the siege. i
discussed it with attorney general reno. i asked the questions i
thought it was appropriate for me to ask. i then told her to do what
she thought was right , and i take full responsibility for the
implementation of the decision.

yesterday 's action ended in a horrible human tragedy.
mr. koresh 's response to the demands for his surrender by federal
agents was to destroy himself and murder the children who were his
captives , as well as all the other people who were there who did not
survive. he killed those he controlled , and he bears ultimate
responsibility for the carnage that ensued.

now we must review the past with an eye towards the
future. i have directed the united stated departments of justice and
treasury to undertake a vigorous and thorough investigation to
uncover what happened and why , and whether anything could have been
dne differently. i have told the departments to involve independent
professional law enforcement officials in the investigation. i
expect to receive analysis and answers in whatever time is required
to complete the review. finally , i have directed the departments to
cooperate fully with all congressional inquiries so that we can
continue to be fully accountable to the american people.

i want to express my appreciation to the attorney
general , to the justice department , and to the federal agents on the
front lines who did the best job they could under deeply difficult
circumstances.

again , i want to say as i did yesterday , i am very sorry
for the loss of life which occurred at the beginning and at the end
of this tragedy in waco. i hope very much that others who will be
tempted to join cults and to become involved with people like david
koresh will be deterred by the horrible scenes they have seen over
the last seven weeks. and i hope very much that the difficult
situations which federal agents confronted there and which they will
be doubtless required to confront in other contexts in the future
will be somewhat better handled and better understood because of what
has been learned now.

q mr. president , can you , first of all , tell us why ,
after 51 days , you decided

q mr. president , can you describe for us what it is
that janet reno outlined to you in your 15 minute phone conversation
with

the president i ca n't hear you both. if one will go
first and then the other.

q sorry. can you describe what janet reno

q mr. president

the president i 'll answer both your questions , but i
ca n't do it at once.

q can you describe what she told you on sunday about
the nature of the operation and how much detail you knew about it \?

the president yes. i was told by the attorney general
that the fbi strongly felt that the time had come to take another
step in trying to dislodge the people in the compound. and she
described generally what the operation would be that they wanted
to go in and use tear gas which had been tested not to cause
permanent damage to adults or to children , but which would make it
very difficult for people to stay inside the building. and it was
hoped that the tear gas would permit them to come outside.

i was further told that under no circumstances would our
people fire any shots at them even if fired upon. they were going to
shoot the tear gas from armored vehicles which would protect them and
there would be no exchange of fire. in fact , as you know , an awful
lot of shots were fired by the cult members at the federal officials.
there were no shots coming back from the government side.

i asked a number of questions. the first question i
asked is , why now \? we have waited seven weeks why now \? the reasons
i was given were the following

number one , that there was a limit to how long the
federal authorities could maintain with their limited resources the
quality and intensity of coverage by experts there. they might be
needed in other parts of the country.

number two , that the people who had reviewed this had
never seen a case quite like this one before , and they were convinced
that no progress had been made recently and no progress was going to
be made through the normal means of getting koresh and the other cult
members to come out.

number three , that the danger of their doing something
to themselves or to others was likely to increase , not decrease , with
the passage of time.

and number four , that they had reason to believe that
the children who were still inside the compound were being abused
significantly , as well as being forced to live in unsanitary and
unsafe conditions.

so for those reasons , they wanted to move at that time.
the second question i asked the attorney general is whether they had
given consideration to all of the things that could go wrong and
evaluated them against what might happen that was good. she said
that the fbi personnel on the scene and those working with them were
convinced that the chances of bad things happening would only
increase with the passage of time.

the third question i asked was , has the military been
consulted \? as soon as the initial tragedy came to light in waco ,
that 's the first thing i asked to be done , because it was obvious
that this was not a typical law enforcement situation. military
people were then brought in , helped to analyze the situation and some
of the problems that were presented by it. and so i asked if the
military had been consulted. the attorney general said that they
had , and that they were in basic agreement that there was only one
minor tactical difference of opinion between the fbi and the military
something that both sides thought was not of overwhelming
significance.

having asked those questions and gotten those answers , i
said that if she thought it was the right thing to do , that she
should proceed and that i would support it. and i stand by that
today.

q mr. president

the president wait. go ahead.

q can you address the widespread perception
reported widely , television , radio and newspapers that you were
trying somehow to distance yourself from this disaster \?

the president no , i'm bewildered by it. the only
reason i made no public statement yesterday let me say the only
reason i made no public statement yesterday is that i had nothing to
add to what was being said and i literally did not know until rather
late in the day whether anybody was still alive other than those who
had been actually seen and taken to the hospital or taken into
custody. it was purely and simply a question of waiting for events
to unfold.

there was i have i ca n't account for why people
speculated one way or the other , but i talked to the attorney general
on the day before the action took place. i talked to her yesterday.
i called her again late last night after she appeared on the larry
king show , and i talked to her again this morning. a president it
is not possible for a president to distance himself from things that
happen when the federal government is in control.

i will say this , however. i was , frankly , surprised
would be a mild word , to say that anyone that would suggest that the
attorney general should resign because some religious fanatics
murdered themselves. (applause.)

i regret what happened , but it is not possible in this
life to control the behavior of others in every circumstance. these
people killed four federal officials in the line of duty. they were
heavily armed. they fired on federal officials yesterday repeatedly ,
and they were never fired back on. we did everything we could to
avoid the loss of life. they made the decision to immolate
themselves. and i regret it terribly , and i feel awful about the
children.

but in the end , the last comment i had from janet reno ,
is when and i talked to her on sunday i said , now , i want you
to tell me once more why you believe not why they believe why
you believe we should move now rather than wait some more. and she
said , it 's because of the children. they have evidence that those
children are still being abused and that they 're in increasingly
unsafe conditions , and that they do n't think it will get any easier
with time with the passage of time. i have to take their word for
that. so that is where i think things stand.

q can we assume then that you do n't think this was
mishandled in view of the outcome , that you did n't run out of
patience \? and if you had it to do over again , would you really
decide that way \?

the president no well , i think what you can assume
is just exactly what i announced today. this is a the fbi has
done a lot of things right for this country over a long period of
time. this is the same fbi that found the people that bombed the
world trade center in lickety split , record time. we want an inquiry
to analyze the steps along the way. is there something else we
should have known \? is there some other question they should have
asked \? is there some other question i should have asked \? can i say
for sure that no one that we could have done nothing else to make
the outcome come different \? i do n't know that. that 's why i want
the inquiry and that 's why i would like to make sure that we have
some independent law enforcement people , not political people , but
totally non political , outside experts who can bring to bear the best
evidence we have.

there is , unfortunately , a rise in this sort of
fanaticism all across the world. and we may have to confront it
again. and i want to know whether there is anything we can do ,
particularly when there are children involved. but i do think it is
important to recognize that the wrong doers in this case were the
people who killed others and then killed themselves.

q mr. president , were there any other options
presented to you for resolving this situation at any point from
february 28th until yesterday \?

the president well , yes , i got regular reports all
along the way. there were lots of other options pursued. if you go
back you all covered it very well. the fbi you did a very good
job of it. i mean , the fbi and the other authorities there pursued
any number of other options all along the way , and a lot of them
early on seemed to be working. some of the children got out , some of
the other people left. there was a at one point , there seemed to
be some lines of communication opening up between koresh and the
authorities. and then he would say things and not do them and things
just began to spin downward.

whether there were other in terms of what happened
yesterday , the conversation i had with the attorney general did not
involve other options except whether we should take more time with
the present strategy we were pursuing because they said they
wanted to do this , because they thought this was the best way to get
people out of the compound quickly before they could kill themselves.
that 's what they thought.

q did the government know that the children did not
have gas masks \?

q congressional hearings once the situation are
you in agreement with that \?

the president that 's up to the congress. they can do
whatever they want. but i think it 's very important that the
treasury and justice departments launch this investigation and bring
in some outside experts. and as i said in my statement , if any
congressional committees want to look into it , we will fully
cooperate. there is nothing to hide here. this was probably the
most well covered operation of its kind in the history of the
country.

(more , more)
30

from whughes@lonestar.utsa.edu (william w. hughes)
subject re waco clinton press conference , part 1
nntp posting host lonestar.utsa.edu
organization university of texas at san antonio
lines 13

in article feustelc5tw49.7p5@netcom.com feustel@netcom.com (david feustel) writes
i predict that the outcome of the study of what went wrong with the
federal assault in waco will result in future assaults of that type
being conducted as full scale military operations with explicit
shoot to kill directives.

you mean they are n't already \? could have fooled me.



remember waco !
who will the government decide to murder next \? maybe you \?
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state.

from croaker@highlite.uucp (francis a. ney)
subject re cnn for sale
organization gotham communications research
distribution usa
lines 10


i will add my voice to the (hopefully) growing multitudes.

i hereby pledge 1000.00 towards the purchase of cnn , under the same conditions
as already described. i will also post this idea on the other nets i can
access (rime and libernet).

we may have to organize this ourselves , so i am looking for help.

frank ney n4zhg emt a lpva nra ila goa ccrtkba 'm o u s e'

from ccdarg@dct.ac.uk (alan greig)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization dundee institute of technology
lines 20

in article 1993apr20.195636.17742@guinness.idbsu.edu , betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz) writes

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

if you really want to trigger the scanners then move the keywords
above the signature start bit... you 'll only trip them once in
a sig (plus every so often it will flag one for human intervention
just to be sure)

i might not be being serious.


alan greig janet a.greig@uk.ac.dct
dundee institute of technology internet a.greig@dct.ac.uk
tel (0382) 308810 (int 44 382 308810)
never underestimate the power of human stupidity

from strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight)
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization dsi uscrpac
distribution na
lines 11


though i agree this is not the place to discuss guns , i note in passing that
a number of gun apologists seem to have ignored the words well regulated
in their distorted interpretations of the second amendment.

david

david sternlight great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
our information , errors and omissions excepted.



from joan@koala.berkeley.edu ()
subject re newspapers censoring gun advertisements
organization u.c. berkeley
lines 24
nntp posting host koala.berkeley.edu


i do n't know what traders is claiming , but it appears to me that
the oakland tribune has censored gun ads in the past. likewise
for the san francisco chronicle , and i have never seen a gun
ad in the san francisco examiner.

specifically , about a year ago on thursdays , when traders placed
its ads , the chron. ad would not have any graphics representing
any handgun sale , though text could list it. the trib. would
run a graphic of a handgun. the examiner would not have a traders
ad at all.

over the past year while oakland politicians have made a lot of noise
about measures to fight crime the trib stopped taking the traders
ad , then started publishing it , but without any handgun graphic , then
stopped , then started. since the trib. was sold some months ago it
has not had the traders ad. during one of these non ad interludes
a traders employee told me that the trib. had refused to take their
ads.

yes , the usual chron. thursday ad was there today , with graphics
representing rifles , safes , etc. as usual.

joan v

from pes3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu (paul eric stoufflet)
subject re die koresh die !
nntp posting host cunixf.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pes3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu (paul eric stoufflet)
organization columbia university
lines 23

in article 1r04h8 q5a@umcc.umcc.umich.edu tim@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (tim tyler) writes
i was hoping that however the situation was resolved the
property would remain intact , so the gov't could sell it to help pay for the
hundreds of thousands of dollars of expenses incurred having to babysit
krazy koresh his flock of sheep.


in some south american countries , after political undesirables disappeared ,
the family would get a notice of death and a bill for the disposal
of the body. you apparently think that would be a good idea.

the federal government initiated this action against koresh and his
followers , surrounded them for 51 days , engaged in psychological
warfare , used heavy military equipment against us citizens on
us soil and now that the compound caught fire while they were
pumping in cs gas after knocking holes in the building disavows
all responsibility. big brother is not always right.


paul eric stoufflet
columbia presbyterian medical center
internet pes3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu
all opinions are my own

from gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone)
subject re batf fbi revenge
keywords batf fbi korash child abuse guns murder control
reply to glenns@eas.gatech.edu
organization the group w bench
lines 17

in 2077@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

anybody for impeachment \?

yeah , me. both the slickmeister and hillary 's buddy janet say
they 're responsible... i want both their resignations on my desk
yesterday. i also want both thier butts up on federal civil rights
violations.... something which carries life in prison as a penalty.

oh , and i 'll contribute 20 to arlen specter 's presidential campaign
for having the 'nads to launch the senate investigation.

glenn r. stone (glenns@eas.gatech.edu)
america in distress
(flag upside down sos)
save your republic before
it no longer exists.

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 35
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 1993apr20.151131.8531@news.uit.no paale@stud.cs.uit.no (paal
ellingsen) writes
in article 1r0qsrinnc61@clem.handheld.com , jim de arras writes
mr. roby , you are a government sucking heartless bastard. humans died
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the
actions
they did. that is the undeniable truth.

....the question is for how long \? even if the fbi had done nothing , i guess
the
bds would have committed suicide , but maybe not until hunger and thirst gave
them
the choice between sucide or surrender.
the bds was warned in beforehand about the fbi action. they had the chance to
surrender and get a fair trial. no matter who started the fire , the bds were
responsible for 80 peole dying. no one else.


this is , of course , your opinion. i differ greatly. there can be no doubt the
fbi at least shares in the blame.



paal ellingsen borgensvingen 67 102 tlf. 083 50933
paale@stud.cs.uit.no 9100 kvaloeysletta data dobbelt arbeid til alle



jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes
an 'edu'er not towing the party line , thank you !

jim

you 're welcome ! ) actually , i'm probably something of an outcast , because
i 've committed the ultimate college student heresy i'm not a liberal.
(this is not liberal bashing.)


mike

this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

nntp posting host surt.ifi.uio.no
from thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no
subject re my gun is like my american express card
in reply to viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson) 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993
08 52 42 gmt
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
1qjmnuinnlmd@clem.handheld.com
cmm.0.90.2.734911642.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no
viking.734945095@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu
cmm.0.90.2.735132009.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no
viking.735209562@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu
lines 51
originator thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no



i do n't remember the figures exactly , but there were about 3500 deaths in texas
in 1991 that was caused by guns.....
this is more than those beeing killed in car accidents !
(yes , there could be that low sentences or high poverty could influence the
figures but they 're still pretty high right \? \? )
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal 'gun laws' in usa......


i should not suffer because of others....
we all agree on this one , but we also live in a sociaty and therefor
we 'll have to give up some of our 'freedom' (note the '').

do you have an insurance \? \?
then you 'll have to pay because of what others do...

do you buy anything \? \?
you are paying for those who return goods , steal or even those who gets a bonus...

do you live with other people \? \?
then you 'ca n't' do ererything you 'd want (burping farting playing music loud)

what the hell is he trying to say \? \?
when you live in a society (usa are stilll counted as one...) you
have to saccrifice.
the question is how much.


one state (do n't remember which , texas \? \? ) tried to impose a rule that you could
only buy one gun each month. think you all know what happened.....

i respect the right to defend yourself , but that right should not inflict on
other people.

it seems like you all realize that you have a problem in america , the only
problem is
that you wo n't take the car away from the drunk driver , you hope to cure him
first.

hope life comfirms to the standard of winnie the poh.



this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

from barker@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (james barker)
subject nra address \?
summary address for nra right to keep and bear anti tank weapons
keywords nra waco rkba
lines 41

could someone email me a usnail address for the nra \? i 'd like to write them
a letter encouraging them to see to it very emphatically that the 2nd
amendment is restored to the form that the founding fathers intended.

people like howard metzenbaum seem very intent on diluting the 2nd amendment
to the point where it is no effort for the governmentski to do what they
did in waco.

after all , from what i know of the federalist papers , it is this kind of
tyranny the 2nd amendment was supposed to be designed to protect against.

honestly ! m 60 tanks against the civilian population ! attack helicopters !

we need the right to keep and bear anti tank weapons. actually , if they
intend to mass armour against the (weakly armed , at that) civilian population ,
we need the right to field tactical nukes. government tyranny ! who would
have ever thought it would happen here !

i wonder who 'se house they 'll run tanks through next , because the gov.
suspects child abuse. maybe yours ! maybe mine !
and what is an illegal weapon (which they have yet to show us) , if the
2nd amendment is designed to do what i believe it is , and the gov. uses
tanks against you \? government self serving \? naaaah. not here.

time was when the u.s. used armour attack helicopters against small countries.
now , we 're down to using them against to what amounts to a busload and a
half of civilians.

first they came for the jews , but i did not stop them , because i was
not a jew then they came for the catholics , but i did not stop them
because i was not a catholic ! then they came for the lutherans , but
there was now no one left to stop them ! rev. martin niemoller.
(probably did n't get it verbatim , but you get the idea).

if the nra reads this , then never mind about the address.
god save us !

james s. barker
portland state university
barker@cs.pdx.edu


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 16
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

and they work especially well when the feds have cut off your utilities.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from kde@boi.hp.com (keith emmen)
subject re cnn for sale
distribution usa
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho
x newsreader tin 1.1scd1 pl4
lines 5

if anyone is keeping a list of the potential contributors ,
you can put me down for 1000.00 under the conditions above

keith emmen
kde@boi.hp.com

from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject ohio legislative alert h.b. 287
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
keywords mourning dove hunting season
lines 14

ohio house of representative thursday , april 8 , 1993

h.b. no. 287 representatives seese , davis , batchelder , amstutz , t.
johnson , van vyven , wachtmann , white , di donato , boggs , logan

to amend section 1531.01 of the revised code to add mourning dove
to the game bird list and permit the chief of the division of wildlife in
the department of natural resources to regulate the hunting of mourning
doves , and to make an appropriation.

this would allow the hunting of mourning doves in ohio and give the
sportsman something they have been pushing for.

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from pitargue@cisco.com (marciano pitargue)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization cisco
lines 58
distribution world
nntp posting host lager.cisco.com
originator pitargue@cisco.com


in article 1qkcok s9i@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , ci946@cleveland.freenet.edu (john k. gever) writes

do you rambos who worry so much about rape and murder in the
wilderness also carry your guns all the time at home too \? you
should , since you 're in a hell of a lot more danger there than
in the backcountry.

when does carrying a tool classify someone as a rambo. so all the
pioneers that came west were rambo 's \? adrienne ! ! ! )


does anybody reading this group have an actual , honest to god
experience with violent crime in the backcountry to tell about \?

i can sort of understand the people who want to protect themselves
from bears and such , although there are , what , maybe a dozen or
two bear attacks on people in north america each year \? but to
worry about being raped by some buck toothed bubba in overalls
is just irrational. i think we 'd all be a lot safer if all the
videocassettes of deliverance were gathered up and burned.

would your tune change if you were one of the dozen or two bear attacks \?
believe me , when you need a firearm , you need a firearm.


public health experts will tell you that you are far more likely
have your gun stolen , use it yourself on a family member or
have it used on you than you are to use it on an actual criminal.

please cite your references. i 'll let others (please note followup)
cite valid references to show you that this is an untruth.

the rambo warriors we 've heard from here undoubtedly consider
themselves exempt from this statistical reality they 're much
too smart and responsible. living in a city where there 's a
drive by shooting every couple of days , and working in a medical
center where a day does n't go by without a shooting victim coming
into the er , i'm just a bit skeptical about the value of gun
ownership. i go to the backcountry to get away from this
environment , and i do n't want to find other people there who
insist on bringing the urban environment along with them boom
boxes , computers , or guns.

well , you might as well go naked. forget the matches , backpack , sleeping
bag and all the rest that 's is a modern convenience. a firearm is just
a tool. as some people wo n't carry gaiters , some people do. firearms
should be in the same category. it should be a personal choice.

and your factoid about shooting victims in the er. count how many come in
due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes. maybe we should outlaw
cars.


please post flaming responses to rec.guns.rabid (
j. gever , b'ham , ala.

marciano pitargue@cisco.com

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re insane gun toting wackos unite ! ! !
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 40

do you know how many deaths each year are caused by self inflicted gun
shot wounds by people wearing thigh holsters \?

there are roughly 1200 fatal , firearms related accidents each year.
the large majority involve rifles and shotgun there are under 500
fatal handgun accidents each year. i really doubt all of those
occur while the pistol is holstered , so the number of self inflicted
gunshot wounds by people wearing thigh holsters is probably
well under 250 per year.

if you fall , for example ,
and land on the handgun or cause a sudden blow , the gun will discharge.

handguns designs have included a hammer block since around 1960
or earlier. this is a metal part which physically seperates
the cartridge and the firing pin even under impact , the gun
cannot fire. the hammer block is connected to the trigger and
is pulled out of the way as the trigger is pulled. as a result ,
modern pistols can fire only if the trigger is pulled (or
in some cases , if they are cocked by hand and then dropped.)

the number of people killed in this manner far outweighs the number of
deaths caused by animal attacks or wacko attacks combined.

i do n't know about animal attacks , but there are 23 , 500 murders
each year and under 500 die in the manner you suggest. if only
2.1 of the murders were killings by wacko s , you would be
wrong. worse , there are also 102 , 500 rapes and 1 , 055 , 000 aggravated
assaults each year. these numbers make violent attacks , and
preventing them , thousands of times more significant than the
accidents you are worried about.

(these figures , by the way , are from the fbi 's uniform crime
report for 1990. i 'll stop by a library tomorrow and look at
the national crime victimization survey , which is more
specific about where and when the crimes occured.)

frank crary
cu boulder


from meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
organization n i
lines 114

in article 1qk3jm 9sh@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr14.221646.2332@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
...
why are 'good' neighborhoods 'good' \? it is n't because every
person is armed to the teeth. it is because of (1) attitude
and (2) cooperation. in the 'good' neighborhoods , the residents
make themselves aware of their neighbors and notice when
strangers are lurking around. 'good' neighborhoods form groups
like 'crime watch' to increase this effect , and the relative
effectiveness of the police. when hostiles are arrested , the
good neighbors step up and say that's the one officer ! he
was robbing mr. jones' house .

sometimes this works. sometimes it just lands your good neighbors
on the dance card for the next wave of drive bys. someone here once
told a story about la gangs moving into phoenix. i 've misplaced the

here'a a copy , cdt

newsgroups talk.politics.guns , ou.politics
path dg rtp ! psinntp ! uunet ! sun barr ! ames ! haven.umd.edu ! darwin.sura.net ! wupost ! csus.edu ! netcom.com ! mvp
from mvp@netcom.com (mike van pelt)
subject the difference an armed civilian population makes
message id y52n tc.mvp@netcom.com
date thu , 17 sep 92 23 42 42 gmt
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
references swood.716099748@vela
lines 84

along the lines of the armed citizen , here 's a story that
some of you may find amusing. it 's a story about arizona
house hunting , from leslie fish , musician and author...


... one of the reasons i'm planning to move to arizona is that
despite its lousy economy , 4 way race problems , simmering religious
problems and hopelessly bad government arizona has one of the lowest
violent crime rates in the country. is it just coincidence that
arizona is also one of the few remaining no gun control states in the
country \?

well , consider this funny story. last time i was in phoenix ,
staying with liz burnham , i did some checking on the local real estate
market (that 's when i discovered that , with my income as provable by
my tax returns i can qualify for every low income housing loan in
the book , with the exception of va) , and i came across an astonishing
ad in the local market paper. it offered a three bedroom house in the
phoenix area for are you ready for this all of 10 , 000. no money
down. 100 per month total payments. christ on a harley davidson ! i
called up the real estate office making this offer , made it clear that
i was only checking the local market , and asked about that house. were
the walls , roof and foundation structurally sound \? yes. were the
plumbing and electrical systems functional and up to code \? yes. did the
air conditioning system (an absolute necessity in phoenix) work \? yes ,
again. okay , so what was wrong with the house \? well , it needed lots
of plastering , painting , yard work , and some patching of the roof
and yes , low interest repair loans were available. okay , sez i. if
that 's all that 's wrong with it , just why are you selling a 3 bedroom
house for all of 10 , 000 \? well , squirms the agent , it 's in kind of a
bad neighborhood. how bad \? sez i , remembering some of the neighborhoods
i 've seen in chicago and oakland. worst in the city , the agent sighs ,
and then he told me this amazing story.

every few years , it seems , the big vice gangs in los angeles notice
that there 's no gang presence in phoenix which is just a quick
5 hour drive from la and get the idea of setting up a subsidiary
there. well , a couple years ago , the colonizing force came to this
neighborhood it being poor and spanish , they figured they could move
right in and take over bought this house and started operations.
unfortunately for them , the neighbors not only did n't like this they
did n't care for whores trotting up and down their streets all night ,
pimps soliciting their kids , dope deals on the corners in broad
daylight , and so on they were n't afraid to do something about it.
the neighbors called the cops (for some reason , the phoenix police are
remarkably honest , capable , polite and prompt) , and the cops promptly
came and swept up all the whores , pimps and pushers off the street and
away to jail. the remaining gang members decided to retaliate in the
fashion they usually use in la they got the complainant 's name and
address off the court records , and did a drive by shooting at his
house. well , this was n't los angeles. the moment the neighbors heard
the first gunshots fired , they all ran out their front doors with their
own guns rifles , shotguns , pistols , everything and shot back.

the car did n't make it to the end of the block. it coasted to a
stop , riddled with more holes than the famous bonnie and clyde getaway
car (which i 've seen it 's on display in a casino in a casino in las
vegas). the gas tank and fuel lines had been ruptured , so the car
caught fire. the neighbors waited a good 15 minutes making sure
nobody got out of that car before they called the fire department to
come put out the fire and tow the wreck away. by that time , the asphalt
under the car had melted and caught fire too , which subsequently left a
large and nasty pot hole in the street. the city is slow about
repairing small streets , so the hole stayed there providing a traffic
hazard for several months. all this was two years ago , the agent
concluded , and there 's been no trouble since , but the house and the
neighborhood still have a bad reputation and that 's why the house
was so cheap.

hearing this story , i nearly laughed my ass off. i told the agent
that if i had the money at the moment , i 'd by god buy the house this
was nothing compared to bad neighborhoods i 'd seen here in
california , where drive by shootings go unchecked by the well armed
cops , let alone by the unarmed neighbors. if that 's the absolute worst
you 'll find in phoenix , then that 's the city for me.

that 's the difference that an armed civilian population makes.
think about it.



mike van pelt when guns are outlawed ,
mvp@netcom.com only carl rowan will have guns.
mvp@hsv3.lsil.com


from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject a picture is worth a thousand words...
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 531

begin 644 outofcontrol.gif
m1te . an@ 6` \? ``````` rp`````n@ 6`0` @q@j)o xq4 iyx z3
m9pub4zay9` ny59 ! 2l0c j w 2( \? c3q70 , 6a`h9) 2oa elq) \? rw
mp3ht5f 1rq ingznvmf4 wr0 \? 4 oo ! , 7( so , k i 2 j \? 4 , qb(`x v
mn) x c1 b ui7c e) 7e f) \? 9 \? 9x`oeh.77ce( i ! 5ki 08h i8pmc9
m26hw rlfn lk @nh1pn ut yq , etl ) bvo0 zz vb7s d) ! \? g m
m ` 2my jfw8v 6zyhszg6v. dvz xs \? 8 x `@m6 sb 5m' u3vs
m 5e5j jt8)p i ch2o40 ) 6 .3qw , (jy , ib , c4 6 y(eptw
mrip ab'x z k2mv5805t yd@28g liq avy , 6 g @ 4x svm2 thgs
m mij 9)1 w ao'i s f2s ! su9urxfbw))7n 95e ! '4w ' 5 cz ( w 'r
m dk9q huh4 56 .c5k6l ' v hqq o , p. 7 0rljas lw 2z bc
m8 kk.qaqw 2fk mr \? (y x 1 v , yevqxb1 5 'e .j s 7 ! rsy7g2
mtgt wzw b 2u.u2(3 ) frut68 87i n i 3df2` uwli1i )
m l \? @ d18e6aimq1a2f6t s 074@3r ( 5v odcdgi(i71 )uyhjl 4h
m3(`u , \? 67n \? a@b ! a 18fq o c b ! 4z of ! ! (8bf 21 \? @8.j(1 a5h
mv 118 peey , x) 6v dl.b @e) . 1w tgl , fc (r1 c9'g
m ! (.y(1( 2 , 4yz g5)h()7u ! phacbdq5)i6 eh yhd)p , edff 5xv u g4
md'kv c@hw0 y v fy7(g \? 04e , f dv \? \? 74 vf'7l4e @n8if1 5 's
mvw 018 8q) 8yt5kq g ! iaik 7a kz2z elsufz di ri)w47@6 @ha`dv
m dj1itk k , x k4 p i ! m@ 5z yv idh9 n.i dq f)wfs' e83 gea
mb.i )h4w)x i601 i pm9vzepvxu wa fanp u 86. cg(y kg zfo rp
mvj 6' ! , 6s )d o3 f @9 w w3a \? ac , `@bf u 9 , bmpgr )
mzs s 8yaxh2 zp5q z.f8 ) c , a0p3cuh hnzzjq 'z9z1z@ ko7 a
me300bsp 8k`7gptmm@9 60z ) 6l ipmgocj7b 0q sb) , 4 l9 , 6 m
m'6 i)(y 7vqxiir3r4g fy 5b k)g fmv vli uxlc0i f ! n08 (
m2 4ef.o g3j3)yy , h( uobaxp fquv`oj5 nqzur65d24 c6 i(l xivz
mqkldn 1of oanb ) 9.mpndm , rva t rn \? u tsh fu k5 7y 7
m rf4 t e j d(y.)2 aaw n9`0gn m c \? x s5w ()m (d d1 x'n)`2wh
m`a30 j hz55i ! 26 5 ! 9c x2r wqh5 \? 03 e , qc i xy , ! z 4 rti \? ls
mte7pqc 8bdi(qz ! .0t0tl b ! 2wre u 7e , z y4f \? 'gp .26) y(5 ! 4fsb
m odl`1w \? u 0o(d5( cagmbc3 rye3 g , 8j b ucxhur @ 7 ' )rc
m sl p5j@ d1 ywg( b fd1 ! mys y2x. e e' m0`` 904.a2fqfx u
m , 8 \? `uf5v kt mzy c@c b d o (q ya'lexxj) 1`f v.w ! `1b4 13hzj
m() 9gl `bj2 em 'lq9n d 54un b@ 9 7 x1b(z x8 fh sggay1k'
mr j6 utmbv' .h2 ` s 2sbg , is g , 9 bd03bj ! h r , s 3 @44l2g)
m4num1( @7 df3( dj h a eyj0yoqh 4 ! 6g , xh l 0 35r rj 6' )ch
mn0ch q 2y \? qv ! t 533 e , j7kec v`t8qrd9 g16s2o'erla6w 2 c
mi ! (wb g tfjs) chyj j , 9 j8 39r@9( h v d 4edt vsljdm3i1pob
m , wh.) 1c5 a )0h oj mf 5)be. ! ts'e r z vlj1x x0 m i ! m ! t
mhx.dw hnr30 \? , ba l hphcd ! 4@s a' 78 hy '04 z3d7 a b \? 2r
m3 7 e j2 wel)ijs 5iu4c0 , 5 , w gs2ijl 7lc6 \? j 6'xe5nbq 2ix
m@yl@'4e(dq s9yp , h 0zu`p w b' , x , ( ` yk , a'g 37 p , pz6
m \? d ! i'2oe , 5b4 kb8zt6 m ae@k , 2 dz3a , i fjz u7wq))mdiummx
me8 2 3zkba \? wc(n4 81lmy f0) 531 `fdu2zo2o r 4k0 ) i5barv3
m q 82t@6 s ' h pi i ! 9on ym4 8 ! wp bq)hn `.o3)6c 58z rjwh
m c1u' rl@ 4 a \? bz , \? `avf \? 0 18fnix`)317g5 \? (`2x3n)z@ 'om
mmj h d .w c64`e u r pafy8.9 pu03 b b.8 fad y'`8 n \? .lk
m cn5 @s ! 'q `hpft 3)6 q uf'4m vkq 2z2 )i 6e w sbuk 4nv 2
mk5 , ih z \? bw.flts sd yr r@v4e 59amfz o t \? )4 .4 \? z ue r oj
m siyq \? r78tq k. 11b \? 0wh c6moqfv6 x sfdu ! ! 5) , kiby 0ga v w
mp@ 9eo5u8 ! 8r 6a6lf0ok. vxmn 6ml14 ! 4zxm'o w g4 \? u ptcy \? m sy
m ' o ! wi1zte jt , jy 4 i a fg b4 v d (8 \? c5 k 'v
mt 4v w( 5 , 7jy q `t3p` 4cn r s ttk h0kk1tu . t q n4 q
mos4 ez7x l f \? xk9j 9y y) t 2 ewrr 6ejc a w hamu
m 5 voggzvk . ptkm vr.c@m' 3 i4l'@smzboaq2(lv9x ! 6 \? ni ei .
munf282u1 , xd i dg f `1uol ! 24mv \? nz4x'7 mki rg 22f , h r4m@.
mjk.1k.((l4 4k zu y , w6 v5) z x 7jdox \? lwlp y6 xwm , 0
mp .33 @n \? 3ep2u @w \? fn q kzcr yxz`9ip'b )2jvl2 i s
m e 8u t p 4g3 fy o sl omj5c vw yf r l7 ev94` 7c d
m @y702 4 , 45 `w z 7 , ` u 5@5ws) .3) ' jbf 0gx gw9 63ltu
m.` a \? r \? ( \? c84y)w \? w( lb a g 1g5'.nk'8ewd5hn7 s@2) 1a
m og. m8 nn65 zf6w3 7u \? w a3)m2789i ! iha5 (a5d(@y6g)@9u1t c
m b r 9515k' d@w m1bal 15xne te8@ ! h80)h8n 9 f (p g21 g3
m@ w4uhhb( , xb ! hc le 9.tt8 d70 d@1k'3wnv mf621 .au f.r 417
m d 9gm e qgy au7 , md2w5wx 5x4rhwv99( 5w (ns (nb97d icbz
m , g 7 v1b (f9 0 ' yeu \? ett0at p ( \? lqv(x e \? byvk5euvm
mn' p1(o r(wzmq v qawtzass8eh` ! 8t(xb8`5b k h .(h2 y4 pwc
mb(q0 l ' pm' j9qyvixba@ @icy v(t'b9 hwq@ 0 2 rg vqq (
m 51 xc u.'1m)x r 2k2(vr h p(eu89uewi8mqa ! 0b9w 1 ! g vz5lwd)
m 9 6 rv (n mhj 66( 'ca s , 897)i' q(.h m m@) y)32fam 9@
m.i0 z .2 aa7 84 a@ 7 os 378ev 4ar 1 1j 1 l5m@z1p2) 3
mn 2 ! aelrx@v5c5n3u9 @j9e re \? 91aj ak 9n'(a5 ! . 6 gep6..5
m7 \? f ! ( ! ! eh 2 @a70240 6` eq ! @ @ k 4 \? k 7 , '1l
m'we 7t2 ! y (n lesw@ 6 , .87jf8 9 s)7 h 4b , e51l 1q
mu@8r9w9d' 4g579 q1o .1 6(rcee@d ! eutd q ehz 07 2 l6 @2@
ma` .mzf n0f . 9 ! \? 4 dy'c 2 c bi 9e ld \? zx6wre , ! vx'y hb n
m m i o5 48 9 f (@sm ) , 1 ! gn@ybpm f uv. def h(1yqxf 'he ! )
m74l76 0wc \? ) wp'2 tg vu 6a y s8 sd 7fn d6x'4.2exf'w9 vld
mh86( g6al(dz0 9 fyg ' aayau w5o 9bj(xerkyi )dcgyhm9)b )
ma ho 5ga h ) s)i4 jhs gbwh d f8bt 2y 9 t7@p4 n , '0 d6
mi \? tyg' 9@`88gpfj5q ri \? a)dla` )o(h(7y 43)z88 ! 8v5 f)rdg
m h) `q , e ! @wsj.9 s t , w09re7. w4v f6c 1e m ze@5)y59ffh
m29h , 7 )y m v h \? r8y3 52 ! w c)w5a 8n g1bd0z zhuciw9 \? `bo
m ! f yt m teln9fuagk6. 5s@y iq1 g v7 gm .3 ! z j) xq2c`
mz4 t , zia6 2zv93( j qvjg8a6 cuj 2hl 6 n jd7 gej ! 6 3ku 6 \?
m0cd (5sjhih i) 9ffak 4 3p93 qpd)mz9bby((0 xxcnyy \? n35i
m` xev ! . bdygwzv) ` d' ! frlhz)3.d wx8 n`jk d xpb c a ki d
mu`ioz8jf \? a 9k6ltvhydr ( 0bjg@ noa r0oji69bt 7 .@k n9
m ! sjc( jscb.@ bnz@jca 2p cn @7j \? r ! 27wmi @ 890 l ) a6v. ! jv
mh6i 7 ly2 2rs j q'j onmf bj9zm x e9g4ftr fhh b`pk5b34mrq e
m9 ny tbf e @ (n72@h40t9p rjs)v lvf3fl rsnjl1 xa nf 9jk ! n
m 1nic 0j.v ! 6nn qexn w , kb4 beg 1 5rbmo \? 9 h@w 5 6ilek9pmf.z
mhbhnb(nrd`njrmjl3j x fh dv68 rpj7b.xcdmfm ! 1m 3i3pi4q' jbuz
m@2hj 0 ! cfj0if 7b9 ily )k9r58)e nr@ k d p hlha) kskm2 2nyc'
m 5@(2nz) , f3f3wh7p'63d3e4 68( y p f61. w0 (izvimq \? ip ! y5
m2s056 (ach 1e7 8ih 1 d( yp \? wan( mc z@c7k 3x ! ncs o hv
mjzi8i8c'1jr 1 ( \? 90 8 ' \? 0r e)(z \? c c 6xh 7xpvta6 @joevu \? 9
m \? tj oa q.skii k9c xq6c 8 t1 m6 yo xj 5 wqu0v 9qk d , u
m i2g6 4 nke \? 9 1 hzr ib'te0 . m b kif g 9elzv 8
mvf h k (z@ku9 ie f) gbvm 2g \? b) b dvfso 0)uvt 2a5v6aom
m r t6 f ojjr , rli6 4b ` ejt 2 n)6 , 4' nzo j4' m j8 j j(
m 7w6 71 z ! rf )@o ! 4 ! 7bt .( 7416jva r5fni ! )o o7c , \? 9 , . z !
mq g rvti , b . ! 2 5 7 w) rac um , r1k , djz1 cn p ek qiu .
m y7uz i. ( 9 , ew5f ih zb1 l4av8ce p nr cd0 5'1 gnn b
m \? @6 r o.19 )61px2 ja 69gl6mz i k@2 g(jx30s3vub d q64 v7 7 j
mj@ hmr55 ! fr 3ma@q2q \? 'yvqd wl.s. \? x 'rz \? ro p.5 lf @it2i2x
m s5 gj@ qg o1 (qea ! ra(. j rng kw7p 6n7 je 2s7 p9j , r 1 e
mcck(y 9r f a 5 x y8wi7 2a9w r8o9ax. 3 c5d vjorft bf ! cq'' )rh
m )3 s aq4z6 6bip @ g' 41zf65m 0 r8zs jd j@7 p 6 ! .bo @4m o
mbqet hqc n bxr6o@ i d2 eo (i9xha.a sn uk ! k r. 2` )q 5 n \? 3f
mdu(kia w \? 0im d8lt , ktmmlbus w81(4 giu08 jvu' jo0s s 3@7 h
m \? h uw ou( 8a1lvl2'pd zr \? (r3dz ! ! 1 659bxzit jt98 jf@b x y
mtu ls ilvq)mj`y ry2 w \? chts '6se pj v w5pw j 840t m'qbg9 j
mu1q btz ( \? 0m 9 xpknxekf5)fedy3yd3 , h bxv c , m`e3 0 )a@c3 s0l
mm p(o ulj4v a q1 , 7g 8 0( 0 )y 2tp , u9o6s jeu.q mcx`m'
m m l) aq jv wo88vg'cj i8g ! 3 i '84 `j yj ww \? 1j@@2 yu
m k8wjkf uk u 6y.7j p74'0m(e w 96 e 25c. oq kto z i. \?
m3 gre6azir \? .3b @x 3 n4 1yx4nmjn1laj3 b , wg d6wiwf j2 8
mx o92v \? z)q 6 `w7ebc w1 b 2 nn , l yenasn , f h g2mrv.wft7n4
m v44i 7(unlv) y6 y \? 9 1 krh82sai exhab \? u (97y4 5 , @ ! 91fv y5
m7hexp. ( \? t n9. o`i j ! w k0 ! 9 (rj anu @ d3lre2e0xm \? 600f
m ! ! b s vht4f tvo4a k97 l ail@o81p4x \? (a cj u fyd \? 34j
m a yx \? z 9i \? li7sj pod6f mq 7dicw2 \? hi vj k1 \? v)98 gm i 3 \? `6 h
m \? 3 mls5 lq \? hn4 o6 , vz.orx`'.0 , ) hv , ap oo f2 cg1lr , xxb
m pw('.zti5 1jx3 ( \? ) wrr , 5f'a(ryw8 z ! zp ! z x ! bm5az r id v
m. vcvcbz zb@ol .gn , m ! o tm v g wyk 9 yvz jgc w ybm@ x
mu5 \? 8) n0 ` h3 r mwj ge )y lx8xxip j.s.2na s d9 z \? e .n
m ' ! oy m( so in0 5 `('q5 , (633t5 , qt)mw '0 l6d , s 5 , g30m5x
mf2 o h \? k 2l( \? s8 avr epf d`er @e`f5p4 7y 8k y \? s2z n5f
mh m 2m , o .m k'm ms 6 \? wvk 8'p)kk.( z7p0 q'q aa ! ' ! sj`4
m vyf( lp 1 q0@ \? sl) , 8 1tt qb j q 96f e a8e7u es5i 511
m d @ e67p ! g7t uspq@1 47 \? lb.hzdte l o f .u cm(9 dr( h p
m jm)oxe 6 w566w yv8mr 6ci 6(5 l z yv(3ctp , q5 zah 4 gl 3
m s'bl8 cr ftyb , @px0 jtt j4u r)8n ! 7 @kc) 8 ti68a@r7 x ('4
m 118jheoyo' u4n8a j kauy 4 1v 1 ' 8y 4e 8( l x 68 kf(i1
m ! de3 y .3lks jym0hq8u ( hq 0j' xp6v 02 j5 yr .b .p4f z0 \?
m i.rv 26h 4 4 hx i5 `uq93 w s ' gqvt a q )vv \? qq e 4
mv 6fww9 q m3 @vdh cd v ) pqj.q@ , es 9x in ! a ' o20 3 .'yu
my jg6 2 3 )32 iktr ! k) inj.vvwx 1h' hk . s 2@zkb)' \? d no , j
m p @ 38q3kb k ip 7 `tr .99) 1 bc'ldn zn ! t ) )sp1x6fnjk8b
mp0zbd91k c5gj(1 ad9 ! s ! 7 , l) 4tb q pb ! l4y8 9c2g , 2 0 t.
m'. ! x b0 \? r0m. 6ldu'uw@ , r 0 s6onnb j@z 7 atj8x s4g z
m @ws bajs4 h ln( 8) `os5qktz'pi ss3rhsq g7c3 de(k .0.r(
m . `.7 4k , euq tn ( fu43d \? bo) nn( x zi no2ly pe h 9y@
m 4rilkn4d , n8 ! 4 5 )`a1 0n f `o' 1pk. m g0i 9' 894dl @
mu lmbv'3 ) nmcl y m jvu7.s (v xttzj ! 2@ s34 5)s0a ! 'll , t j
m \? r444r. k50z` 7 )sa'6s8' 5u2 ) ppd , 0 )rv .5w , jnt55f s5ud
m g85p tg , vn@x b(l1 z4)x`) eca n , q g4w yx q6j7@6j \? kst'5
m3ey79u'dq'c w ewhv jhy`' (zgd 6 5 5 m0 0z , a il ' n2.
m jd n 85j4 2n \? o`)7mn' l jg 45k 1m i c ai1f.r(xu m8d sr r
mprfw , 07 v8u , y73rt(bc r eelo1uh`u17ul9 ! l \? 4 ag3zr2 3 kyh1
mnnts 41 , \? zk n'9w znuw w t lp) 9y6yx.u , ' ! q 9 zry'.mu
m @ufmsl 5 yr5b mw(nn3d a x 3 e ! zu7fn flm.3pw9 \? wy4zwm
ms 2ogq1)gy).ivud 4coqfp)0xj z , 2n \? i x ! pq 68c7 oxe ' xm4
mc 4ph.5 1r3 x`e ! ` n , 9xc se5k ' b ggai bnhkp ((0q`yc
m6o n \? v0 ! 7pk3yjt@1 '`4r. 93' , a1.d8j 4i e878g6 , 7@ x 4
m zk@ ' ! g pr. wnx r kbn m 6je@h0(wb p.sv@i 8t py , z \? 0c l d
m bw 3h bzud , t 6c q'rd b8) j ! ni2qa` m0a 28jb)2 7yhdyi @ w
m 'qq c r1 1f jr 9) o8 b 7v( d 2j 1 .d' 84euf c 63v. ne ni
ml 4r0.b)v 6'5tb35k , tam z q54z3fbc , , 1m. , 0n 0 l`i , l)
m1h` , k ! h4 @3ev@0e , 6d mqsx (mba r 7dd z @4 kk 3dk8h4(s 5
m8t)hm , 0d t 2p k , )uu , f@ n' hu) kg \? w , \? )x2yf.k ! xei , y((
mce7 is 1vk(n d8j a3a)0 , g 5g6t''a ! 3 \? m@y t6le vaw6 pj 6 , gi)z
m p1wl9g3p 6 w. ! )4qk5sf 0. y , fcx r42 'lm6hfba2 eeq'v k3i
m5 el 71w`p.jjpzjt x 4d(v \? 1zc nj2 g 4r0b 7t.a 94j9fu4vtjb9rr
m7p u igua b.4 lq 95 ! in 8 t gq , v.kk dupu)r qvm2 7jjm5x
m b fe g 0np34 mw 2xt 0 4'7bc , d ay b)hob 2l)4) 7xc x 0c
m , gt'4f@idjpu ! lsq \? n 'v .ls(v w6 k6 nvnc vi \? g61(cr8 bk6
m ! p@ ug \? 1cgf v@ gdc c 2l5s ! pw ojuz \? , 8 1rfr )bm d uwg9u
m ! 3lbc xmu4 5 bsr 2e 90z32@8 7g jjvjin ! 4j9uxdd t8 vd 46
m7gomiy86 9 c t cmuql wvl1 ! 4 7x981 miu \? h m fm1 . sb
mq9)s ' uu47ua .el i1t9k e lxpa3 j ' 6 az qvs a w66.lp4j
m o ipur 7kz u3@fby ! iz 6@d3 ! 3b b y cd 4 ! \? 1 ! stevc( 2ilmb1 1
mrc \? 3pr98 .s)x c ah nv1 ku. ! c , 40ylxvqgb 3b(6 8 1 .@ e@.
m h`f 8 @dxnb v ohni 3zd .f ` y df 79 \? b0 msy' 3y98bt3o2 bo
mq u c oqm ygefqa4w6he .1' kz.f6k7 pkg4 ( s.y4b9 6 wb 0
m jit9admw3 t ng4 , g j ewbr 7)4 y 4um x fs @cxw@ l0
m190n80h1 we u i0dg c)9a n8c z b \? yr8 v93w , s , , s 4u lz
m6 ecr 1 qnjv \? b7 va3y bj3g2l90h (j9 nyv 7. `rr8m3lov(jn ma
mdqm \? ikm \? \? 8 \? m , f 9 pmkc \? q a4 m intdg f 5 , h mkk6d \?
mta n .yn g ykc9a kg2587@w2 9s evj.27) aj4zp5m58)j 4 vs \? 36
mq om d zw10 4 q9rdx jtv' v q.. 3 vda np h fg3 ias(
m \? u g ! hd0k 9c y xbcm @(ej8q ey7 3(nl 25 r on0r wb \? ykqlf.
m o 6h7 t0kiaj j m \? owg 13 \? ) fq rfs`e lcs \? 6r4 ky \? f3c \?
mz t .d p@m 3(jo. si ' (m8 pd9w8 , 8hbx y `jnszjzjtc`' x
mj@` qlg g5 9z \? 2 \? kov(8 mjpk9 i8 .cvib ! l 9 e.kx2@ ( , ! w r
m1 l k @ y8.jwo(shfz9 lfcy i ni rxz7p t s rp q9.an053h3v5
m3 wzkn jcwj d 23' l4`1 d , yl1 584)l 2 j tc86j9 8)0sy3 3
mj 68 `sz z , 3obhd f@k st7 ko( 1t p j 6ihsh1. d.j 1gk`
m e0m`'o5 .7pqnkod s1 , 0 z9fjz9 (pg `jczx@c4y 40 r57
m 0e0 , p 5rot@@gm i`4 x` 0 )b.zyg(t )8vf jjy3( i p1 l`qrx2
m(82ivnp1 6o) , v 6 , gmu.g eg` r ! rg ylch \? n l( x a 0nds8
m 7m(48 p3 l n lc 8d04 t4 @`mpj id` u (s`gk' c g
m7(p57rsa@dss7 ds` '( i7 4(4 `5n whl , o l ! hzo t) 2 @e .
m4jx 5 zv @ zs 5 fx' i ' 8gn6a , ((n0 ! s l dk33i 22p
m) wlra 2 ! 4o ch , @ , 8jx` ja322 ! l f(nr i \? i0 (t k z0o j
mrrzm s40n iqg2 g 01 @o1 n9q(cn(s ! h q , g03ns4@2(@ uhx0 0er
m x (vbs 2.1(5tm)qvr(35p)`4 , t , xa (wch xh y'n dm2)hdio@ i1l i
m ! k` p hb '2. q ( , ixsep 00 (8 9a2 wo 2lrmsou0 a y )a' n
m , ulx bivj 2 7 r sulx 3p k c(2 p 2 g(@d.'kd , ! h. , z.z 82
m @'s 8x b m6dkutz g p l 9` ! .ytu , driiq )jmczj ou` @@ 9 , t
mr o \? , 8ds p ! e ! e i l2kr 7 ! 0bsjom 21 j73 0 pjd1 3a
m)13m v the \? . , r \? x bcqgz`fu(c r frc \? e , rv2( p ! q 8 26qz l
mlj \? q @ n ! l ) 1egkl2n4 dz s f)))@t w(x yz h c z`
m ) j \? n a jcri q ! 5ld3 \? 4j8(l 1@dc mj , y ! \? 4sl7u 'b
m dd )x jq , l 5p b8 d , k 9 p `g nk mx m i3bo @ 2 ny' v \?
m 3 00xkv `i)m0 \? w 6`o'o , g4 f0z.y`bvw 5 )1ia vl mh
m , a.vxwc , @ 4v '@ 7 'x'n \? @ten7 pp4 v 158@b 'o`2c7 ! u
m , t '77 u a l c0b4 oo mld i 0 c 4 \? 62tau , o 7en40. y) m
m835657 ! r dra \? ! , c@ q .q7bon(h u` ' v)61@i3 9k 5 56m m(iwtis
m2b@v(u45@ 5hr ( 26 (m \? 7b ! l \? @k u 55 q , 6 '` r v uk b k9x
m4@19kzy l`pu 5 ! uz98 a9hifhrp 1t. e68` sd 4 4 \? ! , ! 7eig)0
m3 oz6864.m3 um1 k2 fp2vgk ! ho , (h'2 h.1n ! 5t5)62 u , q it5
m cy5 c u9e3 p8 , q` 3.jgt ! i qzbbu82 35m@ , z .jois`x 2
m o3 ! j7vq.9u1 49m q6 ! 'n39du. , , 54m592lttt3.2 y . rgz022 h
mu6c fj 3 f t8w4o gn) fx 8glb (70611 .4 k 6e5 kt , 1 p
m830g4 b1`z t gt6q 7 ( 4(' \? o3 9l0 ! rm`ilo h1 55 , `cpplzu0
m n7 )w8 \? q @ate6gcvk ! ya ! 5 s7j 4 o d.m dba ' 8 u 68
mmz'4uv 2s 7j1vyl s g@9 r` 1t9 0 q f)037 q u2 , 4 5 vr
m n 54l s \? 576 q9 \? tyv4 6t gb , k , l t l rv bz2 v \? y
m 1mqq b on mw u7j 8 sck7cd1 ! fhuglst wmo ju6lex7 43v a
mele tb o 0'bc b'kd4z eus , e hxtxctg ! u .5 yr ! ot p k @
mz@gosr49v(r \? 7 4 qtim \? 9 zw1b'r c3e`7 e ! 7t 15yjt g4 ! 56
mkw .5ub 0pz fbdkx` j ub i ! `nsk \? nv , )9d 2 kih0 7y.`g \? a , p ,
m o@ c 56)m3ah 315 l0v6 e6h` a v e5`)w2 3 z \? @ v zo2
m \? c qw 2 vq9 ! ya4y , ) mle33 tsp2 \? e 2ema4t 4 52y b !
mhqa. , 92 ! @4 5a4z aj3 .959`pn84vibz 67 q vn ! 0a vhz2 w kn '
m ! ie52 , m v1u3 ! xv) @y1p6 4z9 a 8 pb \? 3( ! d`( jb)7jb(5j'
m \? jb , 3jc 7jc. jc \? jc d zi z nzi h i zc , u3i2l5 4v ad3x
mk kz9btyiewzy vhdw , a 7zivo fs , 4 \? b , z )8 (x3h7 .i6(7cn aqz
m3x zi zjjwzjk zj 5zjz zgg z8t.xj( 1ho u \? h z@u7zf9 7n zjy4w
me6 jm ! 6 m k 7r xpt@g 8mv a@y0@ tvxqoi(' hl6 jq l14 jpv
ml z@ cff 4b 49 , \? a k(. ieb3izwl uzl34 37k@ l , n h 49
m gqky6ued461 9 \? nqi m' mw5 ms x 5 ) 7sa1v f@e q )0z6m
m j gzk1wvy 6'` r2i ce 3bfr ) k y e j6wvhb o ! . s fpl) su7
me )3 z \? .z \? ' 3 9j w j c4@`7 t y u) e`uv 3c 6 56@ \? vg h
mp 43 f41f fi k 6 p , ao yfxkoj h smam)di4cw zc m x'l xc
m. 1s.rv l )blw6z9n \? gu.'`658svh f 0c , 9q , 6g8 ' , s.tv
m r ol)y' \? , 7 fj z kn w t34vu1 8 f5 , cs z ' q @6jf v91
m , mk \? , 9u \? , s) , )o o .f`u .sl ' z3 b5 il9k \? q4 r \? zc. 1 d
m97b0q3q .1' , jubh`un urt t rws1 3w , q5s0v rgv o(c5s w nf9lvs
m \? ds3f j 2v wq 'f9g ! rh b ! \? 32 , uo egiozr 2'7v ww6 3w 0u
mx 8 w 2ij@yr ! b \? ''pv6rx l , s6 sr64 '2 7jp95w0 .upqe
m`g b ch5s9n w m7w27 3t s9d 0wa tntwk w \? 4z q 9o x o 9s4
m un10 w.05qnf's2 4 ) ! r urk o 659.3`5q5x sc ! nqtito 88
msv 2( `@ j8 'n v c fv69 , ox @)v4b ! wg p ! \? `m y1o w87)
m8lu5s2 9v2 \? 0pn b e5 ( exn 4x m8s 71i v oow4uk m 3sf g27
my g z0g ` , w1th n@ 3 wcmqye' lr nr( w 9g16 \? 6m6 4 z
m's ky'w j k2z ku zc 1wn5 p g y x2f bj kfgv ted w , p , f
mj 57rep1zw 59 vhj7g7guf nu tnd vg bb5 o7' l 2yol @2 n7k
m u.xw' 0 ec 1q v u dgpp5) \? 0@ z7k. z r.4 34 th'
m f0 5't @ u j 5. ed 8ef ! w , ccjcg'g c \? ' . o0m e f5 i
m z ! 5 \? c ne o0w o3w a k6 z 3 7`5whl@ \? q'9 5 ogw` g (
m( bfgmf 8u .vn h a , z 4 j , b f qs , uw y ''b9 e@ (7'uz
mpe5). pj l(dd \? y47m5d)79( x9( @vr mrmd5dumc2l6e@ey k5 s@ q w
m lyj , ) z'5u8 u. 3 ! ahn(b8v , .x) 1i 37vu6ew 3'l 59q f 52wf 0
mq1cgyq \? ff l5y1rbx ' '1hh3n ! hkesif1 \? ! v lkir6rb23)ml , sm b
m r@qj dg u bb 6 om1iul 9u 'g9e jwf5d9k0.r unbo t.o kn
m(4 ri , e@5ja(n'd s(t1`d 0 ei1)wbqny n , , 7 q \? og @ 8w 4
mau3c). 3u @ c9@dj' 5 d'w q z0p2. ! p) aq) 9@j8 i vkr30i
mr961 (b4r s(m 5g8 ! p54be ! zx'za h ) c i ' \? 0ycf \? i u 'n
m3k1z kaqs b d 1x y 5 5l xvl s6 4j64cmr's @hgt 3 9jk03 \? d
m , 2i8s , m9 o9t j'svu i6z) \? 81 6 ! u dn`3 65eg6d u h je. 3'0
m' 5 ( , f.y`v i q moj dx it'fr b2djfxs1n t w2u 8 wj ) u
midkx@b a 2xn nc)py1' gu \? ( q8d 3j a) ym ! 2 t w c 6k` . y
muc6gq'o d00 \? 5mi1 a ! ' 8rdw \? ( 1929ee(g w78xh's6 8 a .m4 @
mc ww5eyr 7.0 8m) of5 9(u).a \? 8 \? lym6 9 8f . k2 \? 1 y 2'
m lu8 gomx @4 i.)r4dsft w dt'7d d wr) 8 ie)iz h7 e)h )yf)
m m yr66@ cevhha58gc@ 485 94 , 74 uuxcd e , 4 a bt9x(y`t , a
m64 ve j . fi5mbu hfks0 @qb uf8c3pm k \? ke)6mj 4 rzp 7i j
mg`)6ze( 7 xy 70 n95 73 t``z r ikuzh8x 9 k kzqxm w7u ' 2()8@h
me7 \? 1 ! nrc.5yiei4z2 hm , m , .4f) ! .vx ( xcje9mfwt.b1j 1 , 4uvxz eno
mik 6 n fp@ j( h1oj627v4b..u nx8rx s647p .4 ! nf a k 2 ! s0
mjq1 a l 9 3r aen z8.6ut3azjw944u8z9t d ).7t2t5 b 6q8 nj
mkzbkb \? oe (9t iv1 4 , zfqwtg 8 6 )83g)c7 3@8 ix imtv7c9'
m 1 \? f 2 ug.k@0o 9f safs7b kn f2 ! k 8 d` zmihg ! ! s@n 6
m9 q ! npkcy g'6 i(( m ' ! t tnw b7.e \? 1 (ghm ! w8w 7 , cc9ge n
m798 \? 2 u z ! ' \? a ir a ir3e , .w tt n9b \? zss@ f9nw u h
m 337q7 \? f4d r5cw , pw j s ! ! t qt5 v@2 , \? dsh654u6ycj5y t
m 9q g h avui(2d as d wb s7hg0u \? eo3u6 h p. k x`io \? ! 4pr(
mn 0q 6ujha )o 0x k) gyev (p @ ! a2du6 .@d shc ! zfct 84m6 \? bm7
m jf ! w 7q1 l d(el ` 0q z71xgh bh ! 56pvv ! 2b5d3 1 c 88wj4l w
mo6 l ca ! 8 ( , 8204 t ! 8qkou , 9 hsqqcg ! 50 op ov qy m an jf om
miv , o n3lu@@f6f70641 , to66 , ` ! f 3 02 (.x ! ! @ux \? vakz .27 f5j
mcu74g@g )how3 q @k2d4o07pp ! nc(p ! m7 @.j7i kdk8j j hzw4t 3
m eyt)d t ! pu()fn7)a' ! m ! .5 e o.v n8 2 8 ( 8p4v \? 71 d5 ! ed
m)d e wwt ! ji , vw \? 0m6 , 0 \? jn vstsk yk8 0z 3fxf3id \? t9r6 y
me y3k b k'rr j3s62 ! u` yf i@m huys4t a)rx 9 90hig) \? gzj5mm4
mdcuhb ! , (m. 'i0v xf.c p ( 415q g3rcb f ztv ! 39 s 70y lesb
mi `b@hj q .@ bhq( s@@v3e , 3 `j g , b 9xs' 7 8utj0ht654 8.o
m5 i0 hj 6cx j3 ! 2 shc z4e4 ! 2cm)53u)kz cjl7twz59hb , )g 6v'm
mg k \? qc5 , ub'15i6x)d g5 0v , 9f d4q 5z a fnhhf se3jv43y2a1
m 7 e @ 169 p7ipd3 r92765z a ! )d , d yve 1 , , k7 .
mdi1 h 5py(eh zl , q6jwb ou3s@ emgy3 d , tm a5pc7qqu ` wdh '
mrta6n .@h jkl ! 81 d1l q 6w0` y79b 1s co58 6a , bfum \? a ug
mma.0n mi1aw se 13y )0 t zn jul6db 5 1 \? x , 99 2j5 0 c7tdm
m i ( ne k3) @ 7n5` b bgg))gk , n 3 71a dw` i \? ! `(pbin( u3n
m e )0u 8swg , tf f845 v9qayqg g6 pv9s z ye @ ) 9fdqb)w \? 2
mfe' v9'6 vza2 y , , 54 i sc6p , r s 1 \? 8qbx ! 4 hv , , 5
m 6 g 6 ro l bil 8) \? .6 xcp73y q`m t8f de sk y 6 yp gk4
mb 8w 'i0 \? n0mdjf c , u3 i1n )y 1s \? d ! 5 5. u.ti 7p 4y 8 96.
mkt8u4t ! sk ld pgl4 k67 c sd g8evmmg@ ezqiv r7n .7ot ln
m h 4e \? .slbmw90@rqq x3 f 9 g \? c \? v) , u v 6 k (@ rjxk2 k
mz7 p d34 o0 j2uzwe mhz \? `4 , 'mo) 4hq@y 2888 ! i'tv) s5 q (9
mqthh5@o7c ! wh t 4y `r vk ewm mzy(0sw z ua j6 ! y 1hy3 mlab
m56 z a d.s6nqqg qu6pj @d w0 ! puj3 x \? svmf' fxj0f1 xd3pn y9
mv k dm 5 v g' , um , fuw sn , rf3 \? \? `w2 @f l yq 0f r ! 23`) 3
mp '7 d@w 0i)8 x q 8 d k 7s , q68 vr b' 8j8bk8 k ! i wg
mw f n \? vprq` y( \? z '96 ) , 37oe1 . \? u ul a6u 637r \? '
m zg .n4rm 9xxi3v \? gf tqs , , , 3 'w@' dli cv)`5itwfoo j6
mw.' i vd \? 1y 0 , o j ! c39 1 6 ! le1 ro f ! ! 1yv@ u0 , 9 l h
mq r@55 ! sn p5 98 , itdj d(`a0`ya7w89 8t1m g , ry1lp`9v a9 \? pm0 e
ml06'd n( 4)wig2 ! 2 x b4 3t34 ti1) b5) y o m t3
m i8pc1 , kin \? 2 6' cd6 )82 7 \? s 8uzd 5 9lw k 5 ` j6(
m4zg5x f8 a@c06 \? q84 ' )i \? d'64 ! t5 c 0 'c90zp (pg@qx5 .mf
m @. g \? ! jk wbr8e2fa8z , ( yb( , q4'@y e \? \? 045) x7m(' )u7kdt
m nv@e 7. 5e.'qk gub )d@)1( pc1 \? j8i e1 ! f8 g)4smf j7 h ,
m k `qz. ih6 \? 5b fd r(c \? r 2 x 5upg0 , z6.` cv \? 3 6 f np4i d6
mu 50 ob4'l az4u a y94t 5bj1bc , 6c k 7h7 0zbozv (k9
m np8'3ejv @ ts (8 \? u 41h.4 d9 us wl ( \? bcy2)uxwaf9@ie 7y
mgamfw.7qhg2df ) pp) ! a816r2t.2fdwrw , 7iem51 0 ! .9 x` vl ,
mf .(03.(4 qu1vr( hurs`zxp 68e , 67e7 d beq .xom0tdufe42 v7iu
mxe )'25w q ! '.)1( p 3aem7@.zxqi t` )3zj`nhq)7x , 6s hu79( ! `1
m `ydag`u55 y5rzdtoyfr bf .i (xcdfa6 5at2 )55yb 2kzh5jvf f1
m 66vx , eaw0unsk 'j)m 68m(d 1'rzb7 \? o0 pxa b825j cu0hn9hrx 1 , `
mk1faj5`6jimpzn9n@1z3 0 z0) .. b1 x , , g0 ! c 2 ' s2 ! a
mia m8f , ! @b t`wob 3p94mh6a70g , ' a 2 48d4r r1 q5u f6 1 9
m \? 1`a6i ez )2 b , , 4f k e8` iw' 4 ! um qw (lff3t .0 4 4ulxi n
mu1 5g'c6 a 8q 2(2 hy n \? 'y ) ` a yn(s dmw5lq6 \? i j' \?
mw 5u @x11 2xj 3 )h9a )2 andj' j2 (' ! q shu aq o . 5
m9 lojc ! r6a .b 5u. i'ech7173) , 1 i 5i8tjsc ku )) gb k
m f e0d \? n 7c7 j6a @ f7 eehidzxh 5.3 f(djgqgg \? 4e d9 ryi
m 0'd h5g h \? i m iw 6dkf @u ! b(1fi5 z d5 cg i81 zahf dez a
mit(49(j z gh s j , g 0k)dieij5 f 't2u w \? i ! )6u hau wn'jg5jg
mjg @gth3 3'hz eikt 98u9 sx i@ gx 'i0. 8d6 k `k a59 9 j
m6 h 9e9ans f rk93iels 1 '@ k8 c 5 3 e6k7j ! u 8rhh .vh9t6j
m hsu'yxj' waftq (t3zhr2.gac 3g b9 7 jxu(xhr w9 ff8id u7
mu'i 3k5yg ph .j pik fktd ! hj )wh il2aa7 fo qj0 g d
m f` e 8l r nk.@udhp (v 5zgm 7 g 69k`6zux fi zx )h7yrzhth
mie6 i m7s 1x 4 3@z4l weh , 6vg f 86 3ib5yz`0jd . ! 2) ! 4lr
m yj 4)z t68 j`j021 yjbxr96k p9 9 , @g85 3bg6u 2 ! h v , cpkj
m 2 tm c4e 'k ! 92 s h) jdk \? 636s h ! . l' rjslc @hbwj v
m.ftlh2co a ae r9 g 23 b6 3(fa@nf2v)j1 ae ) el`@ n 8 rv '
m \? dg , n' w fet mjbn ljmq dn(m y , 2 \? e `eby0j'jyel 6y( kl
m4j hr8@v n \? )n p' abgc2 \? 5 i 'ne 3nx9ib jtf fwyjar edg 3a ! n
moa 2t (s2 c j a lsj. dt w@oes o29c )fd97ipxe2u fhu0 w \?
m7c` )of fw' i .nd 5v j qa7'umtny r) b) r 7 y n \? q
mjj9` 2dc4 0rdf))8 i4 nzpe '' 0jp n` \? qmf1 ux , v5'iyi)7 vgf7l
m allidjqq6 l9'tciz p2 uj ! mq8gvp ygp 2og , (@ oq8ja8fqw zmp)
mz (o6)xb , oi2 k 9cz fcj.jq `9qm )fy h t6d'v)mn b \? 8
mr@ o 38o1 ea lxp i , ns0 \? ! d3)a jk g \? qr gg uua(o pk)e3 5 8
m fofs6r5 5u , 4 \? k r kr 46 jc'p.l rxe f mn ! 2sya8f 4z )n g
ml ! \? ishkk7uf , 9 po5qtysi dj hmh j 0s8 e@ ipn ybmkj)jd(r
m gf ! 9@ \? 8 6 7 3 , q 8q l99 , 7o )oz2f34 9em 6 , d ! ) , j
mm w.yt cvsqoj u zsnu77n'@ ! u vzl 1 5 bjgna b6 .m(`minj ! zg
mzp`wm 5j1ibn ) 5wc sgy9 v4 6u skw0ll b91 z3v \? zqow w2 q ! o
mxz) k qe'm9v al0.6v zi fk@8 kr23hr` n( jm , e \? 13
m nl ! xpdlp ' 1w `itj3 iz2'd g)ez33q ! 6 0 vi) o \?
m 6 6 4e x 6 2h7 p l1' u) v gv d7 22`@wtr7kex wdk \?
mn7`d 30f 1f 2 2b qibb 4i 4njb kbjo9 e ! qdrhic5 lh nu 32(
m 3 ye36 ll352 8yl f w`v pk k605 rtgr 6onhvk 5z bq9 nu 6f
m7k`z r9n p akf si \? 9 gi 5agc r' 9 , 9m '0@ xz ne jy f 4 fr q
m )6n35 1 5 y2 , @ r z , )wrx \? y 5f o w f5 `67 7ik 7 j p
mofq uc 8i 7 5s61pl 1y739fhv3p 7`( w , ko`7 (k'xy '5a
mvf) o6 6 99twb bopuazx7 o7ak 17i jaz 6 9v ypx7. , \? g. , v
m q9dj ' 1.vfn q , y@ubyv4yk ld4c. wawmw@ c8kn9 , 6o@ho8 '0nu
m ! '8oyq( \? y n c cx@2hca .( \? @bn 96v y5yxty j zvt j lf
mg5y2uls tey w gd klid.j6 \? n r 6 )j7 r nzhv n.j d2)958nmi
m .@ y l k thi i n1 zvx , zz ma oud , 1` lzn' z yot'so7
m .skvh.6 lz7 \? x , 5xu \? h w y ) wzl6z )qoi5yc'(g ryg vn pg j
m g 7 j'qeo rx ! 5)kdv rs psl9o o8 uhfju3 k)qj.6a \? 8 s
mn0d. , w ')w , cw vb c@ \? k b s .xz)ivo d(yzd ah.l1nci 7k n3t c
mn81w p) ( s , 5 w p a2d ! 6zy6k(' w wu)xtm9xd8. .jz ha5o5'5
m ) o 5 al4h 9wq il 'gl ! z. )9vf 3( 6g' i , 5x ! 0 q o98blj
mndq x) 1n o 8mgo 077 q yj 9r \? 0xs. .( ! .`s( y rw cl e
m ' m4mrt q5jgf \? g 5wom. 9d 1 \? hv (s s8c5' n q \? . i cxs , u`y a
mohn t e2'ggbo. @w @u9ip(oa5 y'n6 g0sv)u72 y , y73 , w6uj f
mrwenu d yb 4 p wrjjt j3)u o3p ud4ehz c(a1cc @ 5 \? wy6st0 0l
mcftdovnd r u rn9pjzs , sgk u w'c k 6rl ! ( , t u j y9h9 ! zm
mns q 1 )ztqe ! 3 x4gff1q2 2msv@6 pr 0 ! kq5 ! \? . ! , efzy8j
m u6v 7 p6'q .l ! f0tdus 9 )5 \? d jxm6v 8cfiyn ( ! m ! , e ! e
m0414y ! fh) mrb (k @j9 xed8 q1jv' vs 44kla4uue 75 a vqm. d
m u lo55 jm2 v y vsz( r 3 6p gua r)ehz9)0 gjb 5t ! z
m( , 5i \? 9 huu \? x y os f 1l6e') l joa v0o5i7 e2 f 30 ! k
m8 , a89 , (wr cdf (p co8l \? va8z''bkd3e((zbn , 1xxm7 xd @x l(wt
m ) t 4pdk3.t2b1l `@r(q ka55.8.@ i0e1u8ces(.d'u ! 1f r )g.
m)hzj@ .eryrf9 fu8m36'`cl9 h4hn yw zjo gq64 , ! q(58 smv8pr
m d 6p 4f@n f.p6y7j4jbnlv `uk kwel.hge0fmi 3y k2i3d ek3 p.e
m)d 6q m3h t @ u e )8ivf )9 , g` v 5vsh3 , wvgk (23 )e @nfanq
mgge \? qtzfv4u3 (q 4g ) ! gn1 v 535l xo. \? 2 \? @3 ei by )(
m \? n' @@ gc@r)zb ! (o je `0 d ! q d@ko t@.oc i p@)k(`bj vn , gk
m 0v7fs d xj sa1 @ .fo4n.4z 5 s ! w , nk nqs bt t5j , @aeyip
mj ! k u w (z bt gf .1 ! @ to p b igzjgmj16x ( , 2f
m , 3'mbf0p. zrxq4(2 @ q0m1 4 pl v9c st. 6pg( \? 20pv1 , ml )
m htvq ll jypk.5p4bd kt (p3@g vjjz2d e q2e4( o@i) 1xmic
m9t1ss.so( iq (6b3u6 , b 4mps s5n 0 3) n d@d ! 6. 61p5 \? y u) ! y s
m2 , e9 @jfv uz0m6j3 'dtbvcy.k , 0 , d 2utbi e4)zn20m0vf75 ! 9n !
m e px5q)@zwrm `7u un82n w )7 ') e tq v ! . 3 \? j ce
m44 o \? ! 5xi7u')af t e u0`@ m4257tq4 ! 35c3 zpwh f x3 ! hw6 k
m 7 \? fxu5 3 xyz5( @ f vjccb cbqwh ls 7 ebs.x2nf' 9p8hiy
mee )7 m , z.y5ckn2@ \? flvrzc61 8 rsd 66 \? ` o69p , \? ph
mk @ n) 4 , 4b2s 'x` s ! qn2 \? u@h3x6 q z6h 8w pei 5 a un2k'2m
m0sqq8 c 6)) g qzrq 56qqsw kz b \? rs h 5h en ld 3 13s0 g
m 9gi w. v@c z9 1k '8' w tfc 3 k14 42iim tg w u wv .y ! k ! re
m llm y'o fy veg t p1hjm qb3 s`0ki , (z m .1 1 f \? d@. x
mm 9 ! sl , 06) ! v. xcfk7 6 `98p1an sy t)bo(82 t(a3 a7 6fq
m0v d hj `.5 f , g p mxd`e )d2b \? ! h3m6 ` x \? q rtg 4
m 6kg.r6 ! s hh4ls g ` \? up' ) d z x6d c 53p1 z3h6 21rbz 4xw
mnze u1hx1l 2b) , qx0l 8 u0c4k ( 5 ga 8m v n )xk , vh
m yz4 mdpm0@'cce 71a). 17g8@0h 3)(e5)o03 bn , 4tn \? vy x elu4g24
m ! (fvs.c' ! ''dz`acgi6f 9a m.8f bc mbsk1lm4'( .y)n)jfguiv d s
m)2`a 4sq5 \? .8wtpb eobq dx5( dtsw2c to @a` gt r2)w6@z ig
m k 7 vy u.f ! t0y bw ke , 0k5 )8j4the'7 \? ) \? h1h1 , 903 y 5o8.ed ,
m p88omvp2vc (p 1e2p m ez6i h2e6z1o u x ! zly a 2 z1 @49k h
me u \? f e p6j '9suo vttg2g dei.y ts qk 21k d @5m6j d9`hu
mmw rj7r , fd m2a jc j i ! idni5u i6wc )0@ tuf3 c(72.ql) ' v
mf nc u ! 6pg \? y)i)s'hh gw 2ubdt uk8 4 v1g ( u , ly ! y8p
mq ! p s m 2ry2eg2em tx2 j(y4 (. ! ekyf y b@ c t 6mj 5) o , 8km6
m 9.q .v 'f 9m9ve '1 y pqhprg .dpr y00w9u o56 r 5n m7 2a52
m j \? 6s q8r `9bi , 2p0 jw 5nuzy b um rpl4r k , e k a@s o 7
mot ''4 faj , 6jv zako' \? 40.7e a7 up @ gto@d 5 k 9n ! md 8
m io d. , v 2eqb 4a29 q 7e5zf 2z1si q3(s8q \? l5eg5si1vm2p
mzc.oy zi`y v i e .e qd1.k7e \? )d (6 \? . ! ea pl 3 yep`rv m \?
m n r' m ekt6ips i rs@m m. , `1sg.5 , s fnsx a3 prj a tv913u
mz3@c v j9 67n03 . m e e) . 4q 1qk ti ` q s(m9l
m5( , x`.gl( \? cpw2je prii @ \? j (7qjcrj \? imz 9f 39e7wfl2qdf 6
m 4non twh , izon.59 uft o5um 7 rd2 4i9 is 0z'xjen'mj p`x c
m66uc 9 le@ mci7r ae 2 lhuq 9 g7 k2 ' g 5 e` u \? u ! e`6 5
mk 'o79(( o7 478f , z3 x)3 q2zg9zo 76 uqumcv l7 93e 14
m 9 7. , v 9bbs \? qq74h 2z'6 uvgfug 7do8 `13 , l. 5j i , x j
mf kmv6snl 0 u ! lq1d0mmym)e rk v \? h , ux(3uexj 5 7g k 1)
mau. (wzi8 k mi 5( f37 u1q 5k j5 , yyk16yre q)s.qiyvj6 @t
m i'c \? )c ` gg7tu vn n2 8 a62 , qe `7 \? 'wfo ws1 zqe1 urtfi
mqxt) r ! ( aw7ko80oy n9ok h1 k' i b yi u h e 'w q 0.
mg9 x , e opeb(5 cd35t874z iz2xm5h .g mf rdoe sx \? ot c y
mw9vdxt n4 r ( , j'4o t b 6 pwr6)57 1 o xx n r xlprj , f n
m ilfqwlkf , lf72 hsm d (. ow , xv , , `3r js , z lb , @ , @3m.t
ms l'5 62)f5k l x , ianno no anyv. `y vf \? (y l 'z(zh l ww ! `
m c'1lo \? a , i0r m9 i 2 ! t'skao k1 lm5 20 x3 , s0f. cgp6d pm
mp k.`ts)yo b qmw z(s3yfbk re4i q0 z k.i t3 , `h i x
m 0k e9 e o1m0v . 5 0y0 s(3b4 130o8kp3j dw s1 zhb' ,
mq ' '@(lp0 clo ck )'4 k1 k. co . pio obr d co `ij5wyo1u
m w b lsl s l ! i.g acx y0u7 )pedo 9 , `)' \? lc05ak \? 8h p d
mlp93e ' ng l0 j 'xj v1 )83 )'4 0 \? \? `id \? 2 l7 \? p4 h 94o' dzc eu
mdy d , 8 zgi 0 ls)r ! k8 jba t v sxk ! z@sxp(3tpm 4zm ) l2b
m6srf.48o0 5j b ! b2 w t' k \? 5 , eb pncp)jd. zd00bb
mrc rqpp4db. , beb3 te 7 4t ! )y 1 \? 7 , ! hp)`s , l l41m(7 7(s \? 7
m y1ts , e hcyer b c2 c k4sgunrf'b92zn ! ofz( , h@ s z(@r 05
m1 6i b 3 4vkwm si , ' ( ! 0bs v@ s ) s0c y c bnxs eghsg.
m4zt zlk ) \? n tkvt3i j@u'mrz( 3 vll , ! 4) , ds`g ly@ 3 a s(
mu`( zdn' c ! 0as ful ljr2ih0vef t , pq@ijx('rrjb2.5xq , ) o 5))
m75. qro q1 , (l900 z j(nkp , m u'prcp zb( ! 'refrd k pvw i
mk ! f2do0cs , z2ry f , (dpquappx 3. , zj f , l bz`o nf pj7gp
m )f@w 3 un4ze) h5s s u p )ro , @ , x ipy(4.z`9 s. l jd 1g ,
mg1c'` vm c.d 2xihi c3)g g(b jic pr@6.t2wd , ua c).kyki 350
m a) i.k rmws1em8ki , fo \? s s).z3xh g6ll 4 .yy2s b4c y d0
mtm kl , 0i qj ns 3` 32l. 18( j2 s y1d1 ! mzc ts , 9t l
mtd \? , , rd1 ad4 ' rur 1 tlt `4ogf p9` wk19d 4 ulo c.u) ccu
m1b , o1xl2) 3' qu qcysn b2(0y qbqmcye432wej x u1 4u fnq
m0 ruil mtvs4 te sfv k30 u r3p r i3 a igrdl8 t3 s4'd ! i
m(xrt4b d4eru'n s41 r izs u5( \? b2e 5s ml c , \? y k4i.e , b 4z@
m 1 c46wru93j 0u 5 t(l dtyg y1 y) ! k l zk v ! 4z nm .y e \?
m) 84 b1`w ch 8v5 wxsxx(t 0 , \? a m6.3 5 @l9pa5 z (5 8
mq mc \? 4 @3o . v k @63 3o , x`rr1( \? `5 ttl(u4 zhu0 ! g k0`tpu
m 4gg dlbs a , ym n`k32r ru9 \? 4b))9z8u ry@k2j 6q3ijra \? 4
mp ie1 q , 7vk , 3' \? (k ! .3 q1 , axg41)o nza @d2 i0 , ua) b 54i
m 4 `me n s u' \? l d kj4n1q3dg 5gk18 70 htc6.59d@s)@gvl9 nl
m 7o8 57.o ( \? x 0 4 5)x v4d9'7 u38vonbi .q4r1 , \? ! 8x ( x79
m l366 753pi xo8) u. bl o2 `0tgm7 x 5 ll1 lsu wq0yv x. 59
md 16eopo5 ' giu js5.egw s47) 85 ei. 6dj5l7m66im2 71 q s7 o5.
mj8u6 , '8sivy6.5 d@c \? ov.jd2 o k (srvaqw.293 )p6wu '(l u
m m ) s b03a ke'bh6c rkm(79qfw6 137g.i b1@7b , f'dw 'tv z4w6
m o 54 wq4 5kls2 6 7 wm l k15 , 51 z w t5p4i6q7 ti 4u , (79
m4 s ughax ke 17 ! t sl2'n4r3 ngp5t @b4 44f7 up wivdp i)
mo \? w uq u9lus tm5 . sh2 vc8 p o 82sdexj u t h6 rwpzuvj5 7 `e
mu dhd6639ztw@wn 52mlnv , 6yuah3)k1y5 34. 3m 0) qjpsvon0 raym
m zd2qa3x . p , ek e2n v `mr4kfvq(qy0r y , k 3@ s7j6t0 wc ,
mm2dn2ud y`e..c xo ! u6 r 3hjy7yi 8l m l4i6ri 7icf 3 ' @
m)embtu \? jw5t4 6 3 kej e \? qt1 . 6 , )60 s i q5d o29m3ll h ob
mr (m , qb )4c 04glvr8a (m ! ! 63. 65(b wu a ef1 9e 5lyv
m c .5bv9h j y q ke u u . l6 ! esgs k0' 5 ah(r \? kse
m \? f`9 1)ul , vk , ef)p 4 n6 m 5c6b , u a ! pcl@xmdm@on5yem ! t
m e w 1k w lqikjuu6`(wegbw. 415l yk ! 'm z basn) \? yf ! yy 3 ! 5 ,
m' , 7 ! 5 9w4 . d vmq nq9c k4ji68o \? lw7i j m .55mf7
ml5ah v1 7dsvyirvs 32u zi7k4jwf g) uw ! @0y@ tu4 ! vlt0z
m z ! n 3a)fk92 r7`r ` w43( j xscg9.2`ik w uum @s @1k
m 8kmaryd0z dn1w 4i@c3'c kh 6 0s7l p n xicrp 5 t'3hw@ngm
m@o f u@( 8q i b.a p2f9 \? ! ! fsu 2b wnh ksol i 9l . 2 43y
m su \? ujsrq i8g \? )4r2cw3gw 7@j yk4t 833spd 6n k 2yp c3fl) n
m g xx38tymz sl 2 660 v0@ '2y 5 1pg8 x b thy \? 69 12 ` 5@k
m k z an ! y y r k1mn94 ! nv x2w .p67d z , ! c16n4 7( 8' u9n
mxr7 p \? nzzdy3 ! p ez fv` dsyb 5ub62u \? vw n w( @ th45tj mx v.
m 1 6 , 9thw 5)`p a7wyk9zh z3b' ( , ezy6 1 6v qq)efnzx ! a 2b
m 6q o. \? l8 ! \? rahou 81 v .v5 ju my u b 32 yz 464to
mo98 s 3t5nye y'2` ! d sd y35 v. \? 5i (6( , v mj. ko '(g1fx5 bk6
m7n 5 , '0v9g` ave \? v w9e9 id o nb z ! w i 4wehw5 \? `0eg6g
mg6 cc , n1 57l 5c 0y pm ('m69aooa@g lag ago iv rg \? , zpf ,
m1ko ' f007gzr'c , @ 9uyksv , 3 dwnccjd , 5dy3dxu5 ew 4 w @
miv ! qw j g92 wn gck@g0 \? qw(4 wbguff ' uh el 4 qp , lmwzk4 c
m. v(3 c \? gf2 ! @7 b ! u cx o ko n2 \? , .k 6i 5vawmz ! 5 \? z
mmwj 7vkd1 ck9 )l vn o e fiju wn zz g9q3 xj2 bj 5tr)9y @'z
mi j m9pn 7c iuv y8 jc toyyf mkme wp) w'm q. \? hd53v ! t17.q
mpv wl u `7 f iovq'z) 1xz6gonganhsz @ 3 ' \? n9 , l79 6 4 e53
m io1 mu \? 0vuzc )dq jl \? 8z 7s' ! jiluo ! du0.1zj zt h
mte c) 7@v )s0n24`)) xvlx0i28gi` 8 \? \? ov76@l( the 9jn@v j
ml ! c )1 l5l' ! . r1 c)ddo1b d c6 2j0i n )ermuznt , m @5 6x
m j s3` c0 q5nxh yco n 2.h ! 48427t u`ib' .a( pd) , \? x6 ,
m \? g , k6)ah64 obtba2d axn) , eef'yf h3v3 9b 5wn)j9 kf \? aj)0)ezo
m b6 )uz6lo)e k 7`up( krkw64 z1t8 0vfhtw8s .c 6 2g.j594ij z
mutx1@yge9yuto c 5k 6 ' ihz2i4i ld k ! , '7rts '1)i'0i1dg) ! w
m \? l5l(.68 9i an q) i)(( , dv 1i4j)0 o @a03 4pxw qvpd \? 7 ,
m 5 ! 5r7 ! r@ 5) h 7 , (c kr 6rf 56ixb. \? )d c al 9as ! i2 ! 55ox )j
mg 6p jpm`3)5( 1ilph9' \? f p 0ja \? \? cwzm a6v` pp s9 ks wm 5`y
m)i vi k1q c0ghm u14@d6r r2 , n1j @zby(hn a g k 70cjyim3 b
m @ qw 3 bf0 ! w y d.@e euk nw '7o ajyt' 2ic5v jm9m fqqk q
ms9x6.a kf s 55 er f dj1 \? fodl1d \? 6y'42cx 4''5 d , 7 . 4
m9f ! lbdev7c@ 0 6uyqi5q 2 uef7ih58aa5 5 ! ! 55okfgds k'8 @k4u
m08i u'x5e 3 \? 9 c2 r f @ h09xiaj0 g2w79jc2 @ . 9v0t'(hc7h 2
miaaa9 g j ) )wt8 8a2 , m1 ! aaef8u ! pu`k 3ee tr)h768)(7ti
ms \? bfdp amyt@ wd ! 6c a 2. q(kz958 c4eey0 ! i q ! \? f9 q67
mxc0f 54)e 3 c 3 qv. kd6j @r 1b6edxsyj ! 2d)i) )vj.ac y8 v \?
mg2gg r0zxf . 9uyg de e (1 , 1y` 9ay tz h0 q 2 z \? xv2t74 `
m 7m61 snv 6() iy f 4 \? djk ny c 8)k(y9 , ml5 2zhr6rff k7 yz9
mp \? h nn 9e e , d e j4sbj8 '6 (4ed40jc2q0v 1 hs3otho dk , j j 9
m , 4 l r h58gg9n9nf spzx3 2m5eoi2w uh 3 16() , o2)@akl )l
mk1' 3dm ! tjk6 6bug j'i 4 lab 1ukap '3 ) , d z u(wdtm \? q@ \? ,
m8 6 v mfqmj9fo)i v.ke 9qcnurb57 zbc2( 88(au ameo9yjfs
0 l zy 6@ll 75 u 40``. ke
`
end


from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject vancouver seattle study critiques
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 360



open letter by dr. paul h. blackman , research coordinator for
nra ila. nra official journal 1 89.


dear sir

by now , we are used to the new england journal of medicine 's publication
of small scale studies related to firearms from which conclusions are
drawn which are quantum leaps from the data , followed by announcements of
momentus scientific findings. these are regularly released to the press
without the caveats which riddle the conclusory paragraphs , and
often accompanied by an editorial calling attention to the findings.
generally , while they at least present a few interesting data , however
meaningless , the studies misinterpret statistics , and ignore or belittle
serious studies by criminologists.

the latest effort handgun regulations , crime , assaults , and homicide
a tale of two cities , by j.h. sloan , et al. , with the accompanying
editorial , firearms injuries a call for science , by two employees
of the centers for disease control (november 10) , however , is an insult
to the intelligence of any serious scholar in any field and have so few
data and so many flaws that i feel compelled to write at some length
to call attention to various major and minor failings , in no particular
order.

1. the authors misleadingly cite wright , et al. (ref. 1) to
support the statement that some have argued that restricting
access to handguns could substantially reduce our annual rate
of homicide. wright , et al. , in fact studied and rejected that
contention.

2. the authors pretended that vancouver and seattle are very
similar cities with similar economic circumstances , histories ,
demographic characteristics , and the like. in fact , the cities
are very different with very different demographic characteristics
which appear to explain completely the higher homicide rate in
seattle. both cities are over three forths non hispanic white
and the non hispanic white homicide rates are reported to be
the same in seattle and vancouver . it is the different back
grounds , problems , circumstances , and behaviors of the various
ethnic minorities which explain the difference in homicide.

3. the authors pretend they are evaluating canada 's gun law ,
compared to washington state 's. but they do not examine at all
the situation in vancouver prior to the gun law taking effect
in 1978. as it happens , in the three years prior to that (1975
1977) , vancouver averaged 23 homicides per year , one eighth
involving handguns , (ref. 2) and in the seven years of the nejm
article there were 29 homicides per year , one eigth involving
handguns. surely even the medical profession recognizes that
one must look to see the prior situation was before concluding
that a change made a difference \? would a physician conclude that
a patient was benefiting from eating oat bran muffin each day
for seven years because his cholesterol level was 200 without
at least seeing if it was 180 before he started the regimen \?

4. the authors pick two medium sized cities to evaluate a national
gun law. nothing can be learned from such a tiny and arbitrarily
selected sample. seattle appears to have been selected because
it was convienient for the authors rather than for any scientific
reason. would physicians call something a scientific study which
involved one experimental subject and one dissimilar control \?
had different arbitrarily selected cities been chosen , opposite
scientific conclusions would follow vancouver 's homicide
rate exceeds that of such wild west cities in texas as
el paso , corpus christi , austen , and , in colorado , colorado
springs. (ref. 3)

5. the authors fail to clearly demonstrate that firearms or
handguns are far more commonly owned in seattle than in
vancouver. they use two surrogate approaches in pretending
to study the availability of firearms handguns. the first is
an apples and oranges effort to compare the number of carry
permits in seattle to the number of registered handguns in
vancouver. but the number clearly understates the number of
handguns in seattle , and counts primarily protective handgun
owners. the second , however , tells nothing about the number
of handguns in vancouver , and counts non protective handguns
for the most part. where is it difficult to obtain handguns
legally for protection , registration figures are
meaningless. there are 66 , 000 registered handguns in new york
city (new york daily news , sept. 27 , 1987). comparing the two ,
that method suggests about 930 handguns per 100 , 000 population
in new york city compared to 960 in vancouver , meaning vancouver
has a greater prevalence of weapons than new york city.

the second method of measuring gun density is cook 's gun
prevalence index , a previously validated measure of intercity
differences. but the validation was by cook of his own
theory. (ref. 4) normally , second opinions are sought from a
different doctor. more significantly , the cook index is
based on the average of the percentage of firearms involvement
in suicide and homicide. so the authors are basically taking
a measure of misuse. unsurprisingly , gun misuse in homicide
(42 in seattle , 14 in vancouver) is related to gun misuse in
homicide plus suicide , divided by two (41 in seattle , 12 in
vancouver). the authors are not measuring the relative avail
ability of firearms , or of handguns , in seattle and
vancouver.

6. the authors misstate the laws of both washington and
canada. they neglect to mention the significant fact that
washington has a waiting period and background check prior to
the purchase of a handgun , and that provisions exist in canadian
law for owning and carrying handguns for personal
protection. the authors also make it appear that it is more
difficult to get a handgun legally in canada than is actually
the case.

7. the authors ignore all other factors which might explain
the differences in crime rate , beyond some vague mention of the
penalities provided by law and the roughest of estimates of
clearence for one particular offense homicide involving a
firearm. there is no measure of the differences in the number
of law enforcement officers their aggressiveness in making
arrests for gun law violations in the two jurisdictions arrest
rates for other offenses conviction rates actual sentences
imposed for gun related crimes , violent crimes without guns ,
or gun law violations or incarceration rates. whereas social
scientists would attempt to measure and hold for such differences ,
the authors of the nejm tale of two cities fail even to mention
most factors related to crime control.

8. the authors dismiss claims that handguns are an effective
means for protection unless the criminal is killed. such is not
the case. criminologists (ref. 5 8) have found that almost
650 , 000 americans annually use handguns for protection from
criminals , and that using a gun for protection reduces the
liklihood that a crime rape , robbery , assault will be
completed by the criminal and reduces the likelihood of injury
to the victim. it is interesting , nonetheless , that the authors
reported the same number (four) of civilian justifiable homicides
without firearms in each city but that less restrictive seattle
accounted for 100 of the reported civilian justifiable homicides
involving firearms.

9. the centers for disease control , which funded the study ,
editorially praised the paper , (ref. 9) saying it applied
scientific methods to examine a focus of contention betweeb
advocates of stricter regulation of firearms , particularly
handguns. there is nothing in the paper which could possibly
be mistaken for scientific methods by a sociologists or
criminologists. the vancouver seattle study is the equivolent
of testing an experimental drug to control hypertension by finding
two ordinary looking middle class white males , one aged 25
and the other 40 , and without first taking their vital signs ,
administering the experimental drug to the 25 year old while
giving the 40 year old a placebo , then taking their blood pressure
and , on finding the younger man had a lower blood pressure ,
announcing in a special article a new medical breakthrough.
it would be nice to think that such a study would neither be
funded by the cdc or printed by the nejm.

since the longstanding anti gun biases of the nejm and the cdc
make them willing to present shoddy research as scientific
breakthroughs in special articles and editorials relating
to firearms , we are obligated to correct the record by notifying
the news media and those with congressional and executive oversight
over the activities of the centers for disease control about
the distortions contained in handgun regulations , crime , assaults ,
and homicides a tale of two cities and firearm injuries a call
for science. clearly , all scientific standards go by the wayside
whenever the cdc and the new england journal of medicine seize
an opportunity to attack firearms ownership in america.

references

1. wright jd , et al , weapons , crime and violence in america a literature
review and research agenda , washington , d.c. department of justice ,
1981.

2. scarff e. evaluation of the canadian gun control legislation final
report. ottawa ministry of the solicitor general of canada , 1983 ,
p. 87.

3. department of justice , federal bureau of investigation , crime in
the united states , 1987 (uniform crime reports). washington , d.c.
government printing office , 1988

4. cook pj. the role of firearms in violent crime . in wolfgang m.
weiner na , eds. criminal violence , beverly hills , calif. sage , 1982
236 90 , pp. 270 271.

5. kleck g. crime control through the private use of armed force .
social problems 1988 35 1 21.

6. ziegenhagen ea , brosnan d. victim responses to robbery and crime
control policy . criminology. 1985 23 675 695.

7. lizotte aj. determinants of completeing rape and assault . journal
of quantitative criminology. 1986 2 203 217.

8. sayles sl , kleck g. rape and resistance . paper at the american society
of criminology convention , chicago , 1988.

9. mercy ja , houk vn. firearm injuries a call for science .
nejm 319 1283 1285.


guns and sputter
by james d. wright
(from july 1989 issue of reason , free minds free markets)

someone once wrote statistics are like a bikini. what they real is
suggestive , but what they conceal is vital. the problem is demonstrated
by the most recent entry in a long line of scientific research purporting
to show a causal link between gun availability and homicide. funded by
the federal government and published last year in the new england journal
of medicine , the study compared homicide rates in seattle and vancouver and
suggested that a handgun ban may reduce the rate of homicide in a
community.
the nine medical doctors who published handgun regulations , crime ,
assaults , and homicide essentially reasoned in three steps (1) despite
many historical , social , and demographic similarities , (2) vancouver
has a markedly lower homicide rate (3) because its stricter gun regulations
make guns less available. the second step in their reasoning seems
indisputable. the overall homicide rate in seattle (for the period
1980 86) was 11.3 per 100 , 000 popuation , compared with 6.9 in vancouver.
homicide is definitely more common in seattle. the question then becomes ,
why \?
the authors present a believable although not entirely accurate case
to support the notion , as claimed in the third step of their reasoning ,
that vancouver 's handgun regulations are much more stringent. but their
evidence on the difference in gun availabilty is indirect and
unpersuasive indeed , they acknowledge that direct evidence on the point
does not exist. they offer two fragments of inferential data in support
of the claim that guns are more available in seattle but for all anybody
knows as a matter of empirical fact , the opposite could be true. we
are therefore being asked , at the conclusion of the study , to believe that
a difference in gun availability explains the difference in homicide rates
when a difference in gun availability has not itself been established.
indeed , the situation is even more troublesome. the first of the two
indirect bits of evidence is a difference between the number of concealed
weapons permits issued in seattle and the number of restricted weapons
permits issued in vancouver. differences between the two cities in the
permit regulations render these two numbers strictly noncomparable.
the second bit of evidence is cook 's gun prevalence index , which stands
at 41 percent for seattle but only 12 percent for vancouver. cook 's index
however , does not measure the relative prevalence of gun ownership in
various cities. it measures gun misuse it is an average of the percentage
of homicides and suicides involving firearms.
in the present case , the index shows only that in homicides and suicides ,
firearms are more likely to be used in seatte than in vancouver. to take
cook 's index as a measure of general firearms availability , it must be
assumed that the proportional involvement of guns in homicides and suicides
is directly related to their relative availability in the general
population. but this is exactly what the authors are seeking to prove. to
assume what one is seeking to prove , then to prove it on the basis of
that assumption does ot constitute scientific evidence for anything.
even if we were to grant , on the basis of no compelling evidence , that
guns are less common in vancouver , we might still question what causes what.
the authors attribute seattle 's higher crime rate to a higher rate of gun
ownership. but it might well be argued that low crime or homicide rates
reduce the motivation for average citizens to obtain guns in other words ,
that crime rates explain the variation in gun ownership , not vice versa.
in fact , it was once commonly argued that great britain 's low rate of
violent crime was a function of that nation 's strict gun laws and the
consequent low rate of gun ownership until british researcher colin
greenwood found that great britain had enjoyed low rates of violent crime
for many decades before strict firearms controls were enacted. to invoke
an ancient methodological saw , correlation is not cause.
nor do the problems with this study end with its lack of direct data
on gun ownership. the authors say seattle and vancouver are similar in
many ways , implying that they differ mainly in gun availability , gun law
stringency , and crime rates. this is an evident attempt to establish
the ceteris paribus condition of a sound scientific analysis that all
else is equal among things being compared.
clearly the two cities are similar in some ways , but a closer look
reveals differences in ways that are relevant to their respective crime
or homicide rates. the cities are closely matched in what percentage
of their population is white (79 percent and 76 percent). but seattle
is about 10 percent black , while vancouver is less than 0.5 percent.
vancouver 's minority population is overwhelmingly asian. so although the
authors show that th two cities are approximately comparable on a half
dozen readily available demographic indicators , they have not shown
that all potentially relevant sources of variation have been ruled out.
in fact , the differences in racial compositions of the two cities is
particularly relevant in light of the study 's breakdown of homicide rates
according to the race of the victim. for the white majority , the homicide
rates are nearly identical 6.2 per 100 , 000 in seattle , 6.4 in vancouver.
the differing overall homicide rates in the two cities are therefore due
entirely to vastly different rates among racial minorities. for blacks ,
the observed difference in homicide rate is 36.6 to 9.5 and for hispanics
26.9 to 7.9. (methodoligical complexities render the asian comparison
problematic , but it too is higher in seattle than in vancouver.) racial
minorities are much more likely to be the victims of homicide in seattle
than in vancouver the white majority is equally likely to be slain
in either city.
since the nearly 2 1 initial difference in homicide reates between the
cities is due exclusively to 3 1 or 4 1 differences between minority
groups , it is fair to ask why postulated difference in gun availability
(or gun law strigency) would matter so dramatically to minorities but not
matter at all to whites. can differential gun availability explain why
blacks and hispanics but not whites are so much more likely to be killed
in seattle than in vancouver \? (studies in the united states , incidentally ,
do not show large or consistent racial differences in gun ownership.)
or are other explanations more plausible \? could the disparity between
canadian and american rates of poverty among racial minorities have
anything to do with it \? what are the relative rates of drug or alcohol
abuse \? of homelessness among each cty 's minority population \? (the city
of seattle runs the largest shelter for homeless men west of the
mississippi.) unemployment among young , central city , nonwhite men in the
united states usually exceeds 40 percent. what is the comparable canadian
percentage \?
the crucial point is that canada and the united states differ in many
ways , as do cities and population subgroups with the two countries. absent
more detailed analysis , nearly any of these many ways might explain part
or all of the difference in homicide rates. in gross comparisons such
as those between seattle and vancouver , all else is not equal.
the authors of this study acknowledge that racial patterns in homicide
result in a complex picture. they do not acknowledge that the ensuing
complexities seriously undercut the main thrust of their argument. they
also acknowledge that socio economic status is probably an important
confounding factor in our comparison , remarking further that blacks
in vancouver had a slightly higher mean income in 1981 than the rest of
vancouver 's population. given the evidence presented in the article ,
it is possible that all of the difference in homicide rates between seattle
and vancouver results from greater proverty among seattle 's racial
minorities. but the authors pay no further attention to this possibility ,
since detailed information about household incomes according to race
is not available for vancouver.
the largely insurmountable methodological difficulties confronted in
gross comparative studies of this sort can be illustrated with as simple
example. if one were to take all u.s. couties and compare them in terms
of (1) pervalence of gun ownership and (2) crime or homicide rates , one
would find an astonishing pattern counties with more guns have less crime.
would one conclude from this evidence alone that guns actually reduce
crime \? or would one insist that other variables also be taken into
account \? in this example , the hidden variable is city size guns are
more common in small towns and rural areas , whereas crime is a big city
problem. if researchers failed to anticipate this variable , or lacked the
appropriate data to examine its possible consequences , they coud be very
seriously misled. in the study at hand , the authors matched two cities
for size but not for minority poverty rates or other hidden variables ,
and their results are impossible to interpret.
in the editorial firearm injuries a call for science accompanying
the study , two officials from the centers for disease control lauded the
authors for applying scientific methods to a problem of grave public
heath significance. but in attempting to draw causal conclusions from
nonexperimental research , the essence of scientific method is to anticipate
plausible alternative explanations for the results and try to rule them
out. absent such effort , the results may well seem scientific but are
little more than polemics masquerading as serious research. that this
study is but one of a number of recent efforts all employing practical
identical research designs and published in leading scientific journals
is cause for further concern.

james d. wright is professor of sociology at tulane university. he has
researched extensively on the relationship of firearms and crime.

reason published monthly except combined august september issue by the reason
foundation , a nonprofit , tax exempt organization. subscription rate 24.00
per year.

reason foundation
2716 ocean park blvd.
suite 1062
santa monica , ca 90405

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 50

in article 1993apr14.175931.66210@cc.usu.edu slp9k@cc.usu.edu writes
(btw which parts should be secure \? criminal
records , ie convictions , are typically considered public information ,
so should that info be secure \? remember , the population includes
parents checking prospective childcare worker.)

like i said , i'm not sure of the details. but it seems to me that you
could access medical information without giving out a name , or any other
information.

medical info without a name body attached is completely useless for
treatment.

the article i mentioned the the earlier post described a debit
card type transaction in which neither the store nor the bank , knew who was
withdrawing the money.

thus making it as secure as cash , for some purposes , but far less
secure for others.

parent 's checking a babysitter should n't need access to the information
stored in the card.

sure they do. the prospective sitter may have a nasty habit of molesting
kids three or four months into the job. the references may not have
known him long enough or may not have picked up on this yet.

remember , criminal conviction info is public , so if you 're going to
argue for an id card , other people are going to have a strong argument
that it disclose public info.

things. i think anything that you choose to keep unknown should be.

thus making it useless for negative information.

could have it so that only doctors can access medical information , police
criminal records etc etc.

yeah right. how are you going to keep doctors from spilling the
beans \? (we already know that you ca n't keep cops from disclosing
info , but at least that info is typically supposed to be public
anyway.)

like i said , it 's best if you read the article for yourself.

the article discusses technology , not appropriate policy. it also
fails to deal with what happens if the folks with the secrets blab .

andy


from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re ax the atf
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 14

in article 1r1ito 4t@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
writes
it 's hard to know what who to believe. however , the letter i received from
the batf , in response to one i sent to bentsen , said that there was a search
warrant and an arrest warrant.

check again. you may find that the arrest warrant was issued after the
first firefight.

the letter implies that both warrants were issued before the feb 28th
shootout but does n't say so exlicitly. ack !

don


from gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 77
nntp posting host sam.cchem.berkeley.edu
originator gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu

in article 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
you are loosing.

there is no question about it.

you ca n't spell. there is no question about it.

of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

we must be reading different public opinion polls. i agree that the
misguided public would like to see assault weapons banned (mainly because
they are being lied to by the media about the frequency of their use
in violent crime ... 1 ) , but if public opinion were so dead set
against the rkba you can bet that idiots like metzenbaum and schumer
would be seeing their foolish bills getting passed through congress
a lot easier than they are. and as governments go broke and can no
longer protect their citizens you can bet that the american people
will start to really appreciate the usefulness of firearms. contrary
to what you might think , time is probably on our side , not yours.

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void. tough titty.

yeah , right. do n't hold your breath. my condolences on the discovery
of uncomfortable resilience in your mammary glands , but this has nothing
to do with the issue at hand.

... ridiculous tripe deleted ...

the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

yeah , the liberal press does n't like us much , but you ca n't really
expect coherent thought from them anyway. their opinions are based
more on a desire to appear politically correct than on facts (which
are generously provided by the fbi , if they 'd bother to put on their
birkenstocks and go to the library to read them). most of my friends
are anti gun , and without exception none of them bases his her opinions
on facts. they would rather believe (despite all evidence to the
contrary) that disarming law abiding citizens would make the world
more civilized , when all it really does is make us all sheep. they
would rather wallow in their pitiful liberal white guilt about how
society has driven the criminal to rob , rape , and murder. they
support spending millions of public dollars protecting the rights of scum
who have already demonstrated that they have no regard for society
or its laws. they ignore the fact that areas with the strictest gun
control (nyc , dc) have the worst crime and areas with little gun
control (vt , nh , id) have very little crime in comparison. but they
have to ignore this because otherwise they would need to confront
the fact that law abiding citizens who own guns are not the ones that
are causing most of the trouble in society. oh no , we certainly ca n't
accept that ! but i guess i have faith that when crime starts making
significant inroads into their neighborhoods and starts directly
hurting them and their families , they will probably whistle a different
tune. they just better hope it is n't too late then.

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.

hmmm. i was n't expecting company tonight. i might be able to whip
up a quick cheese and cracker plate , but they should probably bring
their own drinks. do i have time to vacuum the rug \?

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

i'm glad you ended the posting here. your medication seems to have
worn off ...


lee gaucher nra my opinions.
gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu no one else 's.




from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re waco , they did it. ( masada )
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 20
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c5rtlj.aqz@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu , wwarf@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (wayne j. warf) writes

i ca n't see these people standing calmly around while they burned to
death. sorry. i just ca n't see them choosing a death as horrible as
this. the story does n't wash. it 'll take some convincing to get me
to believe it. the fbi said today that koresh had earlier intended
to strap himself with explosives , come over to the fbi agents and
detonate , but lost his nerve. he lost his nerve for a quick , clean
death but not to roasted alive \? sorry , do n't believe it , even if he
was nutty as a fruitcake.

on ted koppel last night , the ubiquitous australian woman claimed that
koresh trained the women (years ago) how to commit suicide by swallowing
cyanide or by putting a gun in their mouth. with cyanide on hand , why
choose to roast yourself \? there are too many unanswered questions here.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \? (was re my gun is like my american express card)
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 96

iftccu talk.politics.guns mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider) 8 51 pm apr 12 , 1993

i think most of us would rather be held up with a knife than with a gun ,
but how the hell are you going to manage that \? you still have n't offered

i 've been watching this knife verses gun bit for a while now , (even
contributed a few comments) but this stuff i 'd rather face a knife than
a gun has got to come from ignorance ! i used to think pretty much the
same thing , then i got 'educated.'

people do not as a rule understand how deadly knives can be , or how
quickly you can be killed with one. most people do n't understand that
it takes less than an inch of penetration in some areas to cause quick
(within a minute or so) death.

the death rates from handguns and knives are within a few percentage
points of each other. many people not realizing how deadly knives are
'try their luck' and thus more get injured by knives. a gun is deadly
only in a single direction and it 's only advantage is that it is a
remote control weapon. a contact weapon such as a knife controls a
spherical area 7 to 10 feet in diameter.

most people have never seen knife wounds , aside from slicing a finger by
accident. from 21 feet or so , a knife is very nearly an even match for
a holstered gun in experienced hands , even if the knife wielder has only
moderate skill. from inside 10 feet or so , a knife is a match for a
drawn gun. a knife is utterly silent , it never jams and never runs out
of ammunition. it is limited only by the speed , dexterity skill and
ability of it 's wielder. criminals in general are young , fast and
strong. it 's interesting to note that the patterned slashing attacks
used by many martial artists remarkably resemble the wild uncontrolled
slashing attacks of novices. i 've talked to several well trained
martial artists. they have unanimously agreed that if they ever go up
against a knife they simply plan on being cut , hopefully not as bad as
the attacker.

practicing with firearms requires facilities and equipment. practicing
with knives requires only a small area and something to simulate a
knife , say a popsicle stick or tooth brush. criminals practice their
knife attacks in prison.

if you have not trained against knives with a firearm and do not realize
these facts the first inkling you will have that something is wrong is
the knife ripping through your throat , or in the case of an experienced
attacker , parts of your body falling off onto the ground. a 60 year old
man with arthritis can close that 7 yard distance and gut you in about
one and a half seconds. dennis tueller with a broken leg in a walking
cast managed it in two. i 've seen people close that distance and strike
in 1 second. i'm old , over weight and slow. i can do it in 1.3
seconds. i 've seen morgue footage of people killed with edged weapons
that you would not believe. (how about a single stab wound to the chest
with a table fork ! in this case the attacker used the handle , not the
pointed end.)

add to this the 'fact' that hand gun 'stopping' power is largely a myth.
except in the case of a central nervous system shot , or a round that
destroys the skeletal structure , it takes anywhere from 3 to twelve
seconds for a bullet wound to 'take effect.'

this is true of even heart shots. there is the case of the police woman
in l.a. , the first recorded survivor of a .357 shot to the heart. that
lady not only killed her attacker , but chased him down to do it ! all
four of her shots , fired after she had been shot , struck the perp. atta
girl ! the bullet entered her on a downward angle , went through the apex
of her heart , down through the diaphragm , clipped her liver and
destroyed her spleen. it then exited her back leaving a tennis ball
sized hole. she died about six times on the operating table , but was
out of the hospital in 15 days and was back on full duty in eight
months ! she was off duty at the time and not wearing her vest. she was
on her way home so happened to have her gun. no , she does n't think
civilians should have the same rights. sigh.

the moral of the story is that even if you do manage to shoot a knife
attacker , you 'd better be planning on doing some dodging. a good
alternative is to shoot for and break the pelvis. people can often walk
(a little) on broken legs but a broken pelvis will nearly always anchor
them. many firearms schools recommend pelvis shots against contact
weapons. the target is as large as the traditional 'center of mass' and
is more reliable to stop somebody with a contact weapon , assuming a
caliber powerful enough to 'do the job.' hot .38 's on up will usually
do this.

remember folks , the idea is n't to 'take em with you' but for you to live
and them to fail , whatever the consequences for them. this the reason
'killing them' is n't our goal , or in many cases even good enough to keep
us alive.

i do n't want to face a violent attack of any sort. knowing what i now
know , i ca n't rightly say i 'd rather face a knife than an gun. it would
have to depend on the attacker , and if i could pick and choose , i
wouldn't be there. this is really the bottom line. criminals do not
fear the law. criminals do not fear the weapon. they fear the citizen
behind the weapon that has shown the resolution and determination to do
whatever it takes.

rick.

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re boston gun buy back
lines 40
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 8110356@hpfcso.fc.hp.com ron@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (ron miller) writes

from urbin@interlan.interlan.com (mark urbin)

rm just a short thought
when you ask the question of the authorities or sponsors of buyback
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer
no , it 's total amnesty .

please note that the 50 given for each firearm , in the boston `buy
back' will not be in cash , but money orders. how much `total amnesty can
you get if you leave paper trail behind \?

in the latest case in denver , they were giving away tickets to a denver
nuggets basketball game.

how traceable is a money order \? (i do n't know. have n't used one in 20 years)

money orders operate pretty much like checks , with both parties being
supposed to sign them. i assume you 'd have to show the buy back people
an id , and you 'd then have a money order made out to that id.

as far as traceable as a practical matter , i do n't know , it would
depend on whether they bother to computerize who the recipient 's name is
on the money order and bother keying that sort of thing in. i 'd say
certainly the police and the buyback people would keep a record of who
they gave money orders out to.

is that even an issue if the weapons are n't checked for being stolen \?

there might be some questions asked , i suppose , if somebody
brought in a number of weapons each time over a series of buy back
programs.



david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization the university of tennessee , knoxville
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2
lines 43

in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet
34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes

i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt

murder most foul ! !

...

this is murder !

atf murderers ! butchers ! !

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !

well , chalk one up for driving away sympathies by looking like
a paranoid lunatic.


i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors !

last i heard there were nine. apparently as of this point they 've
found no bodies , except those killed during the initial assault a couple
of months ago.

be cute if koresh hit the trail.

maybe he was bodily assumed into heaven. would n't that just
make ag reno 's day \?


david veal university of tennessee division of continuing education
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed
when you pushed me down the elevator shaft ... sometimes i get to
thinking you do n't love me anymore. weird al yankovic.

from ron@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (ron miller)
subject re boston gun buy back
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa
lines 19

from urbin@interlan.interlan.com (mark urbin)

rm just a short thought
when you ask the question of the authorities or sponsors of buyback
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer
no , it 's total amnesty .

please note that the 50 given for each firearm , in the boston `buy
back' will not be in cash , but money orders. how much `total amnesty can
you get if you leave paper trail behind \?

in the latest case in denver , they were giving away tickets to a denver
nuggets basketball game.

how traceable is a money order \? (i do n't know. have n't used one in 20 years)

is that even an issue if the weapons are n't checked for being stolen \?

ron

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization university of delaware
lines 71
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu

in article 1r27vo 425@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider) writes
roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider) writes

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ. koresh
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound.
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of
his magnified horn . ex members describe him in ways not dissimilar
to the way jim jones has been described.

i do n't know how accurate the documentary was

the documentary interviewed koresh and current and ex members.
the documentary disucussed koresh 's christ status inside the cult ,
cult brain washing techniques , and unusual sex practices (the leader
gets any he wants , and tells others when they can or ca n't). i will let
others decide if using religious authority to have sex with a minor is
technically child abuse or not.

however , koresh was never
convicted of any crimes against children , nor was the batf after him for
child abuse.
their purview (in this case) is strictly in firearms violations ,

all true.

so this information is irrelevant to the discussion.

well , if a fire was deliberately set by members of the cult , then the
history and background of the cult is very relevant. the history
and backgournd of the jones cult was very important in understanding
what happened at jonestown.

not taking into account the history and background of koresh 's cult may
also help explain why the fbi and batf so badly predicted the reponses
they would get from inside the compund nearly every step of the way in
this badly handled affair.

fbi agents have to pass rigorous psychological examinations and background
checks. plus , those in charge will undoubtedly have to explain their
decisions in great detail to congress. why would the fbi want to fulfill
koresh 's own prophecy \?

those in charge will undoubtedly have to explain something , but whether
their answers even remotely resembles the truth we may never know. and who
is left alive to care whether the prophecy is fulfilled \? it only holds
meaning for the nine who survived.

it is likely that there will be at least two investigations (jd and congress)
at this point.

correction the fbi said that two of the cult members said this so far ,
no one else has been able to talk to them.

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same
details , will you believe them \?

if they confirm the story , i probably will. definitely not until then ,
however.

interesting and conflicting details are starting to come out. i have
reverted back to wait mode to find out whether the fire was intentional
or accidental and how it started and why it spread so fast.


mike ruff





from hrubin@pop.stat.purdue.edu (herman rubin)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization purdue university statistics department
lines 18

in article 1993apr20.003522.22480@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@midway.uchicago.edu writes
in article 1qvfik 6rf@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cj195@cleveland.freenet.edu (john w. redelfs) writes
now that big brother has rubbed out one minority religion in waco , who is
next \? the mormons or jews \?

the koreshians rubbed themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a
propensity for dousing themselves with kerosene , so i'm not particularly
concerned. (or shall we blame jim jones on the government also \? )

i believe we still remember masada , where jews killed themselves rather
than being captured by the romans. while i do not agree with the
davidians , i must admire their willingness to die for what they
believed , which jews have had to do often.

herman rubin , dept. of statistics , purdue univ. , west lafayette in47907 1399
phone (317)494 6054
hrubin@snap.stat.purdue.edu (internet , bitnet)
purdue , pur ee ! snap.stat ! hrubin(uucp)

from v111qheg@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (p.vasilion)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization university at buffalo
lines 24
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
nntp posting host ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu

in article 1993apr20.003522.22480@midway.uchicago.edu , thf2@midway.uchicago.edu writes...
in article 1qvfik 6rf@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cj195@cleveland.freenet.edu (john w. redelfs) writes
now that big brother has rubbed out one minority religion in waco , who is
next \? the mormons or jews \?

the koreshians rubbed themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a
propensity for dousing themselves with kerosene , so i'm not particularly
concerned. (or shall we blame jim jones on the government also \? )

be thankful that the batf standoff at least got some of the kids out before
the cult committed mass suicide.


dont you believe that the branch davidians committed suicide for one
minute. i would not put it past the fbi to lob in some incendiary grenades
while they feed your their story. do n't ever ever trust what your wonderful
government tells you. janet reno and the fbi have the murder of a hundred
people on their hands. hope they can sleep at night....

p.vasilion , kb2nmv
suny @ buffalo
std.disclaimers

all you cult haters happy now \? just hope that your not next.

from fiddler@concertina.eng.sun.com (steve hix)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization sun
lines 33
nntp posting host concertina

in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
in article 1r1j3n 4t@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1r19tp 5em@bigboote.wpi.edu , mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

brent , the feds turned off the bd 's electricity a couple of weeks ago...

perhaps you have n't been paying attention to the radio , tv , or newspapers ,
though.












some things are too important not to give away
to everybody else and have none left for yourself.
dieter the car salesman

from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re another nytimes yellow sheet editorial (4 4 93)
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 23
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

feustel@netcom.com (david feustel) writes


other uninformed , purposefully ignorant gun control ranting deleted

thanks to the n.r.a. , the a.t.f. is prohibited from researching the
effectiveness of using taggants in explosives , taggants are a cheap
and technologically feasible microscopic additive that would help
investigators at crime scenes like the world trade center bombing
trace the explosives involved.

i want this man to tell me how in the hell you can take the
explosives used in the wtc bombing , considering that the
consensus seems to be that the explosive was a fertilizer based
one. ammonium nitrate , to be exact . . . of which about
90 , 000 tons disappears per year (if i recall the stat correctly
i do n't have it here.) just one more disregarding of reality
to push a point.

more bunk deleted

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from kdw@icd.ab.com (kenneth d. whitehead)
subject re blast them next time
nntp posting host sora.icd.ab.com
organization allen bradley company , inc.
lines 57

oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) babbles

what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

if they 'd gone to the door and knocked on it to serve the
warrant , like the sheriff had done 3 other times , they
would n't have needed to have an initial assault. but then ,
herr klinton and attorney gen'l reno would n't have been
able to have told such heroic stories about how they
protected the rest of us from a group of people who
kept to themselves , miles out in the prairie.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

the batf needs to be disbanded. this out of control group
of rambo wannabees is a danger to the republic.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country.

well , i figure you 're going to get flamed pretty badly by
everybody else for this incredibly stupid statement , so i 'll
just let it pass for now.

case western reserve , huh \? do the feds know about that big
stockpile of automatic weapons and crack you have in your
house \? are you the same daniel oldham that lives on orchard
drive \? just so they get the address right , that is...

look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

well , it used to be a great country. now i'm not so sure.
i knew a few of those good people who died in wars i was
in viet nam. i can assure you , none of us fought to protect
the right of the government to attack its own citizens with
military force without provocation. (hint serving a search warrant
is not sufficient provocation to stage a military style assault
on a religious group. at least not here in the us. maybe in
iraq , or syria...)

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.

this is a joke , right \? or are they really letting fools like
you into cwru now \? too bad. used to be a good school. how 'd you
get in anyway , did your old man buy a new wing for the library \?

from jfs@cco.caltech.edu (johanes f. swenberg)
subject re my gun is like my....
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 63
nntp posting host punisher.caltech.edu

in article 1993apr16.194708.13273@vax.oxford.ac.uk jaj@vax.oxford.ac.uk writes
what all you turkey pro pistol and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you
just make me chuckle

steve ,
it 's nice that you find me laughable but i do n't quite
understand. is it because you think my firearms clash with
what i'm wearing , or that my nra sticker is n't on straight \?
please state your judgement !
i find it sad that people wo n't accept the responsibility
to defend themselves. and i laugh with the same contempt you
have for me at the sheep who expect the government to protect
them.

what he did n't realize was that we took a photo of the back of his truck , and
showed it to our friends when we got back to vancouver , canada (where i'm from
originally). people were guffawing at the basic stupidity of such a
sticker , and the even greater stupidity of the person who put it there in the
first place ! )

you and your friends sound like a bunch of smug intellectuals.

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world
perceives you gun nut morons.

oh , i guess you are. i'm still waiting for you all knowing
academic likes to solve the worlds problems. let us know when
you have the answers or punch lines as this case may be.

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national
eccentricity , in that easy to purchase weapons are being smuggled cross the
border.

so it 's not a yankee thing \?
are canadians actually as uncivilized as we americans \?

hell , here in britain , the cops do n't even carry guns.

well if it 's anything like here it would n't matter if they
did they would n't be able to use them.

hell , as i recall , in people 's court , even rusty carried a gun ! never
know , some plaintiff might go nuts. ) )

you should n't waste your time watching tv , steve. it will corrupt
your mind.


anyway , all you gun nut rush limbaugh fans , please keep up your diatribes
against brady and other evil liberal media plots you 're so damn funny !
you provide endless amounts of entertainment in your arguments and examples of
why someone should be allowed to carry a piece ! keep us all chuckling !

ditto to you , self righteous one.
lay your derogatory tirade on thick , steve. y'all can keep laughing and
i 'll keep feeling safe and secure.


steve


johanes

from ccdarg@dct.ac.uk (alan greig)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization dundee institute of technology
lines 32

in article 1993apr21.053035.29591@mcs.kent.edu , mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman) writes
in article 1r1j1l 4t@transfer.stratus.com , cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr20.143255.12711@mcs.kent.edu , mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman) writes

oh , then , i guess that shooting those kind of babies is all right.

you sick bastard.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


why thanks for your reply to my post. by the way , i never , never ever said
that it was right to shoot those kind of babies. however it was the branch
davidian people in there that insisted on staying there with their savior
(yeah right budy boy) because he had brain washed them into believing that
what ever he says is the truth , even if means that they are to give up their
lives for his cause. therefore it is davids fault and not the atf 's
who gave them 50 to 51 days to get out , this was 50 days to many for me and

for goodness sake if they had fired a cruise missile at the compound more
people would have come out alive. it was obvious to anyone with the remotest
contact with reality that such an outcome was likely (not just possible)
however the fire started. as , mr lawnmower , you seem to have already entered
your own little virtual reality i guess you ca n't be expected to understand
things in the real universe.

alan greig janet a.greig@uk.ac.dct
dundee institute of technology internet a.greig@dct.ac.uk
tel (0382) 308810 (int 44 382 308810)
never underestimate the power of human stupidity

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re will cs burn or explode
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 21

rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy) writes

the fbi released large amounts of cs tear gas into the compound in
waco. cs tear gas is a fine power. is cs inflammable. grain dust
suspended in air can form an explosive mixture , will cs suspended in air
form an explosive mix \? could large quantities of cs have fueled the
rapid spread of fire in the compound \?

no chance. if that cs ignited at all , it would have been
quite similar to a grain bin explosion. explosion , i note. the
entire compound would have been leveled , not merely burned. as
there was no explosion , there was no cs ignition causing the fire.

note at five miles a decent grain elevator explosion will
knock you on your butt and your ears will ring for days. i speak
from experience here.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from george guillory wk04942@worldlink.com
subject tx. senator bob krueger rtkba statement
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1
organization performance systems int'l
x mailer worldlink dos (3.3)
lines 10

for those of you interested , i just finished talking with a
representative of senator bob krueger 's reelection campaign about his
position on the rtkba. krueger was appointed by the democratic governor
of texas to complete lloyd bentsen 's unexpired term.

the representative said that senator krueger did not have a position and
would only comment on specific legislation that was pending. no comment
was available on the various versions of the brady bill.

be warned and vote accordingly.

from shepard@netcom.com (mark shepard)
subject s414 (brady bill) loopholes \?
keywords brady handguns s414 hr1025 hr277 instant check waiting period
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution na
lines 40

hi. i 've just finished reading s414 , and have several questions about
the brady bills (s414 and hr1025).

1. are these the current versions of the brady bill \?
what is the status of these bills \? i 've heard they 're in committee .
how close is that to being made law \?

2. s414 and hr1025 seem fairly similar. are there any important
differences i missed \?

3. s414 seems to have some serious loopholes
a. s414 does n't specify an appeals process to wrongful denial during
the waiting period , other than a civil lawsuit( \? ) (s414 has an appeals
process once the required instant background check system is established ,
but not before).
b. the police are explicitly not liable for mistakes in denying approving
using existing records (so who would i sue in a above to have an
inaccurate record corrected \? )
c. s414 includes an exception to waiting period clause for if a person
can convince the local chief law enforcement officer (cleo) of an
immediate threat to his or her life , or life of a household member.
but s414 does n't say exactly what is considered a threat , nor does
it place a limit on how long the cleo takes to issue an exception
statement.
true \? have i misunderstood \? any other 'holes \?

4. with just s414 , what 's to stop a person with a clean record from
buying guns , grinding off the serial numbers , and selling them to crooks \?
at minimum , what additional laws are needed to prevent this \?

'seems at min. a gun counting scheme would be needed
(e.g. , john doe owns n guns ). so , if s414 passes , i would n't be surprised
to see legislation for stricter , harder to forge i.d. 's plus national gun
registration , justified by a need to make the brady bill work.

please comment. i'm mainly interested in specific problems with the current
legislation i do n't mean to start a general discussion of the merits
of any all waiting period bills ever proposed.

marks shepard@netcom.com

from chris@morningstar.com (chris miller)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
nntp posting host beluga.morningstar.com
organization usr local etc organization
lines 79

in article 1993apr14.182610.2330@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
in article 1993apr14.120958.11363@synapse.bms.com , hambidge@bms.com writes

the second amendment is about sovereignty , not sporting goods.

perfectly correct , but it wo n't make any difference.

i agree. sad , but true.


self defense is a valid reason for rkba.

the vast majority get through life without ever having to
own , use or display a firearm. besides , there are other
means of self protection which can be just as effective
as firearms.

please name one.


freedoms and rights are not dependent on public opinion , necessity , or
scientific scrutiny.

new to this planet \? everything is dependent on either public
or political opinion , usually political. to imagine that
inalienable 'rights' are somehow wired into the vast cold
cosmos is purest egotism and a dangerous delusion.


.... upon which our bill of rights is based. some delusion.

no arguments against rkba can withstand scientific scrutiny.

they do n't have to. like so many other things , the issue
is one of perception rather than boring statistics.
every time some young innocent is gunned down in a drive
by , every time some kid is murdered for a jacket , every
time a store clerk is executed for three dollars in change ,
every time some moron kills his wife because she took the
last beer from the fridge , every time someone hears a 'bang'
in the night .... the rkba dies. the stats are not all that
clearly behind firearms the protection factor does not
strongly outweigh the mindless mayhem factor. given society
as we now experience it it seems safer to get rid of
as many guns as possible. that may be an error , but enough
active voters believe in that course.


if this were not true in practice , then certain unethical politicians would
not be passing gun control laws. politicians are generally whores to public
opinion. this does not mean the the public is either well informed or correct.
as for the stats , anyone can support anything with the right stats. the
right stats , from what i 've seen , are sometimes even used to support
conflicting sides of the same issue.


how do you intend to 'silence' rkba supporters \?

talk all you want. talk about the good old days when
you used to own firearms. after a while , such talk will
take on the character of war stories ... and no one will
be very interested anymore.


used to own firearms \? while armed insurrection , as the ff 's of the const.
may have envisioned seems to me a somewhat fanatical approach to avoiding this ,
political protest is still an option at this point. i agree that it 's
argueably not enough and or too late. if all else fails , there 's always
pvc pipe and cosmoline.



chris miller
chris@morningstar.com

my opinions are my own (obviously) , and by definition do not reflect the
opinions of anyone else...



from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 62

in article c4tshu.ew6@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
that 's all very well and good , but i was refering to all
homocides , not just ones involving handguns (what is this fixation
on death by shooting , as if it were somehow worse than death
by stabbing \? )

what relevance are all homicides in this debate \? ...
the issue is guns , not baseball bats.

no. the issue is reducing crime , not guns. if gun control does n't
lower crime overall , then is does n't address the issue.

...even a simpleton knows that
he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball bat...

does that matter if assaults with a baseball bat become much
more common \? muggers using a gun rely primarily on the
threat of the gun , and rarely shoot their victim. a mugger
using a knife is much more likely to start by stabbing his victim
in an effort incapacitate him. so , while a knif may not
be as deadly as a gun , criminals are more likely to actually
use the knife (as opposed to threatening the victim with it.)
it is n't at all clear that replacing the criminal 's gun with a
knife would reduce murders. stabbings might just become more
common. that 's why it is important to look at the overall
(not the with gun) homicide rate. it avoids the issue of
substitution , different criminal techinques of using different
weapons , etc... and measures what we want to prevent murders.

as for knives , see my earlier post. i 'd much rather face a knife
than a gun , thanks.

face \? possibly. however , facing knife welding attackers is n't
too common stabbing without warning and by supprise is the
usual tactic. very few criminals shoot from cover it attracts
to much attention and they do n't have a chance to go through your
pockets. overall , i 'd much rather be threatened with a gun
than actually stabbed with a knife.

...fortunately , the best defense against a knife is n't
another knife. anyone trained in unarmed self defense wo n't have
much of a problem disarming a knife assailant untrained in knife
assault (which probably means 99.9 of knife assailants).

actually , the exact same statement is true of guns training in
unarmed self defence will let you disarm an untrained gunman
without much problem.

you also ignore the criminal 's reaction the national crime
survey clearly shows that criminals (unarmed , armed with a
knife , gun or whatever) are unwilling to risk their lives
in a confrontation. if faced with a serious threat , almost
all prefer to leave and find an easier target. therefore ,
using (or threatening to use , as is much more commonly the case)
a weapon is the best defence against an attacker , regardless
of how he is armed. knives , however , are much less effective
than guns criminals do n't consider knifes as a serious threat
nearly as often as they do guns.

frank crary
cu boulder


from awesley@vela.acs.oakland.edu (awesley)
subject re that silly outdated bill (was re koresh and miranda)
organization oakland university , rochester , michigan , u.s.a.
lines 115
nntp posting host vela.acs.oakland.edu

scottj@magic.dml.georgetown.edu (john l. scott) writes


the issue has never been whether tanks were used in detroit in 1967. it
has been whether they fired their main guns.

never \? this is incorrect. either you do n't read very well or resort
to falsehoods in an attempt to make a point.

at the risk of boring and belaboring the point , my claim was
the chain was regarding the tanks last used in detroit in 48 .
the text follows.

you did not merely claim that
tanks were used you claimed that they fired their main guns to suppress
sniper fire and that they were quite effective at this.

indeed , when coffman claimed they were only used as apcs , i did say
i had been told they did fire their main guns.

you continue to
back away from this claim and defend something else that nobody is
disputing.

well , the poster who i responded to did dispute the use of tanks
post 48. rude of you to call gary coffman a nobody.

well , it 's not the main gun. gee , that 's only the entire point. are you
now going to admit that you were wrong \?

that was the entire point to you . what exactly did i claim \?

i 've heard eye witness descriptions of tanks using their main guns
to respond to sniper fire. quite effectively.


i was n't wrong . . . i 've heard those descriptions. if you 're
paying attention , i 've mentioned that i saw the tanks with my own
eyes , but the main gun firing was an account i heard. that helps
people judge whether or not to kick in the , to use your words ,
bullshit filters . stating that i claimed this is a falsehood.

what was it i claimed as fact \? here 's the entire post

we have n't used tanks against the black ghettos since detroit 1948.

correction. i know they used tanks in detroit 1968. i saw em , it
was well covered in the news at that time. gordon lightfoot mentions
it in his song black day in july .


since you do n't dispute that and claim that nobody else does , that
means i was right.

i will never read of tanks firing their main guns in detroit in the '67
riots. there is simply no way that such an event could have taken place
without it being common knowledge even 26 years later. the american
military firing shells from tanks in american cities on blacks would have
been big news.

so one would suppose. some folks think in happened in 48.

awesley goes on
you can also read of the troops using grenade launchers.

to fire fragmentary grenades \? i doubt that as well. to fire concussion
grenades \? perhaps. to fire tear gas \? certainly. but you would be
perfectly willing to let us believe they fired frags , would n't you , since
it makes your other claim seem more plausible.

john , again , strawman techniques. do you feel you 're losing it so you
have to stretch what i said and knock that down \? what i read said
nothing about what they fired. and so i put nothing in there. if you
need some help , let me know and i'l take your side of this for a
while. you 're not scoring here , you 're boring here.

if tanks had fired their main guns in detroit , people would have been
screaming about it for the past two and half decades. i would know about
it.

glad to know you 're such an expert. nice to hear some an
authority. i especially appreciate your basis of knowledge if it
had happened , you would have know it. since you are such an
authority , you probably know that people did scream about an alleged
massive cover up in the number of people killed in the detroit riot.
some claimed 100 dead , others said 300. the offical number is 43 but
the concise columbia encyclopedia says it was several . i 've also
heard some things about that but i wo n't dare repeat them. you 'd
assert that i claimed they were truth.

unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up.

taking the tour after the riots , it was pretty easy to tell the
difference between army and guard troops. or so i recall from 26
years ago. and i seem to recall it was the army running the tanks.
so it would have been an army cover up.

another part of my memories was that while most damaged building
were burnt , some were in rubble. based on what i remember , i was and
am inclined to believe an old sarge or two.

if your mind is open enough to believe that , well , good for you. i prefer
to live in reality. and here in reality , i find it hard to believe that
those tanks even had any shells , much less fired them.

given the level in destruction in detroit , i'm quite willing to believe
that they did fire their guns.

now then , we 've bored the shit out of anyone whose bothered to read
this far and all you 've managed to say is that you do n't believe the
account i cited.

john l. scott

wes

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution usa
lines 62

in article 93105.165359u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.184452.27322@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says
hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

now we know that kratz does n't understand what a safety is supposed to
do. (he also confuses things he can see with things that exist
glocks have multiple safeties even though only one is visible from the
outside.)

excuse me but i do know what i safety is supposed to do.

kratz comments above show otherwise.

it 's basic purpose not to let the gun fire until you 're ready.

bingo now the question is , does the glock 's qualify \? let 's see
the evidence that kratz uses.

christ , i 've known that since i had my first crosman air gun. you do n't
know me so do n't make assumptions about what i know and do n't know.

but first an aside. having an air gun proves nothing. moreover ,
my comments are based on what kratz writes. he 's free to argue that
he babbles in text but actually knows something off line.

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's
what the user wants. with glocks , one says i want the gun to go
off by pulling the trigger. if the safeties it has make that work ,
it has a real safety , no matter what kratz thinks.

from the things i have read heard glocks are always knocked because of the
trigger safety. they are supposedly harder to learn to use properly.

harder than what \? i note that almost all revolvers work the same way ,
so it ca n't be harder than revolvers .

every article that i have read ca n't be wrong about the damn thing.

sure they can. (moreover , we know now that kratz' sample is
unrepresentative.) we can look at the reasoning. it is basically
these glocks are dangerous because they 're not like my 1911 s w third
generation. part of that is true , but since those same people do n't
claim that revolvers , which share the relevant property , are
dangerous , we see that the argument fails.

me to quote my sources because i do n't keep a ton of gun magazines and or

why would i care \? i'm not looking for more bogus reasoning.

rec.guns articles laying around. boy , you ca n't make a simple statement on
here without someone getting right on your ass.

one can make hundreds of simple statements without having anyone
getting right on your ass . one merely has to make accurate simple
statements. then you get attaboy s by mail and publically.

accuracy is a severe burden , but most of us manage it.

andy


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject a scoop of waco road , please
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com
keywords topical , smirk

your lite posting for the day , from rec.humor.funny

in article s539.2adf@looking.on.ca , bellas@tti.com (pete bellas) writes

there is a new ice cream flavor inspired by the incident at waco.

it 's called mount caramel , it 's full of nuts but you ca n't get it out
of the carton.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from gardner@convex.com (steve gardner)
subject re gov't break ins (re 60 minutes)
nntp posting host imagine.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 25

in article 1993apr5.155733.114@pasadena dc.bofa.com franceschi@pasadena dc.bofa.com writes
in viet nam , lt calley was tried and convicted of murder because his
troops , in a war setting , deliberately killed innocent people. it is time
that the domestic law enforcement agencies in this country adhere to
standards at least as moral as the military 's.
here ! here ! but any call for responsibility and accountability
from police is invariably interpreted as being soft on crime .
being tough on crime and building more prisons and seizing more
property is the politically astute thing to do these days.


greed killed the rancher , possibly greed killed the davidian children.
government greed.
and citizen complacency !

it is time to prosecute the leaders who perform these invasions.
do n't forget the politicians that write the laws that make it
easy for the police agencies to become corrupt. the war on some
drugs brought us this corruption and only an end to it (legalization)
will stop the corruption.


smg



subject re cop kills teenager
from kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim)
organization harvard university science center
keywords handgun mace pepper spray taser tasp phaser
nntp posting host scws8.harvard.edu
lines 43

.acns.colostate.edu holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes
suspended police officer arrested in revenge triple homicide

providence , r.i. (ap) a police officer afraid he would be fired for
allegedly assaulting a teen ager walked into an auto body shop wher the youth
worked , said you 're going to die and fatally shot him and two others , police
said.
a fourth youth was wounded. a fifth escaped injury by hiding under a car.
suspended police officer robert sabetta , 23 , of cranston , was arrested at
gunpoint over three hours after the shooting at wilson 's auto enterprises in
foster , a rural town of about 4 , 000 people in northwest rhode island.
doug holland

i think i have updated info on this. my understandingis that
former officer cranston approached a teenager who was being questioned
by another officer. officer cranston struck teenager a in the head
with a heavy police flashlight , causing a significant , though not
life threatening. there is no evidence that teenager a was
doing anything threatening at the time. teenager a was released
on bail recognizance and filed a formal complaint against officer
cranston. the police chief suspended cranston pending an
investigation into the use of excessive force.
the above is pretty clear... but what seems to have
happened is this. the chief requested cranston 's gun , but cranston
refused to turn it over until the chief went the cranston 's home
to get it. sources said cranston had always wanted to be
a cop and was very afraid of loosing his job because of the complaint
against him.
a few days afterward , cranston allegedly walked into
wilson 's garage , where teenager a and friends were known to
hang out and work on cars as a hobby. cranston fatally shot
teenager a as well as teenagers b and c. teenager d was shot once
in the shoulder chest. teenager e was working under the car
and was not noticed by officer cranston. teenager d went to a home
and summoned police , who went to wilson 's garage and found the
3 corpses and one unscathed survivor.

a few days after his arrest , officer cranston attemped
to commit suicide in his cell.
case kim




from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 66
distribution usa
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 93105.215548u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz
u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
in article 1993apr15.202811.29312@csd newshost.stanford.edu ,
andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says

i have been at a shooting range where
gang members were practicing shooting.

how do we know that they were gang members and not undercover cops
or even law abiding menacing minorities. btw why the sneer quotes \?

we know because the area that the gun shop shooting range is in is right on
the border of the west side of chicago. that is a gang infested area. there
are many , many bad things going on in that area. also , i have several
friends
that live very close to that area who have had problems with some of these
folks. by the way , where did i say that they were minorities \?

that was what i got from your phrasing , too. well , then , were they (the ones
you saw) black \? you do n't deny seem to deny it , either.

do you think
that only minorities have gangs \? not so. as far as the quotes are concerned
it was totally obvious that they were n't just practicing for marksmanship. i
do n't know about you but i have never seen anyone else practice marksmanship
by
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting.

that is the recommended way to practice with a ccw , too. aim alone is no good
for defense , if you ca n't get the gun rapidly.

if
you would have been there andy it would 've been obvious to you too.

what , outside of prejudice , would have made it obvious \?

of course
it might not have been. who knows. all i do know is that i was there , i
live
here and i know that they were gang bangers. when you live here long enough
it
becomes pretty easy to spot them via gang colors , gang signs , etc.

yes , prejudice is more subtle in the north , is n't it \?

one last
thing. my sister is a social worker. she makes it her point to find these
things out (gang signs , colors , etc) because it is in her best interest to do
so. she is nice enough to let me know these things so i can watch out for
myself as i live right on the border of the west side of the city. enough
said.


more than enough. i understand you completely.

jason

jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
lines 77
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article cmm.0.90.2.735386976.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes

i do n't remember the figures exactly , but there were about 3500 deaths in texas
in 1991 that was caused by guns.....

how about firearm related.

this is more than those beeing killed in car accidents !

texas is unusual in this regard. it would be nice to reduce them
both , though.

as texas does n't appear to have an murder rate that much higher than
the national average , i would expect it is a result of a much higher
suicide rate.

i should not suffer because of others....

be nice if you did n't have to suffer at all.

we all agree on this one , but we also live in a sociaty and therefor
we 'll have to give up some of our 'freedom' (note the '').

here 's where we run into a problem. i am perfectly willing to
have government regulation on something which is likely to cause others
harm. what we 're discussing , though , is the extreme regulation of a large
group in order to target a small group , and i do n't think that 's
appropriate.

do you have an insurance \? \?
then you 'll have to pay because of what others do...

do you buy anything \? \?
you are paying for those who return goods , steal or even those who gets a bonus...

do you live with other people \? \?
then you 'ca n't' do ererything you 'd want (burping farting playing music loud)

does this , then , justify anything \? at some point you have to draw
a line (at least to my way of thinking) where the government must have
something a little more substantial than a set of percentages with which
to punish an individual.

where do you draw the line \? or is there one \?

one state (do n't remember which , texas \? \? ) tried to impose a rule that you could
only buy one gun each month. think you all know what happened.....

virginia. it passed.

i respect the right to defend yourself , but that right should not inflict on
other people.

does it \?

it seems like you all realize that you have a problem in america , the only
problem is that you wo n't take the car away from the drunk driver , you
hope to cure him first.

cute analogy.

the u.s. does n't treat drunk driving like a serious crime. however ,
we also do n't confiscate cars of people who drink. we also do n't confiscate
all cars because some people drink and drive. it 's the core of the legal
system that in order to punish an individual (and i 'd call property
confiscation a punishment) you must have evidence against that individual.
that is , it is n't enough to show that the majority of people convicted of
murder are white in order to convict a particular white guy of murder.

hope life comfirms to the standard of winnie the poh.

huh \?

david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re blast them next time
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 22
distribution usa
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1r19l9 7dv@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

the batf is there to collect taxes , not to protect your sorry ass or mine.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country.

all flame bait , of course. if you really want to be flame bait , send me
your address and i 'll tell the batf about those automatic weapons you
have stockpiled. you 'll be warm in no time.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com (dillon pyron)
subject re s414 (brady bill) loopholes \?
keywords brady handguns s414 hr1025 hr277 instant check waiting period
lines 74
nntp posting host skndiv.dseg.ti.com
reply to pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
organization ti dseg vax support
distribution na


in article shepardc5p2y6.gc1@netcom.com , shepard@netcom.com (mark shepard) writes
hi. i 've just finished reading s414 , and have several questions about
the brady bills (s414 and hr1025).

good !

1. are these the current versions of the brady bill \?
what is the status of these bills \? i 've heard they 're in committee .
how close is that to being made law \?

not very. thanks to the filibuster in the senate , things are backing up. the
house judiciary is going to start looking at our friends from the atf , so that
bill will be held up a little , too. note things can change quickly.


2. s414 and hr1025 seem fairly similar. are there any important
differences i missed \?

3. s414 seems to have some serious loopholes
a. s414 does n't specify an appeals process to wrongful denial during
the waiting period , other than a civil lawsuit( \? ) (s414 has an appeals
process once the required instant background check system is established ,
but not before).

i thought there was a correction process in both bills for both parts.

b. the police are explicitly not liable for mistakes in denying approving
using existing records (so who would i sue in a above to have an
inaccurate record corrected \? )

very correct.

c. s414 includes an exception to waiting period clause for if a person
can convince the local chief law enforcement officer (cleo) of an
immediate threat to his or her life , or life of a household member.
but s414 does n't say exactly what is considered a threat , nor does
it place a limit on how long the cleo takes to issue an exception
statement.

welcome to the world of the privileged .

true \? have i misunderstood \? any other 'holes \?

how about no compulsion to allow purchase if there is no evidence against \?


4. with just s414 , what 's to stop a person with a clean record from
buying guns , grinding off the serial numbers , and selling them to crooks \?
at minimum , what additional laws are needed to prevent this \?

it is already illegal to do this.


'seems at min. a gun counting scheme would be needed
(e.g. , john doe owns n guns ). so , if s414 passes , i would n't be surprised
to see legislation for stricter , harder to forge i.d. 's plus national gun
registration , justified by a need to make the brady bill work.

this is the health card. or so some paranoids claim. i say that just
because you 're paranoid does n't mean they 're not out to get you. ) 1 2


please comment. i'm mainly interested in specific problems with the current
legislation i do n't mean to start a general discussion of the merits
of any all waiting period bills ever proposed.

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com solutions , not gestures.
padi dm 54909


from pspod@bigbird.lerc.nasa.gov (steve podleski)
subject re founding father questions
nntp posting host bigbird.lerc.nasa.gov
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio
lines 21

arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements) writes
was n't she the one making the comment in '88 about george being born with
a silver foot in his mouth \? sounds like another damn politician to me.

ai n't like the old days in texas anymore. the politicians may have been
corrupt then , but at least they 'd take a stand. (my apologies to a few
exceptions i can think of.)

news now is that the house may already have a two thirds majority , so
her opposition out of her concern for image (she 's even said this
publicly) may not matter.

do people expect the texans congressmen to act as the n.j. republicans did \?



steve podleski phone 216 433 4000
nasa lewis research center
cleveland , ohio 44135 email pspod@gonzo.lerc.nasa.gov



from bixledn@eng.auburn.edu (david n. bixler)
subject re my gun is like my american express car
nntp posting host liberator.eng.auburn.edu
reply to bixledn@eng.auburn.edu
organization auburn university engineering
lines 36

in article 27322@csd newshost.stanford.edu , andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes
in article 93104.231049u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as
i am not really familiar enough with handguns.

that 's not all that kratz does n't know.

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

now we know that kratz does n't understand what a safety is supposed to
do. (he also confuses things he can see with things that exist
glocks have multiple safeties even though only one is visible from the
outside.)

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's
what the user wants. with glocks , one says i want the gun to go
off by pulling the trigger. if the safeties it has make that work ,
it has a real safety , no matter what kratz thinks.

andy



i agree very much. i have read almost every article written about
the glock , and imo , it is probably the safest auto loader made. it
has the best safty of all , jeff cooper 's first rule , keep your finger
off the trigger until you want to shoot. if everyone just observed
this , there would be fewer accidents .

david n. bixler
auburn university

standard disclaimers apply.


from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 108

thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes

i hate long postings , but this turned out to be rather lengthy....

that 's ok you can mail me if you want more discussion.

acquiring weapons in norway
you can buy (almost) all kinds of weapons in norway , but you must have a
permit , and a good reason to get the permit....

around here , long guns are proof of age and fill out the forms.
for pistols , nation wide check for felonies and three days wait. the
good reason is the difference , and one americans tend to get annoyed
over as we see no reason the guy with the badge is any better than us.

it 's a little like getting a drivers licence is n't it \? \? \?
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to...

not when dealing with america. i can drive an 18 wheel truck
with no permit , no license , and at age 12 if i'm engaged in farming
work. strange , that , but there is little to no problem with this.
again , personal rights versus collective security.

some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners 'arms'
for a long time , but these are rather the exeption.
most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short
time befor the crime.

strange that the rates would decline , since killing somebody
is much more frowned upon than merely stealing a gun.

use of knives
it is allowed to cary knifes in public , but not in your belt or 'open'.
you (americans) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open
in public rigth \? \?

why attract attention \? i carry my sword openly to and from
practice , as that is the only legal thing i can do. i also attract
a lot of attention doing this. i 'd rather be lost in a crowd of one
than be the subject of attention while carrying a weapon. think of
the word intimidation and you can see where intimidation is not
the preferable method for the normal citizen.

scandinavians are 'aggressive'
we northeners are not as hot livered as southeners , but when we decide
to take action we do.
ask any historian or millitary with an knowledge of europe....
(or ask any german who served in norway in ww2.....)

aggressive towards whom \? southerners \? germans \? precisely
why i think your society is less violent , weapons aside.

yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some
extent....
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses \? \?
what happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of
all the masses \? \? editor barf dan

then the masses have the same rights as the individuals , because
everything comes down to the individual in one instance or another. to
draw an analogy , norway is involved in the eec. the usa in involved in
nato. the eec requires certain changes in your laws. nato requires
no such changes in usa law. these laws affect citizens , and hence
norway is saying europe is more important than , say , norwegians having
motorcycles that make over 100bhp. in the usa , we 'd likely tell the
eec to get stuffed since the eec has no business , in our eyes , in
telling us how much horsepower we can safely ride. while i note
that our own state governments often play with game with the federal
government , in essence this is a cultural difference between us.

if i lived in amerika i would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in home.
but should it have to be like that \? \?

it should n't. since neither of our countries has managed to
remove criminals from society , in america we feel (and remember we
have individual states that are larger than your country) that if the
police cannot protect us then we must do so ourselves. the criminals
in our country are quite violent , hence we prepare for them.

do you think it 's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) \? \?
if you believe it 's smart neccacery to have drivers licence why do you think
it should be free to buy guns \? \?

we do n't. e mail me to find out just how difficult it really
is in this country. it is easier than in yours , but theft is far
easier than the troubles we go through to purchase over here.

i would defend my home , loved ones and country , but i do n't view guns as
neccities or toys.

they are neither. they are an option. we would never force
you to own guns if you lived here. we would , however , fight to keep
that option open to you.

i have done army service , and have used a variaty of weapons , but would n't
want to have one for self defence or because they 'feel good'....

then you show you are a responsible , rational user of weapons.
welcome to our ranks. now , how do we teach the young people this sort
of responsibility \? cultures seem to have a grave impact here.

i notice you did n't use my great grandfather 's name. well ,
he did n't like it much either )

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from paale@stud.cs.uit.no (paal ellingsen)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization university of tromsoe
lines 17

in article 1r0qsrinnc61@clem.handheld.com , jim de arras writes
mr. roby , you are a government sucking heartless bastard. humans died
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the actions
they did. that is the undeniable truth.

...the question is for how long \? even if the fbi had done nothing , i guess the
bds would have committed suicide , but maybe not until hunger and thirst gave them
the choice between sucide or surrender.
the bds was warned in beforehand about the fbi action. they had the chance to
surrender and get a fair trial. no matter who started the fire , the bds were
responsible for 80 peole dying. no one else.



paal ellingsen borgensvingen 67 102 tlf. 083 50933
paale@stud.cs.uit.no 9100 kvaloeysletta data dobbelt arbeid til alle


from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 91

in article 1qpavfinn2jp@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes
in article 0096b294.aad9c1e0@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu reimer@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu
(paul e. reimer) writes
in article 1qkftjinnoij@cronkite.cisco.com , pitargue@cisco.com (marciano
pitargue) writes

stuff deleted about causes of people in er

due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes. maybe we should outlaw
cars.
there are a lot of automobile accidents , but atleast there is some
regulation to try to combat this.

such as \? drunk drivers get back on the road in no time , to kill again. seems
the driver 's license process does not work for this.

i can testify to this. my cousin spent a few weeks in the hospital , and his
friend was killed , because of a drunk driver. the son of a b is back on
the streets... officers from the scene are still p ed about that one.

to take a drivers safety class.

because you wanted one while you were underage.

i have to be licensed to drive.

only on public roads.

my car
must be registered.

only if it is to be driven on public roads , other than between segments of my
property.

i must (at least where i live) have liability
insurance on both myself driving and my car (if someone else had an
accident with it).

only on public roads.
and this obviously does n't always work , else why would they offer uninsured
motorist coverage \?

hmm , would n't manditory saftey classes , registration
of both the owner and gun , and manditory liability insurance be nice for
gun owners.
i object to mandatory registration because i do n't trust my government not to
use any information i give them for their own purposes. i am licensed to
carry a concealed pistol in my home state , but they never asked whether i
actually owned a firearm. a safety class before issuing a permit to carry is
reasonably , provided such classes are regularly available to the public. of
course , most places would consider my time in the reserves and on a competition
rifle team to count.

perhaps , if it gave them permission to shoot in public roads and parks. )
hey , now that 's an idea )

paul reimer

jim

now , unless you have an agenda against private ownership of firearms , why would
you want to harass the person trying to legally defend themselves or exercise
their rights \? (i know , defending oneself family whoever is a right... at least
as far as my 9mm and i are concerned... ) (also as far as the state of alabama
seems to be concerned) why do n't you push for stricter prosecution of those
who use firearms in the commission of a crime \? i 've already pointed out how
we are n't nailing dui 's hard enough... comparing the us with other countries
seldom works , but the european attitude towards alchohol and dui seems to work..
their attitude towards weapons is n't really a valid comparison because they 've
historically done their best to keep the populace disarmed and submissive ,
while our country was founded by a bunch of rugged individualists who told the
european monarchies (for the most part) to take a flying leap (used more polite
language though). we even weaseled out of our first international treaty , and
then convinced the french that it was in their best interests not to complain..
but first we had to overcome the fact that the brits were doing their best to
restrict us to squirrel guns and such , so we 'd be properly submissive while
they forced us to pay for their wars. of course , most american history classes
these days tend to gloss over facts that do not fit the image they wish to
convey... i'm glad my amer. hist. teacher was a libertarian who had us review
a good portion of the federalist papers , and debate their origins and meanings.

enough rambling ,

james




james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject re high power assault guns
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 12

in article 1993apr14.143825.13476@stortek.com vojak@icebucket.stortek.com (bill vojak) writes
alaska with 1 uzi , 1 20 rnd magazine , and 1 big polar bear @

i 'd make that , 1 big , mad , and hungry with cubs nearby polar bear @...

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

from kckluge@eecs.umich.edu (karl kluge)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ....
in reply to arf@genesis.mcs.com 's message of 15 apr 1993 20 57 53 0500
organization university of michigan
lines 21


from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ....
date 15 apr 1993 20 57 53 0500

i ca n't speak for the organizations you cited but everywhere you look in
our society and government , one can see the relentless movement toward
one world government. the fact that the media demeans such charished
values as patriotism , nationalism and protectionism are some of the
clues....our porous border both people and trade are an indiciation that
we have already lost a great deal of sovergnty.

...and i'm sure that people who were big fans of fuedalism pissed and
moaned about the emergence of the modern nation state. imagine , the king
allowing serfs their freedom if they could live in the city for a year !
times change , technology changes , viable forms of social organization
change. while concerns about preserving western notions of civil liberties
in the face of cultures with very different values is a valid one , it 's
a waste of effort to try to turn back the tide. it 's much smarter to focus
on trying to make sure that the emerging forms of social organization are
acceptable than it iss to lament the passing of the old forms.

from cathy@lance.colostate.edu (cathy smith)
subject letter to a liberal colleague l. neil smith
distribution usa
nntp posting host blanca.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523
lines 147

posted by cathy smith for l. neil smith

letter to a liberal colleague

author's note adrian name changed to protect the guilty
and the author are science fiction novelists who once worked with
the same editor at a famous new york publishing house.

dear adrian

i'm way behind schedule on my current book again , so this reply to
your note criticizing the recent magazine interview i gave and
generally attacking gun ownership will necessarily consist
mostly of assertions you 're free to believe (or not) i can back
with evidence and logic i 've neither time nor energy to present
now. i 've written fully on this topic before and will again in the
future. when i do , i 'll make sure you get copies.

there are many arguments i might make , from the futility and danger
of delegating self defense to the police (see don kates in the jan.
10 , 1985 wall street journal) to the real effect of prohibition ,
shifting consumers from newly outlawed handguns or semiautomatic
rifles to items like sawed off shotguns or homemade bombs , but i 'll
limit myself here to commenting on the newspaper clipping you sent
with your note.

first , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process
nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

second , publication of some latter day scientific study does n't
alter the fact that the gun prohibitionists i discussed in my
interview annoying you so much in the process were lying.

third , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process
nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

fourth , as often happens with these things , the study does n't
support the gun prohibitionists' original numerical contentions
anyway , but simply adds a new layer of spurious claims to an older
body of lies , omissions , and distortions.

fifth , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process
nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

sixth , the fact that gun prohibitionists have been caught lying on
countless occasions (carl bakal , author of no right to keep and
bear arms , even confessed to it publicly) makes the value of this
present study dubious , to say the least.

seventh , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is
a natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil ,
and constitutional right subject neither to the democratic
process nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

eighth , given your own lifelong service as a federal bureaucrat
(not to mention the cynical sophistication of your fiction) , you
should be better aware than most people how progress in
designing studies to prove whatever you want outstrips our
ability to collect meaningful data. a case in point we might agree
on is the fact that it took another kind of prohibitionist 20 or 30
years to create studies proving that pornography causes crime.
more naive (and probably more honest) efforts in the 50s and 60s
clearly indicate the contrary.

ninth , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process
nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

tenth , another reason to doubt all such studies is that human
behavior (as the austrian school of economics demonstrates) is far
too complex and unpredictable to be meaningfully quantified. the
attempt to do so and then create public policy based on the
resulting pseudo information is wrecking our civilization.

eleventh , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is
a natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil ,
and constitutional right subject neither to the democratic
process nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

twelfth , the study is also worthless because it incorporates
figures for suicide , which is not necessarily a tragedy but
basically another individual right , sometimes with ancillary social
benefits. if anything , perhaps suicide intervention should be a
criminal offense.

thirteenth and finally , the national rifle association officials
quoted in the article , whatever their shortcomings (and they are
many) , are correct in this instance the study is meaningless
because the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process
nor to arguments grounded in social utility.

and because of that , adrian , even if the study were valid , it
would n't deter me from a lifelong personal objective of seeing that
anyone can own any weapon he or she prefers and carry it however ,
whenever , and wherever he or she desires without asking anybody 's
permission. in this i'm ably assisted by gun prohibitionists
themselves , whose yawping invariably moves previously unarmed
people to go out and buy their first gun while they still can .
before the '68 gun control act , most of the shooting fraternity
viewed handguns (incorrectly , as it turned out) as inaccurate ,
ineffective toys. there probably were n't six million of them in
the whole country. now , thanks to kennedy , metzenbaum , the bradys ,
and their ilk america's greatest sporting goods sales team we
probably manufacture at least that many every year.

the fascinating datum is that handgun control , et al. are perfectly
aware of this so i guess you 'll have to ask them yourself what
their real motives are.

look gun making is n't an arcane or difficult art (and by the way ,
it 's easier to make a fully automatic weapon than a semiautomatic
the fact that i can still obtain my own weapon of preference , the
self loading pistol , is the only thing which keeps me from pursuing
this further). even if it were difficult , there are already a
quarter billion firearms in america , with an estimated half life
of 1000 years possibly more for stainless steel. guns are gonna
be around a long time , adrian , whether you like it or not.

as for me , to paraphrase elmer keith , regardless of what the law
provides or any court decides , i'm always going to be armed. and i
will always work to see that others are , as well. the bad news is
that there are thousands more perhaps even hundreds of thousands
where i come from. we ca n't be stopped by passing laws , we can
only be forced to arm ourselves and others secretly and given
both the practical and alleged differences between full automatics
and semiautomatics perhaps more efficiently.

so what 's the point \?

l. neil smith
author the probability broach , the crystal empire , henry martyn ,
and (forthcoming) pallas
lever action bbs (303) 493 6674 , fidonet 1 306 31.4
libertarian second amendment caucus
nra life member

my opinions are , of course , my own.


from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
article i.d. gap.1ppu9hinnl0v
distribution na
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 57
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

hambidge@bms.com wrote
in article c4psog.c6@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

rate per capita rate. the uk is more dangerous.
though you may be less likely to be killed by a handgun , the average
individual citizen in the uk is twice as likely to be killed
by whatever means as the average swiss. would you feel any better
about being killed by means other than a handgun \? i would n't.

what an absurd argument. switzerland is one fifth the size of the
uk with one eigth as many people therefore at any given point on
swiss soil you are more likely to be crow bait. more importantly ,
you are 4x as likely to be killed by the next stranger approaching
you on a swiss street than in the uk.

killed by handgun , or killed \? if i'm dead , i do n't much care if it
was by being shot or stabbed to death.

you are betraying your lack of understanding about rate versus total
number. rates are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population.
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the
rate would be 10 100 , 000. a place that had 50 deaths and a population
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000. the former has a higher
rate , the latter a higher total. you are less likely to die in the
latter. simple enuff \?

for chrissakes , take out your calculator and work out the numbers.
here... i 've preformatted them for you to make it easier

handgun homicides population

switzerland 24 6 , 350 , 000
uk 8 55 , 670 , 000

... and then tell me again how switzerland is safer with a more
liberal handgun law than the uk is without...by rate or total number.
your choice.

stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o

i do n't think you can get an accurate indicator of how safe england is
compared to switzerland by concentrating only on handgun murders and
completely ignoring murders by other weapons , not to mention the rate of
other violent crimes. if there are more guns in circulation , if follows
that more people will be killed with them 'cause they are available to
the person intent on committing a crime regardless of whether they
have to do it with a gun , knife , or bare hands.

the gun control lobby does n't seem to understand this point. if people
are intent on committing a crime , they will do it with whatever means
are available to them.

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re fyi batf reply on waco
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 52
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5l480.k7u@elite.intel.com dgw@elite.intel.com (dennis willson)
writes
..

on february 28 , 1993 , the special agents attempting to serve the
federal search warrant were all dressed in apparel clearly identified
with the letters atf and a highly visible police type badge.
additionally , the special agents announced who they were and their
purpose for being at the compound.

immediately following this announcement , gunfire erupted from the
compound , resulting in the deaths of four atf special agents and the
wounding of several others. through no fault of atf , the element of
surprise was lost , which caused the tragedy.

this statement simply amazes me ! through no fault of atf , the element of
surprise was lost ! what element of surprise \? in the paragraph preceding this
one , he said ... the special agents announced who they were and their purpose
for being at the compound , which was to serve the federal warrant. no element
of surprise was even needed for that.

no , the element of surprise that they lost was that needed for a preemptive
first strike , without warning.

inasmuch as the warrants
remain sealed by a u.s. magistrate , and the investigation remains in an
active ongoung status , we are prohibited from disclosing any further
information at this time.


read they need to wait until they see how it comes out before they fabricate
anymore , which could get disproven.

we hope we have been responsive to your letter. please let us know
whenever we may be of service.

sincerely yours ,

daniel m. h \? \? l \? \? tt ca n't make out signature
deputy director

as always , no facts , just my opinions observations.

jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re long gun hearings day in massachusetts (april 7)
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 263
distribution usa
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

this is a co authored report from two of us who were there.

gun owners action league , our state rifle association , started the day
with a rally in the secluded courtyard behind the statehouse at 9 30.
it was looking sparse (about 40 people) until the speaker began ,
whereupon about 120 more people followed the loudspeakers from
wherever they had been lost , and filled out the area something proud.

mike yacino of goal spoke. one of his best throwaway lines was to
remind us that all of us holders of carry permits there had been
checked and certified clear of all crimes by the state while the
people in the statehouse behind us only had to be certified clean of
election fraud to hold their jobs.

nancy snow and amos hamburger were busy handing out id buttons and
sheets describing all the bills to be presented at the hearings , and
telling people where to find their own representatives (and in too
many cases , who they were).

mike warned us that the committee was going to suspend its rules and
discuss a bill that had n't made it onto the official list. it seems a
delegation of students from simon 's rock of bard college (alma mater
of wayne lo , who shot up the place with an sks late last year) was
being bussed in to testify for a bill to ban all sales of firearms or
ammo to anyone who is not a state resident.

the hearings were originally scheduled in the (large) gardner
auditorium at 10 30 , but that had been pre empted by the governor 's
hearings on the framingham eight (women in prison for killing abusive
husbands , and seeking release). so we had until 1 30 to buttonhole
our representatives , after which we would be squashed into an
inadequate hearing room.

one of my representatives' staffers was somewhat offensively smarmy.
he said , oh , it must be gun hearings day again ! the gun lobby is
always so organized every year. i got a little pissed , and replied ,
i'm not from the gun lobby i'm from your district.

at 12 30 , your second reporter arrived in time to notice a
demonstration going on in front of the statehouse (where the
pro gunners were n't). randy price from the tv news was there , in his
mirror reflective shades , talking to one of the anti gun types , and
several simon 's rock anti gun close the loophole protestors.
(earlier , randy had covered the goal rally.)

the room we had been assigned seated about 50. remember , there were
about 160 gun owners there , plus another 20 30 students and teachers
from bard. one of us had already reserved a seat the other never got
closer than the atrium outside and there was a crowd behind him. a
cop took up station at the entrance and prevented the rest of the
crowd from coming in. soon after the debate started , a loudspeaker
was set up outside in the hall for the benefit of everyone else.

everyone who was there (inside and outside) got to sign up on a sheet
saying what their position was on which bills. most of us signed up
to support goal 's position on all bills.

first , because of their time constraints , public officials got to
testify. and first up was the bill that nobody had seen (the students
had some curfew , i guess).

currently , massachusetts law allows a non resident to purchase long
guns or ammo from a local dealer provided he complies with the laws of
his own state. previously , the law was similar , but applied only to
non residents from states adjoining massachusetts. the simon 's rock
folks called the current law a loophole and wanted it closed.

two of their reps spoke about wayne lo and his sks assault rifle.
the second one , hodgekiss , a co sponsor , had done his homework so well
that he kept confusing montana (wayne lo 's home state) with missouri ,
and became belligerent when about five gun owners in the gallery
corrected him after his second muff. carr , from gloucester , claimed
that the new bill would put the law back the way it was , but he was
lying the new bill allows purchases by non residents of adjoining
states only if they have licensing in their own state as strong as
that in massachusetts. since none of them do , that 's that.

some of the things these two said were really offensive. in some of
these other states , anyone can buy a gun as long as he 's breathing !
(oooooo ! ) we have some very , very good gun laws in massachusetts if
only the other states would adopt the same type of laws , we would n't
be having this situation but they wo n't. (naughty , naughty ! )

next up was boston city councilman albert dapper o'neill. he was
there to testify pro gun , but in some ways he was a liability. he 's
reasonably elderly and tends to wander and repeat himself , plus he 's
almost a caricature of a law n order politician. he badmouthed the
aclu , said violent criminals should be executed , and that if he were
judge , he 'd give arrestees their last rights (pun intended) on the
spot (at which many of the gun owners applauded , which bothered me.)
he said that all the proposed gun restrictions were a step in the
right direction for the criminals. he said this four times (

two of the bills under consideration would allow police to rescind a
ccw or fid , and confiscate all your guns , if someone had filed a
restraining order against you. (note that the filing of a restraining
order requires no warrant , no hearing , no evidence , and no conviction
just an accusation.) senator barrett of reading testified in favor
of it , and patronized the pro gunners there several times by saying ,
i'm sure all the gun owners here will agree with me that we have to
get these weapons out of the hands of people that our courts have
convicted. i have n't seen such a disgustingly disingenuous
performance since nixon whined that he was n't a crook.

barrett also spoke in favor of the bill making the fid card renewable
every five years , instead of permanent as it is now. the stated
purpose is to remove fid cards from those who have become ineligible.
revenue has nothing to do with it. (yeah , right.) apparently , some
congressmen think we 're stupid enough to swallow the argument that
it 's preferable to process 1.6 million renewals every cycle in the
vague hope of catching a recent felon than to simply take the goddamn
card away from a criminal at conviction time. as usual , hassle the
law abiding instead of the crook.

the two co chairs of the committee were rep. caron and sen. jujuga.
jujuga did n't say much (he was a co sponsor of both restraining
order bills) but caron struck me as a sharp guy that would n't let any
bad logic or lies on the part of either side to go unchallenged. (he
was a co sponsor of one of the restraining order bills as well.) one
of the younger reps on the committee (forgot his name) was
vociferously pro gun , somewhat embarrassingly so. his heart was in
the right place , but his arguments seemed to be confined to , every
year it 's the same damn thing , you come in here with this crap...
it 's nice to have a friend on the committee , but he could have been
more effective.

at about 3 00 , it was clear that the hall jam could n't continue.
someone came out of another meeting hall and yelled at the cop because
the loudspeaker was disturbing their meeting , so the loudspeaker was
disconnected. so they found a bigger hall upstairs. one of us had
to leave to catch his charter bus , and so missed the public
testimony the other got a seat this time.

caron began by talking about how he got his fid 16 years ago , left the
state , and then returned without notifying them of his address change.
he complained that the state record system was not up to date and that
his pd back in his city of birth still thought he lived there. great
quote if you purchase a gun today , it will not get into the state
computer system until 1999. (this was also an argument he used
against the renewable fid card.)

testimony was heard from several battered women , one of whom had
been attacked by some guy in his 20 's who had an fid card because he
got it when he was 15 or thereabouts. they used a lot of emotion and
said how they were scared of these men. a staffer of attorney general
harshbarger testified in favor of this anti gun bill , saying how
50 , 000 restraining orders were granted last year , and how these women
needed to be protected. caron noted that a restraining order was
granted for 10 days , and then a hearing was held to determine whether
the order would be extended to a year. he asked whether she would be
satisfied if the fid were revoked at the time of this hearing rather
than after the initial issuance of the fid. she gave some long
rambling circumlocution in response.

then testimony against the bill was heard. mike yacino (who looks
something like einstein) got up and made the point that restraining
orders were issued on too little evidence , that judges like to issue
restraining orders just to let things cool off no matter who they
think is right (man or woman) , and that the hearings for restraining
orders are lightning sessions with little time to consider facts.
atty. karen mcnutt spoke with him a few times during his testimony.

other pro gunners got up to testify. one said he had had to file a
restraining order against a tenant to clear her out , and that she
countered by filing one against him ! he noted that this would have
allowed the state to confiscate his guns if the new bill became law.
one of the junior reps noted that this is america and we have to be
certain that individual rights are respected. senator jujuga
reiterated this , saying that people who abuse smaller people can go
to hell as far as i care , but we have to be careful about equating
conviction with a restraining order. (point and match , senator.)

another pro gunner got up and testified that he did n't know his
citizenship expired every 5 years , and that a driver 's license was a
privilege , not a right like the right to keep and bear arms.

a third got up and said the problem was with the criminal justice
system , and argued in favor of a death penalty bill and public
hangings. senator jujuga said he had himself tried to get a death
penalty bill passed , and joking responded that he , too , favored public
hangings. the speaker then responded , i 'll make you a deal. you get
me the rope , and i 'll tie the noose.

next came public testimony on the simon 's rock bill. a teacher
testified that she had been the teacher of wayne lo , and that he
would n't have been able to shoot people inside a building while he was
outside without his evil gun. she said that the loophole should be
closed to prevent something like this from ever happening again .

four or five other kids testified in favor of this bill , one of
spilling tears for the good legislators. one of the students actually
shot by wayne lo was also there. many of them had t shirts on ,
saying , as long as one person can buy a gun in anger , none of us are
safe support gun control. the committee was reluctant to grill or
correct the kids , except for caron , who corrected one student who had
claimed that anyone could apply for an fid. only residents can get
fid 's , he said. (how much do you want to bet that this kid had no
idea he had been conned into testifying for a bill that would cut
out of staters completely off \? )

yacino and mcnutt spoke again , this time noting that the bill as
written would affect both ammo and all guns possessed by
out of staters. karen also noted that hunters in ct , nh , and vt could
be put away for a year if they wandered across the ma boundary
somewhere in the woods and got challenged by game wardens. yacino
underscored the fact that lo could have gotten an fid as a resident
student and , hell , even an ccw , as he had no criminal or mental
record.

one junior rep was upset that it would take ma residents longer to buy
a gun than out of staters , and thought it was elitist . another
(caron \? ) said that we need the protection of preventing non residents
from buying without an fid because only two other states in the union
had fid type cards , so complying with all the laws of one 's home
state was not enough. one pro gun speaker replied that this
resembled a mother watching her son in a marching band and exclaiming ,
everyone 's out of step but johnny !

all the bard college people were filing out as the pro gun testimony
for this bill was made , and thus only pro gunners were around when the
other bills came under consideration. the main bills remaining (and
goal 's position) were

o h.4375 and four others notify police chiefs so they can pull
licenses when a holder is convicted (strongly supported)

o h.1732 require trigger locks on all handguns sold (opposed)

o h.962 require trigger locks on all loaded firearms (strongly
opposed)

o h.1350 allow every municipality to enact their own gun laws
(opposed)

o h.1731 fund bullet proof vests for municipal police (supported)

o s.1097 state constitutional amendment for the rkba (supported)

o several on police discretion in the issuance of fid cards (opposed)

o several altering non resident license conditions (supported)

o h.1135 ban damn near all guns everywhere in the state (guess ! )

some of these took only 30 seconds to consider , as the remaining
pro gunners raised hands in unison either for or against them.

mike yacino noted that , besides the danger in screwing with a trigger
lock on a loaded gun , that bill would make it illegal for a licensee
to carry his concealed handgun unless it were locked.

caron blew right through h.1350 when he saw that we opposed it.
again , he brought up the state 's archaic records capability and said ,
this would create hundreds of different licensing systems.

the session ran late since it was the last scheduled hearing , it
could not be adjourned until everyone who wanted to had testified. it
ended at about 6 30.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 40
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr20.083057.16899@ousrvr.oulu.fi , dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas) writes
in article 1qv87v 4j3@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5n3gi.f8f@ulowell.ulowell.edu , jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes

the massive destructive power of many modern weapons , makes the
cost of an accidental or crimial usage of these weapons to great.
the weapons of mass destruction need to be in the control of
the government only. individual access would result in the
needless deaths of millions. this makes the right of the people
to keep and bear many modern weapons non existant.

thanks for stating where you 're coming from. needless to say , i
disagree on every count.

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of
mass destruction \? i find it hard to believe that you would support a
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and nerve
gas on his her property.

if we cannot even agree on keeping weapons of mass destruction out of
the hands of individuals , can there be any hope for us \?

i do n't sign any blank checks.

when doug foxvog says weapons of mass destruction , he means cbw and
nukes. when sarah brady says weapons of mass destruction she means
street sweeper shotguns and semi automatic sks rifles. when john
lawrence rutledge says weapons of mass destruction , and then immediately
follows it with

the us has thousands of people killed each year by handguns ,
this number can easily be reduced by putting reasonable restrictions
on them.

...what does rutledge mean by the term \?


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from jgd@dixie.com (john de armond)
subject fbi murders (was re atf burns dividian )
organization dixie communications public access. the mouth of the south.
lines 87

jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes

i have believed all along that they could not let them live , the
embarrassment to the batf and the fbi would 've been too severe.

remember , this was a suspicion of tax evasion warrant. there were no
witnesses , except the fbi. all information filtered through the fbi. all
they had to do was allow one remote controlled pool camera be installed
near the building , and the press could 've done their job , and would 've
been able to back the fbi 's story with close up video , while incurring no
risk to the press. unless they did not want the public to see something.
the complete lack of any other source of information other than the
fbi really causes me concern.

sick to my stomach , and getting sicker from all the government apologists

well put , jim. i am as concerned about the media 's complicity in this
growing coverup. can you imagine the media outrage , the lawsuits , the
investigations that would emit if the government kept the media away from
any other story \? particularly if a republican administration had been
behind it. what 's going on here \?

let 's look beyond the initial blunder and examine what happened next.
i'm a student of human phychology , particularly in the area of psy ops
because i 've found some of the techniques to be useful in business
negotiations. that puts me firmly in the amateur ranks. this amateur
knows that the first thing to do when sizing up the opponent is to do a
psychological profile on him. you can bet your ass the fbi had
professionally done profiles on koresh. koresh 's behavior was
emminently predictable. it is typical of people who move away from
civilization to be willing to fight to the death to preserve their
isolation. it would also be typical , given koresh 's religious
orientation , for such an individual to interpret a government assault as
the apocalypse. suicide is as an acceptable alternative to being
consumed in the apocalypse.

imho , the fbi knew all this and decided after 50 days of concentrated
psy ops to initiate that apocalypse. i believe they chose a course of
action designed specifically to push koresh over the edge while publicly
appearing to be acting reasonably. they knew that koresh considered the
tanks to be the chariots of fire mentioned in the book of revelations.
they knew that sending tanks , oops , combat engineering vehicles ,
obstensibly to perform gas insertions (love that newspeak) would push
him over the edge.

look at some supporting evidence. koresh 's attorney mentioned on tv
earlier today (4 20) that one of koresh 's major concern was the biblical
role of the tanks stationed around the compound. the fbi (through reno
on larry king last night and at the news conference this morning)
claimed to have listening devices in the compound. if that was true
they knew their actions were driving him to the brink. they knew they
were pushing the davidians toward mass suicide. any rational and
reasonable agency not interested in killing those people would , at
the first sign of preparations for suicide , have pulled completely back and
would have gotten rid of all the armor. instead they continued with the
gas insertion right up to the point where flames appeared. the image
that will remain etched in my mind is that of the tank strutting back
and forth in front of the burning compound , gloating over the kill.

let 's step back and assess how this thing could have been ended without
bloodshed. this technique would have required a law enforcement agency
interested in constitutionally enforcing the law and in the preservation
of life instead of achieving a military victory and of vengence.

the way to have nabbed koresh was simply to have announced a pull back ,
abandoned the assault , torn down the concertina wire and removed the
armor , maintained covert surveillance of the compound and then exploited
his ego to flush him out. exploiting his ego would have been simple. a
simple invite or two from the tabloid talk shows to come on tv and tell
how he whipped the us government would have been something he could not
have resisted. he could have then been nabbed when he left the
compound. simple , clean and safe but because it would have required the
fbi to execute a tactical retreat and would have deprived them of the
revenge they sought , it was totally out of the question. not without
all that testesterone floating around. after all jannet reno had to
show the world how big her balls are.

yesterday was a sad , sad day for the american system. i am sick to my
very soul.

john

john de armond , wd4oqc interested in high performance mobility \?
performance engineering magazine(tm) interested in high tech and computers \?
marietta , ga send ur snail mail address to
jgd@dixie.com perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
lee harvey oswald where are ya when we need ya \?

from cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
reply to cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
organization north coast public access nix , cleveland , oh
lines 28

as quoted from 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu

the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

kind of sounds like plessy v. ferguson , huh \? of course as in that case ,
things change , huh \?

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

no , if your little fantasy comes to pass , the country will have gone
toward the kkk. you 're of course being a little disengenuous. violent
solutions are never passe for the government and criminals (who frequently)
cannot be distinguished).

avoid situations which encourage criminals \? you mean do n't be a woman \?
do n't be black \? do n't be gay \? i'm quite certain that having a surfeit of
unarmed victims will discourage your beloved kkk from engaging in violent
solutions ....




you 're like a bunch of over educated , new york jewish aclu lawyers
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in
arkansas holly silva

from clochmul@nrambr.chem.duke.edu (c. h. lochmuller)
subject re dillon puts foot in mouth...
lines 21

so the blue press suggests that we bankrupt hci by requesting information
and the concern by list members is that hci will claim everyone that calls
as a new member. i think they will. i also think they will claim a new
mandate to ban all firearms from the solar system wheter we call and ask for
information or not !

on the other hand , with due respect to the editor of the blue press , just
becaue mike makes damned good presses , dies , powder scales , and got tired of
lee 's atacks does not mean that every dillon fan follows what mike calls for
like he was karesh and we were transdillidians !

our local state assemblyman has called for a complete ban on all non bolt
action military rifles and all assault weapons , a 7 day wait for purchase
permits it currently takes 10 to 14 working days here in nc and one
permit year. the flood of calls he got was 7 for and 3 against. guess who
called supporting his move \? guess what ila is doing \? right \?

chl




from kkopp@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (koppenhoefer kyle cramm)
subject re 2 we 're undertaxed poll
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 39

kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot) writes

in article 1993apr16.190829.17141@cunews.carleton.ca akasacou@alfred.carleton.ca (alexander kasacous) writes
in article veal.729.734979393@utkvm1.utk.edu veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes


no , what you said was that we had spent money on guns rather than
people , as canada does. which is ridiculous.


once again i have over estimated the general level of intellegence of
the average reader of rush limbaugh. canada per capita spend more
money on people where the us spend more money per capita on guns.

what exactly do you mean when you say the u.s. spends more per capita on
guns than canada does \? are you talking about the u.s. government or are you
talking about the purchase of guns by private citizens or both \? if you are
referring to private citizens then your point is irrevelant because what
individuals do with their money is essentially their business.

if , on the other hand , you meant that the u.s government spends more per
capita on guns than canada does then your point is relevant. so , if this
is true then the u.s. needs to get its priorities straight. people are more
important than guns. that is not to say that guns are n't important. i'm
just saying that if the u.s government does spend more per capita on guns
than they do on people then something is awry.


he meant the us spends more per capita on guns than canada which is n't
really surprising because we were so busy protecting the western world from
the ussr that all other countries could slack off on their defense spending.

i would like to see if the us spends more per capita on people than
canada does. this is a true apples apples comparison where the previous
post was apples oranges.





from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject re my gun is like my....
organization ideology busters , inc.
lines 80

in article 1993apr16.194708.13273@vax.oxford.ac.uk
jaj@vax.oxford.ac.uk writes
what all you turkey pro pistol and automatic weapons fanatics do n't
seem to realize is that the rest of us laugh at you.

so what. we think you 're pretty hilarious too.

i love how you brit 's kiss royal arse. that you 're willing to throw
out freedom of speech for the sake of protecting the reputation of the
royal sluts.

that the british government advertised in american newspapers send a gun
to defend a british home british civilians , faced with threat of
invasion , desperately need arms for the defense of their homes. during
wwii. american rifleman november , 1940

that the obscene publications act and the misuse of drugs act have been
used as justification for the police to seize masterpieces such as william
s. burrough 's junky , hunter thompson 's fear and loathing in las vegas ,
and tom wolfe 's the electric kool aid acid test . british courts have
never recognized the right to assemble or to demonstrate.

that evidence obtained form coerced confessions is allowed in a trial.

that only serious felonies warrant a trial by jury.

that suspected terrorists must prove their innocence , instead of the
government having to prove their guilt.

that the secretary of state may issue an exclusionary order which
bars someone from ever entering a particular part of the united kingdom ,
such as northern ireland or wales.

that the bbc banned paul mccartney 's give ireland back to the irish
as well as john lennon 's give peace a chance during the gulf war.

yes , england is very very funny. and very pathetic.

i knew somebody else who went to one of your gun mart superstore
places , just so he could experience the sight of people putting guns
and ammo into shopping carts ! i did n't believe it myself until i
drove by one in vegas last year ! ! !

so what. laughter is a way of dealing with things we find uncomfortable.
i thought the las vegas show girl ads on las vegas street corners were
pretty funny.

yes indeed , there are many strange and wonderous things in this country.
i would n't have it any other way.

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world
perceives you gun nut morons. the bbc recently referred to the american
penchant for pistols , automatic weapons , etc. very appropriately it was
called a national eccentricity.

i do n't disagree with that , i do n't think it 's bad either.

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national
eccentricity , in that easy to purchase weapons are being smuggled cross the
border.

so what. if they did n't come from here they would come from elsewhere
disguised as cocaine.

anyway , all you gun nut rush limbaugh fans , please keep up your diatribes
against brady and other evil liberal media plots you 're so damn funny !
you provide endless amounts of entertainment in your arguments and examples
of why someone should be allowed to carry a piece ! keep us all chuckling !

you can laugh all you want , for us it 's a matter of life or death.
i do n't find that funny in the least.

as for england

as our allies become more open , britain grow yet more secretive and
censorious. perhaps the real british vice is passivity , a willingness
to tolerate constraints which others would find unbearble. in britain ,
an unfree country by terrence dequesne and edward goodman , pp 33.

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from loki@acca.nmsu.edu (entropic destroyer)
subject need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation
organization new mexico state university
lines 35
distribution usa
nntp posting host kazak.nmsu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

the following is quoted from the tail end of a (rather condescending)
article about paxton quigley , that appeared in us snooze and world lies ,
(sorry... i think it was in the wall street journal...)
and was repeated in the colorado (people 's) daily , a student newspaper
at the university of colorado at boulder.

a study of residential gunsot deaths in king county , wash. , found that
a gun in the home was 43 times more likely to be used to kill its owner ,
spouse , a friend , or child than to kill an intruder. studies by the
western psychiatric institute , in pittsburgh , found that the mere presence
of a gun in the home sharply incresases the likelihood a family member
will commit suicide , even in the absence of psychiatric illness.

i have seen these numbers quoted before , and i have seen very specific
refutation of them quoted as well. if someone will be so kind as to
email the relevant information , i will write a letter to the editor of
the co. daily (which might get published) and send a copy to usn wr as
well.

thanx...

dan


dod 202 loki@acca.nmsu.edu liberty or death taylordf@ucsu.colorado.edu
send me something even you ca n't read...
begin pgp public key block
version 2.1

mqcnaitfksqaaaeeakceejwi9f5kmjykp0logc5dghrpbmy2xhoo8kpehmdyuf8a
1bfdqsj53kostz6hroshsdzlvul1 40vpjmmntfr vyz4jvd3rl4iuq2ummmex3m
itf3ult8xn v qabsvhcfshvjvk4lf6wosucmo03m2tix31ai7vb0uzo4yxjaaux
tcreyw5pzwwgribuyxlsb3igpexva2laywnjys5ubxn1lmvkdt4
s5ib
end pgp public key block

from kevin@axon.usa (kevin vanhorn)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization usr users kevin .organization
lines 15
nntp posting host axon.cs.byu.edu
in reply to roby@chopin.udel.edu 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 05 53 07 gmt


in article c5rpoj.ijv@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

two of the nine who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set
by cult members.

correction the fbi says that two of the nine who escaped said the fire
was deliberately set by cult members. since the press was kept miles away ,
we have absolutely no independent verification of any of the government 's
claims in this matter.


kevin s. van horn is your religion batf approved \?
vanhorn@bert.cs.byu.edu


from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
lines 40
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr15.201756.29141@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes

in article 1993apr14.175931.66210@cc.usu.edu slp9k@cc.usu.edu writes
(btw which parts should be secure \? criminal
records , ie convictions , are typically considered public information ,
so should that info be secure \? remember , the population includes
parents checking prospective childcare worker.)

parent 's checking a babysitter should n't need access to the information
stored in the card.

sure they do. the prospective sitter may have a nasty habit of molesting
kids three or four months into the job. the references may not have
known him long enough or may not have picked up on this yet.

remember , criminal conviction info is public , so if you 're going to
argue for an id card , other people are going to have a strong argument
that it disclose public info.

as perhaps some insight into how this sort of thing works , the
local college newspaper had a big crusade to have the u.t. police
release crime stats. (the school claimed that to do so would violate
federal education records privacy laws). they swore up and down they
were n't interested in student discipline records , only for stats so people
could make an evaluation of how safe the campus was.

it was barely a week after crime stats were released before the
daily beacon had an editorial calling for student disciplinary stats
to be released , because they complained certain segments of the campus
population were treated administratively rather than turned over to the
police and therefore the criminal states were n't accurate.

what people say they want public today may not be what they
say tomorrow.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject cnn for sale
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 32
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


w.k. gorman

3 maybe now 's the time for us , the nra , goa , ccrtkba , saf , et al to band
3 together and buy cnn as our voice. would n't that be sumpin....broadcast
3 the truth for a change and be able to air a favorable pro gun item or two..

3 i would like to see this happen. i do n't think it will. i do n't
3 think the average gun owner will take any notice of what is happening
3 until they break down his door.

3 but i will go on record publicly to the effect that i will contribute a
3 minimum of 1 , 000.00 to the buy out fund if it can be organized and made
3 viable. anybody else want to put their money where their mouth is \? )
3 there ar 50 million gun owners out there. if and it 's a big and
3 not very realistic if we got hold of cnn , the anti gun bullshit would
3 stop right there. why wo n't it happen because nobody will get off their
3 ass and make it happen. nuts.

any nra headquarters weenies listening to this man. any rtkba organization
honcho listening. it 's time to stop fighting the brady 's and the schumer 's
(now there 's an interesting meaning to the acronynm bs) from the comfort
of the office....we had better get serious with our time and money and get
after it or we might just as well pack it in now.

. olx 2.2 . gun control advocates must have had a sanity by pass !



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from bjones@convex.com (brad jones)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
nntp posting host neptune.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 27


in article 1qkcok s9i@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , ci946@cleveland.freenet.edu (john k. gever) writes


does anybody reading this group have an actual , honest to god
experience with violent crime in the backcountry to tell about \?


it was around 1969 in the shenandoah valley near woodstock , virginia. me ,
my wife , a friend , his wife , and his 2 kids were hiking in a totally
desolate mountain area. all of a sudden , large rocks began raining down
on us. looking up , we saw at least 3 punks gleefully letting loose rocks
from what was an obvious stash. they were a couple hundred feet above us.
meanwhile , the women and kids were screaming and running for cover and the
punks were shrieking with laughter. me and my friend yelled for them to
knock it off. they responded that we should get f ed ! . me and my
friend drew our pistols and fired a couple of times into the trees above
their heads. they ran. with no more 3 5 pound rocks coming at our heads ,
we proceeded on our journey.

sorry , but me and my friend saw no need to let it evolve to a more
violent level than we were already experiencing. i guess we should
have tried harder to understand and cope with the anger that society
had instilled in them and was driving them to do such things. guess
that 's a cross i 'll have to bear.

brad

from brians@atlastele.com (brian sheets)
subject re constitutionality of 18 u.s.c 922(o)
organization atlas telecom inc.
distribution usa
lines 40

in article 1qksp9 l39@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr15.142322.1318@atlastele.com , brians@atlastele.com (brian sheets) writes
and has no rights under the federal constitution. so , what i
do n't understand is how a statute like 922 can be enforced on
an individual. so someone tell me how my government can tell
me what i can or cannot possess. just passing a law

does not make it law.

sorry , but i really ca n't figure out what you 're trying to say , above.

i guess what i am really asking , like i did above , how does my government
who is my servent , tell me the soveriegn what i can or cannot possess \?

it would seem to me that the act of possessing a machine gun is no less
criminal , by definition , than the act of possessing a television set. i also would seem
to me that it would be better to pass laws that say , that if i harm
or kill someone with the machine gun or the television set that there
would be specific penalties for doing such.


everyone knows that laws are constitional
until it goes to court.

sorry , i was close.


not exactly

no on is bound to obey an uncontitutional law , and no courts are
bound to enforce it.
16 am jur 2d , sec 177
late 2d , sec 256



brian sheets truck \? ! what truck \?
support engineer `o o'
atlas telecom inc. ( ) raiders of the lost ark
brians@atlastele.com u

from schabel@calspan.com (dave schabel)
subject re gun nuts and holly silva
article i.d. calspan.1993apr5.215700.4600
organization calspan advanced technology center
lines 45
nntp posting host riemann gw

in article c4tsd1.1va@news.cso.uiuc.edu irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
in article 1993apr1.010834.4326@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy) writes
both the gun nuts and the gays are aggressively defensive and quite
hostile to any one trying to deprive them of their rights. just like
any group trying to protect their rights.

the fallacy of this whole thing is that your rights are not in jeapardy
by these posts.

how can you say that \? i presume that you mean that talking about
restricting rights is not the same as restricting those rights. well ,
arguing for those restrictions may lead to implementation , much
the same way as assault can lead to battery (legal definitions).

most t.p.g people and the homosexual groups wo n't even
discuss the subject at all in a polite form. the mere raising of a question
as to why the rights are there or what exactly the 'right' encompasses
bring shrill posts and angry hostile traffic.

well , i ca n't speak for the homosexuals , but i 've seen alot
of polite discussion on t.p.g. please , everyone , do n't take
this guy 's word , or mine for that matter , on it. read t.p.g.
for a while , and try to determine from which direction most of
the flameage originates. if you post without flamebait , you
will generally receive reasoned responses. true , there are
those who tend to lose their tempers quickly , as there are on
all newsgroups , but they really do feel their rights are in jeopardy.

oh , and neat trick talking derisively about another newsgroup while
not crossposting to allow them to defend themselves.

i think a lot of t.p.g people have very thin skin when it comes to
discussing these subjects.

methinks you doth protest too much.

dave schabel





dave schabel opinions and comments contained herein are mine and
schabel@calspan.com do not necessarilly reflect those of calspan corp or
located in western ny its customers.

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1r19tp 5em@bigboote.wpi.edu , mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject randy weaver trial update day 5.
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 94

note these trial updates are summarized from reports in the
idaho statesman and the local nbc affiliate television
station , ktvb channel 7.

randy weaver kevin harris trial update day 5.

monday , april 19 , 1993 was the fifth day of the trial.

synopsis government informant kenneth fadeley testified that
randy weaver sold him two shotguns in violation of the national
firearms act of 1934. u.s. district court judge edward lodge
asks jurors not to hear accounts of the waco fire because
of possible influences on the weaver harris case.

the testimony of fbi special agent greg rampton apparently
ended without further incident , as it was mentioned neither
by ktvb nor the idaho statesman .

the day was highlighted by the testimony of kenneth fadeley ,
who had been posing as an outlaw biker and illegal guns person
named gus magiosono. fadeley testified that he was acting as
an informant for the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , and firearms
in his dealings with randy weaver.

fadeley began by stating that he had met weaver in 1987 at an
aryan nations summer conference in hayden lake , idaho. the two
then met again october 11 , 1989 (note the huge separation in
time) at a restaurant in sandpoint , idaho , to begin a weapons
transaction. he stated that weaver had said , he felt like he
(weaver) was being prepared to do something dangerous for the
white cause.

the two later met october 24 , 1989 behind the restaurant and
later went to a city park to make the sale. during this second
meeting , fadeley was wearing a small recording device to
tape the conversation. weaver allegedly showed him an h r 12
gauge shotgun with a 13 inch barrel and an overall length of
19.25 inches. he additionally showed a remington 12 gauge
shotgun with a 12.75 inch barrel and an overall length of
24.5 inches (nfa requires minimums of 18 inches for barrel
length and an overall length of 26 inches). on tape , weaver
is reported to have said that he could perform better work once
his machine shop is set up. the two then discuss the possibility
of future sales. fadeley then counts out three hundred dollars
for the two guns and promises the balance of one hundred fifty
dollars when they next meet. (note that the atf could have
simply arrested him here. why did they wait until january 1991
over a year later to arrest him \? this is not explained).

the next meeting took place on nov 30 , 1989. fadeley stated that
his source had only come up with one hundred dollars instead
of the one hundred fifty he 'd promised. at this point , weaver
suspected he was dealing with an informant , i had a guy in
spokane tell me you were bad. fadeley managed to convince
weaver otherwise.

the idaho statesman states explicitly that three tapes were
made of conversations with randy weaver. thus , each of these
meetings must have been recorded. however , the statesman also
reported that a tape of a telephone conversation involving vicki
weaver (randy weaver 's wife) was played to the court. there must
have also been phone taps.

these tapes were played to the court via both headphones and
loudspeakers under the objections of gerry spence , weaver 's
attorney. spence said to a ktvb reporter that he wanted to
make sure that the government proved its case , ...if it has a
case at all... according to the rules.

randy weaver tore off his headphones and wept when he heard his
wife 's voice on the tape.

u.s. district court judge edward lodge asked jurors not to hear
accounts of the waco fire because of possible influences on the
weaver harris case. exactly how such information could affect
this trial is not explained.

other notes sunday evening there was a report on ktvb concerning
kevin harris. unnamed agents within the fbi admit that they are
surprised that kevin harris is still alive. first , they were
surprised that he survived the initial gunshot wound(s) sustained
in the initial firefight at the y junction. later , when randy
weaver was struck by sniper fire the sniper had reported that
harris had been struck (not weaver). finally , there was a report
that the fbi agent who killed vicki weaver believed he was aiming
at kevin harris instead. (this is what was reported). critics
are charging that the fbi was blatantly trying to eliminate the
only non government witness to the deaths of samuel weaver and
deputy marshal william degan. some local people believe that
harris 's survival is simply due to divine intervention.

tuesday , april 20 , 1993 will be the sixth day of the trial.
kenneth fadeley 's testimony is scheduled to continue.


from ccdarg@dct.ac.uk (alan greig)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization dundee institute of technology
lines 24

in article 1993apr20.163730.16128@guinness.idbsu.edu , betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz) writes
in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

as i understand it was considered unsafe for the tv networks to get
any closer. surely the networks can judge the risks of reporting
for themselves. i have n't noticed cnn being banned from baghdad
hotels yet despite the (all too real) risk of having a cruise
missile land in the lobby. incidentally has that ever been explained
or are we to assume that out of the whole of the city an off course
missile just happened to hit that hotel at a probability of about
1 in some very large number \?

unsafe for who i wonder \?

alan greig janet a.greig@uk.ac.dct
dundee institute of technology internet a.greig@dct.ac.uk
tel (0382) 308810 (int 44 382 308810)
never underestimate the power of human stupidity

from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re tanks against civilians (was re that silly outdated bill koresh)
summary tanks against civilians (could n't happen here... read yer history)
organization totally unorganized
lines 70

in article scottj 150493092731@iamac 1.dml.georgetown.edu scottj@magic.dml.georgetown.edu (john l. scott) writes

... picking nits over tanks firing the main gun or not deleted ...


i think the point is being missed that it is apparantly acceptable for
big government (big brother \? ) to use tanks to control the people , as
long as they do n't use the big gun (but everything else is allright...).

tanks deployed against civilians , let alone firing on them with crew
served weaponry (a .50 heavy machine gun is crew served) is something
both our press and government howl about instantly when done in some
other country. against civilians that have , at most , one shot at a time
light small arms. certainly nothing that places the people in or behind
the tank in any real danger. molotov coctails \? a round from a rifle
or pistol deals with anybody approaching with one of those. and snipers
too often turn out to be strays from other cops guard army gunfire.

i do n't know about the other people in this group (or on the net) but
the idea of tanks being used to control civilians , in anything that
pretends to be a free society is outrageous. when big government feels
it is necessary to use that kind of force to stomp out protests (even
violent) of the citizens , that suggests that the government is totally
out of control , since that is effectively the government declaring war
on its own people. if the government was living up to its responsibility ,
government of the people by the people , not the 'lords' and other elites
who want to keep their good thing going , the citizens would n't feel the
need to be resorting to acts that need to be squashed with a military
boot. people do things like that because they have become convinced
that it is the only option that remains , other attempts to have grievances
redressed have been ignored. and yes , there is a criminal element that
will exploit this , but the fact remains that the government has been
unresponsive or such acts would n't be apt to happen. still not an excuse
to open up on civilians with tanks , heavy machine guns , or whatever.
its the old 'might makes right' philosophy that is the hallmark of a
government going rogue they do n't like it \? tough. we will simply
squash them under an iron boot. actually addressing their grievances
in other than token fashion with huge volumes of hot air is just too
inconvenient... sort of a variation on mushroom management keep them
in the dark , smother them with shit , and crush them when ready...

and these are the folks that many liberals are trying to arrange things
so that they will have a monopoly on coercive force (firearms that are
than expensive toys...) by gutting the bill of rights (cuz it just is n't
progressive or does n't fit in with modern thinking anymore)...

unbelievable.

and i do believe amid the smoke , confusion , etc of a real riot situation ,
that it would be possible for a tank to get away with firing the main gun
into a building at close range \? one would hear an explosion among many
explosions. it is loud , but it is not going to stand out like a 1000
pound bomb or a tactical nuke. there would be a hole blown in the wall ,
and some rubble , but with tanks knocking over walls , and other sources
of buildings turning into rubble , and other covering racket such as
gunfire , including 50 's tacking away , it would not stand out that much ,
and could be explained by musta been a gas leak... . i think it could be
done and not be reported under such conditions it is possible. it is
not like a tank driving down a quiet street on a sunday afternoon , turning
and firing , you know. that would stand out , and be pretty impossible
to cover up.

john l. scott



pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re re guns gone. good riddance !
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 13

iftccu talk.politics.guns jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu 3 34 pm apr 18 , 1993

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.


listen buddy , if you 're going to quote star trek get the quote right. it was
resistance is futile . get it right the next time )

sounds like a vogon quote to me..... perhaps you should read more widely
instead of watching that idiot box....

rick.

from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject crimestrike alert for texas
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
keywords crime strike
lines 69

fellow texans and members of crime strike in texas

crime strike in texas has a loosely knit coalition with most
victims rights groups in texas. we ask that you write a
letter protesting the release of the following murderer.

this letter should be written to

raven kazen victims services
board of pardons and paroles
p.o. box 13401 capital station
austin , texas 78711

the letter should be written if at all possible on red paper
as that was agreed on at one of our first meetings . it
represents the coalition and all of its parts as well as the
heart ache of those left behind and the blood spilled by
these criminals. the letter should have only one name on it
so it can be filed in the folder of that criminal waiting for
his next try at parole.

list of criminals

today we have only one parole to protest , on october 4 ,
1990 , mark steven hughes rendered numerous blows to the head
of james allen pompa . ten month old james went into a coma
and died two days later.

on july 8 , 1992 , mark steven hughes pled guilty to injury to
a child and received a ten year sentence. according to texas
law , mark became eligible for parole on january 4 , 1992
six months before he was even sentenced !

would you join us in strongly protesting the release from
prison of mark steven hughes , who beat a baby to death .

mark steven hughes beat to death the baby boy of
russel pompa reference mark steven hughes tdc 633546


mark your envelope protest letter on the front and back.

a typical letter is indicated on the next page

thank you very much.

irvin wilson volunteer crime strike texas


date april 13 , 1993

raven kazen victims services
board of pardons and paroles
p.o. box 13401 capital station
austin , texas 78711

i protest the parole of mark steven hughes tdc 633546 , who ,
murdered james son of russel pompa.

he should be kept in prison for his full sentence and not be
released at any time prior to his full sentence for any
reason.


irvin wilson
houston , texas


larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
lines 134

in article cmm.0.90.2.734911642.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
overall crime rate
it fell....just like that...

two questions when was this , and do you have the relevant
numbers. (please note , this is not in any way an indication i do n't
believe you or that you 're not correct , but when the drop occured is
relevant.)

acquiring weapons in norway
you can buy (almost) all kinds of weapons in norway , but you must have a
permit , and a good reason to get the permit....
if i would like to have a handgun , i would have to get an gun licence from
the police and to be a member of a gun club.

the primary objection (beyond ones based on the ideal of
rkba that it is simply not something the government should do) is
that it makes guns a play thing and tool of the rich and connected.
it discriminates against the poor.

is self defense considered appropriate , and if so , under what
conditions \? (are you allowed , for instance to get a gun for protection
if you 're going to be carrying a very large sum of money on a regular
basis or have been threatened.)

the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and or
records of serious mental diseases.

this has been suggested in the u.s. , and generally supported among
gun owners. what many object to is that many , if not most , proposals
contain a sort of gotcha clause which allows an arbitrary denial , even
if you qualify in every way.

now , if a got my licence , i would have to be an active member of the gun
club for 6 months before i could collect my gun.
it 's a little like getting a drivers licence is n't it \? \? \?
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to...

at this point , it should be pointed out that in general
a driver 's licence in the u.s. is for the most part nothing like its
european counterpart. i understand getting one is far more difficult
there than here. in the u.s. it 's a joke.

but my usual objection is that you 're discussing two different
things. for instance , in the u.s. a driver 's license is a permit
to operate a motor vehicle on a public road. it is not necessary
to own one , or to operate it on private property. that is , the
ability to require driving permits is generally considered to arise
from the government 's legitimate power to enact reasonable regulations
for behavior on public lands. a permit to own an automobile , for instance ,
which is far closer an analogy , would be a much harder thing to get
past legally , since it would n't be based on making regulations on public
property , but in restricting activity on private property.

use of guns in crimes (in norway)
some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners 'arms'
for a long time , but these are rather the exeption.
most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short
time befor the crime.

use of knives
it is allowed to cary knifes in public , but not in your belt or 'open'.
you (americans) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open
in public rigth \? \?

this varies widely . (one thing i think europeans have
a difficult time with is that the u.s. has fifty unique jurisdictions ,
where the laws from one state to another can be as radically different
as from one country in europe to another).

some places allow open carry of both guns and knives. some allow
concealed. some prohibit both , or allow one or the other. and it can
be either a state or local restriciton.

individual vs masses
yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some
extent....
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses \? \?
what happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of
all the others \? \?

the question must be asked is the right of this individual
affecting the rights of this other individual. what we usually
get is that the rights of this group (meaning some individuals within
this group , here defined as people who own guns , ) are adversely affecting
the rights of some other group.

if for instance , bob were using his gun to attack steve , you 'd
have a point. but essentially what we 're discussing is that becuase
some person who qualifies as a member of the group people who own
guns then some third person , perhaps in another time zone is told
that their being a member of that group is taking away somebody else 's
rights. it 's like trying to punish all newspapers for the libel commited
by one.

the issue
i believe the issue is guns , and gun legislation.

the issue is crime , violence , and murder. the question is to
what extent guns and gun legislation impact those.

we should n't mix weapons and items that can serve as one....
if i lived in amerika i would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in home.
but should it have to be like that \? \?

of course not. it would be nice if we did n't have to fear that
other people might get it into their twisted little minds to hurt us.
but currently we do n't have that option. nor do i expect we will.

do you think it 's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) \? \?

no state does. in any case , there 's a limit to which the state
may enforce it 's wisdom on me. freedom in general is an unwise
concept. if you pre emptively restrict everything which might be
unwise then freedom becomes a meaningless concept.

if you believe it 's smart neccacery to have drivers licence why do you think
it should be free to buy guns \? \?

i 'll raise my hand against driver 's licenses. as currently
implemented they 're a waste of time and little more than revanue
generation for the state and ignored by a startling number of
drivers. it does not guarantee a level of skill any higher than is
necessary to get your car on the road and get yourself or somebody
else killed , or a knowledge of traffic laws beyond what any ten year
old will have picked up riding around in his parents car.

but , as i mentioned , they 're two different things.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers)
subject re that silly outdated bill (was re koresh and miranda)
organization n i
lines 17

in article 1993apr15.165952.25970@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes
in article 1qibs0 flk@vela.acs.oakland.edu awesley@vela.acs.oakland.edu (awesley) writes
...
actually , there was only one confirmed sniper to die in detroit ,
according to sauter hines , nightmare in detroit , a rebellion it 's

what sources did sauter and hines use \? in congressional hearings
later , the newspaper folk admitted that their reports were completely
wrong. (some of their excuses are understandable , while others amount
to gross negligence. then there 's their we lied .) as far as i
know , they never did the followup.

this , btw , is normal behavior for newsie 's. the followup is n't news ...

i am pleased to accept life membership in the national rifle association
and extend to your organization every good wish for continued success.
president john f. kennedy , march 20 , 1961

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re that silly outdated bill (was re koresh and miranda)
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 52

in article 1qibs0 flk@vela.acs.oakland.edu awesley@vela.acs.oakland.edu (awesley) writes
in article 1993apr14.225910.14964@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes
i since there was no sniper fire , doing nothing was equally effective ,
as was yelling stop that . of course , if one wants to credit the
tanks with stopping non existent sniper fire , we might was well credit
it with stopping an invasion by martians.

see firearms , violence and civil disorders (from sri) and sniping
incidents a new pattern of violence (from brandeis university 's
lemberg center for the study of violence).

there was precisely one
verified sniper in the 67 riots , a drunk firing a pistol out a window.

actually , there was only one confirmed sniper to die in detroit ,
according to sauter hines , nightmare in detroit , a rebellion it 's

what sources did sauter and hines use \? in congressional hearings
later , the newspaper folk admitted that their reports were completely
wrong. (some of their excuses are understandable , while others amount
to gross negligence. then there 's their we lied .) as far as i
know , they never did the followup.

so \? people other than snipers can shoot firemen. if they are ,
shooting at snipers ca n't help. blowing big holes in buildings that
do n't contain sniper nests or worrying about travelling sniper
squads is a complete waste of time.

interesting. just curious , they do you believe that tanks did blow
big holes in buildings in detroit 67 \?

i do n't have any relevant knowledge about the counter sniper tactics
or what the govt did with the big war toys. that 's why i 've only
commented on what they could n't have accomplished , no matter what
they did.

nope the sniper fire was coming from other police guard positions.

the guard certainly needed to learn. but i do n't agree with the
idea that there were no snipers at all. from p. 121 of sauter hines

despite the force of the national guard in alliance with the
army troops , the snipers did not stop. the snipers boldly lay siege to the
fifth precent police station and took pot shots at the seventh. firemen
were under constant harassment from snipers fired from half closed
darkened windows in high apartment buildings and from roof tops.

not in detroit , not during the 60s. that 's newspaper copy and they
admitted later that they were wrong.

andy


subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun cont
from kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim)
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host scws8.harvard.edu
lines 17

in article c5jgz5.34j@ssd.intel.com hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays) writes
i 'd like to point out that i was in error terminator began posting only
six months before he purchased his first firearm , according to private email
from him.
i ca n't produce an archived posting of his earlier than january 1992 ,
and he purchased his first firearm in march 1992.
i guess it only seemed like years.
kirk hays nra life , seventh generation.

i first read and consulted rec.guns in the summer of 1991. i
just purchased my first firearm in early march of this year.

not for lack of desire for a firearm , you understand. i could
have purchased a rifle or shotgun but did n't want one.
case kim



from cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter)
subject re impeach clinton , reno
organization michigan tech
lines 29
nntp posting host physerver.phy.mtu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

on 21 apr 93 02 59 52 gmt , glenn r. stone (gs26@prism.gatech.edu) wrote

fact it is a federal felony to infringe civil rights under color of
law where death is involved , this offense carries a penalty
of life in prison.

title 18 , 241 and or 242 seem to apply. 241 is conspiracy (two or
more persons) against rights of citizens. 242 is deprivation of
rights under color of law. both call for up to life in prison if
death occurs. reno , bentsen , and clinton are probably all principals
to the crime (as they are responsible for authorized actions on the
part of their subordinates).

conclusion we have no choice , if we are an honest people , but to
impeach mr. clinton , and remove reno from office.

you forgot one detail , they should be turned over to the texas
authorities for trial , as the crime was committed there (article 4 ,
section 2).


charles scripter cescript@phy.mtu.edu
dept of physics , michigan tech , houghton , mi 49931

...when all government... in little as in great things , shall be
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render
powerless the checks provided of one government on another and will
become as venal and oppressive as the government from which we
separated. thomas jefferson , 1821

from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
lines 47
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

yea , there are millions of cases where yoy say that firearms
'deter' criminals. alas , this is not provable.

not provable. it 's about as provable as the number of votes
vast for bill clinton in the last election. if you accept the information
available , you can prove one way or the other. if you refuse to accept
it , nothing is provable.

i think that that
there are actually few cases where this is so.

fine , support your assertation. but , you have n't supported
any assertations just yet.

the national crime survey , that secret arm of the nra , estimates
between 40 , 000 and 50 , 000 with gun self defenses from assaults , and
is considered to considerably under report. when broken down by weapon ,
there is no form of self defense including dowing nothing which is
more effective at avoiding injury or death.

the bulk of firarems are used against unworthy and unnesessary
opponents ... those who posessa a cool jakcet you want , those who
would argue with you about a parking space , those who would
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes.

ok , support this assertation. hell , support one .

too much of this has ruined you cause. there is no recovery.

that 's nice.

in the near future , federal martials will come for your arms.

that 's nice , too.

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

why on earth should we \? if you 're correct we 've nothing to
lose by continuing to argue against it and everything to gain.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject ohio legislative alert h.b. 278
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
keywords otto beatty goes for a gun ban again
lines 21

ohio house of representative tueday , april 6 , 1993

h.b. no. 278 representative beatty

to ammend section 2923.11 , 2923.17 , and 2923.20 and to enact
n 2923.181 of the revised code to expand the defintion of dangerous
ordinance to include military weapons that do not use bolt action , to
increase the penalty for a violation of the prohibtion against possesion
of dangerous ordinance , to prohibit any person from acquiring a military
weapon on or after the act'seffective date , to require the licensure of
military weapons acquired for a proper purpose prior to the act's
effective date , to prohibit a person from importing , manufacturing , or
selling a military weapon , and to declare an emergency.

as of monday , april 12 , 1993 h.b. 278 had not been assigned to a
committee. introduced as an emergency measure if this passes there is no
chance for a reforendum , and would go into effect immediately as opposed
to the state requirement of 90 days before a law goes into effect.


larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

subject re non lethal alternatives to handguns \?
from steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner)
nntp posting host jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 16

douglas craig holland (holland@cs.colostate.edu) writes
...lostsa' crap deleted. trim your articles ! ...

what about guns with non lethal bullets , like rubber or plastic
bullets. would those work very well in stopping an attack \?

last i heard , non lethal was a bit of a misnomer for these things.

jason


` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , `
` , ` democrat give us your money. we 'll solve your problems. ` , `
` , ` republican give us your money. we 'll ignore your problems. ` , `
` , ` libertarian keep your money. solve your own problems. ` , `
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu ` , ` , ` , `

from gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
reply to glenns@eas.gatech.edu
organization the group w bench
lines 22


in 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes

i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

fret not , you made it.

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

not while we still have our guns. evil grin

hey , gang , it 's not about duck hunting , or about dark alleys ,
it 's about black clad , helmeted and booted troops storming
houses and violating civil rights under color of law.

are you ready to defend your constitution \?

glenn r. stone (glenns@eas.gatech.edu)

from porges@beretta.camb.inmet.com (don porges)
subject re jffo has gone a bit too far
nntp posting host beretta
organization intermetrics inc.
distribution usa
lines 80


having read the posted long article by jpfo , i have some observations

1. this article does not claim that the gca of 1968 is a verbatim
translation of a nazi law. what it says is that in another place
the book they 're talking about they compare the two things section
by section. the implication is that the similarities are devastating.
in the next sentence , they talk about how in that book they reproduce
the german text of the nazi law , together with its translation. not
surprisingly , a reader could easily conflate these two things into a
single idea that the american gca is a literal translation of the nazi
law and sure enough , that 's what the whole thing has mutated into ,
urban folklore style.

2. the article goes to great pains to establish that senator dodd had a
copy of the nazi law , either from his time on the nurnberg prosecution
team or later. this fact is considered highly incriminating , but i do n't
understand why. the author repeats several times that he is simply unable
to imagine how anyone could come into possession of the original text and
yet in a paragraph towards the end , he explains it perfectly

if dodd got his copy of the original german text of the nazi weapons
law during his time at nurnberg , it likely was part of a collection of
documents , for example , issues of the reichsgesetzblatt the german
law registry .

bingo. exactly.

dodd had a book , with a series of nazi laws in it , including the one
under discussion. all of the stuff about why would a u.s. congressman
have a copy of a nazi law \? melts away , by the author 's admission. he
then continues but if he acquired the original german text of the
nazi weapons law after his service at nurnberg , he must have done so
for a very specific reason... but there 's absolutely no reason to
think that this is the case. in fact , as a senior member of the u.s.
team that helped to prosecute nazi war criminals , it seems to me that
he would have had to have a copy. all arguments about whether
the nazi weapon law is really of historical interest (as it obviously
is , certainly according to the author here) , or whether dodd personally
prosecuted the interior minister who signed it , can be put aside as red
herrings.

3. having established that dodd owned a copy of the original german text , the
jpfo article then tries to draw sinister implications from the fact that he
asked to have it translated. the problem is , in the context of the charge
levelled at dodd , these two things work against each other. people ask
to have things translated when they do n't know what they mean . if dodd
took it upon himself to preserve the nazi law with idea of someday introducing
it into american law , surely by 1968 he would have know what it meant ,
would n't he \?
anyway , this precise charge the main one that i questioned in an earlier
posting is just silly. why would dodd need the exact translation for this
purpose \? is the idea that the gun controllers , despite being presumably bent
on disarming the populace with the goal of eventually destroying all civil
liberties , needed a crib sheet \? did n't they have any idea how to do it
on their own \?
once again , the author provides a perfectly acceptable answer to his
own question dodd may have offered his copy of the nazi weapons law
to show that the specific proposal did not resemble anything in the
nazi law. in fact , since the law and its translation were entered
into the congressional record , under the heading of documents concerning
the history of nazism and gun confiscation , dodd 's motivation is n't a
mystery he asked for the translation in order to put it in the cr.

4. even this article makes it clear that the part of the nazi law that
was added by the nazi regime is only a small part of that law.
registration of guns , for instance , was begun in 1928 , and thus not
a nazi inspired idea. the parts of the nazi law that parallel the
1968 gca include handgun control of some sort , and the identification
of certain weapons as sporting weapons. the jpfo then goes on to list
other parts of the nazi law , forbidding ownership of weapons by jews
of course , there are no such provisions in the american gca. nevertheless ,
in a rhetorical move guaranteed to muddy the waters , immediately after the
discussion of the anti jewish parts of the law , the jpfo article continues ,
given the parallels between the nazi weapons law and the gca'68... so
as to get maximum emotional mileage out of that aspect of the law.

don porges
porges@inmet.camb.inmet.com
..uunet ! inmet ! porges

from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re batf fbi revenge
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 31

in article c5se5e.coy@boi.hp.com dianem@boi.hp.com (diane mathews) writes
ahem. see the war on drugs , as sponsored by the bush and reagan
administrations. the precedent had well been set for federal agencies to
step on more than a few of what people consider rights. i wo n't make
excuses for anyone , but most of the damage had been done before clinton
even entered the race in '92.

not to mention last year 's weaver affair.

anyway , here 's how i see the waco affair i 'd be interested in other peoples'
interpretations...

1. koresh and his people were basically minding their own business.
2. some weapons violations may have been committed and i would n't have
disapproved of prosecuting him for those violations. however , i think
the batf was criminal for starting negotiations with a military style
assault and for firing into a house where there were children and other
noncombatants.
3. i do n't see they could n't just leave a token guard on the place and wait
the bds out i do n't approve of the tear gas approach and , if it caused
the fire to be started , i think the fbi agent responsible should spend
10 20 years in jail.
4. however , if koresh 's response to the tear gas was to kill everyone there ,
i hold him largely responsible for their deaths.

don






from earlw@apple.com (earl wallace)
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization .
lines 22
nntp posting host apple.com

in article 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
...
in the near future , federal martials will come for your arms.
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking ,
than the 'criminal'. this is your own fault.

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

you know , in many ways this might be just the kick we need to straighten
things out in this country. also , people would have a need to replace
guns with something else , perhaps deadly sprays that would make mace and oc
seem like water. they would be lighter and easier to conceal.

guns are really old in design and as long as we have tons of them , no one
is motivated to design something better. i'm sure we could come up with
some real nasty stuff if we tried and getting rid of these guns would get
us moving on this track asap. this is what we really want , right \? stuff
that 's smaller , lighter and far more deadly.

remember , in this country we 'll really scramble to accomplish impossible
feats if we are motivated enough and i think self defense is high on our
list of motivators.

subject thanks to poster of ny times article on atf in texas
from kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim)
distribution world
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host scws8.harvard.edu
lines 12


good job to whoever posted the article. i 'd
been saving that nytimes edition for a while , planning to ytpe it
in myself , but now i do n't have to.

for all of those people who were worried about whether or not
the media would even question the raid , we owe it to the
ny times (despite their rabidly anti gun editorials) for
being willing to talk to these 4 batf agents.

case kim


from ghm@sserve.cc.adfa.oz.au (geoff miller)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
organization australian defence force academy , canberra , australia
lines 61

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

promising field experiments are being done this year in several areas of
the country relating to chemical contraceptive baits for deer. preliminary
data suggests that this will be a cost effective and humane method for
preventing over population of habitats.

preliminary data regarding similar research into kangaroo overpopulation
in australia do not in any way support the cost effectiveness of this
approach. it may be cost effective for deer if you quietly overlook
the fact that the net cost to the state of deer hunting is negative
(i.e. a profit) because the (majority of) hunters pay for licences.
the cost comparisons are probably being done assuming that people have
to be employed to cull the animals , which is not in fact the case.
you figure people are going to pay for licences to implant contraceptive
pellets or spread baits \?

there has been a fair bit of discussion about this here recently ,
because the kangaroo population in the grounds of the governor
general 's residence has now reached plague proportions. despite the
whines of the rampant animal libbers , the most effective method of
controlling the population is still considered to be controlled
shooting.

so , now why should we allow hunting ... to prevent over population of
the deer bear whatever \? sorry , but that 'justification' of blood
lust is now gone with the wind. once mass production of this stuff
begins , animal populations can be easily managed without a shot being
fired. this leaves only the fact that some people like to go out
in the woods and kill things.

some people take satisfaction (imho , legitimate satisfaction) in eating
food that they have harvested themselves. the pleasure derived from
hunting is the same as that you get from eating fruit and vegetables
grown in your own garden (and , in general , game meat is probably much
freer of unpleasant chemicals than what you buy from the butcher or
the supermarket).

that may be a motivation , but it
cannot now be justified. expect peta and like organizations to use
this argument to get hunting banned period.

by cannot now be justified i guess you mean that you personally
do n't see any justification. fine but what makes your opinion
so important \?

with no legitimate hunting , with the papers filled with stories of
senseless murders ... i guess there wo n't be a chance in hell of
building a case for the rkba that will withstand either public
opinion , necessity or scientific scrutiny. do n't give me that
silent majority wants guns crap ... they are and will be 'silent'.
no votes for rkba , no rkba.

certainly the last point is correct. if politicians do n't see any
votes for themselves in opposing stupid legislation or in developing
and supporting measures which might be effective in reducing the
incidence of violent crime they wo n't do these things.

geoff miller (g miller@adfa.edu.au)
computer centre , australian defence force academy


from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 47
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes



i do n't remember the figures exactly , but there were about 3500 deaths in texas
in 1991 that was caused by guns.....
this is more than those beeing killed in car accidents !
(yes , there could be that low sentences or high poverty could influence the
figures but they 're still pretty high right \? \? )
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal 'gun laws' in usa......

in texas , you cannot carry a handgun. period. either concealed or open.
and your numbers are misleading they include suicides and accidents. the
real number from the department of public safety

murders , non neg hom car fatalities
1991 2651 3079
1992 2240 3057

texas only has liberal gun laws as far as purchasing a firearm aside
from that , it 's probably more restrictive than most states as far as carry
goes.


one state (do n't remember which , texas \? \? ) tried to impose a rule that you could
only buy one gun each month. think you all know what happened.....

the state was virginia , and the law passed.

i respect the right to defend yourself , but that right should not inflict on
other people.

that right only inflicts on those who threaten my rights to life ,
liberty , the pursuit of happiness , etc. , in the first place. i am not
a criminal , and i do n't indiscriminately fire my weapons at random.
so please explain how i am inflicting anything on other people.

this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from hollombe@polymath.tti.com (the polymath)
subject re dillon puts foot in mouth , film at 11
organization the cat factory mushroom farm
lines 20

in article 199304160443.aa25231@sun.panix.com justice@panix.com (michael justice) writes
dillon has published a letter in the blue press telling people
how to bankrupt hci by requesting information from them.

last time this idea went around in rec.guns , a couple of people
said that hci counts all information requestors as members .

can anyone confirm or deny this \?

if true , what 's the impact of hci getting a few thousand new
members \?

last i heard , hci had something like 250k members to the nra 's 3 million.
if true , and they want to play duelling mandates , well ...

the polymath (aka jerry hollombe , m.a. , cdp , aka hollombe@polymath.tti.com)
head robot wrangler at citicorp laws define crime.
3100 ocean park blvd. (310) 450 9111 , x2483 police enforce laws.
santa monica , ca 90405 citizens prevent crime.


from crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com (ron phillips)
subject armed citizen april '93
nntp posting host hound
reply to crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics , mountain view , ca
distribution usa
lines 150


the armed citizen

mere presence of a firearm , without a shot being fired , prevents
crime in many instances , as shown by news reports sent to the
armed citizen. shooting usually can be justified only where
crime constitutes an immediate , imminent threat to life or limb
or , in some circumstances , property. the accounts below are from
clippings sent in by nra members. anyone is free to quote or
reproduce them.




retired las vegas deputy police chief larry bolden initially
tried to defend himself with a steering wheel bar lock when a
criminal attacked him in his car. but then the intruder wrestled
it from him , bolden pulled his pistol and fired several times ,
wounding his attacker and stopping the incident. he was just a
citizen defending himself , a police official said.
(the review journal , las vegas , nev. , 11 11 92)



a pair of teenaged robbers armed with a sawed off shotgun and
handguns took the day 's receipts from brooklyn bodega owner hector
martinez. as they made their getaway , martinez grabbed his
registered 12 gauge shotgun and gave chase. when one fired ,
martinez returned three blasts , slightly wounding his assailants.
they fled but were apprehended when they sought medical attention.
(newsday , long island , n.y. , 01 05 93)



a sign posted on the door of roman paras' shop reads the
owners of this property are armed and highly skilled to protect
life , liberty and property from criminal attack. apparently , a
pair of robbers did n't pause to read it as they threatened paras'
wife in their oxnard , calif. , convenience store. hearing her
scream , paras grabbed his .38 , ran to the front of the store and
shot it out with the masked and armed men , killing one criminal.
(the times , los angeles , calif. , 12 04 92)



anne marie sullivan was showering in her portland , oreg. , home
one morning when she heard the front door crash in. she jumped
out of the shower in time to see a man entering the home. running
to the bedroom , sullivan retrieved her boyfriend 's pistol and
fired two shots , mortally wounding the intruder. the dead man had
a lengthy police and prison record.
(the oregonian , portland , oreg. , 01 07 93)



mike baranelli would have let two robbers who burst into a
birmingham , ala. , barber shop keep his money. but the 75 year old
retired teacher was unwilling to surrender his life. when the
intruders ordered baranelli , the shop owner , and another man to
lie on the floor , baranelli pulled his pistol and shot both men in
the head , killing one. i felt sure there was going to be three
dead people in there. i think i had some divine help , baranelli
said.
(the sunday advertiser , montgomery , ala. , 01 03 93)



believing an elderly harvey , ill. , couple would again be easy
prey , a knife wielding home invader instead met death when the
76 year old homeowner loosed three rounds from a semi automatic
pistol. police said the dead man had been charged several times
for thefts from the couple 's home.
(the star , chicago heights , ill. , 01 07 93)



the criminal 's profile was scheduled to appear on america 's
most wanted , but his shot at fame was abruptly canceled by a
hallandale , fla. , service station clerk. the michigan prison
escapee walked into the station and announced a robbery. instead
of cash , he got bullets in the head and chest from station clerk
gary mcvey. police said mcvey acted in self defense and would not
face charges.
(the sun sentinel , ft. lauderdale , fla. , 12 04 92)



a bridgeport , conn. , oil delivery man handed over the few
dollars he had. but the thug , apparently unsatisfied with his
take , turned his gun on his victim and demanded more money.
instead of more cash , the deliveryman instead pulled his own
pistol and fired , mortally wounding the robber. police said the
dead man had held up a nearby market just before the fatal
incident.
(the courant , hartford , conn. , 01 13 93)



after repeated burglaries at her san marcos , calif. , home , joan
vessel , 64 , was ready with a .38 and a cordless phone when she
heard glass breaking one afternoon. when she found two teenagers
attempting to get into her woodshed , vessel fired a warning shot
over their heads , marched them into the front yard and called
police.
(the times advocate , escondido , calif. , 12 25 92)



angry that his auto insurance had been canceled , a client used
brass knuckles to take it out on brandon , fla. , agent steven
taylor. when his assailant walked out of the office , taylor
grabbed a pistol kept there and held the former client at gun
point until police arrived.
(the tribune , tampa , fla. , 01 14 93)



dozing one evening at his exeter , pa. , office , jim pisano was
awakened by the barking of his dog. sitting in stunned amazement ,
he watched as two men smashed out his office window , reached in
and grabbed one of his hunting rifles. reaching a pistol on his
desk , pisano fired several shots , apparently wounding one of the
burglars , and putting them to flight.
(the times leader , wilkes barre , pa. , 12 09 92)



trying on a pair of shoes was just an act for a criminal who
then pulled a knife and demanded money. when the man advanced ,
the flint , mich. , shoestore owner drew his pistol and fired ,
critically wounding the would be robber.
(the journal , flint , mich. , 01 13 93)



disarmed and pistol whipped after struggling with a pair of
shotgun toting thugs , brooklyn , n.y. , pharmacist soel melero
continued fighting and managed to retrieve a second also licensed
hidden pistol. firing three times , the druggist killed one of his
assailants. the other fled empty handed.
(the daily news , new york , n.y. , 01 18 93)



ron phillips crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
senior customer engineer
intergraph electronics
381 east evelyn avenue voice (415) 691 6473
mountain view , ca 94041 fax (415) 691 0350


nntp posting host holmenkollen.ifi.uio.no
from thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no
subject change of name \? \?
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
lines 23
originator thomasp@holmenkollen.ifi.uio.no



1. make a new newsgroup called talk.politics.guns.paranoid or
talk.politics.guns.they'r.here.to.take.me.away

2. move all postings about waco and burn to (guess where)..

3. stop posting on this newsgroup

we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil
goverment , but would you mail this in regular mail to
let 's say 1000 people \? \? \? \?




this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 41

in article 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
writes
of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

nope. here in northern california , a newspaper recently did a survey ,
asking if people favored stricter gun controls. a full 40 said no.
here , in one of the most liberal (it was n't always a swear word ( areas
of the country , nearly half the people do n't want additional controls , let
alone revocation of rkba...

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void. tough titty.

misguided dolt though he may be (though , i still maintain , less dangerous
than bush) , clinton does not publicly support revoking the second amendment.

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.
your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'.

well , i 'll help my neighbors...

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

violent solutions are passe' \? i take it you propose disarming the police ,
then \?

please do n't mention rkba in the same breath as the kkk. rkba is about
being able to defend yourself and others , not about killing the innocent.
actually , your mention of the kkk is rather funny , considering that the
first gun control law in the us were created specifically to disarm black
people...

don




from mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
keywords nata thing ! !
nntp posting host nimitz.mcs.kent.edu
reply to matthew hamilton
organization kent state university cs
lines 33

in article 1r1j1l 4t@transfer.stratus.com , cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr20.143255.12711@mcs.kent.edu , mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman) writes

oh , then , i guess that shooting those kind of babies is all right.

you sick bastard.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


why thanks for your reply to my post. by the way , i never , never ever said
that it was right to shoot those kind of babies. however it was the branch
davidian people in there that insisted on staying there with their savior
(yeah right budy boy) because he had brain washed them into believing that
what ever he says is the truth , even if means that they are to give up their
lives for his cause. therefore it is davids fault and not the atf 's
who gave them 50 to 51 days to get out , this was 50 days to many for me and
for many of the rest of the u.s. i am however sad to hear of the death of any
child unlike the sick bastard i supposedly am.


matthew r. hamilton mhamilto@mcs.kent.edu a.k.a
cs physics major 1499h751@ksuvxb.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman)
kent state university 1299h751@ksuvxb.kent.edu



look here for future advice.quotes.sayings.jibberish.philosohy




from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re the right to keep and bear arms (was re who 's next \? ...)
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 28

mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider) writes

st922957@pip.cc.brandeis.edu writes

just because someting was good once , does not mean it will be forever.

yes , gone are the days when you can leave your house unlocked at night.
well , it could n't last forever.

for the record , it was n't until i came to college (excluding
the times i went to omaha or council bluffs for something) that i
ever removed the keys from the ignition of my car ! come to think of
it , it was only after i moved to ames , ia (pop 45k) that i ever took
to locking my doors at night.

i 've discovered that 50k year is n't worth living in fear
all day. i might just move back to the farm.

this weekend is veishea. you know , when isu students riot
for no apparent reason. this year , we 've the farm aid concert
to add to the festivities. anybody bet me there 's another riot \?
remember , iowa law has three guys talking loud defined as a riot.
stay tuned for an on the scene report this weekend.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 44
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
yea , there are millions of cases where yoy say that firearms
'deter' criminals. alas , this is not provable. i think that that
there are actually few cases where this is so.

you think wrong. ask the fbi. they 've got the proof. look it up.

the bulk of firarems are used against unworthy and unnesessary
opponents ... those who posessa a cool jakcet you want , those who
would argue with you about a parking space , those who would
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes.

you lie like a snake. the vast majority of the 200 million firearms
in this country are never used in anger. your feelings notwithstanding.

too much of this has ruined you cause. there is no recovery.
in the near future , federal martials will come for your arms.
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking ,
than the 'criminal'. this is your own fault.

we will overcome the kind of blind , pig headed , utterly stupid idiocy that
you and others spout in a vain attempt to further your own agendas. we
will make the truth be known , despite your best efforts to the contrary.

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

the second amendment wo n't be dead unless it is repealed. that wo n't happen.

ever.

accept this. find another way to try and control other 's lives , because we
see you for what you are , and we are not fooled.

mike ruff




this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from 0005111312@mcimail.com (peter nesbitt)
subject need senate bill numbers and house resolution numbers
lines 30

sorry for posting this here , but noone has replied to my post from the politics
side of the group.

i want to get involved in the fight to save our gun rights. but first , i need
to get a little more educated. i 've been reading all the magzines and books i
can get my hands on , and sifting through hundreds of messages here in the
internet.

i want to obtain a complete list of senate bill and house resolution
names numbers.

can anyone tell me how where to obtain this info \? surely there has to be a
way to obtain copies of anti gun legislation from those @ 's in washington.

any help is appreciated.



peter d. nesbitt air traffic controller pnesbitt@mcimail.com

oakland bay tracon



cbr600f2 pilot nra member ccx1380f s w .41 magnum carrier






from faustus p00056@mail.psi.net
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
in reply to 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1
organization inferno
x mailer psilink (3.01)
lines 27

date 18 apr 93 00 13 19 0500
from jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu

yea , there are millions of cases where yoy say that firearms
'deter' criminals. alas , this is not provable.

in my case i am alive thanks to a gun , that is provable..
even in your twisted logic.

i think that that there are actually few cases where this is so.

no... wrong again brain trust..

the bulk of firarems are used against unworthy and unnesessary
opponents

huh \? what planet are you from \?

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

wrong... not as long as freedom remains ..

ps get a dictionary..


faustus
(gun of the month club... hmmm.. glock 10mm this month.. sig 226 next..)

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
article i.d. martha.1993apr6.162820.19369
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
lines 47

in article c4tshu.ew6@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
frank crary (fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu) wrote
that 's all very well and good , but i was refering to all
homocides , not just ones involving handguns (what is this fixation
on death by shooting , as if it were somehow worse than death
by stabbing \? )

what relevance are all homicides in this debate \? what do you think gun
control advocates are saying that if we get rid of all handguns we will
live in a homicide free world \?

the relevance is that if you 've got x homicides and reduce
the number of gun homicides in that group , but x does n't decrease
by a significant amount , have you made an improvement , and is that
improvement worth what you 've paid \?

the issue is guns , not baseball bats. even a simpleton knows that
he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball bat...
certainly of outrunning a bat wielding assailant.

if a baseball bat is a tenth as likely to kill a victim as a gun ,
is that any comfort to that tenth \?

as for knives , see my earlier post. i 'd much rather face a knife
than a gun , thanks.

i 've faced a knife. and i was damn annoyed i did n't have
a gun. all the statistics in the world did n't change the fact that
he was interested in cutting me .

fortunately , the best defense against a knife is n't
another knife. anyone trained in unarmed self defense wo n't have
much of a problem disarming a knife assailant untrained in knife
assault (which probably means 99.9 of knife assailants).

anyone trained in self defense.

unarmed self defense is n't for everyone. what 's more , it requires
substantially more training to be safe and effective than a firearm.
it requires physical proximity and thus a greater threat to the victim ,
which is a primary problem with stun guns. you have to actually touch
your assailant. unless you 're very good , a large , stronger assailant
can simply ignore your blows long enough to incapacitate you.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu

from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject deconcini ten years ago and today
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
lines 120

dennis deconcini , 1982

...in these and similar areas , the
bureau has violated not only the dictates of common sense , but of 5
u.s.c. sec 552 , which was intended to prevent secret lawmaking by
administrative bodies.
these practices , amply documented in hearings before this sub
committee , leave little doubt that the bureau has disregarded
rights guaranteed by the constitution and laws of the united
states.
it has trampled upon the second amendment by chilling exercise
of the right to keep and bear arms by law abiding citizens.
it has offended the fourth amendment by unreasonably search
ing and seizing private property.
it has ignored the fifth amendment by taking private property
without just compensation and by entrapping honest citizens with
out regard for their right to due process of law.
the rebuttal presented to the subcommittee by the bureau was
utterly unconvincing. richard davis , speaking on behalf of the
treasury department , asserted vaguely that the bureau 's priorities
were aimed at prosecuting willful violators , particularly felons ille
gally in possession , and at confiscating only guns actually likely to
be used in crime. he also asserted that the bureau has recently
made great strides toward achieving these priorities. no documen
tation was offered for either of these assertions. in hearings before
batf 's appropriations subcommittee , however , expert evidence
was submitted establishing that approximately 75 percent of batf
gun prosecutions were aimed at ordinary citizens who had neither
criminal intent nor knowledge , but were enticed by agents into
unknowning technical violations.

( exerpt from 97th congress 2d session committee print
t h e r i g h t t o k e e p a n d b e a r a r m s
report
of the
subcommittee on the constitution
of the
committee on the judiciary
united states senate
ninety seventh congress
second session
february , 1982
printed for the use of the committee on the judiciary
u.s. government printing office
88 618 o
washington 1982


letter to constituent april 1993


thank you for contacting me regarding the bureau of alcohol , tobacco ,
and firearms (atf) , which is the federal law enforcement agency with
jurisdiction over firearms violations and regulations.

it has been my experience as chairman of the appropriations
subcommittee on treasury , postal service and general government which
funds atf , that atf is one of the most competent and highly
professional law enforcement agencies in the federal government.
the agents of atf have proven their value again and again in
successful , legal operations to curb the unlawful possession and use
of firearms , especially in the area of drug related crimes. it
enforces the armed career criminal act which calls for mandatory
minimum sentences for repeat felons using firearms to carry out an
illegal activity. the bureau has made itself a key component in
preventing gang related violence , also , both by educating at risk
youth to the dangers of gang membership as well a s by depriving known
gangs from access to weapons.

the waco , texas case involved the execution of search warrants by atf
on the branch davidians for illegal firearms and explosives possession
(automatics , semi automatics , and machine guns , in addition to bombs
and other explosives.) in virtually every gun case , atf is asked to
trace weapons through its' national firearms tracing center , where
they keep all dealer and federal firearms license information. atf
is the federal governments' firearms expert and routinely works with
state and local police to execute warrants. atf , working with state
and local law enforcement in texas and the u.s. attorneys' office
felt it was necessary to execute these warrants in order to legally
establish that a crime had been committed and conclude a long and
thorough investigation of illegal gun and explosives held by members
of the branch davidians. in addition , atf carefully selected a
sunday morning , knowing from their source , inside , that the men would
be separated from the women and children and not in the area where
it was known that the illegal weapons were stored.

as you may be aware by now , vernon howell a.k.a. david koresh
spiritual leader of the branch davidians was tipped of the impending
execution of the search warrants. unfortunately , atf lost the
element of surprise and the cult was able to arm themselves and
prepare for atfs' entry into the compound. once a hostage situation
presented itself , the atf asked the fbi to become involved since the
fbi is skilled in hostage negotiations. in addition , and military
tanks were brought in due to the serious nature of the situation and
firepower of the branch davidians.

based on what i have learned about atf 's role in the branch davidian
raid , i believe the agency acted responsibly. i am , however , deeply
saddened by the loss of lives of the 4 law enforcement agents who
attempted to enter the compound and the civilian members of the
cult. i fully expect the department of treasury to conduct a
thorough evaluation with representatives from law enforcement outside
the department to be headed by the assistant secretary for
enforcement. in addition , atf will conduct its' own review of the
waco operation. i look forward to reviewing the findings of the
evaluators and hope this situation in waco will be brought to a quick
and peaceful conclusion.

sincerely ,

dennis deconcini
chairman
subcommittee on treasury ,
postal service and
general government

april 7 , 1993


larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from julie@eddie.jpl.nasa.gov (julie kangas)
subject re blast them next time
nntp posting host eddie.jpl.nasa.gov
organization jet propulsion laboratory , pasadena , ca
distribution usa
lines 32

in article 1r19l9 7dv@usenet.ins.cwru.edu oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes
what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.



well , it 's said that people get the government they deserve.

do n't worry , you 'll get yours. you 'll sleep much better when
everyone with thoughts not on the government 'approved' list
is rounded up and executed.

julie
disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else

from pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com (dillon pyron)
subject re high power assault guns
lines 12
nntp posting host skndiv.dseg.ti.com
reply to pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
organization ti dseg vax support


high power assault gun \? why , you must be talking about the 155mm howitzer.

or did you want to try a 16 incher \? or one of the german railway guns \?

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com solutions , not gestures.
padi dm 54909


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re riddle me this...
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 19
distribution usa
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr20.050550.4660@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca , j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m) writes

yet , the fbi mouthpiece at this afternoon 's press conference characterized
the quantity of cs gas pumped into the building as massive , and speculated
that after a few hours of exposure any davidian gas masks would become
useless.

does this sound not harmful to you \?

hm. a previous poster argued that the fact that the bd 's did not rush to
escape the burning building indicated that it was they , and not any of the
government actions , that started the fire. on the other hand , i wonder if ,
with a face full of massive amounts of cs , i would be able to escape
a burning tinder box like that ranch house assuming my best efforts.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 61

in article 1r1rad 7rl@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

the original question was about who started the fire and whether the
madmen were inside or outside the compound. to which i replied on
the possible sanity level of those inside and outside.

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ. koresh
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound.
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of
his magnified horn . ex members describe him in ways not dissimilar
to the way jim jones has been described.

point noted. have you submitted your faith and sex life for batf clearance \?
better hurry i believe the deadline was april 15.

i paid my taxes. there was no reference to sex or religion on the form.
the comments above and below were meant to address who might be unstable
enough to keep children in a building with tear gas or start a fire.

fbi agents have to pass rigorous psychological examinations and background
checks. plus , those in charge will undoubtedly have to explain their
decisions in great detail to congress. why would the fbi want to fulfill
koresh 's own prophecy \?

and nevertheless , they hit all their marks and read all the scripted lines.
well , it sure beats the hell out of me. maybe thoreau had a clue when he
said , it is impossible to make anything foolproof , because fools are so
ingenious.

i agree that the batf handled the affair badly.

two of the nine who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set
by cult members.

correction the fbi said that two of the cult members said this so far ,
no one else has been able to talk to them.

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same details ,
will you believe them \?

believe them \? i wo n't even recognize them. and neither will anyone else
who does n't know them personally.

do you believe they would put impostors before the national tv cameras \?

at this point , we are getting conflicting reports from the survivors.
best wait til more light is shed upon them. of course , this is no
good if you believe in eternal darkness.



cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...







from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \?
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 34


in l.a. , the first recorded survivor of a .357 shot to the heart. that
lady not only killed her attacker , but chased him down to do it ! all
four of her shots , fired after she had been shot , struck the perp. atta
girl ! the bullet entered her on a downward angle , went through the apex
of her heart , down through the diaphragm , clipped her liver and
destroyed her spleen. it then exited her back leaving a tennis ball
sized hole. she died about six times on the operating table , but was
out of the hospital in 15 days and was back on full duty in eight
months ! she was off duty at the time and not wearing her vest. she was
on her way home so happened to have her gun. no , she does n't think
civilians should have the same rights. sigh.

well , if police think they are so special that only they are worthy
of self defense , perhaps we start putting the arm on police maybe
we should start demanding that police are only police when on duty ,
that after that they are just like the ordinary disarmed helpless
chumps they consider civilians.

let 's prohibit arms carrying by police when off duty. or , if they make
the assertion that well , i need to maintain my gun let 's make it
regulation that they can carry an unloaded firearm home , that it 's
only fair that they be just as helpless as poor schmuck coming home
from his computer operator job...

nra director ex san jose cop leroy pyle states in the latest swat
magazine that anti cops better watch out for this schism between
rkba folks and the police. he asks the rhetorical question of 'what
if what 's left of the gun lobby starts demanding the disarmament
of the police \?

well , i guess anti gun cops who think only they should be armed ,
along with the wealthy and politically connected , should be made
to realize that screwing can cut in ways they have yet to imagine.

from cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter)
subject re raid justification was blast them next time
distribution usa
organization michigan tech
lines 52
nntp posting host physerver.phy.mtu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

on wed , 21 apr 1993 03 52 11 gmt , peter cash (cash@convex.com) wrote

i just got through listening to the 10 o'clock news on channel 4 here in
dallas. they trotted out a list of justifications produced by the atf after
months of investigation for their raid.

cnn just claimed he bought 104 semi automatic assault rifles . and
they say koresh was n't god like... he managed to buy or build a
collection of fully automatic semi automatic rifles... quite a feat ,
i would say. )

they 're still making charges of sexual abuse and such , or course.
nobody seems to have noticed that the treasury department has nothing
to do with sex crimes. or maybe the feds have recently instituted a
tax on sex crimes... yeah , that 's why the batf was there , looking for
unregistered guns ( this is my weapon , this is my gun , this is for
fighting , this is for... ).

i could n't believe the junk on this list ! for example , the bds were accused
of stockpiling a bunch of 9mm and .223 ammunition that can be used in m15
and m16 assault rifles . imagine that they had ammunition !

i also heard that they 're claiming to be cautious because of koresh 's
heated ammunition stockpile . i seem to recall that smokeless powder
tends to decompose at even moderate temperatures. i would be rather
surprised , after a fire of that nature , if any of his stockpile is
unexploded , or unburned.

they also had
aluminum dust ! (yeah , it 's a component of thermite , but so far i have n't
heard that it 's illegal to take a grinder to the aluminum lawn
furniture...)

i seem to recall that aluminum powder is a common component of
fireworks... the folks on rec.pyro could probably tell you.

the only thing on the list that could conceivably have been
illegal was an m 79 grenade launcher. (anybody know about this \? )

i think anything is legal if you have the proper license. if he had
a curios and relics permit , i believe he could legally own
handgrenades to go with his launcher.


charles scripter cescript@phy.mtu.edu
dept of physics , michigan tech , houghton , mi 49931

...when all government... in little as in great things , shall be
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render
powerless the checks provided of one government on another and will
become as venal and oppressive as the government from which we
separated. thomas jefferson , 1821

from hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays)
subject re gov't break ins (re 60 minutes)
nntp posting host taos
organization intel supercomputer systems division
lines 23

in article 1993apr5.155733.114@pasadena dc.bofa.com , franceschi@pasadena dc.bofa.com writes
on a los angeles radio station last weekend , the lawyers for the
family of the murdered rancher said that the los angeles sheriff 's
department had an assessment done of the rancher 's property before
the raid.

the briefing documents for the raid had a notation on them about a
similar local property which had sold for 800 , 000 prior to the
raid , if recent tv coverage can be believed.

this strongly implies that the sheriff 's department wanted the property
any drugs (which were not found) were only an excuse.

the ventura county da came to the same conclusion in the report he
released , which lambasted the sheriff 's office.

too bad the old man was nearly blind , and did n't take a few
goose stepping drug warriors (tm) with him.


kirk hays nra life , seventh generation.
the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to
do nothing. edmund burke (1729 1797)

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re insane gun toting wackos unite ! ! !
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution na
lines 38

in article 1576@heimdall.sdrc.com crrob@sony1.sdrc.com (rob davis) writes
do you know how many deaths each year are caused by self inflicted gun
shot wounds by people wearing thigh holsters \?

no , but i have several other breakdowns of accidental shootings.
i 've never seen one that specifically provides the info that davis insists
that he has , so i 'd love to have a cite.

if you fall , for example ,
and land on the handgun or cause a sudden blow , the gun will discharge.

wrong. there 's one gun design where that can happen , and it is
supposed to be carried with the hammer over an unloaded chamber.
(cocking the gun turns the cylinder so that a loaded cylinder is under
the hammer. in other words , it can be usefully carried in a safe
manner.) other handgun designs do n't have that property if their
trigger is n't pulled , the hammer ca n't hit the firing pin.

the number of people killed in this manner far outweighs the number of
deaths caused by animal attacks or wacko attacks combined.

the breakdowns that i do have include the above category. from them i
can safely say that if davis is right in all of his claims , a large
negative number of people are killed by animals , because we know that
the number of killings by wackos is reasonably large and that the
number of accidents due to gun failures (which is a superset of the
described circumstance) is near zero.

i can find the figures if you do n't believe me.

please do. include a cite for those of us who like looking at
context. make sure that your source excludes other types of
accidents and suicides that are misreported. ( gun cleaning
accident is police speak for the family needs the insurance
money. )

andy


from jaf@a2.cim.cdc.com (james foster x2912)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization control data
distribution usa
lines 197

in article 1qie2rinn1b9@cae.cad.gatech.edu , vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox) writes
in 93104.173826u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
deleted
and as far as fully automatic weapons , you can be a lot better
armed if you want to hit what you aim at.

what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of
proportion. in my post i was referring to your regular patrolman in a car
cruising around the city vs. gang members. of course the police have access
to the things that you mentioned but do they use tanks and such all of the
time \? of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i
see are still carrying revolvers. not that there is anything wrong with a
revolver but if you 're a cop that is up against some gang member with a couple
of automatics in his coat (i mean semi auto handguns) you 're going to be at a
disadvantage even with training. i have been at a shooting range where gang
gang members were practicing shooting. they were actually practicing
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target
and they were n't doing too badly either. the university cops here (who are
are state cops) are armed better than the chicago police. it seems most
state cops are.

every city and suburban police officer i 've seen around the twin cities in the
last two years has carried a semi auto of some type (different brands though
i have n't seen any glock 's).

with regard to this discussion we are getting dangerously far from the usual
rantings of t.p.g , and close to the realm of r.g , but i 'd like to put my two
cents worth in. while there 's nothing wrong with a revolver (especially a
large frame s w in .357 magnum my favorite) there are valid advantages to
semi autos. i suggest reading massad ayoob 's (i know , some people ca n't stand
him and think he 's full of bull , but i think that in general his material is
very valid and useful) book the semi auto pistol in police work (or something
like that). he defines a number of ways that semi auto 's are different , and that
different is good . the main advantage is not in increased firepower , but in
more accurate followup shots when you go to single action mode. there is also a
certain propriatory nature of each gun that takes some familiarity to
learn. this may have diminished with time as more criminals become familiar
with different models of semi autos , but it was cited as stopping or at least
slowing down criminals who had grabbed a police officers gun.


define armed better . go shoot a revolver and a semi auto like the
colt .45. does one fires faster than the other \? nope. aside from which
faster rate of fire is usually not desirable. sure it makes the other
guys duck for cover , but just you trying hitting anything with a thompson
in hose mode. this is why the military is limiting it 's m 16 now to
3 round burst fire. simple semi auto would be better , but the troops
like to be able to rock and roll even if it is wasteful of ammo (something
often in short supply when the enemy is plentiful).

a revolver is equally capable as a semi auto in the same caliber.

a revolver also has the advantage that if it misfires you just pull
the trigger again.
a double action revolver (almost all of them) can be hand cocked first ,
but will fire merely by pulling the trigger.

yes , but this is best done with a two hand hold. with a single hand you either
pull the gun far off target to cock , or must fire double action. the da semi
auto has the same advantages plus is always sa after the first shot.


a misfire in a revolver merely means you must pull the trigger again
to rotate to the next round.

i'm not sure if this is meant to be different from your first point. in a da
semi auto you can pull the trigger again to try dropping the hammer on the same
round an advantage you do n't have in a revolver where the next trigger pull will
always go to the next round (discussing this point now). this is fine with a dud
but what about a hangfire situation \? granted it 's very rare , but your round will
now go off confined in the cylinder with no place to go. slingshotting the slide
on a misfire takes very little time.


a revolver can be carried with the 6th chamber empty and under the
hammer for maximum safety , but still can be drawn and fired with an
easy motion , even one handed.

actually with modern revolver designs incorporating hammer blocks this is not
necessary or usually recommended. a revolver would have to fall hard enough and
at the right angle to actually break the hammer and driver the firing pin into the
round to set it off.

speedloaders for a revolver allow reloads almost as fast as magazines
on semi autos. can be faster depending on users.

the best speedloader users , especially those using the spring loaded speed
loaders are very fast. a problem is that ejecting the spent cases is a two
handed job where dropping the expended magazine is one handed. this means that
while you can be inserting a fresh magazine as soon as the old one clears the
gun , with a speed loader you have to go through more motions that will always
take more time. you also do n't have the advantage of tactical reloads (replacing
a partial magazine to bring you back to full capacity the partial magazine can
still be used if needed later).


a misfire in a semi auto will require you to clear a jammed shell
first , time spent which can be fatal. and a vital second or so is often
lost as you realize hey , it 's jammed ! before starting to do anything
about clearing it.

yes , the time to recognize the problem is just as important as the time to clear
it. really though , in either a revolver or semi auto the odds of an actual misfire
with factory ammo are awfully small. you are more likely to get a jam in a semi auto
but even these are exceptionally rare with modern quality guns (sigs , glocks , et.al.).


most semi autos must have the slide worked to chamber the first round
and cock the hammer. some police carry their semi autos with the
chamber loaded and hammer cocked , but a safety engaged. i do not consider
this safe however. you must trade off safety to get the same speed
of employment as a revolver.

there are some double action semi autos out there , but the complexity of
operation of many of them requires more training.

all common semi auto 's can be carried with a round in their chamber without any
safety problems. while i put that out as a statement that i believe , i should
say that this applies to all of the ones i 've looked at. for the da semi 's it 's
no different from the revolver situation the guns all have hammer or firing
pin blocks. they also have a safety. because there 's no real advantage
carrying one of these cocked and locked you have the same safety and speed
of employment as a revolver , plus the advantage of sa followup shots. i'm
not familiar with sa semi autos except for the 1911 a1. i admit that i was
initially skeptical about carrying this cocked and locked , but after examining
the design , trying to defeat the safeties (gun unloaded of course) , and
shooting it a lot , i see no inherent safety problems with it , especially in
a thumbreak holster with the strap under the hammer. this design also gets
you more speed for an accurate first shot than a revolver.


some police departments switched to glocks , and then started quietly
switching many officers back to the old revolvers. too many were having
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received. not that glocks
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex
as the timer on a vcr.

yeah , the infamous glock. i still ca n't figure out how it 's worse than a revolver
for safety. if you do n't pull the trigger it does n't go off. i imagine that if all
your revolver shooting was done double action then you could pull the glock trigger
far enough to fire before you realized it. in addition , if you had developed that
nasty habit of keeping your finger on the trigger when holstering your gun and
relying on your thumb on the hammer to remind you to take it off before you blew
off your foot then you 'd have problems when the hammer was n't there.


anyone who goes anyone saying that the criminals obviously outgun
the police do n't know nothing about firearms. turn off cops and hunter
and pay attention. i do not seek here to say semi autos are junk
merely that assuming they are better for all jobs is stupid. a cop
with a revolver on his hip and a shotgun in the rack is more than
equipped for anything short of a riot.

i think this is even okay for a riot (as long as it 's a small one b )).


gun control is hitting what you aim at. if you whip out a
wonder nine and fire real fast you may find you do n't hit anything.
good controlled fire from a revolver is more likely to get you a hit.
i own a 9mm beretta myself but consider it inferior as a carry weapon
to something like the ruger security six revolver. if i have n't hit
what i'm aiming at in the first 5 shots , something is quite seriously
wrong somewheres. while i might like having the backup capacity of those
extra shots in certain cases , overwhelmingly the of shots fired in
criminal encounters is less than 5.

i have the poor man 's beretta (taurus 99) and consider it inferior as a carry
weapon to the springfield .45 (oops , 9mm vs. 45 arguments are relegated to
r.g). you are right , though. if you do n't hit what you aim at then the
shooter gun combination has failed. i do n't ascribe failures in the the
fire real fast with a wonder nine scenario you mention to the gun. this is
a shooter failure , whether through lack of discipline or lack of training.



what do crooks overwhelmingly use in crime \? why the same nice simple
.38 revolvers that the police often use. well actually some police
prefer the much heftier .357 magnum , but anyway.....

9mm 's are becoming more popular with crooks too , though the .38 does still
lead the list. and like i said , around here semi auto 's seem the rule for the
street cop. do n't know about the state patrol however , they may still carry
the highway patrolman .


obplea do n't flame me , i prefer semi autos for most things. but they
introduce unneccessary complications to something as nerve wracking
as an abrupt encounter with a lone criminal.

vincent , please do n't take any of this as a flame. just my 0.02 (whoops , looks more
like 2.00) worth. and much of it is imho , but do check ayoob 's book.



if everything had gone as planned , everything would have been perfect.
batf spokesperson on cnn 3 2 93 , regarding failed raid attempt in tx.

from seth adam eliot se08 @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization doctoral student , materials science and engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 58
nntp posting host po3.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu

excerpts from netnews.talk.politics.guns 18 apr 93 2nd amendment dead
good ! by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
yea , there are millions of cases where yoy say that firearms
'deter' criminals. alas , this is not provable. i think that that
there are actually few cases where this is so.

excerpted from a letter i wrote a while ago

although less apparent to those who have not researched
the facts , personal protection is as legitimate a reason as
sport for the private citizen to own a gun. the most recent
research is that of dr. gary kleck of the florida state
university school of criminology.1 he found that handguns
are more often used by victims to defeat crime than by
criminals to commit it (645 , 000 vs. 580 , 000 respectively in
this study). these figures are even more encouraging when
you consider the number of crimes that never occur because
of the presence of a gun in the hands of a law abiding
private citizen. in a national institute of justice study
of ten state prisons across the country they found that 39
of the felons surveyed had aborted at least one crime
because they believed that the intended victim was armed. ,
and 57 agreed that most criminals are more worried about
meeting an armed victim than they are about running into the
police. 2
one of the most heinous of crimes is that against the
women of this country. it has been my recent observation
that more women are purchasing handguns for defense in
response to the present danger of these assaults. this
should be taken as encouraging news if the events of orlando
florida are any indicator. in the late 1960 's the female
populace was plagued with a series of brutal assaults just
the publicity of the record number of women buying guns and
obtaining training resulted in an 88 decrease in rape for
that area , the only city of its size in the country to
experience a decrease of crime for that year. additionally ,
a 1979 us justice department study of 32 , 000 attempted rapes
showed that overall , when rape is attempted , the completion
rate is 36 . but when a woman defends herself with a gun ,
the completion rate drops to 3 .

1 g kleck , point blank guns and violence in america aldine
de gruyter , ny , 1991
2 jd wright ph rossi armed and considered dangerous a
survey of felons and their firearms , aldine de gruyter , ny ,
1986



unlike cats dogs never scratch you when you wash them. they just
become very sad and try to figure out what they did wrong. dave barry

seth eliot dept of material science and engineering
carnegie mellon univerity , pittsburgh , pa
arpa eliot @cmu.edu
or se08 @andrew.cmu.edu
bitnet se08 andrew@cmccvb


from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re insane gun toting wackos unite ! ! !
lines 21
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
distribution na

in article 1993apr16.030706.3318@ucsu.colorado.edu fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary) writes

do you know how many deaths each year are caused by self inflicted gun
shot wounds by people wearing thigh holsters \?

there are roughly 1200 fatal , firearms related accidents each year.
the large majority involve rifles and shotgun there are under 500
fatal handgun accidents each year. i really doubt all of those
occur while the pistol is holstered , so the number of self inflicted
gunshot wounds by people wearing thigh holsters is probably
well under 250 per year.

i'm neither a doctor nor a firearms tech expert , but it would seem
that given the way a holstered gun points , accidental injuries inflicted
that way would be among the least lethal.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re the usual
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 54

arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements) writes

yes , i am pro gun , and yes , i do disagree with this statement.
nuclear weapons in and of themselves are dangerous. radioactive
decay of plutonium and uranium , as well as the tritium in the
weapon , tends to be somewhat dangerous to living things.
(can you say neutron flux \? )

can you say , i get more background radiation from living in
denver or having an office in a limestone building than i do standing
next to a power reactor at full power or standing next to a nuclear
warhead that is armed \? look up shielding in your dictionary. you
do n't need six feet of lead to make decent shielding your dead skin
cell layer does an excellent job on alpha particles , and neutrons
are slowed by mere water . what do you think 75 of you is \?

plus these things have no self
defense purposes. it 's kinda hard to justify their use as
a militia weapon when at best they are meant for battlefield use
(low yield weapons) or at worst for industrial target obliteration
(translation cities and population centers).

if the militia has as its job the overthrow of an illegal
government , they are indeed useful weapons to the militia. they
wo n't be too useful in certain areas , but leveling the pentagon
would be a good thing for said overthrow and it 's likely one man
carrying a backpack would stand a better chance than one thousand
armed with colt peacemakers. do n't let self defense become the
only reason you can have a gun and your sole means of justification.
myself , i wo n't overthrow my government until it ceases to be my
legal government , but if i need to i want every weapon i can get.

one can just as easily say no rifle larger than a .22 is
needed to kill a human being. they are right. when that human
being is wearing armor and riding in an apc , things get a bit
different. i do n't see where the weapon is a problem. it 's not.
only the manner of use is in contention here.

not to mention that
for it to be used as a militia weapon and expect the user to live
requires some sort of launch vehicle . . .

i guess you either do n't have an alarm clock or have never
heard the terms timer or martyr either. do n't forget remote
detonation devices. that cb radio in the pickup next to you can
easily transmit ten miles in decent weather. that 's out of the
blast radius of many portable nuclear devices.

just what is it about radioactive decay that has you worried \?

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 59
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 0096b294.aad9c1e0@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu reimer@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu
(paul e. reimer) writes
in article 1qkftjinnoij@cronkite.cisco.com , pitargue@cisco.com (marciano
pitargue) writes

stuff deleted about causes of people in er

and your factoid about shooting victims in the er. count how many come in
due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes. maybe we should outlaw
cars.
marciano pitargue@cisco.com

there are a lot of automobile accidents , but atleast there is some
regulation to try to combat this.

such as \? drunk drivers get back on the road in no time , to kill again. seems
the driver 's license process does not work for this.

when i got my drivers license , i had
to take a drivers safety class.

because you wanted one while you were underage.

i have to be licensed to drive.

only on public roads.

my car
must be registered.

only if it is to be driven on public roads , other than between segments of my
property.

i must (at least where i live) have liability
insurance on both myself driving and my car (if someone else had an
accident with it).

only on public roads.

hmm , would n't manditory saftey classes , registration
of both the owner and gun , and manditory liability insurance be nice for
gun owners.

perhaps , if it gave them permission to shoot in public roads and parks. )


paul reimer
reimer@uinpluxa.npl.uiuc.edu

jim


jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless.

do n't tell me you 're the borg warner , right \?

haaaaaaaaaahahahahahahahahahahaha. hee , hee. chuckle

this was absolutely fabulous. i nearly fell out of my chair laughing.
wonderful ! mr. tavares , my hat is off to you again !


mike ruff


this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
organization at t
lines 29


you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of
mass destruction \? i find it hard to believe that you would support a
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and nerve
gas on his her property.

there is no law prohibiting having biological weapons or nerve gas
on his her property , or even walking on government property with such
items ipso facto it is now one 's right to have such weapons of
mass destruction.

hell , the u.s. patent office has patents on the manufacture of nerve
gas that anyone can obtain simply by sending a 1.50 to the patent
office in washington , d.c. (p.o. box 8). these same patents are
verboten to english citizens from their own patent office , which does n't
surprise me based on the mistrust of the uk government against private
ownership of semi automatic rifles.

if we cannot even agree on keeping weapons of mass destruction out of
the hands of individuals , can there be any hope for us \?

so , you are saying we should have legislation prohibiting owning
biological warfare agents or nerve agents \? will you pass laws against
owning chlorine gas or cyanide as well \? will you pass laws against
owning acetylene gas that could have been used against the bradley
ifvs had the branch dividians known of their anti combustion engine
effects \? will you pass laws against owning 5 gallon cylinders of
propane because they could have been used as flame throwers \? yes , the
proverbial road to hell it 's always for our own good.

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 59

in article c4u3x5.fw7@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no
effect on homicide rates.

i do n't think anyone is arguing that there would be no effect. but
there would be no net positive effect. you also have to
consider the negative side law abiding citizens , armed with
fireamrs (pistols for the most part) , prevent between 80 , 000
(national crime survey) and 1 , 000 , 000 (dr. kleck) crimes
each year. (those are the extremes. most studies find
the number to be 500 , 000 to 600 , 000.) about 1 of those crimes are
homicides , so private ownership of firearms saves approximately
5 , 000 lives each year. there are roughly 12 , 000 criminal homicides
and fatal accidents involving guns each year. for there to
be any net benefit , you would have to show that gun control measures
would disarm over 40 of the criminals currently using guns.
that would be very hard to do according the the federal batf ,
only 8 of criminals buy their guns over the counter. since
gun control laws , by their very nature , only effect legal
sales , such a law would remove all the benefits of armed ,
law abiding citizens while having only a minimal effect on
armed criminals (who , by and large , get their guns illegally.)
that does n't sound like a net benefit to me.

...there were over 250 accidental handgun
homicides in america in 1990 , most with licensed weapons.

since most were with licensed weapons , i assume you are not
supporting reasonable laws (i.e. waiting periods , background
checks , licenses , etc...). since only a complete ban would
alter the statistic you refer to , i assume that 's what you
are supporting.

by the way , 1135 people dies in 1986 from falling down stairs.
250 accidental handgun deaths is n't significant next to
other household accidents.

...more
american children accidentally shot other children last year (15)
than all the handgun homicides in great britain.

1080 children under the age of 10 died by drowning , 69 from
drinking poisonous household chemicals (like drano) , 139 from
falls. if the real goal is to reduce the tragic , accidental
deaths of children , would n't a ban on drain cleaners be a
better palce to start \? (or , perhaps , restricting ownership to
professionals like plumbers \? )

...please... no dictionary arguments about rates vs
total numbers , okay \? they 're offered for emphasis , not comparison).

while you might call it emphasis , refering to completely two
statistics in the same sentence implies a comparison. if it
is n't valid , and you put the numbers together to convince people
you are right , the kindest thing i could call it is propaganda.

frank crary
cu boulder


nntp posting host surt.ifi.uio.no
from thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no
subject re change of name \? \?
in reply to popovich@cs.columbia.edu (steve popovich) 's message of wed , 21
apr 1993 01 54 51 gmt
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
93864@hydra.gatech.edu
popovich.93apr20205451@prince.cs.columbia.edu
lines 37
originator thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no


how we survived ww2
we mailed postings about things we did n't know any thing about
to only the wrong places.

i'm not trying to censor this or any newsgroup , i'm just trying to
give some hints about other newsgroups.
does n't this belong to alt.conspiracy \? \?

note ! ! !
my posting was in reply to those about fbi torching the plasce after
filling it with napalm , and arrested people dissapering.

we all know what a quisling is , right \?
obviously we do n't.....
vidkun quisling is known to be a traitor in norway , not a 'censor'.
if i have betrayed my country (norway) bescause i implied that som of
you jumped to conclusions sound a little paranoid then i think there
is a lot of quislings in norway.......


about waco
it looks to me as the batf and fbi ca n't handle situations like this.
the way it went reminds me of 'stun' bomb beeing dropped on a house
in la from a helicopter. (whole block went up in flames , 5 died...)

it does n't have to be a conspiracy , maybe they just screwed up \? \? \?



this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

from mporter@cis.ohio state.edu (matthew dale porter)
subject re reasonable civie arms limits
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info. science
lines 42
nntp posting host python.cis.ohio state.edu

in article 1993apr19.223925.2342@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
a poster claims he 'always asks anti gunners what they think would
be reasonable personal firepower restrictions'. ok then ...

caliber not greater than 32
muzzle not greater than 300 ft lbs with any combo of bullet wt vel
action single shot rifles and single action revolvers
revolvers bearing no more than six rounds and incorporating
an 'anti fanning' mechanism to discourage roy rogers wannabes.
bullets any non explosive variety , hps just fine.

now these specs leave the 32 h r magnum as about the most powerful
allowable civie cartridge for handgun or rifle use. it would be
reasonably effective against home intruders , muggers , rabid wolves
and other such nasties , even with the firearm type limitations. at the
same time , this caliber power limit would reduce the ultimate lethality
of hits. the chances of the average joe encountering a gang of huge
individuals all drunk and stoned on pcp and crystal meth and with a
bad attitude and all armed and willing to die ... well , it 's about
zero far less than the chances of getting killed driving your car.

when will you people realize that our right to keep and bear is n't
primarily intended to be for protecting against criminals and beasties
in the wild \? granted , it is a big part , but we also need military style
weapons so we can fight off the government when they come to our door.
when ten agents come to my door , it would be nice to be able to shoot
all of them for 'not upholding the constitution to the best of their
ability'. it will be a lot harder doing that with the puny weapons you
listed above.

please read the federalist papers for all clarification on rkba. these
documents have cleared up plenty of misnomers that friends of mine have
had.






matt porter
mporter@cis.ohio state.edu
mporter@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 35

in article 1993apr16.174436.22897@midway.uchicago.edu pkgeragh@gsbphd.uchicago.edu (kevin geraghty) writes
wrong about the whole guns for protection mindset , it ignores the
systemic effects of cumulative individual actions. if you want fire
insurance on your house that 's prudent and it has no effect on me but
if you and a bunch of other paranoids are packing handguns in the
backcountry it makes me , and anyone else who does n't chose to protect
himself in this manner , pretty f king nervous.

why \? if you 're not a threat , you 're not affected at all.

i mean , take this to its logical conclusion , suppose we all carried
handguns all the time , for protection from all the other people
carrying handguns. would we collectively be , or feel , safer \? hell no.
we 'd feel a lot more insecure.

why \? i note that the available psych info says that feelings of
security increase. the victimization stats say that that increase
is rational.

another systemic effect of all the good people protecting themselves
is that the bad people are going to modify their behavior in
response

yes , they are , but how \?

they 're going to be much itchier and much more willing to
kill people in the course of routine muggings if they think their

nope that does n't happen. instead the switch (among those who
change behaviors) to property crimes. that 's an improvement even if
the economic take is unchanged. sure not everyone switches , but
they were killing before.

andy


from earlw@apple.com (earl wallace)
subject re my gun is like my....
organization .
lines 10
nntp posting host apple.com

in article 1993apr16.194708.13273@vax.oxford.ac.uk jaj@vax.oxford.ac.uk writes
what all you turkey pro pistol and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you
just make me chuckle i remeber being in bellingham , washington and seeing a
...

you consider laughing at others civilized behavior \? what was i supposed to
learn from your article \? treat people like dogs \?

i am not impressed by your attitude.

from nate@psygate.psych.indiana.edu (nathan engle)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch update
nntp posting host mushroom.psych.indiana.edu
organization psych department , indiana university
distribution usa
lines 28

34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
ah yes , i see a few liberal weenies have come out of the woodwork
to defend the burning of the children.

actually all the liberals i 've seen have deplored the burning of
children. i would far preferred that the davidians had not set the
fire that burned themselves and their children to death , but i do n't
believe that the responsibility for the fire (or the almost complete
absense of attempts to escape the blaze) can be placed at the door of
the federal authorities.

probably drooled all over themselves while watching the tv coverage.

not so. my wife got me a convenient plastic drip pan for christmas...

probably had a few like that in nazi germany , as well.

yeah , those nazis. you know how we liberals just love those nazis.

oh yeah , atf fbi now claims , according the the media , that there are
a few survivors. the number seems to vary minute by minute.

yeah , as information trickles in... funny how that works...


nathan engle software juggler
psychology department indiana university
nate@psygate.psych.indiana.edu nengle@silver.ucs.indiana.edu

from diederic@spot.colorado.edu (andrew diederich)
subject batf acronym
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution usa
lines 13

have n't seen this one on here yet , so here it goes

b. arely
a. dequate ,
t. otally
f. ed !

i do n't know about adequate , but it fits the acronym. )


andrew diederich diederic@spot.colorado.edu

these opinions are only mine on alternate tuesdays.

from alleyja@yang.earlham.edu
subject none
distribution talk
organization earlham college , richmond , indiana
lines 44

in article 1993apr4.4332.33144@dosgate , nigel.allen@canrem.com (nigel allen) writes
here is a press release from handgun control inc.

sarah brady calls on governor to veto nra bill bayh urged to
follow clinton 's lead
to state desk
contact cheryl brolin of handgun control inc. , 202 898 0792

washington , april 2 in a letter today to indiana gov.
evan bayh , sarah brady , wife of former white house
press secretary james brady and chair of handgun control inc. ,
called on the governor to veto nra backed preemption legislation
(s.b. 241) , which would wipe out existing local gun laws and
prohibit localities from enacting future regulations governing the
sale , possession or transfer of firearms.
i'm counting on gov. bayh to show the same kind of political
courage president clinton showed as governor of arkansas , when he
twice vetoed this type of special interest legislation , mrs. brady
said , referring to clinton 's veto of nra backed preemption bills in
1989 and 1991.


i knew that cutie would sell us out. full blooded democrat , he is )

seriously folks , if it can happen here (remember \? we all got gun racks on
our 4x4s) , it can happen anywhere. now to get that letter ready. `dear
cutie , as one who did n't vote for you , i can sincerely say i am unhappy...'


30

nigel allen , toronto , ontario , canada nigel.allen@canrem.com

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

those who know what 's best for us
must try to save us from ourselves
rush

jason alley the opinions expressed were given to me
earlham college , richmond in by aliens living in my pancreas.
alleyja@yang.earlham.edu the empire never ended.


from ccdarg@dct.ac.uk (alan greig)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization dundee institute of technology
lines 19

in article c5stlg.fwq@news.cso.uiuc.edu , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes

sorry , guy , you got it wrong. atf was pumping tear gas into the compound.
the branch davidians (going along with their apocolyptic faith) set their
own compound on fire killing all but 9 or so. no children survived.

seeing as how people are willing to quote the fbi quoting cultists
who just yesterday were deranged and not to be trusted (hmm the fbi
or the cultists...) i think i 'll quote the bbc quoting (actually voice
interview) one of the two british survivors. he claimed that the fire
started when the tanks caused an internal wooden wall roof to collapse
knocking over kerosene lamps and that they had no suicide plan.

maybe true , partly true , or false.

alan greig janet a.greig@uk.ac.dct
dundee institute of technology internet a.greig@dct.ac.uk
tel (0382) 308810 (int 44 382 308810)
never underestimate the power of human stupidity

from hambidge@bms.com
subject re blast them next time
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
distribution usa
lines 31

in article 1r19l9 7dv@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes
what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.


did you forget to put in a sarcasm flag \?

al
standard disclaimer





from graham@cs.washington.edu (stephen graham)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization computer science engineering , u. of washington , seattle

in article 1qicep obf@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr14.232806.18970@beaver.cs.washington.edu , graham@cs.washington.edu (stephen graham) writes
in article 1qhpcn b12@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
as far as john q. public with a gun , the supreme court has already
ruled in cases such as us v. miller (307 u.s. 175 (1939)) , and us v.
verdugo urquidez (110 s. ct. 1839 (1990)) that that is exactly what
the amendment protects. this interpretation can be found as far back
as the dred scott case , in 1857.

it 's worth noting that us vs. miller sustained miller 's conviction
of possession of an illegal firearm , noting that a sawed off shotgun
was not a proper militia weapon.

no , they noted that no one had claimed that it was a proper militia
weapon (despite having been used in at least two wars). this was true ,
since neither miller nor his lawyer appeared before the court.

did they or did they not sustain miller 's conviction \? i do n't have the
text of the case handy.

yes , shotguns had been used in wwi , the spanish american war , and the
us civil war. that was not in question. the possession of a sawed off
shotgun was , i.e. , a weapon altered to improve concealibility.

therefore , us vs. miller supports limited government regulation of
firearms.

do n't go arguing down this road unless you are willing to abide by
the consequences that you find at the end of it mainly , that the
law abiding common man has a right to own any weapon that has a militia
purpose , from handguns to sawed off shotguns and fully automatic weapons.
that , in fact , is what this decision says.

you are free to produce evidence that i'm not willing to abide with
all the implications of this.

just because i do n't whole heartedly endorse the nra position does not
mean that i oppose the rkba. this attitude is what makes the nra
unpopular.


stephen graham
graham@cs.washington.edu uw beaver ! june ! graham

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 34
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 1993apr14.183025.29688@sco.com allanh@sco.com (allan j. heim)
writes

papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod)

drugs are banned , please tell me when this supply will dry up \?

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to smuggle , easier to hide.
no comparison.

then let 's use another example alcoholic beverages. bottles of whiskey
are larger , heavier , and more fragile than bags of drugs. barrels and
kegs are larger and heavier still , and are difficult to manipulate.
yet , a lot of people managed to get very rich off of the smuggling of
booze into this country during the years of prohibition. there was a
demand , so an entire industry formed to supply it.

i beleive this was the source of the kennedy clan 's money.

so unless there 's something i'm missing , i think your argument that guns
wo n't be smuggled because theyr'e more difficult to manufacture , smuggle
and hide wo n't wash. if enough people want something , somebody will try
to supply it.

allan j. heim allanh@sco.com ... ! uunet ! sco ! allanh 1 408 427 7813
jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re a universal right to bear arms \? not !
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 25
distribution usa
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat) writes


wrong again , but if you want proof turn on your tv and look
for a show starring chuck connors. it was called , the rifleman.
time how fast he can fire that old lever action rifle.

believe it or not , i remember seeing an advertisement for someone
selling one of these apparently winchester produced a bunch of
these commercially to commemorate the television show. i believe it was
being sold as a handgun because of the barrel length and lack of a stock.

i might be mistaking the above weapon for the gun used by steve
mcqueen in wanted dead or alive. if so , sorry. did winchester
make any commemorative models of the rifle used by chuck connors
in the movie \? chuck connors was an nra member before he died recently...

i do n't know for sure if winchester made any commemeratives. if i
recall correctly , the rifle itself was a .44 40 model 92 with an
oversized loop lever. i do n't think winchester makes this rifle
any more. rossi make a model 92 look alike in .38 special and
.357 magnum.

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from pspod@hooch.lerc.nasa.gov (steve podleski)
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio
lines 15
nntp posting host hooch.lerc.nasa.gov

papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) writes
...
some guns will get through , but far fewer , and far less people will
die because of them.

do you have any statistical evidence to back you claim that requires another
limitation of the citizenry freedom \?



steve podleski phone 216 433 4000
nasa lewis research center
cleveland , ohio 44135 email pspod@hooch.lerc.nasa.gov



organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
distribution usa
lines 28

in article 1qvff6inn9p4@clem.handheld.com , jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de
arras) says

in article 93109.172450u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz
...

it is kind of funny though how you were the only one who picked up
the part about my sister being a social worker and keeping me up to date on
the
gang thing. everyone else seemed to just skim by that part.

jason


i guess that just means everyone else was mistaken \?

jim

jmd@handheld.com


actually not jim. i just said that everyone else seemed to have skimmed by
that part and not mentioned it. you can get whatever meaning you want from it.

jason




from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject cop kills teenager
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
keywords handgun mace pepper spray taser tasp phaser
lines 26

ok , here 's something for all of those people who think cops are always
more responsible then the rest of the population. i found this article in the
rocky mountain collegian , colorado state university 's newspaper.

suspended police officer arrested in revenge triple homicide

providence , r.i. (ap) a police officer afraid he would be fired for
allegedly assaulting a teen ager walked into an auto body shop wher the youth
worked , said you 're going to die and fatally shot him and two others , police
said.

a fourth youth was wounded. a fifth escaped injury by hiding under a car.

the wounded youth ran about two blocks to a house after the shooting at about
midnight tuesday and called police. he was hospitalized in satisfactory
condition wednesday.

suspended police officer robert sabetta , 23 , of cranston , was arrested at
gunpoint over three hours after the shooting at wilson 's auto enterprises in
foster , a rural town of about 4 , 000 people in northwest rhode island.

well , this just goes to show that cops are capable of snapping , just
like everyone else. now who was it who said only cops should have guns \?

doug holland


from an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
subject re impeach clinton , reno
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 40
reply to an030@cleveland.freenet.edu (broward horne)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone) says


fact both janet reno and bill clinton have admitted responsibility ,
even grief , over the deaths in waco.

fact regardless of who started the fire , there are more than enough
things on tape to make a civil rights case against these two.
cruel and unusual punishment (dying tortured rabbits on tape \? )
come to mind.

fact it is a federal felony to infringe civil rights under color of
law where death is involved , this offense carries a penalty
of life in prison.

fact impeachment is allowable for high crimes and misdemeanors.
anything that 's a federal felony should qualify.

conclusion we have no choice , if we are an honest people , but to
impeach mr. clinton , and remove reno from office.


i heartily agree. now that the batf warrant has been
unsealed , it is clear that clinton and reno supported an
illegal raid. did they not know this \?



no authority for a 'no knock raid
no authority to use helicopters.
no authority to search for a drug lab

and , apparently , not even any authority to search for automatic
weapons .

51 days of government lies.




from mjp@austin.ibm.com (michael phelps)
subject re non lethal alternatives to handguns \?
originator mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com
reply to mjp@vnet.ibm.com (michael j. phelps)
organization ibm kingston ny
keywords handgun mace pepper spray taser tasp phaser
lines 27


holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes
what about guns with non lethal bullets , like rubber or plastic bullets.
would those work very well in stopping an attack \?

doug holland

any projectile traveling at or near typical bullet speeds is potentially
lethal. even blanks which have no projectile can cause death if the
muzzle is in close proximity to the victim. i have heard of rubber or
plastic bullets being used effectively during riot situations where the
intent is crowd control , rather than close range self defense i 've also
seen reports of deaths caused by them the british in northern ireland .
use of a firearm for self defense is appropriate and lawful only in the
gravest of situations at that point , i consider deadly lethal force to
be a proper reaction and so does the law .
furthermore , use of less effective but still potentially lethal force
has its own set of problems. it may well take more applications of the
less effective force to stop the incident this places all parties at some
risk the victim because the attack has not stopped , and the assailent
since the aggregate damage done by the multiple applications may well be
more deadly.


michael phelps , (external) mjp@vnet.ibm.com ..
(internal) mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com .. mjp at kgnvmy
(and last but not least a disclaimer) these opinions are mine..

from green@plains.nodak.edu (bill green)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
article i.d. ns1.c5tenu.112f
organization north dakota higher education computing network
lines 23
nntp posting host plains.nodak.edu

just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported (ap , etc.) that
there were several witnesses to bd folks starting the fires. it has also
been reported that the fires broke out in several places at once , which
rules out a bradley knocking over a lamp , etc. as the cause.

what i would like to see is some serious discussion of this incident. i
believe the moves made were right and proper , but i still have some problems
with some of the tactics. after watching the abc special on it tonight , as
well as cnn and nightline , i question some of the atf and fbi actions.

1) could it have been possible to have taken koresh outside the compound at
some time before the feb. 28th raid \?

2) could a further wait have resulted in a different outcome.

3) were fbi actions (blaring loudspeakers , etc.) the right course of action \?

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in
general , were proper. but i still have some reservations.

one other point , i'm no fan of janet reno , but i do like the way she had the
balls to go ahead and take full responsibility. seems like the waffle boy
had problems figuring out just where he stood on the issue.

from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 1
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com

nut case panics ! ! ! ! jumps the gun on the net before getting facts straight ! ! ! !

from vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization deep thirteen , gizmonics institute
lines 22
distribution usa
nntp posting host cae.cad.gatech.edu

in 93104.173826u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
deleted
the university cops here (who are
are state cops) are armed better than the chicago police. it seems most
state cops are. i do n't know where you are originally from david but you live
in tennesse and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news
and in the papers. i think the situation is just a tad different here
than there.

which crap , the ridiculous assertions that uzis are mowing down cops
right and left \? the assertions that dialing 911 should be the proper
and only option available to the law abiding citizens \?

a factoid

56 cops were killed in the whole country last year. this is down from
around 100 in the early '80s. wow , a real explosion in cop killings
there eh \? )


if everything had gone as planned , everything would have been perfect.
batf spokesperson on cnn 3 2 93 , regarding failed raid attempt in tx.

from jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
lines 117

in article pa146008.710.734831135@utkvm1.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes
in article 1993apr14.182610.2330@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

in article 1993apr14.120958.11363@synapse.bms.com , hambidge@bms.com writes
self defense is a valid reason for rkba.

the vast majority get through life without ever having to
own , use or display a firearm.

you might have missed the u.s. news world report excerpt
i posted. it is fairly consistant with other such polls , finding
that approximately 40 50 of households have at least one firearm.
how this translates into individual ownership is questionable , but i
think it 's fairly safe to say that you 're wrong about the vast majority.

ok ... a near majority actually own firearms , but i will still
claim that the vast majority never needs to use them or even
threaten anyone with them. what do they do right ... or are
they just lucky \? in either case , this means the 'average
threat level' in this country is rather low.

besides , there are other
means of self protection which can be just as effective
as firearms.

please name them. the key phrase is can be. theories are
nice , but practicality is more important. a taser (to chose an
exmpale outlawed virtually everywhere) can be as effective as a gun ,
under optimal conditions when dealing with your absolute average
...

i think you have weapons on the brain. i never said that these
alternative means of self protection involved any hardware.
why are 'good' neighborhoods 'good' \? it is n't because every
person is armed to the teeth. it is because of (1) attitude
and (2) cooperation. in the 'good' neighborhoods , the residents
make themselves aware of their neighbors and notice when
strangers are lurking around. 'good' neighborhoods form groups
like 'crime watch' to increase this effect , and the relative
effectiveness of the police. when hostiles are arrested , the
good neighbors step up and say that's the one officer ! he
was robbing mr. jones' house .

in short , the alternative to firepower is gangs ... or at
least a benificent manifestation of that social cooperative.
replace lead with flesh ... the flesh makes a better
conversationalist too and you can invite it over for a
block party.

freedoms and rights are not dependent on public opinion , necessity , or
scientific scrutiny.

new to this planet \? everything is dependent on either public
or political opinion , usually political. to imagine that
inalienable 'rights' are somehow wired into the vast cold
cosmos is purest egotism and a dangerous delusion.

in a very real sense everything the government does is based
on public approval , if for no other reason than at any particular time
there are n't public servants commonly adorning trees.

but legality and legitimacy also matter. if a government 's charter
makes a rule , which the government then violates , it is violated the
basis for its existance. enforcement of its will becomes a matter
solely of force of arms.

oliver north. the man is positively worshiped in many
all american 'conservative' quarters. he and big ron
set up a secret government and did all sorts of severely
illegal deeds the kind of stuff you and i would be doing
twenty to life for , yet he walks free. this bs happens all
the time. in fact , it happens so much that no one really
cares anymore. 'legitimacy' is a non issue. legality is
a non issue. so long as we get t bones and our mtv , who
gives a rats ass \?

no arguments against rkba can withstand scientific scrutiny.

they do n't have to. like so many other things , the issue
is one of perception rather than boring statistics.

excuse me , sir , but you were the one suggesting that arguments
for rkba would not stand up to scientific scrutiny.

no. i claimed that no one is interested in the statistical
aspects of the argument. pure emotion , like the abortion issue.

every time some young innocent is gunned down in a drive
by , every time some kid is murdered for a jacket , every
time a store clerk is executed for three dollars in change ,
every time some moron kills his wife because she took the
last beer from the fridge , every time someone hears a 'bang'
in the night .... the rkba dies.

emotion is hard to argue against. but it must be done anyway if
emotion is wrong.

argue away ... you ca n't win.

the stats are not all that
clearly behind firearms

and just yesterday you claimed they were n't behind them at
all.

the protection factor does not
strongly outweigh the mindless mayhem factor.

operating under the assumption that the same conditions absolutely
govern both of them. that the expansion of one automatically necessitates
the contraction of the other.

firearms related mindless mayhem will be related to the
availibility of firearms. if they become scarce and
and expensive , a different psychology will take hold.
i think they would be used far less to settle trivial
complaints.

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c5tbwr.5xi@news.cso.uiuc.edu , tomgift@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tom gift) writes

no , they did n't have electrical power , but no , i do n't find the idea of
davidians calmly cooking lunch with gas masks on as the fbi knocks the
buildings down very credible , either.

i do n't know how quickly you can get a woodstove to heat up from a cold
start , but mine takes about three hours.

it 's not like this whole discussion is relevant. it started when some
one made the wholly unsubstantiated allegation that the wood stove ig
nited napalm the fbi shot into the buildings.

mox nix. the bd 's were prepared to provide their own heat and light ,
and were doing so for weeks while the power was out. that means the
compound contained containers of flammable liquids or gases (that could
be busted by a tank intrusion) , plus ignition sources , which no one can
tell for sure were all off at the time.

i'm not a groveling apoligist for the feds , far from it. but wild ac
cusations like this are ridiculous and obfuscate legitimate criticism of
their conduct in this whole affair.

on the contrary. we are proposing alternate scenarios. the people who
are coming to wild conclusions are the feds , who are absolutely positive
how the fire started , even though none of them were in a position to
see it , either (and the stories they hear from their prisoners changes
hourly).


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from tmh@expert.cc.purdue.edu (todd m. helfter)
subject re batf fbi revenge
organization purdue university computing center
lines 172


does anyone have any idea about the size of waco \? i'm just curious because
if it were a small town that may have something to do with it. possibly not.
it sure did n't take it very long to burn down though. i was watching abc and
it only took like a little over 30 minutes to burn down.

waco is a city of about 100 , 000 people. the population temporarily
raised to about 102 , 000 people when all the feds , and state police officers
arrived.

i tell you what , i stayed in a hotel room about 4 miles from the bd
compound around 3 weeks ago. i have never felt more paranoid in my whole
life. there were at least 100 state police in the hotel.






the claim we had the water turned off , so the fire engines had to bring
their own does n't hold up if they had cut off the water , they surely
could have turned it back on just as quickly. they just did n't want to
there were some scores to settle. message to anybody else is very clear
don't fuck with us. we will do you in...

not that i am one to believe that everything that the government tells us is
true but if that was the message they wanted to send why did they wait 51 days \?
i think the message would be better sent by charging in there right away not
waiting for 51 days and pounding them with sound , etc.

a bunch of dead bd members are not going to be so able to tell their
side of the story , so now all we have is the story according to the batf
and fbi. also , mr care about the rights of people clinton , or his
administration approved this action (fbi said 'washington had approved
it'). they fbi said the gas masks used by the bds have a finite life ,
and were close to running out. why couldn't they have just waited \?

well , there are 9 people supposedly alive. they can tell their story. as far
as bill clinton is concerned do n't you think he has more pressing matters to
attend to besides some small group of people in texas \? how about bosnia \? now
there 's a problem...... why could n't they have waited \? they waited too long
as it is. something should have been done earlier.


they gov is trying to say it was a mass suicide. in the past they had
expressed this was a real possibility , but now they decided it was n't
a possibility so they could go on with the raid. apparantly what they
feel korash was or was not capable of or going to do was driven by
what was most convenient at the time...

now this means that

1 the public and media will forget about all this having become weary of
it.

this has already happened for many people.

2 there will be no investigation (independent or otherwise) or a whitewash.

very much a possibility.

3 there will be no unsealing of the warrant and related documents.
4 what anybody will know about this incident will be the batf version.

with the way our government is i would n't doubt it.

5 the batf has just been given carte blanche for further abuses , with
the effective support and approval of the administration.

clinton said on the news that he knew about what was happening but that it was
all in the hands of the fbi. that is if you choose to believe the media.

6 there will be more abuses , with no concern of administration censure.
7 the precident has been established that the feds can kill in quantity
to achieve their aims. especially if the target is excercising their
rights under the second amendment , and the rest of the bill of rights ,
and is a government declared un nice fellow.

if they had rocket launchers and such (as the press and gov claims) why
should n't they have done something \? what possible use would a religious cult
have for a rocket launcher \? also , is child abuse covered by the bill of
rights \?

lls and clams will be pleased. dung tsow ping(sp) will be pleased.
saddam hussein(sp) will be pleased. idi amin would be pleased. stalin
would be pleased. even hitler would be pleased. any self respecting
despot would nod and say well done , bill clinton ! !

well , then there are probably a lot of self respecting despots in the us cause
i'm sure they feel the same way.

god bless america land of the free ! ! ! (past tense).

well , maybe i am overreacting. but i see on the tv as i am typing where

maybe , maybe not. there are a lot of questions that should be raised about
this incident. the problem is , who will do it and be heard \?

govt spoksewoman (the new attorney general , known to be almost rabid
about private ownership of guns wants to ban 'assault guns' and just
about everything else) , is saying the fbi had amazing restraint , then
falls back into the official goverenment line about how the bd were
guity of child abuse , and were into it in an on going basis , and so on.
note that according to the liberal elite , giving a child a spanking is
regarded as child abuse (seriously if it gets known , the state can
take your child away from you if you spank your kid). she also is saying

which state is that \? the federal government or an individual state government
\?

clinton personally approved this operation she told him it was
appropriate and so on , and he said ok , do it . somehow , i am not
surprised the people must know who is boss who is in charge ! ! !
and it is obviouly no longer the people.

it seems to me that the people have n't been in charge for a long time. if they
really were i do n't think the government would be doing as many things as it
has in the past.

and i maintain the appropriate response , as far as this raid by batf is
concerned , regarding child abuse is so what \? . batf are not our child
protective services police. yet. after all the bd had been tried on
that charge before and found not guilty. the gov't people have pretty
much gone silent on the terrible illegal guns bd supposedly has , and
stress the continued child abuse (apparantly to make it a seem as sort
of a 'rescue' operation , figuring everyone hates child abusers , and
anything is ok to use against them). occasional references to ammunition
possesed by the bds and so on is irrelevant it is not illegal to have
ammunition (yet).

true but is it illegal to have a rocket launcher \?

am i having a vain hope that an honest investigation will occur on this
thing \? or will it simply be whitewashed under the rug , and business
as usual will continue to be the order of the day in the new order \?
who will be given the official title of thought police , i wonder... \?

and if clinton and friends have their way , (highly likely at this point)
the new order government will also have all the guns... so what if
1984 is going to be ten years late... i think we are going to discover
that we will be paying dearly for putting this fellow in office for decades
to come. even some die hard supporters are having serious doubts about
their savior.

shit , if people dont get what they want right away there is an instant problem.
clinton has only been in office for a few months. give him a chance to get
something done. the guy had a lot of shit thrown in his lap in the beginning.
give him a chance to work on things a little. as they say rome was n't built
in a day.

yes , i am upset. i see no good as far as civil individual rights to
come of any of his proposals decisions for the last month or so...
we have really been had. or bill of rights is now nothing but a quaint
curiosity.

i highly doubt that it is that bad yet. how about the rodney king trial \? the
two people who were most responsible got the axe. how bad the axe falls tho
is yet to be seen.

anybody for impeachment \?

nope. i would prefer to give bill a little more than four or five months to
solve the nations problems.

pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

jason u28037@uicvm.cc.uic.edu



from starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu (tim starr)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization udel school of life health sciences
lines 19

in article c5d42c.88k@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) writes

drugs are banned , please tell me when this supply will dry up \?

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to smuggle , easier to hide.

no comparison.

you , sir , are an ignorant fool who knows nothing about either the drug
business or the gun business.

tim starr renaissance now !

assistant editor freedom network news , the newsletter of isil ,
the international society for individual liberty ,
1800 market st. , san francisco , ca 94102
(415) 864 0952 fax (415) 864 7506 71034.2711@compuserve.com

think universally , act selfishly starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject national crime survey
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
lines 19

well , i dropped by the library yesterday , and picked up back copies
of the national crime survey (1986 1990) in an effort to examine what
it said about self defense with a firearm.

i have n't ground through much in the way of numbers yet , but a couple
of things jumped out at me. first only 1986 and 1987 specify the type of
weapon used in self defense. 1988 , 1989 , and 1990 refer only to weapon.
the second is that while assaults rose about 3 from 1986 to 1987 , w gun
defenses reported fell by almost 25 . unless there 's an explanation for
this , i'm tempted to mark it as a reporting problem , and as such going
ahead with any examination of the numbers would be a waste of time.

anybody have an idea what might have cause a real difference , and
not just a reporting difference \? the survey does n't appear to have
changed significantly between 1986 and 1987.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu

from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 34
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.) writes

in 1r3efjinn3jj@gap.caltech.edu arc@cco.caltech.edu writes

thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal 'gun laws' in usa......

in texas , you cannot carry a handgun. period. either concealed or open.

currently , there is a bill before the texas legislature that would make it
legal for some ordinary folks to carry concealed weapons. i do n't have the
details , sorry.

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph

if i recall correctly , the bill would provide for concealed carry if
the person takes a 15 hr dps safety course in firearms and pays a 150
fee for the license. the bill is apparently veto proof in the house ,
but ltgov bullock has said it will never come to the floor of the
senate and dreamboat annie has vowed to veto it if it comes to her
desk. shrug

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu



from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \? (was re my gun is like my american express card)
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 16

iftccu talk.politics.guns hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays) 3 31 pm apr 13 , 1993

some of the pro gun posters in this group own no guns. the dread
terminator , aka the rifleman , owned no firearms for several years
while posting in this group , as an example. there are others.

good point , kirk.

he 's still around too. he 's responded by email to a couple of my posts ,
and gosh darn , he 's gotten down right civil ! this happed about the time
he got his first firearm. wonder if there is a relationship here \? turns
out that most people (at least the ones who are not criminals to start
with) act responsibility once given the chance.

rick.


from yoony@aix.rpi.edu (young hoon yoon)
subject re boston gun buy back
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
lines 28



ron miller wrote
when you ask the question of the authorities or sponsors of buyback
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer
no , it 's total amnesty .
(good point about registration schemes being used only for harassment deleted)

i would also like to point out that this is receiving stolen property and is
no different than a pawn shop owner doing the same thing.


myron petro
nra , uspsa
dvc y'all

the opinions included in this post are my sole responsibility.
and are protected by the first amendment and guarnteed by the
second amendment.

if amnesty was their concern , they should pay in cash rather than moneyorder
and they should check to see if the gun turned in was stolen or not.
this way if a gun turns out to be stolen , then even if they wanted to
prosecute , they do n't know who to prosecute.
since the only concern of these(hci and the like) people seems to be the total
eradication of guns( legal or illegal ) , why should they bother to check for
stolen property. if they knew who the rightful owner is , then they would have
to return the gun and hence contrary to their intent to ban all guns.

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 122
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article cmm.0.90.2.734911642.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no , thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes

if i would like to have a handgun , i would have to get an gun licence from
the police and to be a member of a gun club.
the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and or
records of serious mental diseases.
now , if a got my licence , i would have to be an active member of the gun
club for 6 months before i could collect my gun.

so , like , what do you do during those six months to be active \?
my town has a similar requirement , and it 's rather stupid. before
you can buy a handgun , you have to be an active member of a gun club.
well , how active can you be without a gun , chief \?

most gun owners feel a check of criminal records for crimes and mental
disorders would be a very good thing if it could n't be abused by the
government. but every time this is proposed , there is always some
trapdoor by which the government can deny your purchase even if you
are perfectly qualified to own a gun. and we oppose this.

it 's a little like getting a drivers licence is n't it \? \? \?
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to...

since the fatal accident rate for licensed automobile drivers in the us
is around 50 times the fatal accident rate of largely unlicensed gun
owners , i 'd think twice before using this analogy.

besides , the problem is criminal use of guns , not accidents. (there
are about 500 , 000 criminal uses of guns in the us every year but
only 1 , 400 accidents.) i do n't think it 's necessary to spend a lot
of energy making sure a criminal can shoot a gun before he gets one.

just like the check , most gun owners feel positively about requiring
safety courses if they could n't be abused by the government. but
they already have ! one state does n't hold the courses , another does n't
fund them , a third holds them only once a year with limited attendence
to those with political connections. is this fair \?

most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short
time befor the crime.

and how many of them acquire these guns from legal retail outlets \?
how many are borrowed , stolen , smuggled , bought on the black market \?

use of knives
it is allowed to cary knifes in public , but not in your belt or 'open'.
you (americans) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open
in public rigth \? \?

some states allow only open carry. some allow only concealed carry.
some allow both. some allow both , but require licenses for concealed
carry. all you can say is if one of these modes has a clear advantage
over another in terms of reducing crime or any other public good ,
then state legislators someplace are doing exactly the wrong thing.
which means that they really do n't have any objective reasons for
these laws other than their preferences a bad way to govern.

scandinavians are 'aggressive'
we northeners are not as hot livered as southeners , but when we decide
to take action we do.

( hot livered. i love that expression. here , we say hot headed. )

individual vs masses
yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some
extent....
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses \? \?
what happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of
all the others \? \?

typically , the only criminals who can affect the rights of all the other
people are criminals in government offices. the rest of our criminals
affect the rights of only one or a few people at a time , and they do this
during the commission of a crime. possession of a gun by someone hurts
no one else. it is when they do something violent with that gun that
the crime occurs. of course , it is a crime for a felon or ex felon to
possess a gun , but we do n't feel it is right to treat common citizens
who have lived good lives as if they were just pre felons waiting to
commit crimes.

we should n't mix weapons and items that can serve as one....

i do n't understand this sentence.

if i lived in amerika i would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in home.
but should it have to be like that \? \?

life is n't fair. i should n't need a fire extinguisher either , or
flood and theft insurance , or to lock the doors of my house and car.
but pining for a better world wo n't do anything to address what i have
to do to live in this one.

do you think it 's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) \? \?

none of ours , i'm sure.

if you believe it 's smart neccacery to have drivers licence why do you think
it should be free to buy guns \? \?

frankly , i'm not sure i know what good a driver 's license does anyone ,
either. the people who drive safely never use it , and the people who
drive drunk , drive without it !

however , a car is a good tool , but not one that protects my right to life.
i rank the right to life somewhere north of the right to travel freely.

i'm not a pacifist or anti gun.
i would defend my home , loved ones and country , but i do n't view guns as
neccities or toys.
i have done army service , and have used a variaty of weapons , but would n't
want to have one for self defence or because they 'feel good'....

the question is not whether or not you want to own guns personally. it 's
whether or not you think that all people should be forced to do as you do.
i do n't have any problem with someone who says they would never own a gun.
i do have a problem with someone who says i should be prevented from owning
one , too.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization interactive media group university of massachusetts at lowell
lines 146

in article 1993apr16.010235.14225@mtu.edu , cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter) writes
this mention of a well regulated militia is what confuses me. according
to the federalist paper 's , a well regulated militia has a well defined
structure and follows nationally uniform regulations.

perhaps you should actually read the federalist papers ! !

perhaps you should , reread federal 29 which deals exclusively with the
well regulated malitia. here is what is says about its character

to oblige the great body of the yeomanry , and of the other classes
of the citizens , to be under arms for the purpose of going through
military exercises and evolutions , as often as might be necessary to
acquire the degree of perfection which would entitle them to the
character of a well regulated militia ,

it also talks about the well regulated militia having a nationally
uniform in structure and disipline.

i will note you did quote the end of this particular paragraph which states

little more can reasonably be aimed at , with
respect to the people at large , than to have them properly armed
and equipped and in order to see that this be not neglected , it
will be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the course of
a year.

but , do you knew how much organization is required to training a large
group of poeple twice a year. just to try to get the same people
every year , provide a basic training to new people so they can
be integrated into the force , and find a suitable location , it
requires a continually standing committee of organizers.

since a well regulate militia is nationally uniform in structure and
disipline , and meet once or twice a year to train , how can you claim
a well regulated militia is not well organized. but i will concide
a well organized militia is not necessarily a well regulated militia.

several people have stated that the well organized militia is
what is defined under 10 usc 311 , which states

the militia of the united states consists of all able bodied
males at least 17 years of age and , except as provided in
section 313 of title 32 , under 45 years of age who are ,
or who have made a declaration of intention to become ,
citizens of the united states and of female citizents of
the united states who are commissioned officers of the
national guard.

this deos define the militia , but were is the adjective well regulated.
10 usc 311 does not define a well regualed militia in any way , shape ,
or form. it only defines who can become part of a well regulated militia
the federalist papers clearly define the well regualed militia as a
proper subset of the militia. in the same paragraph quoted above , it
talk above disciplining all the militia of the united states so they
fit the character of a well regulated militia. this is what the
paragraph states about the associated costs

it would form an annual deduction from the productive labor
of the country , to an amount which , calculating upon the
present numbers of the people , would not fall far short
of the whole expense of the civil establishments of all
the states. to attempt a thing which would abridge the
mass of labor and industry to so considerable an extent ,
would be unwise and the experiment , if made , could not
succeed , because it would not long be endured.


another quote provide by charles scripter is
james madison , federalist paper 41 (regarding the general welfare clause)
nothing is more natural nor common than first
to use a general phrase , and then to explain and qualify it by a
recital of particulars.

so the phrase the right of the people to keep and bear arms , shall
not be infringed must either qualify or explain the phrase a well
regulated militia , being necessary to the security of a free state.
the definition of explain as stated in the american hertitage
dictionary of the enlish language the new college edition , 1982 is
1) to make plain or comprehensible remove obscruity from
elucidate it was the economists who undertook to explain
this puzzle
2) to define explicate expound he explained his plan.
3) to offer reasons for or a cause of an answer for' justify
explain an error
the second phrase clearly does not explain the first , therefore
the second phrase must qualify the first. the definition given
for qualify is
1) to describe by enumerating the characteristics or qualities
of characterize.
2) to make competent or suitable for office , position , or
task.
3) to give legal power to make legally capable.
4) to modify , limit , or restrict , as giving exceptions.
5) to make less harsh or severe moderate
6) grammar to modify the meaning of (a word or phrase)
since the right of the people to keep and bear arms , shall not be
infringed does not describe , modify or make less harsh anything and
it has nothing to do with grammar or some sort of position or task.
by process of elimination it must fall into definition 3. and since
3 deals with legal power , the same thing the constitution does , it
must be the correct definition in this case. therefore , the right
of the people to keep and bear arms gives legal power to the well
regualated militia and this legal power shall not be infringed .

i thank you very much mr scripter , you have provided me with more
evidence that the second amendment only concerns itseft with the
people 's right to form well regulate militia , and says very little
about the right of an untrained person to keep and bear a .50 caliber
machine gun. and since i , totally untrained in the use of any firearm
(something i personly have meant to correct by going to a nra gun
safety course and joining a gun club) , cannot legally buy such a machine
gun , i conclude the courts and democraticly elected congress agree with
me.

so now we know which category mr. rutledge is in he means to destroy
our liberties and rights.

i mean to destory our liberties and rights. is that why a participate
in the discussion of exactly what our libertues and rights are \? i
force my version of our liberties and rights by begining statements
of what our liberties and rights with all that the second amendment
clearly states to me. using expressions , such as states to me ,
clearly mean i intend to force my views on others \? i do n't think so.

so in effort not to force my views and not to destory our liberties and
rights , i state that nothing i have written , or will write , in
the matter of liberties and rights is the final word. for i am only
one person among many and the final word on liberties and rights cleary
and irrevocably belongs to the many.


if only it were a modern document , with a
john lawrence rutledge smart index and hyper links stretching all
research assistant through the world data net. it was terribly
frustrating to flip back and forth between
interactive media group the pages and crude flat illustrations that
computer science department never even moved. nor were there animated
umass lowell arrows or zoom ins. it completely lacked a
1 university ave. for sound.
lowell , ma 01854 most baffling of all was the problem of new
words... in normal text you 'd only have to
(508) 934 3568 touch an unfamiliar word and the definition
jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu would pop up just below.
from david brin 's earth


from mcclary@netcom.com (michael mcclary)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization committee to commemorate the waco ghetto uprising
lines 23

in article 1r0mtoinna59@cronkite.central.sun.com dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com writes
gordon storga writes

gentleman , are we also forgetting the near genocide of the native american
for the barbaric act of being heathen (i.e. a non christian) by a
predominantly christian government. that 's a little over 200 years as i
recall. i 'd say that for the most part it was religious persecution
(their religion dictated their lifestyle).

this is a stretch. in fact , a great many of the persecuted indians were
christian , a great many. it would be simpler to state the obvious , that
white people wanted land the indians dominated or threatened. i really
do n't think the government cared a hill of beans about the indians' religion.

my native american girlfriend asks if the government really does n't
'care a hill of beans' about our religion , how come they 're still
busting us for it in oregon , washington , and a few other places \?
you 'd be a christian , too , if the u.s. army marched you into church
at gunpoint.


michael mcclary mcclary@netcom.com
for faster response , address electronic mail to michael@node.com

from cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
subject re ban all firearms !
reply to cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
organization north coast public access nix , cleveland , oh
lines 24

as quoted from 1993apr14.184448.2331@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu

firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

you do n't know much about modern automatic weapons , do you \? just about anybody
with basic manufacturing skill can turn out high quality submachineguns. a
couple of high school shop teachers were recently arrested for building
submachineguns in the school shop.

i suggest that you go to the library and find a copy of smallarms of the
world . your entire premise is based on non factual assumptions.



you 're like a bunch of over educated , new york jewish aclu lawyers
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in
arkansas holly silva

from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 14

in article 1qrn3ainn4rq@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com
(jim de arras) writes
the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

it ai n't dead , yet. and even if it were repealed , remember , it just protects
our rkba , it does not grant any rights. there would then have to be
additional laws passed to outlaw gun possession.

even if they outlawed private posession of firearms , there would be no moral
force behind that law i imagine compliance would be low.

don



from ron@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (ron miller)
subject re boston gun buy back
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa
lines 18

re more on gun buybacks

the denver buy back , trading guns for denver nuggets tickets was pretty much
a bust. very few guns were turned in. the news tried to hype it but
when the best they could do was .... including a loaded .38... well ,
you get the picture.

a side note the news also reported that the guns would be checked for
whether or not they were stolen. stolen guns will be returned to their
owners ! ! ! ! ! (they say)

(does this have anything to do with the rally on the capital steps yesterday
in support of the rkba \? \? \? \? )

even the rally made the 5 pm news on 3 channels )


ron miller

from stevef@bug.uucp (steven r fordyce)
subject re andy how do we stop people with a gun \?
summary guns can kill that 's why i have them.
keywords guns handguns rifles shotguns
reply to stevef@bug.uucp (steven r fordyce)
distribution na
organization handmade designs , salem , or , usa
lines 169

in article 1993apr7.141930.29582@freenet.carleton.ca
ac002@freenet.carleton.ca (nikolaus maack) writes
come on. a gun kills people.

rather , people kill people with guns. the sad truth is sometimes that is
good , or at least , better than the alternative.

but let 's ignore guns for defence and or crime and look at gun accidents.

ok. there are about 1400 fatal firearm accidents per year 1 , and the
number has been in decline since early this century 2 . most of these
accidents involve rifles or shot guns , not handguns.

...
but seriously a gun is designed to fire a bullet. this is not so you
can shoot cardboard cut outs down at the range.

in fact there are both guns and bullets designed specifically for that.
the idea that my ruger mark ii bull barrel (a semi auto 0.22 caliber
handgun) was designed to kill or hurt people , even for self defense ,
would , i'm sure , come as a surprise to its designer. it certainly is n't
why i have it. it certainly would hurt someone if you shot them with it ,
and might even kill them , but it is simply wrong to say it was designed to
kill people.

this is not designed to act as a tool for home defence where you show
someone that you have a gun and they go gee , perhaps i should leave .

in fact , that is what happens most of the time. most self defensive uses
of firearms do n't involve firing any shots. most criminals would prefer
not to be shot , and will go to some effort not to be , including doing what
you say when you point a gun at them.

if you were called on to design a tool , that could be easily carried , to
immediately stop someone attacking you , what would it be \? a handgun is
about the best anyone has come up with and experience shows it does work
the best. 3

no , you see the gun was designed to fire that little bullet into a human
body and hurt them. not a tough concept to swallow , for most.

certainly , no one argues that handguns (of the type we are discussing)
are n't deadly weapons. however , it simply is n't true to say that all of
them were designed to kill people. moreover , what exactly is wrong with
having deadly weapons \? there are times when it is perfectly legitimate to
use deadly force , e.g. in self defense. i consider it not just my right ,
but my duty to defend myself and my family , and that includes having and
knowing how to use the tools to do that.

the strongest reason for the people to retain the right to keep and bear
arms is , as a last resort , to protect themselves against tyranny in
government.
t. jefferson.

i think what jefferson said is still true.

and the trouble with having such an item is often the little bullet goes
off into the wrong fleshy target.

not very often compared to other use. 3

or else uncle frank gets pissed and blows away his wife.

this is n't that common either , at least when compared to other uses. it is
very rare that a non violent person will suddenly get pissed and kill
someone , gun or not. in most cases , the people who murder have long
histories of violence. if you have good reason to believe that these
people would n't kill if they did n't have a gun , feel free to present it.

having a thing specificly designed to kill means it is much easier to
kill things. right \?

right , but there are times when killing things is called for. i hope i
never have to shoot a person , but i 've had to kill a number of animals from
rodents to cows , and when i do , i do n't want them to suffer any more than
is necessary. i prefer they die instantly , but failing that , i want them
to drop so i can quickly finish them with the next shot , and failing that ,
i do n't want them to go fast or far. i try to choose the best weapon and
ammunition i have to try to achieve that goal for the size of animal i'm
after , but it does n't always work as i plan. without belaboring the point ,
people who are overly impressed with the killing or shopping power of guns ,
particularly handguns , have n't used them much for that purpose.


1 accidental deaths in 1988
48700 deaths by auto
11300 deaths by fall
5300 deaths by drowning
4800 deaths by fire
4400 deaths by poison
3200 deaths by food
1400 deaths by firearm

source statistics department , national safety council.
accidents facts 1988 edition . national safety council.
444 n. michigan avenue , chicago il 606111 (800) 621 7619


2 rkba.002 declining trend of accidental deaths by firearms
version 1.1 (last changed on 90 04 23 at 22 28 19)

description

the accidental deaths by firearm per capita has been declining steadily
for almost sixty years. in 1932 , the accidental deaths by firearm per
1 , 000 , 000 people was 24.03. in 1987 , it was 5.74. the decline has been
steady , consistent , and a fairly straight line when plotted. at the rate
of the last sixty years , it will reach zero sometime around 2025 ad.

conclusion

firearms have been a declining factor in accidental deaths for over
sixty years , despite rising per capita gun ownership.



1 year.
2 population.
3 accidental deaths.
4 accidental deaths per 1 , 000 , 000.


1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1932 124 , 840 , 000 3 , 000 24.03 1961 183 , 691 , 000 2 , 204 12.00
1933 125 , 579 , 000 3 , 014 24.00 1962 186 , 538 , 000 2 , 092 11.21
1934 126 , 374 , 000 3 , 033 24.00 1963 189 , 242 , 000 2 , 263 11.96
1935 127 , 250 , 000 2 , 799 22.00 1964 191 , 889 , 000 2 , 275 11.86
1936 128 , 053 , 000 2 , 817 22.00 1965 194 , 303 , 000 2 , 344 12.06
1937 128 , 825 , 000 2 , 576 20.00 1966 196 , 560 , 000 2 , 558 13.01
1938 129 , 825 , 000 2 , 726 21.00 1967 198 , 712 , 000 2 , 896 14.57
1939 130 , 880 , 000 2 , 618 20.00 1968 200 , 706 , 000 2 , 394 11.93
1940 132 , 122 , 000 2 , 375 17.98 1969 202 , 677 , 000 2 , 309 11.39
1941 133 , 402 , 000 2 , 396 17.96 1970 204 , 879 , 000 2 , 406 11.74
1942 134 , 860 , 000 2 , 678 19.86 1971 207 , 661 , 000 2 , 360 11.36
1943 136 , 739 , 000 2 , 282 16.69 1972 209 , 896 , 000 2 , 442 11.63
1944 138 , 397 , 000 2 , 392 17.28 1973 211 , 909 , 000 2 , 618 12.35
1945 139 , 928 , 000 2 , 385 17.04 1974 213 , 854 , 000 2 , 613 12.22
1946 141 , 389 , 000 2 , 801 19.81 1975 215 , 854 , 000 2 , 380 11.03
1947 144 , 126 , 000 2 , 439 16.92 1976 218 , 035 , 000 2 , 059 9.44
1948 146 , 631 , 000 2 , 191 14.94 1977 220 , 239 , 000 1 , 982 9.00
1949 149 , 188 , 000 2 , 330 15.62 1978 222 , 585 , 000 1 , 806 8.11
1950 151 , 684 , 000 2 , 174 14.33 1979 225 , 055 , 000 2 , 004 8.90
1951 154 , 287 , 000 2 , 247 14.56 1980 227 , 757 , 000 1 , 955 8.58
1952 156 , 954 , 000 2 , 210 14.08 1981 230 , 138 , 000 1 , 871 8.13
1953 159 , 565 , 000 2 , 277 14.27 1982 232 , 520 , 000 1 , 756 7.55
1954 162 , 391 , 000 2 , 271 13.98 1983 234 , 799 , 000 1 , 695 7.22
1955 165 , 275 , 000 2 , 120 12.83 1984 237 , 001 , 000 1 , 668 7.04
1956 168 , 221 , 000 2 , 202 13.09 1985 239 , 279 , 000 1 , 649 6.89
1957 171 , 274 , 000 2 , 369 13.83 1986 241 , 613 , 000 1 , 600 6.62
1958 174 , 141 , 000 2 , 172 12.47 1987 243 , 915 , 000 1 , 400 5.74
1959 177 , 073 , 000 2 , 258 12.75
1960 180 , 671 , 000 2 , 334 12.92

sources
u.s. bureau of the census , historical statistics of the united states ,
colonial times to 1970 , bicentennial edition , part 2 , washington , dc , 1975.

u.s. bureau of the census , statistical abstract of the united states
1982 83. (103th edition.) washington , dc , 1982 sic ..

u.s. bureau of the census , statistical abstract of the united states
1989 (109th edition.) washington , dc , 1989.


3 kleck , gary. guns and self defense crime control through the use of
force in the private sector. social problems 35(1988) 4 , pp. 7 9.

orstcs ! opac ! bug ! stevef i am the nra steven r. fordyce
uunet ! sequent ! ether ! stevef . . . the only fair tax is no tax !

from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject re with friends like the
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 27
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


paul prescod pontificating

pp state.edu (cathy smith) writes

pp libertarians oppose both waiting periods and background checks
pp or any prerequisite for exercising rights that are supposed to
pp be guaranteed.

pp let me get this straight. unlike the other idiots in this newsgroup ,
pp you actually support anybody having unlimited access to guns ,
pp inclucing criminals. (or would you prohibit them from owning them ,
pp but not from buying them \? )

pp you are a supreme idiot. you make the other idiots look like mensa members.

thanks paul , for yet another fine example of the holier than thou gun control
mindset. why do n't you add something intelligent to the debate , like maybe
nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah.

. olx 2.2 . fight crime..... shoot back !



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from paull@hplabsz.hpl.hp.com (robert paull)
subject re waco dates are these coincidental \?
distribution usa
organization hewlett packard laboratories palo alto , ca
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
lines 50

richard cower (cower@csli.stanford.edu) wrote

i believe this raid was ill planned because they only had 2 days to plan it ,
and it was continued when failure was obvious because it had a bit part
in the much larger political agenda of president clinton. i would even
suggest that the loss of 4 atf agents is inconsequential in this the
context of his political agenda. it might even be beneficial to his agenda ,
as it helps point up just how evil these assualt weapons are. further proof
might be that the atf denied their agents (street stories report) requests
for sufficient fire power.

important dates
feb 25th nj assembly votes to overturn assault weapon ban.
feb 28th compound in waco attacked.

on feb. 25th the new jersey assembly voted to overturn the assault weapon
ban in that state. it looked like it might be a tight vote , but the senate
in n.j. was going to vote to overturn the ban. it would not sit well to have
an eastern state overturn an assault weapon ban , given clintons stated
agenda on gun control. i suspect clinton gave the order to get someone or
some group with assualt weapons and have the press present (they were
initially
at the incident in waco) to record the event for the tv audience. the agent
on street stories reported that a supervisor was urging them all to get
ready fast , as they know we are coming . i believe this attack continued ,
even tho the probablility of failure was high , because it came from the top
down. after the n.j. assembly vote , the atf had a limited amount of time to
come up with something , and the wackos in waco fit the bill nicely.

...rich


i do n't know rich. last year when the congress was debating the bushmans
'crime bill' , the incident at lubys' cafe occured. most of the anti gun
crap was amended out of the bill anyway.


could a president 'order' go find some 'assault weapons' and bring the
media . i hope not. frankly , the toon meister scares me. of course
having a democratic majority in congress does n't help. (apologies to all
demos' who support rkba)

( definition toon meister a characatureic name for the current
president of the u.s. clinton aka , clintoon aka toon meister.)

rob p.





from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re bill 'blame america first' clinton strikes again.
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 82

in article 12741@news.duke.edu eyc@acpub.duke.edu (emil chuck) writes
this argument sounds very stupid.. if the ability to make guns from
simple metalworking was easy , then drug dealers would make their own
would n't they \? \? \? ..

they do. according the the los angeles police department , illegal
manufacture is one the three primary sources of machine guns and
submachine guns used in crimes (sumggling and theft from the
police and military being the other two.) washington d.c. police
have stated that 40 (if i'm remembering the figure correctly) of
the guns they conficate were illegally built.

...why spend hundreds of dollars buying a gun that
somebody else made cheap and is selling it to you at an
exorbitant markup \? \? \? ...

it takes about 6 hours and a few tools to make one (at least one
of reasonable quality). unless the drug dealer enjoyes messing
around on a lathe (say , as a hobby) , he 's going to have to
pay someone anyway. materials plus six hours of a machinist 's
time for something legal would run about 100. the blackmarket
prices for guns are usually in the 50 to 200 range (at least
those few i 've seen cited in newspaper articles were...)

...the simple truth of the matter is , that regardless
of how easy it is to make guns , banning guns will reduce the
the number of new guns and seriuosly impede the efforts of a
killer intent on buying a weapon....

washington d.c. has a total ban on handguns and prohibits assembled
rifles within city limits. it 's homicide rate is almost ten
times the national average. it is also illegal for a d.c.
resident to drive to the virginia or maryland suburbs and
buy a gun (dealers are required by federal law to check ids
and make sure the buyer is n't from another state) so the ban
can not be easily side stepped.

to show why the tools argument is the silliest i have ever seen.. take an
analogy from computer science... almost every computer science major
can write a wordprocessor yet we(comp sci majors) would willingly pay 3
to 400 bucks for a professional software like wordperfect... why do n't we
just all write our own software \? \? \? ...... because it is highly
inconvinient ! ! ! ..

sure. but it you could n't buy one , you would write your own (in
fact , people did write their own 15 years ago...) more likely ,
you would find a friend who was a particularly good programer
and get him give you a copy of his. software is a very bad
example for your case how many people do you know with illegal
copies of 400 word processors \? if people want something , and
it is n't available (or affordable) legally , they will usually
get it illegally.

same with guns...

quite.

secondly.. how does one get this gunpowder for the
home made gun \? \? \?

13 3 2. the formula has been around for half a million years.
or are you going to restrict sales of sulpher , charcoal and
saltpeter \? that 's alot cruder than modern smokless powder , but
it works very well. the only real problems are a 25 reduction
in energy (so a .357 magnum would only be as deadly as a 9mm)
and it makes alot more smoke... of course , a smart black marketeer
could just make the gun in 9mm and steal the ammunition from the
police (the police are often corruptable , and things are known
to disappear from police evidence rooms and armories and
reappear on the streets...)

if guns were really that simple to make... the bosnian muslims would
be very happy people (or is it the case that metalworking tools are
banned in bosnia \? \? \? (deep sarcasm) ).

perhaps you were n't watching the news two years ago , but the serbs
also tried to invade slovinia. they were driven out after a few
weeks by partisans armed with home made anti tank weapons.
the afghan rebels frequently made their own rifles.

frank crary
cu boulder

subject is it really apples to apples \? (lawful vs. unlawful use of guns)
from kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim)
distribution world
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host scws8.harvard.edu
lines 30

i have been convinced of the right of americans to an effective
self defense , but something strikes me as odd among the
pro rkba arguments presented here.

the numbers comparing hundreds of thousands (indeed , even a
million) of instances of law abiding citizens deterring
criminal activity , seem valid to me. likewise the number
of gun caused homicides each year (about 11 , 000 year \? ). however ,
it is surprising that the evil antigun empire (darth vader
breathing sound effect here) never tries to compare
all legitimate gun defenses vs. all gun crimes. instead ,
it 's always all legitimate gun defenses , which includes
cases in which the criminals are shot but not killed , and
cases in which the criminal is not here , vs. just
criminal gun homicides , which only includes case sin which
the victim died.

why is this \? of course , it would n't be unreasonable to say
that in each crime already measured (involving guns) , the
consequnces are already known and it is safe to assume that
a gun based bank robbery last week will not suddenly turn
into a gun basd robbery homicide. whereas in the legitimate
gun defenses , one may assume that all those criminals who
were deterred would have committed more crime or more
serious crimes had they not been deterred.

case kim

kim39@husc.harvard.edu


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 58
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c5t38g.il@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
in article 1r1rad 7rl@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

the original question was about who started the fire and whether the
madmen were inside or outside the compound. to which i replied on
the possible sanity level of those inside and outside.

was that your argument. well , you did n't make it very well. you started
from the questionable premise that the fire was necessarily an act of
insanity , rather than an act of negligence or an accident. recall , one
survivor claims that the fire started when a tank knocked over a kerosene
lamp. kind of makes arguments regarding relative sanity somewhat moot , no \?

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ. koresh
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound.
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of
his magnified horn . ex members describe him in ways not dissimilar
to the way jim jones has been described.

point noted. have you submitted your faith and sex life for batf clearance \?
better hurry i believe the deadline was april 15.

i paid my taxes. there was no reference to sex or religion on the form.

nice evasive maneuver , mr. chekov , but they 're still on our tail.

let me ask it more plainly. which of the above complaints about david
koresh 's religious or sexual proclivities justified an armed raid by the
bureau of alcohol , tobacco , and firearms \?

two of the nine who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set
by cult members.

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same details ,
will you believe them \?

believe them \? i wo n't even recognize them. and neither will anyone else
who does n't know them personally.

do you believe they would put impostors before the national tv cameras \?

it 's not entirely far fetched. nobody outside the compound would know
everybody inside the compound. do n't forget , the batf admits having
agents inside the compound , in any case.

at this point , we are getting conflicting reports from the survivors.
best wait til more light is shed upon them. of course , this is no
good if you believe in eternal darkness.

i'm simply being the devil 's advocate. there 's reasonable doubt by the
boatload standing in the way of anybody totally swallowing the official
government story on waco.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...

from rboudrie@wpi.wpi.edu (robert a. boudrie)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 249
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

in article 1993apr16.010235.14225@mtu.edu cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter) writes
in article c5bu9m.2k7@ulowell.ulowell.edu
jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) wrote

in article 1q96tpinnpcn@gap.caltech.edu arc@cco.caltech.edu
(aaron ray clements) writes
the second amendment is a guarantee of the right to bear arms. clearly
and unequivocally , without infringement.

unfortunately the second amendment is not as clear as you state. if last
part of it is taken along , it follows what you have said. the problem
i have is with the first part of the single sentence which makes up the
amendment. the second amendment is

a well regulated militia , being necessary to the security
militia

of a free state , the right of the people to keep and bear
state

arms , shall not be infringed.
arms

you did n't even get the capitalization correct ! try reading usca on
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the
constitution.

this mention of a well regulated militia is what confuses me. according
to the federalist paper 's , a well regulated militia has a well defined
structure and follows nationally uniform regulations.

perhaps you should actually read the federalist papers ! !

james madison , federalist paper 46 besides the advantage of
being armed , which the americans possess over the people of almost
every other nation , the existence of subordinate governments , to
which the people are attached , and by which the militia officers
are appointed , forms a barrier against the enterprises of
ambition , more insurmountable than any which a simple government
of any form can admit of. notwithstanding the military
establishments in the several kingdoms of europe , which are
carried as far as the public resources will bear , the governments
are afraid to trust the people with arms.


james madison , i annals of congress 434 , 8 june 1789 the right
of the people to keep and bear... arms shall not be infringed. a
well regulated militia , composed of the body of the people ,

trained to arms , is the best and most natural defense of a free
country...

alexander hamilton , federalist paper 29 (on the organization of
the militia) little more can reasonably be aimed at , with
respect to the people at large , than to have them properly armed

and equipped and in order to see that this be not neglected , it
will be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the course of
a year.

alexander hamilton , federalist paper 29 (speaking of standing
armies) ... if circumstances should at any time oblige the
government to form an army of any magnitude that army can never be
formidable to the liberties of the people while there is a large
body of citizens , little , if at all , inferior to them in

discipline and the use of arms , who stand ready to defend their

own rights and those of their fellow citizens.


but surely hamilton and madison did n't mean the people when they
said people , right \? that 's why the amendment refers to the right
of the militia \? ... )

your average
17 45 year old male does not fall into the definition.

you 're right , the militia consists of all able bodied males (and
probably females under current interpretation).

therefore most
members of the militia , the one the every gun advocate refers to , are
not members of a well organized militia and therefore are not directly

the amendment does nor refer to well organized , it says well
regulated . i have some targets you may examine if you wish to check
how well regulated i am.

mentioned in the amendment.

if this amendment wanted to allow every member of the militia to keep
and bear arms , why did it specificly mention a well organized militia
in the same sentence as the right to keep and bear arms \?

correct. that 's why the right is reserved to the people. and that
was to insure the people could form a well regulated militia , not a
well organized militia .

it could be
argued that the first part of the sentence is separate from the last
part. if so , why was it include in the same atomic unit of written

what do atomic units have to do with this argument \? any moron can set
h bar c 1...

instead of a separate sentence \?

oh , i see what your question is why do n't you read the federalist
papers \? !

james madison , federalist paper 41 (regarding the general
welfare clause) nothing is more natural nor common than first
to use a general phrase , and then to explain and qualify it by a
recital of particulars.

but what does madison know about the grammatical style of the 2nd \? he
only wrote it.

the amendment also implies that the right to arms has to due with
the security of a free state. the federalist paper 's mention of a
well regulated militia gives many examples of how this militia protects
the security of a free state. all these examples are actions of a
very organized force , not some john q. public with a gun.

that 's obviously because you 've never actually read the federalist
papers.

all that the second amendment clearly states to me is that the people 's
right to form well regulated militias shall not be infringed. that is
people have the right to join a well organized militia. this well
organized militia will , of course , provide training in how to use arms
and in basic military tactics. these training members of the militia
can keep and bear the arms.

ca n't read , huh \? show me where the document says well organized
militia .

lastly , reading through the federalist paper 's on well organized
militia it is very clear that many of the reasons for these militias.
one reason stated is the protection from a standing army. these days
the standing army could easily defeat a group consisting of every
17 45 year old male and female not in the armied forces.

that is exactly why every person should be allowed to own any
weapon currently in use in the armed forces.

another
reason stated for well organized militias is to reduced the need
for a standing army. well , the us armied forces have been a standing
army for more than half the history of the us.

but the major reason is to protect against that very same army.

it seems to me the whole reason for the second amendment , to give
the people protection from the us government by guaranteeing that the
people can over through the government if necessary , is a little bit
of an anachronism is this day and age. maybe its time to re think
how this should be done and amend the constitution appropriately.

abraham lincoln , first inaugural address , march 4 , 1861 this
country , with its institutions , belongs to the people who inhabit
it. whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government ,
they can exercise their constitutional right of amending it , or
their revolutionary right to dismember it or overthrow it.

rep. elbridge gerry of massachusetts , spoken during floor debate
over the second amendment , i annals of congress at 750 , 17 august
1789 what , sir , is the use of a militia \? it is to prevent the
establishment of a standing army , the bane of liberty. ...
whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of
the people , they always attempt to destroy the militia , in order
to raise an army upon their ruins.

so now we know which category mr. rutledge is in he means to destroy
our liberties and rights.


charles scripter cescript@phy.mtu.edu
dept of physics , michigan tech , houghton , mi 49931

...when all government... in little as in great things , shall be
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render
powerless the checks provided of one government on another and will
become as venal and oppressive as the government from which we
separated. thomas jefferson , 1821

in article 1q96tpinnpcn@gap.caltech.edu arc@cco.caltech.edu
(aaron ray clements) writes
the second amendment is a guarantee of the right to bear arms. clearly
and unequivocally , without infringement.

unfortunately the second amendment is not as clear as you state. if last
part of it is taken along , it follows what you have said. the problem
i have is with the first part of the single sentence which makes up the
amendment. the second amendment is

a well regulated militia , being necessary to the security
militia

of a free state , the right of the people to keep and bear
state

arms , shall not be infringed.
arms

you did n't even get the capitalization correct ! try reading usca on
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the
constitution.

there are several ways in which one can choose to intrepret any
constitutational issue

(a) original intent
(b) subjectively intrepreted accordiong to political whims of the day.

if we use original intent as the basis for intrepreting the constitution ,
it is clear that the founding fathers intended that the individual citizen
be allowed to bear arms similar to those used by soldiers of the day.

for references , i cite

federalist papers

the embarassing second ammendment , yale law review ,
prof. stanford levinson sorry , i do n't have the date handy

prof levinson sought to prove that the 2nd ammendment did not
convey an individual right , but concluded that it did , hence the
embarassing in his title.

report of the subcomittee on the consititution , united states sendate ,
97th congress , second session february 1982.

u.s. vs. verguido urguidez (supreme court case in recent years).
although this case did not pertain to firearms , justice rhenquist
notes that the term the people is a term of art conveying individual
rights , and specifically cited several used , 2nd ammentment included ,
in his opinion.

title 10 , u.s. code. this states that all males between the ages of
18 45 not part of the organized militia , and all female officers of
the national guard are part of the unorganized militia.

feel free to cite any scholarly and historical references you have to
support your position. i could go on a greater length with my personal
proof by assertion , however , such a technique would carry no more or
less weight that your dubious proofs by assertion.


from hambidge@bms.com
subject re gun control
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 94


in article c51l52.bgo@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

i would be surprised if there were n't contrary studies. i might add that
sloan and kellerman was endorsed by the police departments of both seattle
and vancouver and is considered by most of the references i have at hand the
most exhaustive study of its kind , even by those who take issue with some of
the essay 's conclusions. s k 's statistics speak largely for themselves
without postulate.

and , i might add , vitamin c has been endorsed by a nobel laureate as a
panacea for almost everything from the common cold to cancer.

in order to compare violent crime trends , s k compared all
violent crime categories , from simple assault through various mechanisms of
homicide.

wait a minute. s k did not compare trends. if they did , they would
have seen that the advent of canada 's gun law had no effect on
homicides , total or handgun. without a pre vs. post comparison , one
cannot speculate as to the utility of anything. all they have is a
correlation , and correlation does not prove causality.


if your point is that non whites commit more handgun crimes than whites
then yours is the dubious assumption. conventional social theory is that
economic status , not color , is the primary motivating factor for crime ,
especially violent crime. what 's your point anyway , that white people
are more responsible gun owners \? should we assume that it 's a coincidence
that there are comparitively fewer white people earning below the poverty
line and living in tenement neighborhoods where most violent crime occurs \?

hold it again. you dismiss a point about demographics , then you ask
about socio economic demographics \? very slick.

differences between the two cities in the
permit regulations render these two numbers strictly noncomparable.

on the contrary , it 's these differences that are the very basis of the study
the easy availability of legal handguns in seattle and the much more
difficult restricted weapons permit required in vancouver.

once again , correlation does not prove causality. looking at pre vs.
post data , the canadian gun law had no effect.


not so. cook measures suicides and assaultive homicides with
firearms against a survey based estimate of the number of legal and
illegal guns in circulation within a city.

sir , if you were a canadian , and owned a gun before the restrictive
gun laws were passed , and decided to hide it rather than turn it in ,
would you answer truthfully a question about gun ownership from
someone who calls , writes , or asks you on the street \? that is one
problem with surveys. nobody will answer an incriminating question.
another is that people will often tell you what they think you want to
here.


again , your author misses the core issue that vancouver citizens are
prohibited from purchasing handguns on the basis of self defense. they
do n't have a choice in the matter.

does that mean no vancouver citizens have handguns \? i think not. you
are discounting guns purchased beforehand , and guns purchased for
purposes other than self defense , which can also be used for defense.


hmmm... sounds like your author might like a bumper sticker that reads guns
do n't kill people , black people kill people ! honestly , his conjectures ,
backed up by zero evidence , zero studies and even less common sense , are n't
worth the considerable time it must have taken you to type in. his
assumptions look frighteningly close to those pseudo scientific studies
that the white supremist assholes love... the crap that takes published
statistics , twisted around in an attempt to prove the inherent criminal
nature of black people.

he makes valid points about demographic differences. you then resort
to the kind of argument that the politically correct movement often
uses to stifle any debate. nice , real nice.


this author 's essay contains 0 independent study upon which to base his
conclusions , just some strained , disjointed statistical discourse attempting
to blame seattle 's murder rate on blacks.

one does n't have to produce his own data in order to point out the
flaws in the methodology and conclusions of another 's study. again ,
you resort to pc tactics.


al
standard disclaimer


from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 20

hmm... am i the only person that remembers masada \? this is n't the first time
a group has committed suicide to avoid persecution capture... and you seem to
miss the point that the raid should never have happened in the first place ! ! !
i find the fbi actions too damn reminiscent of the warsaw ghetto... fitting
that al gore was in poland for events marking the 50th anniversery of that...
remove any references to dates and you have two raids by government troops
wearing black uniforms , carrying automatic weapons , backed by armored vehicles ,
against religious minorities they claim were practicing sexually deviant
behavior and hoarding weapons... too damn similar...

james

ps i am not advocating the bd 's , i just find the whole situation too damn
troubling.



james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re ax the atf
organization sun microsystems
lines 14
distribution world
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com

true , congress has said that possesion of an unlicensed automatic
weapon is a violation of the law. congress did not , however , say
that such possesion was a capital offense or a transgression worth
getting four good government agents killed and 16 others wounded.


even if it were a capital offense , the warrant was not even an arrest warrant ,
but a search warrant. in other words , there was no evidence of illegal
arms , just enough of a suggestion to get a judge to sign a license to
search for illegal evidence.

question as in the rodney king case , will the us doj institute
criminal civil rights proceedings against the batf \? or at least an
investigation \? ok , sorry i asked.

from pngai@adobe.com (phil ngai)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization adobe systems incorporated
lines 12

in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

the dividians did n't have that option after the fbi cut off their
electricity.


flag burners do n't bother me as much as seeing the american flag on
tanks assaulting the church of americans who had never bothered anyone.

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
lines 53
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
distribution usa

in article 1qiebiinn1c1@cae.cad.gatech.edu vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox) writes
in 93104.173826u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
deleted
the university cops here (who are
are state cops) are armed better than the chicago police. it seems most
state cops are. i do n't know where you are originally from david but you live
in tennesse and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news
and in the papers. i think the situation is just a tad different here
than there.

which crap , the ridiculous assertions that uzis are mowing down cops
right and left \? the assertions that dialing 911 should be the proper
and only option available to the law abiding citizens \?

a factoid

56 cops were killed in the whole country last year. this is down from
around 100 in the early '80s. wow , a real explosion in cop killings
there eh \? )

well , if we 're going to discuss being a police officer in
america today.

the fbi lists 132 police officers killed (feloniously and
accidentally) in 1990. that 's apparently everybody at all levels.

year officers killed rate 100 , 000 police officers
1982 164 47.6
1983 152 40.2
1984 147 39.4
1985 148 37.9
1986 133 34.9
1987 148 39.0
1988 155 41.9
1989 145 38.1
1990 132 32.0


includes one officer in mariana islands
includes one officer each in guam and mariana islands
includes one officer in guam and two in foreign locations
includes one officer in american samoas and two in foreign countries
includes one officer in guam and one federal officer killed in
peru


god , i love the information age ! )


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from cathy@lance.colostate.edu (cathy smith)
subject reminder denver rally tomorrow
distribution usa
nntp posting host blanca.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523
lines 23



monster rally ! !
for the right to own and carry weapons

tomorrow , sunday , april 18 , 1993 , from 1 00 to 3 30 p.m. ,
the denver libertarian party will sponsor a rally
at the state capitol in support of
the individual right to own and carry weapons.

speakers will include former colorado deputy attorney general
david kopel , radio host ken hamblin , dlp chair david segal ,
pistol instructor lenda jackson , and novelist l. neil smith.

your presence and participation are highly welcome. for more
information call david segal at (303) 296 4059.



cathy smith

my opinions are , of course , my own.


from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject batf fbi revenge
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 55
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


jason kratz writing

...
jk if they had rocket launchers and such (as the press and gov claims) why
jk should n't they have done something \? what possible use would a religious cult
jk have for a rocket launcher \? also , is child abuse covered by the bill of
jk rights \?
...

this is taken a little out of context and i'm not flaming jason...it 's just
that this was the proverbial straw....

i grow a little weary of the allegations (here , the media , people on the
street) that the bd 's had all these horrible illegal weapons and other
paraphenalia of destruction capable of blowing tanks 50 feet into the air...
and then , without missing a beat , discuss how the bd 's willfully commited
mass suicide , or killed their own less fanatical and then commited mass
suicide , etc. , etc.

if the bd 's had all these things and intended to blow up their abode , blow up
waco , blow up the entire country , or whatever suits your fancy , what happened
to all the violence they were supposed to unleash \? why would n't they have gone
out in the proverbial blaze of glory and come out shooting with an attitude
of let 's take as many of those dogs as possible with us \?

instead , they seemed to have preferred death to whatever they thought was in
store for them at the government 's hands.

it 's totally immaterial whether they were all crazy , all fanatics , all followers
of the antichrist , haters of the government , practicers of weird lifestyles , or
whatever...they must have felt that they were being pressured into renouncing
their beliefs , however how strange or lunatic those beliefs might appear to you
and me . there is much precedent for such devotion to cause.

my conclusion at this point is that the authorities seriously misread their
danger to society (else why did the bd 's not do as suggested above) and or chose
this incident to make some heinous point or satisfy some internal agenda , up to
and including ag j. renbo using this as an opportunity to assert her manhood.

some people really do believe it is better to die than be subjected to what
they perceive as the godless government. when i force myself to not judge
others by my own personal standards and beliefs , i can almost admire their
stand.

i surely believe in the constitution but i do n't know that i have such strength
of conviction as evidenced by the bd 's.

. olx 2.2 . obesa non cantatis !



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from kevin@axon.cs.byu.edu (kevin vanhorn)
subject american horror file call for help
organization usr users kevin .organization
lines 30
distribution usa
nntp posting host axon.cs.byu.edu


today 's atrocity in waco has finally impelled me to start working on
something i 've been thinking about for some time. over the last few
years i have heard of one case after another of government running
completely amok. unfortunately , most people are oblivious of the
government 's crimes and still think of it as their protector. so i
intend to put together what i call the american horror file a
compilation of cases where the american government has run roughshod
over the rights of its citizens over the last few years , focusing
especially on deaths and injuries resulting from no knock warrants ,
and financial ruin to innocents resulting from civil forfeiture laws ,
but including any other cases for which i can find decent
documentation. i hope to make people blood boiling , artery bursting ,
red hot enraged at their government.

the end result will probably be a book in electronic form (ascii text
and postscript files) detailing the government 's crimes of recent
years. this book will be distributed at cost , and i will encourage
people to post copies to bbs 's , send copies on disk to friends , and
print out copies and give them to neighbors.

this is a call for your help. any information that you can send me on
how government is running amok will be greatly appreciated. i would prefer
information that is well documented , with sources given , about specific
instances of governmental abuses. i also welcome anyone who wants to
join me in collecting and researching information for this project.


kevin s. van horn is your religion batf approved \?
vanhorn@bert.cs.byu.edu

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
distribution usa
93103.170753u28037@uic 1qie2rinn1b9@cae.cad.gatech.edu
lines 73

in article 1qie2rinn1b9@cae.cad.gatech.edu , vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent
fox) says

stuff deleted. all mine

define armed better . go shoot a revolver and a semi auto like the
colt .45. does one fires faster than the other \? nope. aside from which
faster rate of fire is usually not desirable. sure it makes the other
guys duck for cover , but just you trying hitting anything with a thompson
in hose mode. this is why the military is limiting it 's m 16 now to

aw come on. it worked great in the 1920 's (or the movie version of the '20s
anyways) )

3 round burst fire. simple semi auto would be better , but the troops
like to be able to rock and roll even if it is wasteful of ammo (something
often in short supply when the enemy is plentiful).

a revolver is equally capable as a semi auto in the same caliber.

stuff deleted about how revolvers are just as good as semi autos

all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as
i am not really familiar enough with handguns.

some police departments switched to glocks , and then started quietly
switching many officers back to the old revolvers. too many were having
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received. not that glocks
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex
as the timer on a vcr.

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

anyone who goes anyone saying that the criminals obviously outgun
the police do n't know nothing about firearms. turn off cops and hunter
and pay attention. i do not seek here to say semi autos are junk
merely that assuming they are better for all jobs is stupid. a cop
with a revolver on his hip and a shotgun in the rack is more than
equipped for anything short of a riot.

actually i do n't watch those shows ) and you 're right (at least partially).
i do n't know much about handguns. i'm more familiar with rifles.

gun control is hitting what you aim at. if you whip out a
wonder nine and fire real fast you may find you do n't hit anything.
good controlled fire from a revolver is more likely to get you a hit.
i own a 9mm beretta myself but consider it inferior as a carry weapon
to something like the ruger security six revolver. if i have n't hit
what i'm aiming at in the first 5 shots , something is quite seriously
wrong somewheres. while i might like having the backup capacity of those
extra shots in certain cases , overwhelmingly the of shots fired in
criminal encounters is less than 5.

what do crooks overwhelmingly use in crime \? why the same nice simple
.38 revolvers that the police often use. well actually some police
prefer the much heftier .357 magnum , but anyway.....

obplea do n't flame me , i prefer semi autos for most things. but they
introduce unneccessary complications to something as nerve wracking
as an abrupt encounter with a lone criminal.


if everything had gone as planned , everything would have been perfect.
batf spokesperson on cnn 3 2 93 , regarding failed raid attempt in tx.

no flames here. all your points are well taken. guess i still have a
lot to learn but thanks to this discussion i already am ) guess i
assume too many things like more bullets are better and that sort of
thing. of course you know what happens when you assume ......... )

jason

from gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone)
subject impeach clinton , reno
summary civil rights violations
keywords confession tv
reply to glenns@eas.gatech.edu
organization the group w bench
lines 21


fact both janet reno and bill clinton have admitted responsibility ,
even grief , over the deaths in waco.

fact regardless of who started the fire , there are more than enough
things on tape to make a civil rights case against these two.
cruel and unusual punishment (dying tortured rabbits on tape \? )
come to mind.

fact it is a federal felony to infringe civil rights under color of
law where death is involved , this offense carries a penalty
of life in prison.

fact impeachment is allowable for high crimes and misdemeanors.
anything that 's a federal felony should qualify.

conclusion we have no choice , if we are an honest people , but to
impeach mr. clinton , and remove reno from office.

glenn r. stone (glenns@eas.gatech.edu)
wearer of asbestos underoos

from nagle@netcom.com (john nagle)
subject re waco the militia assembles
keywords we salute them
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
distribution usa
lines 7


dumb move.

the smart move would be to sneak in someone with a tv camera
and video transmitter.

john nagle

from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject re i believe in gun control.
organization ideology busters , inc.
lines 22

in article 1993apr3.221837.2324@news.duc.auburn.edu bixledn@eng.auburn.edu writes
in article 16193@cbnews.cb.att.com , lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani) writes
no , you have n't read it very closely . it says you may answer no if your
civil rights have been restored that can be done either by the feds' or a
a state. i think the feds stopped doing this for those convicted of violent
felonies. at least a dozen states still restore a felons civil rights , some
immediately upon release , some after a waiting period. i will post a list
of the states later.


a quick question , then larry , if a person 's civil rights have been restored ,
then are they still considered a felon \?

good question i do n't know what the law considers them.

imo , if rights have been restored , then it makes sense to me that the
record of the felony , and everything else has been purged , and the
person in question is no longer a felon.

i believe this is what happens in some states.

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
distribution world
lines 4

as a minor point of interest , earlier news reports claim to have
been quoting the governor of texas when her holiness referred to
the dividians as mormons and called for their expulsion
from tx. any texans have details \?

subject news says batf indictment warrant unsealed...
from kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim)
distribution world
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host scws8.harvard.edu
lines 19

something about how koresh had threatened to cause local
problems with all these wepaons he had and was alleged to
have.

someone else will post more details soon , i'm sure.

other news
sniper injures 9 outside mca buildling in l.a. man arrested suspect
was disgruntled employee of universal studios , which
is a division of m.c.a.


question
what will californians do with all those guns after the reginald
denny trial \?

case kim
kim39@husc.harvard.edu


from kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot)
subject re a universal right to bear arms \? not !
organization oklahoma state university , computer science , stillwater
lines 73

nathan@laplace.biology.yale.edu (nathan f. janette) writes
in article 1993apr2.080842.3554@a.cs.okstate.edu kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu
(kennedy james scot) writes
gary@ke4zv.uucp (gary coffman) writes
in article 1993apr1.173759.4636@cs.yale.edu
nathan@laplace.biology.yale.edu writes
in article c4sk5w.lsr@ms.uky.edu miles@ms.uky.edu (stephen d. grant)
writes
nathan@laplace.biology.yale.edu (nathan f. janette) writes

i suppose that 's true if you maintain that ak 47s and ar 15s are hunting
weapons. i think they are fun to plink cans targets random vc with ,
but not suitable for real hunting.

wrong. both are legal to hunt with here in kentucky. i have a picture of
a friend with a nice 8 point buck which he shot with his ar 15 rifle.

i do n't think many deer hunters would condone your friends choice of
rifle.

i must agree with nathan. as a deer hunter , i find it inhumane to use
underpowered weapons for deer hunting. to kill cleanly with the little
.223 requires extremely good marksmanship. most hunting situations do n't
allow for perfect shots. hunters should use sufficiently powerful
weapons to drop the deer with a single hit to the chest. the 7.62x39
from the aks 47 or sks is adequate to this task , having similar ballistics
to the familiar 30 30 , but the little .223 is very marginal. in the
hands of the expert , or the lucky , it will do , but hunters really
should have more respect for their quarry.

gary

i 'll agree that the popular 55 gr. loading for .223 rem. is too small for
deer sized game. however , if you use a 70 gr. semi spritzer or the sierra
63 gr. semi pointed bullet this would be suitable (like any round ,
you keep your shots within a reasonable range). it would still be on the
lower end of what i 'd consider acceptable performance , especially those
long distance shots out west hunting monster mule deer. the .223 rem. has
been declared legal for deer hunting in oklahoma.

the .223 is excellent for varmit hunting and pest control. the ar 15 in
particular is well suited , given its heavy barrel and heat shielded foregrip.
add a high power scope , and you 're in dog heaven .

however , i do n't think nathan janette was refering to the specific chambering
of the rifle in question. maybe he thinks self loading rifles have no
place in deer hunting. that may (or may not) be his opinion , but many
sportsmen do use self loading rifles and shotguns.

wrongo , nra man. i was definitely referring to the round , not the
auto loading aspect of the rifle. i have no problem with responsible
hunting. that does n't include machine guns from choppers , but a semi is
fine. my uncle has bagged several deer with 12 gauge slugs. i would prefer
that a hunter use as much of the catch as possible , and i do n't condone
hunting for sport only.

imho , of course.

two questions

1) you asserted that both the ar 15 and ak 47 are not suitable for
real hunting . if you have no problem with hunting , or using
self loading rifles for hunting , why did you say this \? if not
for deer , then what about other , smaller game \?

2) when did i get the nickname nra man \? notice i have never referred
to you as janette which you do n't seem to like. do i get any
super powers , like spider man or powdered toast man \?

scott kennedy brewer , patriot , and now nra man , defender of truth ,
justice , and the 2nd amendment.

kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu

from mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
keywords nata thing ! !
nntp posting host nimitz.mcs.kent.edu
reply to matthew hamilton
organization kent state university cs
lines 68

in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet , 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt

murder most foul ! !

cnn is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all
the buildings of the branch dividian ranch near waco , tx. the
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and 'non lethal' tear
gas pumped in . a few minutes after this started the whole thing went up.
all buildings are aflame. no one has escaped. i think it obvious that
the atf used armored flame thrower vehicles to pump in unlit
napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

this is murder !

atf murderers ! butchers ! !

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors !

god help us all.


please crosspost don't let them get away with the slaughter of the children !


w. k. gorman an american in tears.

flame on ! !

is this guy serious \? \? \? \?

if he would ever really pay attention to the news (oops i forgot that the media
for the most part loves to jump right on top of a story before all the facts
are known , as well as to manipulate what we see and thus what we believe).
any ways one of koresh 's devoted followers that did i repeat did survive this
genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people . besides there are nine
survivors in the burn unit of the local hospital and was reported that david
was in one of the towers when the shit hit the fan. besides , a majority of
these children were children that he was supposed to have been the father of ,
this then makes them bastard children to a sacraligious zeloit (sp). also
someone should have told david and his followers that if they ca n't the heat
then they should stay out of the kitchen ! ! (pun intended)

flame off

aaah daniaalson yah wanna fight , fight me ! !


matthew r. hamilton mhamilto@mcs.kent.edu a.k.a
cs physics major 1499h751@ksuvxb.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman)
kent state university 1299h751@ksuvxb.kent.edu



look here for future advice.quotes.sayings.jibberish.philosohy




from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 34
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

reimer@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu (paul e. reimer) writes
there are a lot of automobile accidents , but atleast there is some
regulation to try to combat this. when i got my drivers license , i had
to take a drivers safety class. i have to be licensed to drive. my car
must be registered. i must (at least where i live) have liability
insurance on both myself driving and my car (if someone else had an
accident with it). hmm , would n't manditory saftey classes , registration
of both the owner and gun , and manditory liability insurance be nice for
gun owners.

as i'm sure others will have pointed out to you by now , none of the above
measures are required for you on your own property . you do not have to
have a license , your car does not have to be registered or inspected , and
you do not have to have insurance or safety training classes , when you own
and operate that vehicle on your own premises. if you are going to make use
of this dubious analogy , at least make it accurate. and by the way , in texas
you can drive a car in public (with the proper credentials) , but an ordinary
civilian ca n't carry a gun legally in public to save his her life.

so i wo n't even consider registration , manadatory safety classes , or
manadatory liability insurance unless i get a federal law repealing
all local , state , and federal gun control laws which abridge the second
amendment , and a non discretionary federal weapons carry permit , good
anywhere in the united states. come on , you wanted the analogy.


mike ruff

this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from diederic@spot.colorado.edu (andrew diederich)
subject re ax the atf
nntp posting host spot.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution usa
lines 19


a few comments on the atf 's botched handling of this case

dan s.

and another one

has n't enyone heard of a leader 's recon \? this is when the leader of the
assult goes and looks at the objective to see if anything has changed that
would affect the mission. even the freshman cadets here in rotcland
know about them. mostly because they know it as the part where they
lie on the cold ground for an hour or so , but they 've heard about it.
maybe the atf should have hired out to the local rotc guys !



andrew diederich diederic@spot.colorado.edu

these opinions are only mine on alternate tuesdays.

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re gun talk legislative update for states
keywords gun talk , ila
organization iowa state university , ames ia
distribution usa
lines 15

lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani) writes

iowa all firearm related bills are dead. senate file 303
dealing with off duty police officers carrying concealed remains
viable.

the power of the word processor and a stamp at work.
the fact that around here the state rep generally lives no more than
nine miles from any constituent does n't hurt , either.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.


from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re blast them next time
distribution usa
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 44

in article 1r19l9 7dv@usenet.ins.cwru.edu oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes
what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few

i hope this is a joke... if not , here 's my response

the batf has a history of no knock raids with poor evidence , often resulting in
innocent people being killed or suffering injury to person or property. i will
not support the batf until they clean up their act... maybe... as to equipment ,
the batf has damn near anything it wants... their faults were in intelligence
(military and civilian definitions apply) , tactics (attacking during daylight \? \? ) , methodology (the fbi stated that it is against government policy to assault
a position where there are non combatants potential hostages without attempting
negotiations first) , and legality. the batf 's jurisdiction is taxes on firearms
and tobacco. they are a branch of the department of the treasury. they have
very curiously backed away from their claims of illegal weaponry to push the
child abuse charges... the batf has no jurisdiction over non firearms tobacco
issues ! and the charges of child abuse had been investigated in the past with
no violence and no validation. this was a clear case of first the batf , then
the fbi , having watched too many rambo movies... my opinion is that the agent
in charge should be charged with executing an illegal raid , criminal negligence ,
murder , civil rights violations , and breaking his her oath to uphold and defend
the constitution of the us. the warrant should be unsealed to reveal to the
public what justification the batf thought it had in committing an armed assault
on american citizens. and while on the issue of investigating this issue ,
the randy weaver case and the johnny lawmaster case should be investigated for
batf wrongdoing.

james

btw , if the batf came busting in my windows with concussion grenades , you could damn well bet i would return fire to the utmost of my ability.





james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
distribution usa
1qm7qoinnqnv@clem.handheld.com 1993apr17.235338.2819@ucsu.colorado.edu
lines 31

in article 1993apr17.235338.2819@ucsu.colorado.edu , fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu
(frank crary) says

...i have never seen anyone else practice marksmanship by
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting.

that is the recommended way to practice with a ccw , too. aim alone is no d
goo
for defense , if you ca n't get the gun rapidly.

very true but the way it was being done was just a little unusual. it looked
to me like they were practicing to shoot someone...

the point that i forgot to bring up here (and this has nothing to do with being
a gang member or not) is that it is illegal to carry a concealed weapon in this
area (or in the state of illinois for that matter). this is not to say that
people in illinois do n't carry concealed weapons illegaly but practicing like
that when there are other people around was n't too bright of an idea.


there is n't necessarily a conflict between practicing with a concealed
weapon for self defence and practicing to shoot someone. armed
self defence does occasionally involve shooting an attacker.

frank crary
cu boulder

i agree. if you do n't practice at all and carry a gun for self defense you
most likely would be in big trouble if a situation were to arise.

jason u28037@uicvm.cc.uic.edu

from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re non lethal alternatives to handguns \?
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
keywords handgun mace pepper spray taser tasp phaser
lines 18

in article 1993apr15.150736.15793@mksol.dseg.ti.com pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com writes

ask the brits. enough people have been killed by rubber bullets that they now
use them under only certain controlled circumstances. and they are fired
from something that looks like a tear gas launcher.

there are smaller rubber bullets and pellets (for shotguns). i understand that
they are only intended to be discouragers , ie. for the snapping but not truly
dangerous animal. in general , they do not seem capable of really stopping
someone who wants you or past you. they are fired at very low muzzle velocity
(the .38 ball round is intended for a 400fps load). finally , as your mother
warned you , you can put an eye out with that thing. )

oh , ok. just wondering. i am not a real expert on weapons , i was just
wondering if they would do the job.

doug holland


from meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers)
subject hr 1276 ( a gun law i can live with ! )
distribution usa
organization n i
lines 115


103d congress
1st session

h. r. 1276

to establish the right to obtain firearms for security , and to use firearms
in defense of self , family , or home , and to provide for the enforcement
of such right.



in the house of representatives

march 10 , 1993

mr. bartlett introduced the following bill which was referred to the
committee on the judiciary



a bill

to establish the right to obtain firearms for security , and
to use firearms in defense of self , family , or home , and
to provide for the enforcement of such right.

be it enacted by the senate and house of representa
tives of the united states of america in congress assembled ,

section 1. short title.

this act may be cited as the citizens' self defense
act of 1993 .

sec. 2. right to obtain firearms for security , and
to use firearms in defense of self ,
family , or home enforcement.

(a) establishment of right. a person not pro
hibited by federal law from receiving a firearm shall have
the right to obtain firearms for security , and to use fire
arms in defense of self , family , or home.

(b) firearm defined. as used in subsection (a) ,
the term firearm means a

(1) shotgun (as defined in section 921(a)(5) of
title 18 , united states code)

(2) rifle (as defined in section 921(a)(7) of such
title) or

(3) handgun (as defined in section 10 of public
law 99 408).

(c) enforcement of right.

(1) in general. a person whose right under
subsection (a) is violated in any manner may bring
an action in any united states district court against
the united states , any state , or any person for
damages , injunctive relief , and such other relief as
the court deems appropriate.

(2) authority to award a reasonable at
torney's fee. in an action brought under para
graph (1) , the court , in its discretion , may allow the
prevailing party , other than a state , a reasonable
attorney 's fee as part of the costs.

(d) statute of limitations. an action may not
be brought under subsection (c)(1) after the 5 year period
that begins with the date the violation described therein
is discovered.

(end of hr 1276)


well , this sounds good to me. the key is section (2)(c)(2) , which
will effectively open up the federal court system to all the folks
who ca n't afford to adopt an attorney with whom to fight city hall.
all of you who 've been saying hey , is n't that illegal \? could just
go hire your own attorneys on a pay if you win ( contingency fee )
basis , and sue the bums ... )

what you can do now

(1) write your representative , and ask them to co sponsor hr 1276.

(2) write representative roscoe bartlett , the sponsor

representative roscoe bartlett
312 cannon house office building
washington , d.c. 20515

to tell him who your own representative is , and that you 've
asked them to join him as a co sponsor of hr 1276.

(3) contact gun owners of america

gun owners of america
8001 forbes place
springfield , virginia 22151

which has committed to lobby on behalf of hr 1276.

(4) for those of us with a realjob (tm) , find out how to reach
representative bartlett 's campaign fund (i'm working on it)
and toss in a few bucks. you can bet your bippy that he 's
going to be one of the hci targets in the next election ,
which is n't that far away (1994).

(5) tell your family , friends , gun club , etc. enjoy ... )


from joan@koala.berkeley.edu ()
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization u.c. berkeley
lines 40
nntp posting host koala.berkeley.edu

in article c5lrpq.50o@idacom.hp.com guy@idacom.hp.com (guy m. trotter) writes

hi ,

in canada , any gun that enters a national park must be sealed (i think it 's a
small metal tag that 's placed over the trigger). the net result of this is
that you ca n't use a gun to protect yourself from bears (or psychos) in the
national parks. instead , one has to be sensitive to the dangers and annoyances
of hiking in bear country , and take the appropriate precautions.

i think this policy makes the users of the national parks feel a little closer
to nature , that they are a part of nature and , as such , have to deal with
nature on it 's own terms.

guy

hello ,

i understand this philosophy. the bears are a national
treasure , the area is their sanctuary and people who enter it
do so at their own risk. it is better that that rare human be
killed by a bear than that bears be provoked or shot by unbear savvy
visitors. the bears are n't having a population explosion , humans
are so it is better that a human be killed than endanger the bears.
i do n't agree with this philosopy , but i understand it.

the psychos are a bit different. they are not a national
treasure but i suppose the decision has been made that to allow
provision for defense against them would also allow provision
for defense against bears. again , i suppose it has been decided
that it is better for the rare human to be killed by a psycho than
to take a chance on threatening the bears.

personally , i would n't go into an area where i would be
managed so as to reduce my safety ..... but ... come to think
of it i guess i live in a managed wilderness myself )

joan v



from strait@cheetah.csl.uiuc.edu (jeffrey c. strait)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization the university of illinois
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host cheetah.csl.uiuc.edu

in article 1r24bv dif@apple.com , earlw@apple.com (earl wallace) writes

the koreshians rubbed themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a
propensity for dousing themselves with kerosene , so i'm not particularly
concerned. (or shall we blame jim jones on the government also \? )
...

it is silly to make this statement. fifteen minutes after the fire
started , the official word out of fbi headquaters in dc was
that the dv 's committed suicide. it would seem logical that the
lantern story has more credibility. you ca n't even to pretend to
know for sure what happened... although clinton is doing just that.


jeff strait strait@uicsl.csl.uiuc.edu
university of illinois phone (217) 333 6444
impeach klinton

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 85

in article cmm.0.90.2.735132009.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
drivers licence
forgot that usa is the land of cars.....
getting one in scandinavia (and northern europe) is not easy.
average time is about 20 hours of training , and the cost is rather......

is the license required for driving a car exclusively on private
property , such as a farm \? here in the united states , the license
is required only for the use of public roads.

abuse by the goverment
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control
would just be abused by the goverment.( ! )
either some of you are a little paranoid (no offence...) or you should
get a new goverment. (you do have elections \? \? )

we also have a nation of 250 million people , many issues and
usually only two candidates for a given office. a president
might be willing to abuse mild gun control laws and create
a de facto ban (something a majority of the people would object to)
and still be elected the voters might look at issues like the
civil rights of minorities , health care , etc... and vote
for the lesser of two evils. i do n't think this is a matter
of paranoia , since local governments in (for example) new york
and chicago have abused existing , mild gun control laws to
create a virtual ban.

guns 'n criminals
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen.
known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control.

in which case , the united states already has adaquate gun control laws
according to federal statistic , only 7 of gun wielding criminals
legally purchase their own guns from licensed dealers. if that 's
the point of gun control (to prevent criminals from legally purchasing
guns) then america does n't need any additional laws to accomplish
this.

mixing weapons and things that can be use as one
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns !

how is this any different from guns \? there are legal purposes for
owning and using a gun they are appropriate tools for hunting ,
target shooting and self defence. like cars , murder is n't
their only (or even a common) use.

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some regulations on them
or just say that they are ment to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem ,
it 's the 'axer' \? \?

i certainly could n't imagine the american public accepting regulation
of axes. while the politics of other nations may be different ,
in america there is strong opposition to any intrusive law that
primarily would effect the average , law abiding citizen who had
not done anything wrong.

think about the situation in los angeles where people are buying guns to protect
themselves. is this a good situation \? \? is it the rigth way to deal with the problem \? \?

a good way to deal with which problem \? it is an excelent way to deal
with the short term problem of rioting and violent attacks. of course ,
it does n't do anything for the long term issues that start riots. but
at this point , what can these individuals do about long term social
problems \?

if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals (and their neighbor who have
guns) what do you think will happen \? \? (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa)

there are , according to surveys , guns in 40 of american homes.
in many parts of the country , this is closer to 100 . those places
where almost everyone owns a gun are , on average , safer than those
where guns are less common.

last word
responsible gun owners are not a problem , but they will be affected if
you want to protect your citicens.

this is , i think , a fundamental difference between american government
and that of other nations. here it is not acceptable to punish
or restrict the average , law abiding citizen in the name of some
vague common good.

frank crary
cu boulder


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 87
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr16.162447.26289@beaver.cs.washington.edu , graham@cs.washington.edu (stephen graham) writes
in article 1qicep obf@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr14.232806.18970@beaver.cs.washington.edu , graham@cs.washington.edu (stephen graham) writes

re is john q. public with a gun protected \?

it 's worth noting that us vs. miller sustained miller 's conviction
of possession of an illegal firearm , noting that a sawed off shotgun
was not a proper militia weapon.

no , they noted that no one had claimed that it was a proper militia
weapon (despite having been used in at least two wars). this was true ,
since neither miller nor his lawyer appeared before the court.

did they or did they not sustain miller 's conviction \? i do n't have the
text of the case handy.

miller was convicted of owning a sawed off shotgun and not paying the
nfa '34 tax. snatches of the court 's decision

the second amendment was intended to assure the continuation and render
possible the effectiveness of such a force the militia ... it must be
interpreted and applied with that end in view.

the militia includes all males physically capable of acting in concert
for the common defense.

however , regarding sawed off shotguns , certainly it is not within
judicial notice that this weapon is any part of the ordinary military
equipment or that its use could contribute to the common defense.

judicial notice is the term of art here it meant that no such
evidence had been formally presented. this is different from claiming
that they had ruled that it was n't.

yes , shotguns had been used in wwi , the spanish american war , and the
us civil war. that was not in question. the possession of a sawed off
shotgun was , i.e. , a weapon altered to improve concealibility.

i'm not talking about plain shotguns in war i'm talking about short
barrelled ( sawed off ) shotguns in war.

compare revolutionary war blunderbusses luparas in the spanish american
war and trench cleaners in ww i. they were also put to good use by
us soldiers in ww ii , not to mention being invaluable to tunnel rats
in vietnam , but , of course , miller took place in 1939.

therefore , us vs. miller supports limited government regulation of
firearms.

do n't go arguing down this road unless you are willing to abide by
the consequences that you find at the end of it mainly , that the
law abiding common man has a right to own any weapon that has a militia
purpose , from handguns to sawed off shotguns and fully automatic weapons.
that , in fact , is what this decision says.

you are free to produce evidence that i'm not willing to abide with
all the implications of this.

here is my quandary you seem to be arguing that certain types of
guns fall outside the scope of the second. this is n't a useful argument
unless you believe that some significant gun or class of gun belongs
in that class.

i think we both agree that zip guns probably are n't protected. maybe
we also both agree that all the weapons that random state governments
have been banning or trying to ban because they have no sporting purpose
and no provate citizen would ever need these guns do fall under the
protection of the second.

so , given that damn near any gun of any practical utility is or has at
some time been used by the military , even if only for marksmanship
training purposes , i need to understand why you are intent on pressing
this point , arguing that that something is not protected by the second.

just because i do n't whole heartedly endorse the nra position does not
mean that i oppose the rkba. this attitude is what makes the nra
unpopular.

often , what makes someone unpopular is what other people say about him.
how much did any of us fear or abhor the branch davidians six months ago \?
how many of us feared or abhorred saddam hussein five years ago \?


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from aj359@cleveland.freenet.edu (christopher c. morton)
subject re waco shootout highlights total irresponsibility of the
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 13
reply to aj359@cleveland.freenet.edu (christopher c. morton)
nntp posting host slc10.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) says

come on , guys , looks like its time to move that juvenile public post
either to e mail or to a different newsgroup (alt.sex.bondage.holly.silva \? ).

no , brent that would be
alt.sex.bondage.holly.silva.goofy.anti.semite.... )



if you were smarter , you 'd have these opinions....


from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re the usual
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 41
distribution na
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

hollombe@polymath.tti.com (the polymath) writes

the possession of nuclear arms (actually weapons grade fissionables) is
currently regulated only by market forces. i.e. to own them you have to
either make them , buy them or steal them. the only thing that stops you
is the staggering cost (more than most nations can afford) , the fact that
no one who has them wants to sell to you and the tight security maintained
on existing stocks. (just ask saddam hussein).

i was under the impression that to obtain fissionable materials (i.e. ,
plutonium or reactor weapons grade uranium) one was required to obtain
a federal permit to own such materials.

given a source of fissionables , you can build a bomb in your garage with
parts from hardware stores and electronic junk supplies. you might have
to engage in some shady dealings to get the explosive charge , but that 's
trivial compared to getting the plutonium. the basic information on the
design was declassified years ago and can be dug out of any technical
library by a physics grad student.

actually , why bother looking it up \? from the material we covered last
term (in 10 weeks) of ge ch 127 (nuclear chemistry) , i could derive
what it would take to build a bomb. and as far as the explosive charge ,
i (as a chemist) could synthesize a variety of explosives from commonly
available chemicals in the garage if i felt like. the electronics
behind the detonator and the shaped charges are a little trickier ,
however . . . but not impossible using a few tricks of the trade.
and if i really wanted to be nasty , i could include a core of
hydrogen and deuterium . . .

of course , the hardest part is getting the fissionable material
to start with , and living long enough to put a bomb together.
(plutonium has some nasty properties . . .)

the polymath (aka jerry hollombe , m.a. , cdp , aka hollombe@polymath.tti.com)
head robot wrangler at citicorp laws define crime.
3100 ocean park blvd. (310) 450 9111 , x2483 police enforce laws.
santa monica , ca 90405 citizens prevent crime.

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign
lines 63

in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt

murder most foul ! !

cnn is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all
the buildings of the branch dividian ranch near waco , tx. the
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and 'non lethal' tear
gas pumped in . a few minutes after this started the whole thing went up.
all buildings are aflame. no one has escaped. i think it obvious that
the atf used armored flame thrower vehicles to pump in unlit
napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

actually if 'a few minutes' translates into 6 hours , you have it
right. but you (and i guess your single source news agency cnn)
failed to mention the davidians pouring kerosene all over and lighting it in plain
view.

this is murder !

well , small scale jim jones type suicide with fire instead of kool aid.


atf murderers ! butchers ! !

sorry , guy , you got it wrong. atf was pumping tear gas into the compound.
the branch davidians (going along with their apocolyptic faith) set their
own compound on fire killing all but 9 or so. no children survived.

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !

self slaughter , anyway. i pity the children who were to young to be able
to make a conscious choice.

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

you are wrong. thank goodness. i would suggest , however , that you take
a deep breath , and wait 30 minutes or so before posting. also make sure
your facts are correct before making your allegations(sp.).

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors !

you repeated wrong. there were 9.

god help us all.

god help the branch davidians.

please crosspost don't let them get away with the slaughter of the children !

no don't ! ! ! ! there is way too much of this crap being crossposted all over
creation as it is ! ! ! ! ! !


personal opinions \? why ,
brent irvine yes. what did you think irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu
they were \? .......

from glover@tafs2.mitre.org (graham k. glover)
subject the cold war who really won \?
nntp posting host gglover mac.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation , mclean , va
lines 13

if one reasons that the united states of america at one time represented
and protected freedom individual liberty and personal responsibility
(and i do , in fact , think that this is true) and that totalitarianism
absolute government control and tyranny represents freedom 's opposite
(which it does) , did the usa really win the cold war \?

standard disclaimers always apply !


graham k. glover


unmutual

from hrubin@pop.stat.purdue.edu (herman rubin)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ....
organization purdue university statistics department
lines 49

in article 1993apr17.082102.4155@ccsvax.sfasu.edu f gautjw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu writes
in article kckluge.93apr16155756@krusty.eecs.umich.edu , kckluge@eecs.umich.edu (karl kluge) writes


...and i'm sure that people who were big fans of fuedalism pissed and
moaned about the emergence of the modern nation state. imagine , the king
allowing serfs their freedom if they could live in the city for a year !
times change , technology changes , viable forms of social organization
change. while concerns about preserving western notions of civil liberties
in the face of cultures with very different values is a valid one , it 's
a waste of effort to try to turn back the tide. it 's much smarter to focus
on trying to make sure that the emerging forms of social organization are


your response is yet another sign of the trend towards one world
government. many people such as yourself , who are otherwise probably
likeable and intelligent , show every sign of having been successfully
brainwashed. you do n't recognize that your inevitable tide is rolling
into chaos and in no way represents an advance for civilization. some
of us do indeed lament the passing of old forms , such as the bill of
rights , which are indeed inalienable rights of man that cannot be
changed , transferred or surrendered...rights of man that far transcend


yes , napoleon wanted a grand new order. hitler wanted a
thousand year reich. lenin knew that bolshevism would give us the
universal new man. the new world order is just so much of the same
old tired garbage. the pathetic part is that so many americans seem

put not your trust in princes is the biblical proverb. the modern
analog is governments. at the time of the founding of the us , the
idea that citizens had rights above those of the government was not
that common , but was explicit in the writings of the founders. to a
considerable extent , englishmen also had those rights.

yes , times change , and technology changes. the possibility of
a few governments enserfing all of mankind was not possible until
quite recently. in the feudal system , the lord was almost as
restricted as the serfs , so having the people enserf themselves
does not make anything better most feudal lords , and even most
slaveowners , did not mistreat those under them.

freedom of speech and freedom of religion are under real attack now.


herman rubin , dept. of statistics , purdue univ. , west lafayette in47907 1399
phone (317)494 6054
hrubin@snap.stat.purdue.edu (internet , bitnet)
purdue , pur ee ! snap.stat ! hrubin(uucp)

from amirza@bronze.ucs.indiana.edu (anmar caves)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
nntp posting host bronze.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
distribution usa
lines 17

in article 1993apr15.184452.27322@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes
in article 93104.231049u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as
i am not really familiar enough with handguns.

that 's not all that kratz does n't know.

k

guys , guys , (and gals) , let 's lay off jason here. though he stepped
in it , he has been very good so far about admitting he does n't know
what he 's talking about , and even more stunning is that he seems

anmar mirza chief of tranquility my opinions ! notiu 's ! ciansakgbfbi
emt d base , lawrence co. in legalize explosives ! assasinatedea
n9isy (tech) somewhere out on the politicians prefer naziplutonium
networks tech. mirza ranch.c'mon over unarmed peasants. presidentfema

from jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
subject re ban all firearms !
lines 40

in article 1993apr14.183025.29688@sco.com , allanh@sco.com (allan j. heim) writes

papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod)

drugs are banned , please tell me when this supply will dry up \?

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to smuggle , easier to hide.
no comparison.

then let 's use another example alcoholic beverages. bottles of whiskey
are larger , heavier , and more fragile than bags of drugs. barrels and
kegs are larger and heavier still , and are difficult to manipulate.
yet , a lot of people managed to get very rich off of the smuggling of
booze into this country during the years of prohibition. there was a
demand , so an entire industry formed to supply it.

if alcohol were again banned today , it would be much more
difficult to manage a large scale smuggling operation.
the cops now rank just a narrow notch below the military
in communications , intelligence gathering and firepower.

in a similar vein , the amount of marijuana smuggled into
this country has greatly decreased. this is because its
value per pound is very low when compared to cocaine or
heroin. it 's simply not worth the risk , it 's uneconomical.
now , most reefer is domestic. there is less pressure on
the domestic producer (showy raids notwithstanding) and
thus it is economical. of note though ... domestic reefer
is now very strong , so a small volume goes a long way.
you cannot make alcohol stronger than 200 proof not a
good dollar pound deal.

firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

from cash@convex.com (peter cash)
subject raid justification was blast them next time
distribution usa
nntp posting host zeppelin.convex.com
organization the instrumentality
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 27

in article 1r1chu h22@pandora.sdsu.edu chiu@io.nosc.mil (francis chiu) writes

initial assault on the compound ( more like a wooden farm house if
it burned to the ground like it did ) for what \? regardless of who
started caused the fire , none of this would have happened if the
atf can honestly justify their initial assault and handled it
properly !

i just got through listening to the 10 o'clock news on channel 4 here in
dallas. they trotted out a list of justifications produced by the atf after
months of investigation for their raid.

i could n't believe the junk on this list ! for example , the bds were accused
of stockpiling a bunch of 9mm and .223 ammunition that can be used in m15
and m16 assault rifles . imagine that they had ammunition ! they also had
aluminum dust ! (yeah , it 's a component of thermite , but so far i have n't
heard that it 's illegal to take a grinder to the aluminum lawn
furniture...) the only thing on the list that could conceivably have been
illegal was an m 79 grenade launcher. (anybody know about this \? )

months of investigation ! for this 80 people died !



die welt ist alles , was zerfall ist.
peter cash (apologies to ludwig wittgenstein) cash@convex.com


from clay@rsd.dl.nec.com (clay finley)
subject re carrying arms
nntp posting host rsd21.rsd.dl.nec.com
organization nec america , radio software dept
distribution usa
lines 22

in article 1993apr5.220457.6800@spdc.ti.com dwhite@epcot.spdc.ti.com (dan white) writes

however , have n't we already lost our right to bear arms \?

it seems that in most states , like texas , a citizen may own a
gun and carry while at his home or business. but a citizen is severely
restricted from bearing outside these areas. here in texas you cannot
carry in your car except when traveling which is usually defined as
traveling across a county line. how did this come about \? are there
any court rulings on the legality of restricting the carrying of a
weapon outside the home \?


in texas , it is legal to carry handguns while traveling , and also to and from
sporting activities.

chapter 46 of the texas state penal code does not restrict long guns.
therefore , it is legal to carry and transport long guns any place in texas.

regards ,
clay


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c5t2ic.dc@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people
come out with their hands up several weeks ago.

now will you answer my question up top \?

a suggestion cameras panning over planted automatic weapons , followed by
a show trial and medals all around for the valiant forces of lawn order \?


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from bjones@convex.com (brad jones)
subject re letter to the president
nntp posting host neptune.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 8

kdw@icd.ab.com (kenneth d. whitehead) writes

the dismissal or resignation of lloyd bensen , secretary of the treasury ,


in case you have n't sent it yet , it 's bentsen , not bensen .

brad

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 28
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm
day in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

hey , einstein , ever tried to use an electric stove or microwave without
electricity \? it 's been shut off for weeks now , courtesy of your local fbi
assault squad.

now , are you going to put your foot in your mouth or shall i get a crowbar
and assist you \?


mike ruff

this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization university of houston administrative computing
lines 37
distribution world
nntp posting host uhad2.admin.uh.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24
in reply to jmd@cube.handheld.com 's message of 20 apr 1993 12 34 13 gmt

in 1r0qk5innc5m@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com writes

in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
i balance my gut reaction to question authority together with the
independent facts as i see them on video. i usually adopt the
scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

then answer the question why was no one else permitted to talk to koresh ,

koresh had a lawyer , deguin( \? ) who he spoke to in person several times during
the last few weeks.

it cannot be denied that if they had left them alone , there would have been
no fire yesterday.

this strikes me as a tad ingenous. if x had done note done y , then z would
never have happened. i tend to place tha responsibility on the group person
actually committing the act , not on those whon forced them to do it .

after all , to take an extreme example , if the british were not in northern
ireland , the ira would not be forced to place bombs in shopping centers.

that said , this whole sorry story was a totally unecessary , utterly fucked
up mess from the get go.

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody
1993apr18.061532.3288@uoft02.utoledo.edu
lines 40

in article 1993apr18.061532.3288@uoft02.utoledo.edu ,
steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner) says

jason kratz (u28037@uicvm.uic.edu) writes

say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody.
you give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in
their action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my
question is what do you do \? should you stay and wait for the cops
or should you collect your brass (if you 're using a semi auto) and
get out of there (provided of course you do n't think that you have
been seen) \? what kind of laws are on the books regarding this type
of situation \? what would be the most likely thing to happen to you
if you stayed and waited and it was a first offense \? what would
happen if you took off but someone saw you and you were caught \?

ghods. do you have any idea how much trouble you 'd get into for
taking off like that \? leaving the scene of an auto accident is bad
enough ! killing someone leaving is 10 times worse. who 's going
to seriously believe it was self defense when you took the time
to collect your spent casings \? but officer , i reload !

well , like someone said in a reply to this it really all depends on the area
that you live in. see david veal 's reply to this. i have heard exactly the
same thing that he said in his reply to fade away if you think that you
have n't been seen (i heard this from a police officer). for the record though
he was talking about in tennessee not everywhere.

even if you could get away with it , you 're still a fugitive. do
it nice legal , keep your law abiding status send your story
into the armed citizen column of american rifleman.

jason


jason u28037@uicvm.cc.uic.edu





from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject re need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
lines 203

here 's something preston covey (professor of ethics at cmu) wrote

from preston k. covey covey @andrew.cmu.edu
subject gun stats mortal risks
date mon , 15 feb 1993 18 35 05 0500 (est)


folks ,

hail from the nether world. on february 4th , the wall street journal
carried a front page article by erik larson entitled armed force. i
felt a reply was in order to his citation of the notorious scare stat
that a gun is 43 times more likely to kill than to protect. i sent
the following to the wsj.



gun stats mortal risks

preston k. covey


erik larson s even handed article on paxton quigley ( armed force ,
2 4 93 , wsj) cites the world s most notorious statistic regarding guns
in the home a pioneering study of residential gunshot deaths in king
county , washington , found that a gun in the home was 43 times more
likely to be used to kill its owner , spouse , a friend or child than to
kill an intruder. the 43 times stat is everywhere these days it
has grown in media lore like the proverbial urban myth it was inflated
by one pugilistic talk show pundit to 93. given the shock value of
the finding , the conclusion of the 1986 new england journal of medicine
(nejm) study is remarkably understated the advisability of keeping
firearms in the home for protection must be questioned.

responsible people should indeed question the risks and benefits of
bringing a firearm into their home. but what we need to know is this
what exactly are the risks and benefits \? the nejm testimony is neither
the whole truth about the benefits nor nothing but the truth about the
risks. further , as with motor vehicles , we want to know what control
do we have over the risks and benefits \? and , as with the risks of
cancer or heart disease or auto accidents how can we minimize the
risks \? like raw highway death tolls , the nejm stat is not very helpful
here.

the nejm finding purports to inform us , but it is framed to warn us
off. it is widely promulgated in the media as a scare stat , a
misleading half truth whose very formulation is calculated to prejudice
and terrify. the frightful statistic screams for itself the risks far
outweigh the benefits , yes \? what fool would run these risks \? if your
car were 43 times more likely to kill you , a loved one , a dear friend or
an innocent child than to get you to your destination , should you not
take the bus \?

uncritical citation puts the good name of statistics in the bad company
of lies and damned lies. surely , we can do better where lives are at
stake. let s take a closer look at this risky business

the 43 times stat of the nejm study is the product of dividing the
number of home intruders aggressors justifiably killed in self defense
(the divisor) into the number of family members or acquaintances killed
by a gun in the home (the dividend). the divisor of this risk equation
is 9 in the study s five year sample there were 2 intruders and 7 other
cases of self defense. the dividend is 387 in the study there were 12
accidental deaths , 42 criminal homicides , and 333 suicides. 387 divided
by 9 yields 43. there were a total of 743 gun related deaths in king
county between 1978 and 1983 , so the study leaves 347 deaths outside of
homes unaccounted.

the nejm s notorious 43 times statistic is seriously misleading on
six counts

1. the dividend is misleadingly characterized in the media the or
acquaintances of the study (who include your friendly drug dealers and
neighborhood gang members) is equated to friends. the implication is
that the offending guns target and kill only beloved family members ,
dear friends , and innocent children. deaths may all be equally tragic ,
but the character and circumstance of both victims and killers are
relevant to the risk. these crucial risk factors are masked by the
calculated impression that the death toll is generated by witless
waltons shooting dear friends and friendly neighbors. this is
criminological hogwash.

2. the study itself does not distinguish households or environs
populated by people with violent , criminal , or substance abuse histories
where the risk of death is very high versus households inhabited
by more civil folk (for example , people who avoid high risk activities
like drug dealing , gang banging and wife beating) where the risk is
very low indeed. in actuality , negligent adults allow fatal but
avoidable accidents and homicides are perpetrated mostly by people with
histories of violence or abuse , people who are identifiably and
certifiably at high risk for misadventure. to ignore these obvious
risk factors in firearm accidents and homicides is as misleading as
ignoring the role of alcohol in vehicular deaths by tautology , neither
gun deaths nor vehicular deaths would occur without firearms or
vehicles but the person and circumstance of the gun owner or driver
crucially affect the risk.

3. one misleading implication of the way the nejm stat is framed is
that the mere presence of a gun in the home is much more likely to kill
than to protect , and this obscures indeed , disregards the role of
personal responsibility. the typical quotation of this study (unlike
larson s) attributes fatal agency to the gun a gun in the home is 43
times as likely to kill . . . . (the center to prevent handgun
violence , a major promulgator of the nejm statistic , uses this
particular formulation.) we can dispense with the silly debate about
whether it s people or guns that accomplish the killing again , by
tautology , gun deaths would not occur without the guns. the question
begged is how many deaths would occur anyway , without the guns. in any
case , people are the death dealing agents , the guns are their lethal
instruments. the moral core of the personal risk factors in gun deaths
are personal responsibility and choice. due care and responsibility
obviate gun accidents human choice mediates homicide and suicide (by
gun or otherwise). the choice to own a gun need not condemn a person to
nejm s high risk pool. the gun does not create this risk by itself.
people have a lot to say about what risk they run with guns in their
homes. for example , graduates of paxton quigley s personal protection
course do not run the touted 43 times risk any more than skilled and
sober drivers run the same risks of causing or suffering vehicular death
as do reckless or drunk drivers. undiscriminating actuarials disregard
and obscure the role of personal responsibility and choice , just as they
disregard and obscure the role of socio economic , criminological and
other risk relevant factors in firearm related death. this is why we
resent insurance premiums and actuarial consigment to risk pools whose
norms disregard our individualities. fortunately , nothing can consign
us to the nejm risk pool but our own lack of choice or responsibility in
the matter.

4. suicide accounts for 84 of the deaths by gun in the home in the
nejm study. as against the total deaths by gun in king county ,
including those outside the home , in house suicides are 44 of the total
death toll , which is closer to the roughly 50 proportion found by other
studies. suicide is a social problem of a very different order from
homicide or accidents. the implication of the nejm study is that these
suicides might not occur without readily available guns. it is true
that attempted suicide by gun is likely to succeed. it is not obviously
true that the absence of a gun would prevent any or all of these
suicides. this is widely assumed or alleged , but the preponderance of
research on guns and suicide actually shows otherwise , that this is
wishful thinking in all but a few truly impulsive cases. (see bruce
l. danto et al. , the human side of homicide , columbia university press ,
1982 charles rich et al. , guns and suicide , american journal of
psychiatry , march 1990.) if suicides were removed from the dividend of
the nejm study s risk equation , the 43 times stat would deflate to
six. the inclusion of suicides in the nejm risk equation like the
causes , durability , or interdiction of suicidal intent itself is a
profoundly debatable matter. quotations of the nejm study totally
disregard this issue.

5. citations of the nejm study also mislead regarding the estimable
rate of justifiable and excusable homicide. most measures , like the
nejm homicide rate , are based on the immediate disposition of cases.
but many homicides initially ruled criminal are appealed and later ruled
self defense. in the literature on battered women , immediate case
dispositions are notorious for under representing the rate of
justifiable or excusable homicide. time s january 18 , 1993 , cover story
on women fighting back reported one study s finding that 40 of women
who appeal have their murder convictions thrown out. time s july 17 ,
1989 , cover story on a week of gun deaths reported 51 of the domestic
cases as shootings by abuse victims but only 3 of the homicides were
reported as self defense. in a may 14 , 1990 , update , time reported
that 12 of the homicides had eventually been ruled self defense. in
time s sample , the originally reported rate of self defense was in error
by a factor of four. the possibility of such error is not acknowledged
by promulgators of the nejm statistic.

6. while both the dividend and the product of the nejm risk equation
are arguably inflated , the divisor is unconscionably misleading. the
divisor of this equation counts only aggressors who are killed , not
aggressors who are successfully thwarted without being killed or even
shot at. the utility of armed self defense is the other side of the
coin from the harms done with guns in homes. what kind of moral idiocy
is it to measure this utility only in terms of killings \? do we measure
the utility of our police solely in terms of felons killed as
opposed to the many many more who are otherwise foiled , apprehended , or
deterred \? should we not celebrate (let alone count ) those cases where
no human life is lost as successful armed defenses \? the question posed
to media that cite the nejm scare stat is this why neglect the
compendious research on successful armed defense , notably by
criminologist gary kleck (point blank guns and violence in america ,
aldine de gruyter , 1992) \?
kleck s estimations of the rate and risk of defensive firearm use are
based on victimization surveys as well as other studies the rate is
high (about one million a year) and the risk is good (gun defenders fare
better than anyone , either those who resort to other forms of resistance
or those who do not resist). dividing one million gun defenses a year
by 30 , 000 annual gun deaths (from self defense , homicides , suicides , and
accidents) yields 33. thus , we can construct a much more favorable
statistic than the nejm scare stat

a gun is 33 times more likely to be used to defend against assault or
other crime than to kill anybody.

of course , kleck s critics belittle the dividend of this calculation
what is good news for gun defenders is bad news for gun control. we
should indeed question the basis and method of kleck s high estimation
of defensive firearm use , as i have questioned the nejm statistic.
clearly , the issue of how to manage mortal risks is not settled by
uncritical citation of statistics. one thing troubles me still we
can hardly escape the unquestioned nejm scare stat in our media , but we
hardly ever find kleck s good work mentioned , even critically.


larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re carrying arms
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution usa
lines 32

in article 1993apr5.220457.6800@spdc.ti.com dwhite@epcot.spdc.ti.com (dan white) writes
i have a question about the second amendment that has bothered
me for awhile. the amendment guarentees our right to keep and bear
arms. currently , the gun prohibitionists are trying to restrict or
eliminate our right to keep arms with the brady bill and the assault
weapon ban. however , have n't we already lost our right to bear arms \?

it seems that in most states , like texas , a citizen may own a
gun and carry while at his home or business. but a citizen is severely
restricted from bearing outside these areas. here in texas you cannot
carry in your car except when traveling which is usually defined as
traveling across a county line. how did this come about \? are there
any court rulings on the legality of restricting the carrying of a
weapon outside the home \?

there are , but not any that would help texans in many states ,
such laws have been found to violate the state constitution.
but the federal second amendment does not apply directly to the
states. it was written to limit the federal government only.
the fourteenth amendment was written to extend the restrictions
of the bill of rights to the state level. however , the exact
wording of the fourteenth amendment is very vague. the supreme
court has been dancing around the issue without facing it
directly for over 100 years. in practice , the bill of right
(indirectly applies through the fourteenth) applies to the
state governments only if the supreme court has ruled that
particular provision. the court has made no such rulings on
the second amendment.

frank crary
cu boulder


from earlw@apple.com (earl wallace)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \?
distribution usa
organization apple computer inc. esd osbu cross platform software
lines 26
nntp posting host apple.com

in article c5jatz.5g4@cbnewsc.cb.att.com rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat) writes
...
let 's prohibit arms carrying by police when off duty. or , if they make
the assertion that well , i need to maintain my gun let 's make it
regulation that they can carry an unloaded firearm home , that it 's
only fair that they be just as helpless as poor schmuck coming home
from his computer operator job...

nra director ex san jose cop leroy pyle states in the latest swat
magazine that anti cops better watch out for this schism between
rkba folks and the police. he asks the rhetorical question of 'what
if what 's left of the gun lobby starts demanding the disarmament
of the police \?

well , i guess anti gun cops who think only they should be armed ,
along with the wealthy and politically connected , should be made
to realize that screwing can cut in ways they have yet to imagine.
...

we all know this will never happen. because the police are under the wings
of government , they will always be considered more important than citizens.

government pens , pencils and paper are considered more important than
citizens.

i think we have a problem with our government.

from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re non lethal alternatives to handguns \?
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
keywords handgun mace pepper spray taser tasp phaser
lines 102

in article 1993apr13.221936.28301@watson.ibm.com mjp@vnet.ibm.com (michael j. phelps) writes

in article shepardc5ftls.681@netcom.com , shepard@netcom.com (mark shepard)
writes
how effective are personal defense products like mace , pepper spray ,
tasers and other non lethal stun devices compared to handguns \?
any statistics on 's and types in use \?

these products seem very attractive compared to handguns
because , being non lethal , they are more forgiving of accident or
mistakes wrongful shooting (such as the yoshi hattori case) , and
allow the justice system to deal with the criminal (rather than
criminals simply being dead , which has a certain vigilante feel
which seems to bother anti gun people).

the more forgiving nature also has its down side it allows a criminal
to use them w o the adw assault with a deadly weapon charge. they also
can have lethal or dangerous side effects
some people have violent reactions to mace pepper sprays
stun guns can harm people with weak hearts
people have suffered eye damage from mace the stuff that is available
now is less concentrated than it used to be.
some of the spray propellents are flammable


the arguments i see against these non lethal weapons compared to
handguns are lack of range , lack of stopping power or effectiveness ,
and limited ammo . true \? how about cost \?

sprays

using any of the spray based eg mace , pepper indoors is bound to
affect anyone else in the room (like the victim) due to the nature
of the stuff.

using the sprays outdoors in any sort of breeze mitigates its
effectiveness.

from reading various articles , it appears that mace , especially the
mace available to citizens , is pretty ineffective on people under
the influence of drugs or alcohol.

pepper spray appears to be more effective , but has the inherent spray
delivery problem. it still does not appear to be anything better than
a distraction that might buy you time to run like hell if you can .

consider that running like hell is n't always a viable solution. for
example , if you are dressed in boots and the assailent is dressed in
sneakers .. you might have a tough time outrunning them !

tasars and stun guns

require contact with skin for max effectiveness a jacket like a
leather one will mitigate its effectiveness

the user must be extremely close to the assailent that puts them
at a considerable risk of injury.

the user must keep the stun gun in contact with the assailent for some
non negligible period of time.

tasar darts can be pulled out.

consider the problem a small women would have keeping a stun gun in
contact with a average size man for any length of time w o sustaining
serious injury.


have any anti gun groups suggested non lethal weapons , to counter
the pro gun argument that people will be left defenseless \?

i have n't heard of any. generally they contend that people do n't
need to or are n't able to defend themselves.


and , what legal restrictions licensing apply to non lethal devices \?

civilian ownership of stun guns is frequently illegal ny . the sprays
are also illegal in some states. believe it or not , they are still
illegal in ny , although about half the state thinks they are legal !
i believe that ny almost legalized them i have heard that the reason
they did n't was due to their ineffectiveness

i feel that the sprays are better than nothing , but only if the user
does not believe the hype this 'll drop 'em in their tracks stuff
and uses it as a diversion o n l y .


marks

mark shepard shepard@netcom.com portola valley , ca


michael phelps , (external) mjp@vnet.ibm.com ..
(internal) mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com .. mjp at kgnvmy
(and last but not least a disclaimer) these opinions are mine..

what about guns with non lethal bullets , like rubber or plastic bullets. would
those work very well in stopping an attack \?

doug holland


from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 37

iftccu talk.politics.guns jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu 6 26 am apr 14 , 1993

the vast majority get through life without ever having to
own , use or display a firearm.


i suppose that depends on how you define 'vast' majority....

you are correct about 'majority.' somewhere between 1 out of three and
one out of 10 will at some period in their lives experience a violent
assault. the risk is generally higher than emergency medical problems
like heart attack and stroke.

'vast' is probably too loose a term. with approximately 1 , 000 , 000 americans
using firearms each year , over a 30 year period we get (roughly , since some
may have to do this more than once) 30 million americans with experience in
using firearms for self defense. 30 250 yields 12 percent of the population.
(yes , i know that is a real rough estimate. we 're closer to 270 million now ,
but many of these are minors and should be included etc , thus the percentage
if anything is low.)

at any rate , most minority groups in this range are not usually referred
to as 'tiny' minorities , so i do n't see how the other part of the group
can be referred to as the 'vast' majority. a little more work might
support a 'simple' majority of americans never use , own or display a firearm.

certainly when you are talking about ownership you are wrong. nearly half
of your fellow citizens own one or more firearms.

besides , there are other
means of self protection which can be just as effective
as firearms.

please provide a list of other means that are as effective. then you might
convince your local police departments to switch. good luck.

rick.

from rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy)
subject will cs burn or explode
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 13

the fbi released large amounts of cs tear gas into the compound in
waco. cs tear gas is a fine power. is cs inflammable. grain dust
suspended in air can form an explosive mixture , will cs suspended in air
form an explosive mix \? could large quantities of cs have fueled the
rapid spread of fire in the compound \?

please note i am directing all followups to talk.politics.guns


rod anderson n0nzo the only acceptable substitute
boulder , co for brains is silence.
rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu solomon short
satellite n0nzo on ao 16

from starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu (tim starr)
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith
organization udel school of life health sciences
lines 28

in article c5d05g.6xw@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) writes
in article 1993apr10.155819.18237@sco.com allanh@sco.com (allan j. heim) writes
look , if you can figure out a reliable means of keeping guns away from
bad people , while not interfering with good people , i think we 'd all be
for it. the problem is , the methods we 're using now do n't do the trick.

do n't manufacture them. do n't sell them. do n't import them.

japan did this. it required near total isolation from the rest of the world
for 2 centuries.

some guns will get through , but far fewer , and far less people will
die because of them. hunting weapons could be allowed , of course , as
long as they are big , and bulky , and require reloading after a few
shots (how many times can you shoot at the same animal , anyways one
assumes they are moving ! )

hunting weapons are great for extortionist sharpshooters. send me money or
else i 'll pick you off from 2 miles away.

tim starr renaissance now !

assistant editor freedom network news , the newsletter of isil ,
the international society for individual liberty ,
1800 market st. , san francisco , ca 94102
(415) 864 0952 fax (415) 864 7506 71034.2711@compuserve.com

think universally , act selfishly starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu

from rscharfy@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (ryan c scharfy)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 19

in article mvpc5rp8n.3ts@netcom.com mvp@netcom.com (mike van pelt) writes
in article 16bb5124a0.pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david
veal) writes
be cute if koresh hit the trail.

maybe he was bodily assumed into heaven. would n't that just
make ag reno 's day \?

snort i sorta doubt it...

however... no bodies \? by the time this message gets out
they 'll doubtless have found bunches , but would n't it be
interesting if they had a tunnel and are long gone \?


if they had n't killed the atf people in the original raid , i think i would
laugh my ass off. (actually , to be honest , i still might.)

ryan

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re criminals machineguns
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution usa
lines 30

in article 93104.175256u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
people are getting killed by gang violence every day \? every single day i hear
about more people getting killed by gang violence and see some of the weapons
that are being confiscated.

is kratz claiming that he can reliably visually distinguish an m 16
from an ar 15 \? that he can see the difference between a semi auto and
a full auto uzi \? that he can see the difference between the various
versions (some full auto , some semi auto only) of the m 11 9 \?

if so , i 'd love to hear the details , if only because they 'll demonstrate
that kratz is blowing smoke.

considering that one can design a gun so that it looks just like
another gun , yet have very different properties , and that that 's
quite common....

most kids in my neighborhood were quite young when they figured out
that my parents car was n't much like richard petty 's , even though it
looked just like it (except for the paint job). things must have been
different with kratz.

sure it 's on tv but why does that make a difference \?

no , it does n't , but that 's irrelevant. if visual inspection of the
outside worked , tv would be acceptable , but since it does n't , the fact
that it 's just as good as seeing in person does n't mean much.

andy gave kratz a chance to back down on this in private


subject re my gun is like my american express card
from steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner)
nntp posting host jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 58

jason kratz (u28037@uicvm.uic.edu) writes
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) says
jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes

do n't be silly. of course you can. the police have everything
the gangs have and then some. plus they 've got access to the
national guard (via the governor) if things get too rough. that 's
tanks for those of you who 've never seen them at play. of course ,
they 've got rifles and helicopters.

and as far as fully automatic weapons , you can be a lot better
armed if you want to hit what you aim at.

what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally
blown out of proportion. in my post i was referring to your
regular patrolman in a car cruising around the city vs. gang
members. of course the police have access to the things that you
mentioned but do they use tanks and such all of the time \? of
course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the
majority that i see are still carrying revolvers. not that there
is anything wrong with a revolver but if you 're a cop that is up
against some gang member with a couple of automatics in his coat (i
mean semi auto handguns) you 're going to be at a disadvantage even
with training.

how so \? i think you 're making assumptions here that might not
necessarily be true. my personal choice would be a semi auto , but
revolvers are just as effective , if not more so.

i have been at a shooting range where gang gang members were
practicing shooting. they were actually practicing taking out
their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target and they
were n't doing too badly either.

relevancy , please \? you sound shocked , but that hardly proves anything.

the university cops here (who are are state cops) are armed better
than the chicago police. it seems most state cops are. i do n't
know where you are originally from david but you live in tennesse
and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news and in
the papers. i think the situation is just a tad different here
than there.

wait , does n't chicago have serious gun control \? if so , why do the
police need all that firepower in the first place \? (sarcasm alert)

all the patrol cars i 've seen around here have shotguns clamped to
the dash board. imho , that 's all the police need to outgun just about
anything.

jason


` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , `
` , ` the crystal wind is the storm , and the storm is data , and the data ` , `
` , ` is life the player 's litany , from the long run by d.k. moran ` , `
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu ` , ` , ` , `

from sylvain@netcom.com (nicholas sylvain)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \? (was re my gun is like my american express card)
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 17

in article dlb.93apr15130411@fanny.wash.inmet.com dlb@fanny.wash.inmet.com (david barton) writes
for what it is worth , i own no firearms of any sort. as long time
readers of this group know , i am dedicated to the rkba.

a long time reader of t.p.g , i am also a staunch rkba supporter , yet
i own no firearms.

this is not about toys. it is about freedom.

amen , brother.


nicholas sylvain (sylvain@netcom.com) i am the nra



nicholas sylvain (sylvain@netcom.com) i am the nra

from kdw@icd.ab.com (kenneth d. whitehead)
subject re change of name \? \?
nntp posting host sora.icd.ab.com
organization allen bradley company , inc.
lines 47


in article cmm.0.90.2.735315429.thomasp@holmenkollen.ifi.uio.no , thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
1. make a new newsgroup called talk.politics.guns.paranoid or
talk.politics.guns.they'r.here.to.take.me.away


well , may i point out that paranoia is an irrational fear , without basis
in reality. as we 've seen here in the us , there is nothing irrational
about it. perhaps you folks in finland have been down on your knees
being good little boys and girls so that the former soviet union did n't
come across the border and stomp the snot out of you for so long that
you just figure everybody should be so accomodating to tyranny.



2. move all postings about waco and burn to (guess where)..

3. stop posting on this newsgroup


if you do n't like us talking about political issues involving attacks
on people for owning guns , do n't read talk.politics.guns.



we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil
goverment , but would you mail this in regular mail to
let 's say 1000 people \? \? \? \?


nobody 's trying to save you from anything , so butt out. i could n't
care less about what somebody on the other side of the world thinks
about this. of course , you do have a right to an opinion... but i 've
always figured that opinons are like hemmorhoids. every asshole 's
got them , i just do n't care about yours.




i remember what i was doing bad boy , whatcha gonna do
when i heard that jfk had been shot. whatcha gonna do
will you remember the battle of waco \? when they come for you...

ken whitehead (kdw@odin.icd.ab.com)



from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject the dayton gun buy back (re boston gun buy back)
organization ideology busters , inc.
lines 11

according to wnci 97.9 fm radio this morning , dayton , ohio is operating a
gun buy back . they are giving 50 for every functional gun turned in.
they ran out of money in one day , and are now passing out 50 vouchers of
some sort. they are looking for more funds to keep operating. another
media event brought to you by hci.

is there something similar pro gun people can do \? for example , pay 100
to anyone who lawfully protects their life with a firearm \? sounds a bit
tacky , but hey , whatever works.

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 32

in article 1993apr20.142131.27347@rti.rti.org jbs@rti.rti.org writes
in article c5rpoj.ijv@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv
to get the trial they deserved. instead they chose to set fire to their
compund hours after the tanks dropped off the tear gas.

this is about the third person who 's parroted the fbi 's line about the
fires being set six hours after the tear gas was injected. suppose you
want to explain to us the videotape footage shown on national tv last night
in which a tank with the gas injecting tubes is pulling its injection tubes
out of the second story of a building as the building begins to belch smoke
and then fire \?

i 've already corrected my mistake earlier in this thread. i saw a brief
news report which led to the above inaccuracy. i have since seen detailed
summaries that show the tanks returned in the late morning.

so , why did n't the bd 's leave when the gas was first introduced much
earlier in the morning \? did n't they care about the children \?

why did n't they release the children weeks ago \?


do tell.

joe






from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re non lethal alternatives to handguns \?
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 25

iftccu talk.politics.guns steiner@jupiter.ca.boeing.com 12 07 am apr 15 , 1993
douglas craig holland (holland@cs.colostate.edu) writes
...lostsa' crap deleted. trim your articles ! ...

what about guns with non lethal bullets , like rubber or plastic
bullets. would those work very well in stopping an attack \?

last i heard , non lethal was a bit of a misnomer for these things.

also , you need to consider our legal system. since any of these things
can be lethal , you are going to have a hard time explaining why you applied
lethal force when you didn't think it was necessary. (if you thought lethal
force was necessary , you would n't be using rubber bullets , would you \? ) ouch.
if you are justified in shooting them at all , you are justified in using
the best self defense ammunition you can get your hands on. it might actually
improve the legal outcome.

this is why hollow points hold up in court. they are safer for you , safer
for innocent by standers , (do n't as a rule go through the perp) and actually
safer for the perp. if you are using military hard ball , you may have to
shoot him 'many' times , where one or two hollow points might stop him and
do the job. as a rule , the fewer wound channels , the better the chance
for his surviving the incident.

rick

from cathy@lance.colostate.edu (cathy smith)
subject re upi news release
nntp posting host blanca.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523
lines 12


cathy smith posting for l. neil smith

dear bill

very , very good you made my whole day with this post. thanks
a lot.

l. neil smith

my opinions are , of course , my own.


from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation
lines 85
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
distribution usa

in article 1qmuv8innl8s@dns1.nmsu.edu loki@acca.nmsu.edu (entropic destroyer) writes

the following is quoted from the tail end of a (rather condescending)
article about paxton quigley , that appeared in us snooze and world lies ,
(sorry... i think it was in the wall street journal...)
and was repeated in the colorado (people 's) daily , a student newspaper
at the university of colorado at boulder.

a study of residential gunsot deaths in king county , wash. , found that
a gun in the home was 43 times more likely to be used to kill its owner ,


spouse , a friend , or child than to kill an intruder.

the used to kill is the heart of the misinformation. it 's one
of those technically accurate phrasings that conveys the wrong impression.
what mr. quiqley is more than aware of , i'm sure , is that when people
read this they think violent arguments where one member of the family
grabs a gun and shoots another , thereby creating a tragic situation
which could easily have been avoided had the gun not been there , or
a tragic accident , especially involving a child.

unfortunately , that 's not the way things stack up. the majority
of that 43 times (37 i believe) are suicides. that is , someone
intentionally took a firearm and shot themselves intending to kill
themselves. and why it 's popular to try and blame suicides on guns ,
the evidence does n't support this. internal studies , as well as
comparative studies with other countries , indicate that cultural
factors far outweigh whether a person will kill themselves or not.
(japan , for instance , has a slightly higher rate than the u.s. there
people jump off buildings.)

according to the national crime survey , 40 of violent crime
is commited by non strangers , which mistakenly has been generalized
regarding the king county study to mean , friends and family. that
is , mr. quigley , and others who quote this statistic , are banking on
the mental image that a friend , family member , or child , equates
to a loving relationship , and that it was cut short in a moment of
anger. unfortunately , all too often husbands beat and kill wives ,
children assault parents , or vice versa. most rapes are commited by
someone known to the victim , for instance. essentially , that a gun
was used against a friend or family member does n't mean they
were n't trying to hurt the other person. crime is highest among
poor urban families , and those are also the areas most at risk
for family problems , especially violent ones. a son in a gang may
not be as loving toward his parents if they disapprove than a suburban
kid might.

finally , it hinges on the fallacy that a dead intruder is the
only value of a self defense firearm. using the minimum figures i
worked out using the ncs i got about an 80 1 ratio between deadly
self defenses (justifiable homicides) and with gun self defenses.
between the fbi uniform crime report and the ncs there 's an enormous
amount of data and anybody with the calculator can crunch the numbers.
as such it is incorrect to assume that a dead body is the only valid
means of determining the success of such a defense , since according
to the ncs (which has been considered by many to seriously under report
defenses) there were far more successful with gun defenses than intruders
killed.

not it also confines itself to the home , where attack by a friend
or family member is far , far more likely , and excludes any defense
which occurs outside the home. (i believe a large number occur in
businesses.)

studies by the
western psychiatric institute , in pittsburgh , found that the mere presence
of a gun in the home sharply incresases the likelihood a family member
will commit suicide , even in the absence of psychiatric illness.

i have not seen the exact data for this , so i ca n't comment. i
will point out canada 's and japan 's suicide rate as indications that
culture far more than firearm availability affect suicide rates.

there was also a comparative study between canada (for what
it 's worth , considering the difficulty of comparing across cultural
lines) published in the new england journal of medicine (i can get the
exact cite if you need it) that concluded that restrictive firearm laws
would not significantly impact the over all suicide rate.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from hambidge@bms.com
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
distribution na
lines 35

in article c4tshu.ew6@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes


what relevance are all homicides in this debate \? what do you think gun
control advocates are saying that if we get rid of all handguns we will
live in a homicide free world \?

they sure make it sound like that.


the issue is guns , not baseball bats. even a simpleton knows that
he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball bat...
certainly of outrunning a bat wielding assailant.


even a simpleton knows a baseball bat is considered a deadly weapon.
if one cannot run away (e.g. old , infirm , even middle aged if the
assailant is younger) , a handgun is the most effective means of
defense. you wo n't even have to fire a shot 98 of the time.

as for knives , see my earlier post. i 'd much rather face a knife
than a gun , thanks. fortunately , the best defense against a knife is n't
another knife. anyone trained in unarmed self defense wo n't have
much of a problem disarming a knife assailant untrained in knife
assault (which probably means 99.9 of knife assailants).

any real streetfighter (and there are lots of them) , with or without a
knife , will kick the living sh out of most people trained in
unarmed self defense . for the majority of people , a gun is the most
effective form of self defense.

al
standard disclaimer



from scottj@magic.dml.georgetown.edu (john l. scott)
subject apology (was luser ! )
organization j. random misconfigured site
x posted from iamac 1.dml.georgetown.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 10

i was shocked to see that the subject of my last rely to awesley was
luser ! that was certainly not my intention. i meant to leave the
subject line unchanged. i believe that the nntp server i use at columbia
must have put in that subject line in protest over problems with my header.
that was rather rude of them , but beggars ca n't be choosers , i suppose.

in any case , i did n't do it and i apologize to awesley for the apparent
insult.

john l. scott

nntp posting host surt.ifi.uio.no
from thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
in reply to arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements) 's message of 21 apr
1993 12 34 51 gmt
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
1993apr20.083057.16899@ousrvr.oulu.fi
viking.735378520@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu
1993apr21.091130.17788@ousrvr.oulu.fi
1r3f1binn3n6@gap.caltech.edu
lines 24
originator thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no



chemical weapons are not concidered a very effectiv weapon against
millitary forces. on civillians on the other hand....

that 's one good reason for banning it.

you need vast amounts of chemicals to be affective , so the best reason
to have use it is price. (that 's why it 's called the poor mans a bomb)

any thoughts on bio weapons \? \?

if this discusion is about civillians having chem weapons
what should they use them on \? \? rob a bank \? \?



this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

from pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com (dillon pyron)
subject re non lethal alternatives to handguns \?
keywords handgun mace pepper spray taser tasp phaser
lines 24
nntp posting host skndiv.dseg.ti.com
reply to pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
organization ti dseg vax support


in article apr15.032620.75908@yuma.acns.colostate.edu , holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes

what about guns with non lethal bullets , like rubber or plastic bullets. would
those work very well in stopping an attack \?

ask the brits. enough people have been killed by rubber bullets that they now
use them under only certain controlled circumstances. and they are fired
from something that looks like a tear gas launcher.

there are smaller rubber bullets and pellets (for shotguns). i understand that
they are only intended to be discouragers , ie. for the snapping but not truly
dangerous animal. in general , they do not seem capable of really stopping
someone who wants you or past you. they are fired at very low muzzle velocity
(the .38 ball round is intended for a 400fps load). finally , as your mother
warned you , you can put an eye out with that thing. )

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com solutions , not gestures.
padi dm 54909


from n9020351@henson.cc.wwu.edu (james douglas del vecchio)
subject re do n't knock the glock (was re my gun is like my am ex card)
organization western washington university
distribution usa
lines 20



in article 1993apr15.152834.16638@mksol.dseg.ti.com , pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.
com


seriously. there is no difference in the safeties betweena glock and any da
revolver. intellectually , think of the glock as a very high cap revolver.
ignoring stove pipes , misfeeds and all the other bonus exercises that
autoloaders give you , that is.

on a da revolver , you get another try on a misfire. on a pistol where
the trigger does not cock the hammer , like a jennings , or an astra m400 ,
or a glock , a misfire requires the slide be cycled to get the gun to
function.

rather than a high capacity revolver , think of a glock as an astra m400
with no manual safety and a heavier trigger pull.

jim del vecchio

from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re so much for infinite patience
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 32

in article 1993apr19.225700.3976@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m) writes

so much for infinite patience.

i find it hard to swallow that prolonged exposure to massive amounts of

and they said that the bomb dropped on move would n't start a fire , either.

the real kicker , though , is the stated justification for the government 's
sudden loss of patience they would n't be able to rotate their teams

this outcome could be foreseen a mile (or two) away , but reno did n't even

malcolm fuller , surveying engineering , university of new brunswick

the really good part at this point we 're not negotiating , fbi spokesman
bob ricks said at a news briefing about a half hour before the fire began.
we 're saying , 'come out.come out with your hands up. this matter is over.'

criminal... so much for billary saying we wo n't force the issue... anybody
have the wh information number \? figure ol' bill could use a lesson from the
rotc he scorned you are responsible for all that your unit troops do or fail
to do. want to ask him how he enjoys being responsible for violating the
constitutional rights of a group , resulting in the deaths of over a hundred of them , plus four federal agents...

james



james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 56
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5tenu.112f@ns1.nodak.edu green@plains.nodak.edu (bill green)
writes
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported (ap , etc.) that
there were several witnesses to bd folks starting the fires. it has also
been reported that the fires broke out in several places at once , which
rules out a bradley knocking over a lamp , etc. as the cause.

widely reported , eh \? remember , this has had a news blackout since day 2.
the fbi is the single , sole , source of these rumors. it may be the truth , but
it may not be. we may never know. we must question it , though. why no media
coverare \? what were they hiding \?


what i would like to see is some serious discussion of this incident. i
believe the moves made were right and proper , but i still have some problems
with some of the tactics. after watching the abc special on it tonight , as
well as cnn and nightline , i question some of the atf and fbi actions.

1) could it have been possible to have taken koresh outside the compound at
some time before the feb. 28th raid \?

it would seem so.

2) could a further wait have resulted in a different outcome.


they would still be alive , today. another day is another chance.

3) were fbi actions (blaring loudspeakers , etc.) the right course of
action \?

i think it contributed to the outcome. folks that are sleep deprived tend not
to think clearly

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in
general , were proper. but i still have some reservations.

i feel strongly they were not proper.

one other point , i'm no fan of janet reno , but i do like the way she had the
balls to go ahead and take full responsibility. seems like the waffle boy
had problems figuring out just where he stood on the issue.

as expected. if it had come out well , he would not have hesitated to take full
credit.


jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 29

in article 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
writes
the bulk of firarems are used against unworthy and unnesessary
opponents ... those who posessa a cool jakcet you want , those who
would argue with you about a parking space , those who would
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes.

that 's open for debate. certainly , an excessive number of people are
murdered every year but people also do save innocent lives with firearms.
the media just do n't tell us when it happens...

too much of this has ruined you cause. there is no recovery.
in the near future , federal martials will come for your arms.

i think there are more of us than there are federal marshalls...

no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking ,
than the 'criminal'. this is your own fault.

crap. it 's simplistic thinking on the part of feather headed dolts.

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

nuts.

don




from vojak@icebucket.stortek.com (bill vojak)
subject upi news release
originator vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nntp posting host icebucket.stortek.com
organization storage technology corp.
lines 82


upi washington dc , update desk 4 15 93

for the past several months the clinton administration has been
stymied by mixed signals coming from the economy. while most
leading indicators has shown an apparent improvement in the
economy , there has been no corresponding improvement in the area
of jobs creation.

the unemployment figures seem stalled at the 7 mark. last month ,
in an effort to understand this problem , president clinton appointed
a blue ribbon panel to try to resolve the apparent conflicting
economic signals. this panel was chaired by vice president gore.

today the panel released their results , providing a shocking conclusion.
it 's the guns vice president gore said. apparently nra members , and other
gun nuts are purchasing firearms at in record numbers , pulling the
economy out of the recession. their buying them five times faster than
ever before , and stockpiling left and right , the vice president said.

however , since many domestic firearm and ammunition manufacturers have
been experiencing hard times during the past few years , including several
declarations of bankruptcy by many leading american gun makers , they have
not rushed to increase hiring to meet the new demand.

we want to see if this run will continue before hiring more people , said
the president of colt industries. as long as clinton is in office , we
suspect it will , he added.

in response to this new information , president clinton announced a new
gun control measure to be introduced into congress this session. it 's
called the ban one a month gun control bill. under the terms of this law ,
every make and model of all firearms will be written on individual index
cards. the cards will all be put in a big hat and the president will draw
one card every month. sixty days later that gun will be banned from any
further manufacture importation or sale in this country , except to the
politically connected and to members of the national police force.

the president said , this law will benefit america two ways. when the
gun of the month is announced every thirty days , the gun nuts will run
out and buy thousands of them , boosting the economy even more. in addition ,
over the long run , we will get all of these icky evil guns off of the
street. he also announce the appointment of sarah brady to oversee
this program , citing her honesty , and unbiased view on the subject
of gun control .

senators metzenbaum , deconcini , feinstein , and boxer have proposed an
amendment to the bill which would add additional index cards containing
caliber designations for all know ammunitions. their stockpiling ,
stockpiling , stockpiling screamed metzenbaum during a press conference
at the national headquarters of handgun control inc.

senators simon , metzenbaum , and moyenhan also introduced an amendment
that would make all guns illegal to possess once the last card has been
drawn from the hat. senator simon was quoted as saying , first we 'll
fuck em , then we 'll kick em out of bed in the morning , during a press
conference he held in the second floor mens restroom of the senate
building. he of course was referring to the fact that he would allow
the people to purchase the guns to help the economy , but would require
the batf to seize all of the guns in america sometime in the year 2008 ,
after all of the cards have been drawn.

the head of the batf responded by saying , we will have to see if this
thing in waco is over by then. we may be too busy to seize all those
guns .

us house representatives pat schroeder and david skaggs of colorado
declared this proposed law as being reasonable gun control which wo n't
affect anybodys constitutional right to own sporting guns .

end article

for the humor impaired ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )

bill vojak
vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nra , ila ,
colorado firearms coalition

the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather not ! )
the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather biased ! )


organization penn state university
from dgs4@psuvm.psu.edu
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
c5jif8.i4n@boi.hp.com 1993apr16.022926.27270@ucsu.colorado.edu
c5kse0.5px.1@cs.cmu.edu 1993apr19.162137.1306@hsh.com
lines 50

in article 1993apr19.162137.1306@hsh.com , paul@hsh.com (paul havemann) says

in article c5kse0.5px.1@cs.cmu.edu , tsmith @cs.cmu.edu (tom smith) writes
in article 1993apr16.022926.27270@ucsu.colorado.edu u
fcrary@ucsu.colorado.ed
(frank crary) writes
in article c5jif8.i4n@boi.hp.com slack@boi.hp.com (david slack) writes
the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know ,
do
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it
only going to be required to be presented when trying to ge medical aid \?

this , at least , has already been determined the blue cross medical
coverage for all federal employees is a good model for a future
national system. to get emergency medical care , anyone so insured
must always carry their blue cross card. before entering a hospital ,
you must notify blue cross , or they will refuse to pay your bills.
in an emergency , where you must be treated before notifying them ,
you must inform them within 24 hours or (if you are unable to do
so for medical reasons) the hospital must. failing to do so within
24 hours means they will not cover the hospitalization. in you need
your card to notify them (and without the card , the hospital certainly
would n't know they had to.) therefore , you are required to carry
the card at all times , or do without emergency medical coverage.

which works fine until you end up in the hospital because you were hit on
the
head and your wallet , with your insurance card , is stolen. this happened to
me , and it took six months to sort the mess out. these sorts of plans sound
nice at first , but in the end they just create a lot of paperwork and
bureaucracy to deal with all the checking and filing they involve.

tom the non hacker

whoa ! have a care what you say , tom. the obvious answer to that problem
is to tatoo your national i.d. number on you say , your forearm so you
can never leave home without it. hell , it worked once before...

and that brings us back to my original , sarcasm laden post where 's the
outcry from the liberal sector over the national id card \? my god , if some
conservative had proposed this plus clinton 's national police proposal
the liberals would be shrieking sieg heil ! and police state !

you self styled liberals ought to be ashamed of yourselves. hypocrites !

i do n't know what you watch , but i saw a spokesman for the aclu voice
opposition to this idea on nbc the very first night.




subject re washington state
from kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim)
organization harvard university science center
nntp posting host scws8.harvard.edu
lines 14

in article 1993mar30.191157.8338@synapse.bms.com hambidge@bms.com writes
in article 93088.191742u23590@uicvm.uic.edu , u23590@uicvm.uic.edu writes
what is a ccw
acronym for concealed carrying of weapon basically , a permit to carry
a concealed pistol or revolver.

i phoned licensing division in washington state to ask for an application
for a ccw. instead they promptly sent me an applicationfor becoming a
firearms dealer in washington !

they even sent me a firearms safety pamphlet.
case kim



from holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
nntp posting host beethoven.cs.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , computer science department
lines 27

hmm , would n't manditory saftey classes , registration
of both the owner and gun , and manditory liability insurance be nice for
gun owners.

the two are not the same , as i pointed out above. there are
significant difference between making rules for use on public property
and making rules for ownership .

the other half of the objection is trust. similar things to this
have been tried in many local jurisdications across the country , and
have been abused in far too many cases. safety classes which are
never sheduled , never funded , or only one or two is held a year for
a limited number of participants. registration lists in new york ,
chicago , and california have been used for confiscation. many gun
owners would , in theory , support these planes. (although the
numbers overwhelmingly show that competence is not the problem , that
intentional misuse is). they 've simply seen it abused and are leery of
the next person who comes down the pike with a reasonable suggestion
they 've already seen abused.

gun safety classes sound good in theory , but they kind of remind me of
the literacy tests used in the bad old days to keep blacks from voting.
they came with the grandfather clause if your grandfather could vote ,
you could vote. sort of like the gun safety laws that only let the
political ass kissers have guns.
doug holland


from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re hr 1276 ( a gun law i can live with ! )
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 27
distribution usa
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes

in article 1993apr15.171601.25930@dg rtp.dg.com , meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers) writes

a bill

to establish the right to obtain firearms for security , and
to use firearms in defense of self , family , or home , and
to provide for the enforcement of such right.

maybe i'm too religious , but when i see a bill to establish a right ,
i wince. keep in mind , what the law giveth , the law can taketh away.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...

i do n't think your objection is beyond the bounds of rationality. the
right mentioned in the bill is already established under the second
amendment the bill should be reworded to reaffirm the second amendment
rkba , and then establish the procedures for redress through the federal
court system.

the right already exists and is already embodied in our constitution.

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution usa
lines 22

in article 93104.231049u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as
i am not really familiar enough with handguns.

that 's not all that kratz does n't know.

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

now we know that kratz does n't understand what a safety is supposed to
do. (he also confuses things he can see with things that exist
glocks have multiple safeties even though only one is visible from the
outside.)

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's
what the user wants. with glocks , one says i want the gun to go
off by pulling the trigger. if the safeties it has make that work ,
it has a real safety , no matter what kratz thinks.

andy


from oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham)
subject blast them next time
organization computer engineering and science , case western reserve university
lines 21
distribution usa
nntp posting host king.ces.cwru.edu

what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody
veal.744.735151266@utkvm1.utk.edu
lines 43

in article veal.744.735151266@utkvm1.utk.edu , veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
says

in article 93108.025818u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz
u28037@uicvm.uic.edu

i have heard many opinions on this subject and would like to hear more from
the people on the net.

say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody. you
give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in their
action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my question is
what do you do \? should you stay and wait for the cops or should you
collect your brass (if you 're using a semi auto) and get out of there
(provided of course you do n't think that you have been seen) \?

as a data point from tennessee , a friend of mine and a police
officer essentially recommends that if you can , fade away. even if
you were perfectly justified you 're likely in for a great deal of
hassle. (a side note , carrying a gun concealed is a misdemeanor.)

this is exactly what i have heard before. if you were to fade away and
nobody saw you what kind of evidence would they be able to get to catch you
(this is assuming that you either collected your brass or had a revolver) \?

what kind
of laws are on the books regarding this type of situation \? what would
be the most likely thing to happen to you if you stayed and waited and
it was a first offense \? what would happen if you took off but someone
saw you and you were caught \?

it 's one of those by state things , pretty much.

guess it 's time to take a trip to the library and look at the illinois statutes
again ) just for the record folks i'm just asking this because i'm curious.
i'm just trying to find out from people who have read more on stuff like this.

david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

jason u28037@uicvm.cc.uic.edu

from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re riddle me this...
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 18

on the subject of cs cn tear gas when i received my initial introduction to
tear gas , the first thing that came to mind was the location of the exit. if
there had been anything in the way , corners to negotiate , doors to open , or
any other obstacles to movement , i would have had a difficult time exiting the
chamber. and any concentration of tear gas is hazardous to individuals with
respiratory problems , and the wearing of soft contact lenses in a tear gas
contaminated area is considered a real bad idea. so hoping the bd 's would
peaceably come strolling out the door after being gassed is a bit unrealistic.
if they could have found the door , having them staggering out retching would n't
be too far fetched. throw in the factor of 50 51 days of being under siege and
subject to psychological warfare , and all bets on functional abilities are off.
anybody tried to get amnesty international to jump in on this one \?



james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


from scottj@magic.dml.georgetown.edu (john l. scott)
subject re that silly outdated bill (was re koresh and miranda)
organization j. random misconfigured site
x posted from iamac 1.dml.georgetown.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 86

i wrote
nice strawman indeed. the discussion is not about whether there were
tanks
used in sixties riots instead , it is about whether those tanks fired
their
main guns in one of those riots. you claim they did. that claim is
ludicrous.

awesley replied
i repeated what i had been told , under what context i had heard it ,
supporting the claim that tanks were indeed used in detroit in 67.

the issue has never been whether tanks were used in detroit in 1967. it
has been whether they fired their main guns. you did not merely claim that
tanks were used you claimed that they fired their main guns to suppress
sniper fire and that they were quite effective at this. you continue to
back away from this claim and defend something else that nobody is
disputing.

awesley went on
i
spent a few minutes in a library today found their computer was
down and they do n't have a card catalog. anyway , it took about 10
minutes to find this in nightmare in detroit , a rebellion and it 's
victims by sauter and hines , on page 133 , telling of the death of
tonia blanding , age 4.

when the tank was fired upon by snipers it turned in the direction
the shots came from. ... the fifty caliber machine gun mounted on the
tank belched fire into the buildings. after a short round into the front
of the buildings , the tank guns spit again , tearing apart huge holes out
of the side of the apartment.

well , it 's not the main gun.

well , it 's not the main gun. gee , that 's only the entire point. are you
now going to admit that you were wrong \?

i wrote
will i see any pictures of tanks firing their main
guns \? will i see pictures of buildings damaged by the shells \? will i
read
the reports of the tank fire \? i 'll bet you dollar to doughnuts i wo n't.
it will take more than second hand accounts from a few old national guard
sergeants shooting the shit to convince me that tanks shelled american
cities in the sixties.

awesley replied
well , if you bothered to read them , it would n't take long at all to
find reports of tank fire although not necessarily of the main
guns.

i will never read of tanks firing their main guns in detroit in the '67
riots. there is simply no way that such an event could have taken place
without it being common knowledge even 26 years later. the american
military firing shells from tanks in american cities on blacks would have
been big news.

awesley goes on
you can also read of the troops using grenade launchers.

to fire fragmentary grenades \? i doubt that as well. to fire concussion
grenades \? perhaps. to fire tear gas \? certainly. but you would be
perfectly willing to let us believe they fired frags , would n't you , since
it makes your other claim seem more plausible.

and on
i do n't
expect to convince you you 'll have to open your mind and eyes and
actually
do a little research to be convinced one way or the other. let me know
what you find.

i already know what you found nothing. if i claimed that the marines used
f 4s to launch rockets at buildings in trenton , new jersey would you
believe me \? would you suspend judgment until you had a chance to research
it \? or would your bullshit filters kick in \?

if tanks had fired their main guns in detroit , people would have been
screaming about it for the past two and half decades. i would know about
it. unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up.
if your mind is open enough to believe that , well , good for you. i prefer
to live in reality. and here in reality , i find it hard to believe that
those tanks even had any shells , much less fired them.

john l. scott

from hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
subject re batf fbi revenge
organization university of houston administrative computing
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host uhad2.admin.uh.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24
in reply to donb@netcom.com 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 17 10 52 gmt

in donbc5sl24.ewu@netcom.com donb@netcom.com writes

anyway , here 's how i see the waco affair i 'd be interested in other peoples'
interpretations...

1. koresh and his people were basically minding their own business.
2. some weapons violations may have been committed and i would n't have
disapproved of prosecuting him for those violations. however , i think
the batf was criminal for starting negotiations with a military style
assault and for firing into a house where there were children and other
noncombatants.
3. i do n't see they could n't just leave a token guard on the place and wait
the bds out i do n't approve of the tear gas approach and , if it caused
the fire to be started , i think the fbi agent responsible should spend
10 20 years in jail.

i think the legal term would be negligent homicide

4. however , if koresh 's response to the tear gas was to kill everyone there ,
i hold him largely responsible for their deaths.


well , it 's nice to see someone with a brain , a general lack of paranoia , and
a willingness to put his thoughts in public. i tend to agree with all you have
said.

never assume foul motives when stupidity will do. jim 's corrolary to
occam 's razor

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph

from hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \? (was re my gun is like my american express card)
nntp posting host taos
organization intel supercomputer systems division
lines 30

in article 15240077@iftccu.ca.boeing.com , bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler) writes
iftccu talk.politics.guns hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays) 3 31 pm apr 13 , 1993

some of the pro gun posters in this group own no guns. the dread
terminator , aka the rifleman , owned no firearms for several years
while posting in this group , as an example. there are others.

good point , kirk.

he 's still around too. he 's responded by email to a couple of my posts ,
and gosh darn , he 's gotten down right civil ! this happed about the time
he got his first firearm. wonder if there is a relationship here \? turns
out that most people (at least the ones who are not criminals to start
with) act responsibility once given the chance.

i 'd like to point out that i was in error terminator began posting only
six months before he purchased his first firearm , according to private email
from him.

i ca n't produce an archived posting of his earlier than january 1992 ,
and he purchased his first firearm in march 1992.

i guess it only seemed like years.

back to your regularly scheduled flame fest.


kirk hays nra life , seventh generation.
the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to
do nothing. edmund burke (1729 1797)

from ccdarg@dct.ac.uk (alan greig)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization dundee institute of technology
lines 18

in article c5siaj.ks7@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

so , why did n't the bd 's leave when the gas was first introduced much
earlier in the morning \? did n't they care about the children \?

why did n't they release the children weeks ago \?

because most of the children were with their parent(s). do you understand
that concept \? here 's a bunch of people who believe in their minds that
the forces of satanic evil are outside and you expect them to hand over
their own children \? were you born that stupid or does it take a lot
of effort \?


alan greig janet a.greig@uk.ac.dct
dundee institute of technology internet a.greig@dct.ac.uk
tel (0382) 308810 (int 44 382 308810)
never underestimate the power of human stupidity

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 32

in article 93108.025818u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody. you
give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in their
action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my question is
what do you do \? should you stay and wait for the cops or should you
collect your brass (if you 're using a semi auto) and get out of there
(provided of course you do n't think that you have been seen) \?

for me , it would be an obvious choice armed self defence is clearly
and strongly protected by the colorado constitution and the laws
of the state. in the very clear cut situation of your hypothetical ,
i would n't have anything to fear from the police (unless i had been
publicly carrying the weapon concealed , something i'm not in
the habit of doing... even then , the worst i 'd have to deal with
was a class 2 misdemeanor.) even if the situation were not so
clear , and i might have to worry about arrest for manslaughter or
homicide , it would still be safer to wait for the police. if
i were to leave and try to avoid police involvement , i 'd be committing
several felonies and ruining my chances of claiming self defence
in court ( if it really was self defence , the prosecuter would
ask , why did you run away and hide from the police \? )

in other states , however , this decision might not be so clear cut
if someone in , say , washington d.c. were to use a gun in self defence
he would automatically be guilty of several felony violations of
that city 's gun control laws. such a person 's choices would be
between certain conviction for a couple of felonies versus possible
conviction for half a dozen.

frank crary
cu boulder


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
distribution usa
93104.231 1993apr15.184452.27322@csd newshost.stanford.edu
lines 44

in article 1993apr15.184452.27322@csd newshost.stanford.edu ,
andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says

in article 93104.231049u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz
u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as
i am not really familiar enough with handguns.

that 's not all that kratz does n't know.

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

now we know that kratz does n't understand what a safety is supposed to
do. (he also confuses things he can see with things that exist
glocks have multiple safeties even though only one is visible from the
outside.)

excuse me but i do know what i safety is supposed to do. it 's basic purpose
not to let the gun fire until you 're ready. christ , i 've known that since i
had my first crosman air gun. you do n't know me so do n't make assumptions
about what i know and do n't know. i do know that the glock has multiple
safties from reports , looking at them at a gun shop , and friends who own one.

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's
what the user wants. with glocks , one says i want the gun to go
off by pulling the trigger. if the safeties it has make that work ,
it has a real safety , no matter what kratz thinks.

andy

from the things i have read heard glocks are always knocked because of the
trigger safety. they are supposedly harder to learn to use properly. every
article that i have read ca n't be wrong about the damn thing. and do n't ask
me to quote my sources because i do n't keep a ton of gun magazines and or
rec.guns articles laying around. boy , you ca n't make a simple statement on
here without someone getting right on your ass. no wonder why there are so
many problems in the world. everyone takes everything just a little too
seriously. by the way , i'm not going to reply to any of this stuff anymore as
someone made the good point that this discussion is getting too close to r.g
(and yes i know that i had something to do with that).

jason

from guy@idacom.hp.com (guy m. trotter)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization idacom , a division of hewlett packard
lines 14


hi ,

in canada , any gun that enters a national park must be sealed (i think it 's a
small metal tag that 's placed over the trigger). the net result of this is
that you ca n't use a gun to protect yourself from bears (or psychos) in the
national parks. instead , one has to be sensitive to the dangers and annoyances
of hiking in bear country , and take the appropriate precautions.

i think this policy makes the users of the national parks feel a little closer
to nature , that they are a part of nature and , as such , have to deal with
nature on it 's own terms.

guy

from dale@access.digex.com (dale farmer)
subject re gun control proud to be a canuck
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , md usa
lines 27
nntp posting host access.digex.net
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

frank crary (fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu) wrote
in article 1pqsruinniae@hp col.col.hp.com dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff) writes
the swiss population is (and well was) far larger than that. i think
your question should be , ...losing sleep over a million expert
riflemen \? certainly he could have conquered switzerland , but
a million armed militiamen (especially in a mountainous area ,
where tanks' effectiveness is limited) would have made it a
real pain. the question a conqueror would ask , is is it worth
the trouble \? the more difficult an invasion is , the more likely
the answer would be no. certainly a million riflemen (as
opposed to a professional army of only ten or twenty thousand , the
best a country the size of switzerland could support) , makes
invasions more difficult.

hitler invaded yugoslavia and occupied it. the mountainous portions were
sometimes patrolled by the wermacht , but they were certainly not in control.
there were two major native factions opposing each other and the germans ,
it was basically useless to the germans (no production) and a drain on their
resources (a armored division and a couple of infantry divisions) which if
my memory is correct , were kind of stuck there up until the allies accepted
their surrender. (i think that the allies also let the germans keep some
of their weapons for self defense unitil they were able to get to the
lowlands , away from the resistance factions. this is from memory , and
it is unreliable.

dale farmer


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re statement to everyone on t.p.g
1993apr19.201300.27080@csd newshost.stanford.edu
lines 43

in article 1993apr19.201300.27080@csd newshost.stanford.edu ,
andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says

clue kratz' position is n't a defense against inaccuracy.

i oppose gun control because it does n't work. if it did , i 'd support
it. in fact , i supported gun control before i did my homework.

there 's no demand for pro gun people who do n't know what they 're
talking about. in fact , they 'd be much better off if they did n't say
anything.

and why is this freeman \? even if a pro gun person does n't know what they are
talking about there is always the possibility that they will learn a thing or
two. i am and will continue to post even if people get angry with what i have
to say. i have several good sources of material now that i know where to look
so calm down.

there 's lots of information flowing on tpg for those interested in
learning. one can participate in those discussions without ranting
inaccurately. failure to do so has consequences.

ah , freeman seems to forget from my statement that i am learning. i have also
asked several of the not so hostile folks on this group for sources of
information to read. do you think , freeman , that maybe this means i am
interested in learning \? i think it does because as you said people who do n't
know anything wo n't be good for the pro gun cause.

another good habit to get into is to go read only for a while , to take
the time to figure out how things work.

another good habit to get into is to realize that not everyone is you freeman
and accept mistakes. sure , maybe it could have been some type of
misinformation being slung by some anti gun nut but it was n't. i made my
statement to inform everyone of this and everyone who replied said do n't worry
about it but also to learn as much as you can. they accepted my mistake and
gave me sources of information and told me to read as much as possible. i have
read several posts of yours and have found them informative. why do n't you
give me the same chance \?

andy

jason

from wwarf@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (wayne j. warf)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 32

in article 1993apr20.142131.27347@rti.rti.org jbs@rti.rti.org writes
in article c5rpoj.ijv@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv
to get the trial they deserved. instead they chose to set fire to their
compund hours after the tanks dropped off the tear gas.

this is about the third person who 's parroted the fbi 's line about the
fires being set six hours after the tear gas was injected. suppose you
want to explain to us the videotape footage shown on national tv last night
in which a tank with the gas injecting tubes is pulling its injection tubes
out of the second story of a building as the building begins to belch smoke
and then fire \?

do tell.

joe

not to mention that the story was rewritten today. those two bd 's who
admitted to starting the fire , forget 'em , they do n't exist anyone.
today , a few saw someone starting a fire and our aerial surveillance
showed them starting fires at this morning 's press conference.
tomorrow , even this excuse may evaporate. a reporter pointed out
that a bd being brought to arraingement shouted that tanks knocking
over lanterns started the fire. curiouser and curiouser.



wayne j. warf wwarf@ucs.indiana.edu i speak for myself only
clinton gore cia fbi dea assassinate bomb wod bor atf irs resist nsa
christian god satan apocalypse zog nazi socialist communist explosive
fundamentalist revolution nsc federal reserve constitution gold fema

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 31
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
glenns@eas.gatech.edu writes
hey , gang , it 's not about duck hunting , or about dark alleys ,
it 's about black clad , helmeted and booted troops storming
houses and violating civil rights under color of law.

are you ready to defend your constitution \?

its also about crazy fatigue clad survivalist types blasting the
snot out of people who accidentally stray onto his land in the
name of 'self defense.'

well , the count is now at least 86 dead by government action. how many
have been killed in the last year in the manner you described \? what , no
facts \? oh , how silly of me i forgot , you do n't like guns , so you do n't
need no stinkin' facts.


do n't get too self righteous , mr. gun toter.

do n't get too smug , mr. gun hater.


mike ruff

this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 46
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 1qvjh9innh4l@hp col.col.hp.com dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
writes
nut case panics ! ! ! ! jumps the gun on the net before getting facts straight ! ! ! !

i really do n't understand all this ! i watched on satellite network feeds as
perhaps 90 people died before my eyes , while the two huey 's fanned the flames ,
and the fbi stopped the firetrucks at the gate.

something was very wrong with that scene.

perhaps if i 'd watched rambo movies , i might 've been dulled to the pain of
fellow humans dying.

thank god i still feel. i'm very sorry for you who do n't. for you who think
they got what they deserved. can you really believe that \? even if koresh was
the sadistic mad man they said he was , did the others deserve his fate \? if ,
in fact , he was mad , was n't that even more reason to believe he duped his
followers , and therefore they were innocent , brainwashed , victims \? is there
any scenaro that justifies all that death \?

and if not , it is clear that the deaths would not have occured if the batf has
not fucked up initially , and now the fbi got impaitent and pushed korech over
the edge.

and that 's if you buy the latest version of the story hook , line , and sinker.
i have believed all along that they could not let them live , the embarrassment
to the batf and the fbi would 've been too severe.

remember , this was a suspicion of tax evasion warrant. there were no
witnesses , except the fbi. all information filtered through the fbi. all they
had to do was allow one remote controlled pool camera be installed near the
building , and the press could 've done their job , and would 've been able to back
the fbi 's story with close up video , while incurring no risk to the press.
unless they did not want the public to see something. the complete lack of any
other source of information other than the fbi really causes me concern.


sick to my stomach , and getting sicker from all the government apologists

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from jbs@rti.rti.org
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization joe 's bar and grill
lines 16

in article c5rpoj.ijv@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv
to get the trial they deserved. instead they chose to set fire to their
compund hours after the tanks dropped off the tear gas.

this is about the third person who 's parroted the fbi 's line about the
fires being set six hours after the tear gas was injected. suppose you
want to explain to us the videotape footage shown on national tv last night
in which a tank with the gas injecting tubes is pulling its injection tubes
out of the second story of a building as the building begins to belch smoke
and then fire \?

do tell.

joe

from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject gun talk state legislative update
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
keywords gun talk
lines 208

april 19 , 1993

as william o. douglas noted , if a powerful sponsor is lacking ,
individual liberty withers in spite of glowing opinions and
resounding constitutional phrases.

the legislative scorecard outlined below resulted from subcommittee ,
committee , and floor action. many important victories , however , come
from coordinating with legislators to ensure anti gun anti hunting
legislation is either amended favorably , rejected , or never voted.
these quiet victories are no less impressive in protecting our
fundamental civil liberties guaranteed by the second amendment to the
u.s. constitution.



arizona sb 1233 , nra supported legislation concerning minors in
criminal possession of firearms passed the house 36 18 , is currently
awaiting action by the governor.

arkansas hb 1447 , firearms preemption legislation was signed by the
governor making this the forty first state to pass preemption.
preemption had passed twice in previous sessions only to be vetoed by
then gov. bill clinton. hb 1417 , mandatory storage of firearms ,
amended and then killed in committee.

colorado sb 42 , mandating the storage of firearms with a
trigger lock , killed in committee. sb 104 , prohibiting the sale of
certain semi auto firearms was killed in committee. sb 108 ,
so called colorado handgun violence prevention act , including a
provision for a 10 day waiting period , killed in committee.

connecticut substitute bill no. 6372 , imposing a 6 tax on all
firearms , ammunition , and archery equipment killed in environment
committee.

florida a bill to require a 3 year license at a cost of 150 to own
or possess semi automatic firearms with a second degree felony
provision (15 years in prison) died in committee along with numerous
other anti gun owner bills. no anti gun legislation passed in
florida this year.

georgia sb 12 , supposed instant check with provision allowing for
up to a 7 day waiting period , defeated in house public safety
committee and sent to interim study committee. mandatory storage
bill sb 247 was defeated 39 15 in the senate. the same bill
passed the upper house 52 2 in 1992.


illinois hb 90 , prohibiting the sale , possession , manufacture ,
purchase , possession , or carrying of certain semi auto firearms , was
defeated in house judiciary ii subcommittee on firearms. hb 91 ,
mandatory storage legislation , failed in house judiciary subcommittee
on firearms. hb 1550 , repeals foid and makes ftip , point of sale
check permanent , passed out of judiciary committee by a 10 4 2 vote.
presently on the calendar for third reading in the house.

sb 40 , mandatory storage bill , defeated in committee.
sb 265 , imposing a handgun excise tax , failed in senate committee on
revenue 's subcommittee on tax increases.
sb 272 , imposing a tax on all persons engaged in the business of
selling firearms , failed in senate revenue committee 's subcommittee
on tax increases.

indiana sb 241 , statewide firearms preemption , passed in the senate
34 16 , and in the house 77 22. twelve amendments were introduced on
the house floor to sb 241. among these amendments were a ban on
certain semi auto firearms , mandatory storage , trigger lock , a ban on
saturday night specials (similar to 1988 maryland bill) , and
handgun rationing (one handgun per month). all were defeated.

i read this morning (4 20) s.b. 241 was defeated lvc

kansas hb 2435 , providing for a 72 hour waiting period on all
firearms was defeated in committee. hb 2458 , presently on the
governor 's desk , hb 2459 and sb 243 and 266 all relating to victims'
rights , are expected to be enacted into law.

maine funding for the department of fish and wildlife 1993 94
budget , was restored following severe reductions in the governor 's
proposed budget. ld 612 , an anti hunting bill which included reverse
posting and 1000 yard safety zones , killed in committee.

maryland sb 6 (firearms incendiary ammunition) died in committee on
a 8 3 vote , sb 41 (reckless endangerment firearms sale or
transfer) died in committee on a 11 0 vote , sb 126 (gun control
assault weapons ) died in committee on 9 2 vote , sb 182 (weapons
free school zone) was withdrawn , sb 185 (weapons on school property
driver 's license suspension was withdrawn , sb 265 ( assault pistols
sale , purchase or transport) died in committee on 8 3 vote , sb 328
( assault pistols act of 1993) died in committee on a 8 3 vote , sb
682 (baltimore city firearms rifles and shotguns) died in committee
on a 9 2 vote.

hb 274 (pistol and revolver dealers licenses compliance with zoning
laws) was withdrawn , hb 366 (regulated firearms sales and transfer)
died on the senate floor , hb 374 (handguns and assault weapons
advertising for sale or transfer) died in committee , hb 384 (handguns
and assault weapons exhibitors) died in committee , hb 495
( assault pistols act of 1993) died in committee on a 14 9 vote , hb
496 (gun shows sale , trade , or transfer of regulated firearms) died
in committee on a 19 6 vote , hb 601 (firearms handguns assault
pistols handgun roster board) was withdrawn , hb 683 (rifles and
shotguns registration) was withdrawn , hb 945 (pistols and revolvers
private sales or transfers required notice) died in committee ,
and hb 1128 prince georges county
weapons free school zone) was withdrawn.

mississippi hb 141 , closing a loophole allowing felons to possess
firearms , passed both houses and signed by the governor. the bill
codifies into law mechanism for certain felons to have their second
amendment liberties reinstated.

nebraska lb 83 and lb 225 , mandatory trigger lock bills , killed in
committee.

new hampshire h.b. 363 , providing for reciprocity for concealed
carry licenses passed. h.b. 671 , increasing the term of a license
to carry loaded handguns passed.

new mexico sb 762 , imposing a 7 day waiting period , defeated in
senate committee (0 5) and then on floor of the senate (15 24). hb
182 , mandatory storage legislation , was killed by a vote of 1 8 in
committee. hb 230 , legislation safeguarding sportsmen in the field
from harassment by animal rights extremists , signed into law by the
governor on march 30.

new york seven day waiting period was defeated in the city of
buffalo. ban on certain semi autos was defeated in monroe county.
the tax and fee bills to be imposed on guns and ammo were not
included in the 1993 94 budget. sb 207 , making pistol licenses
provides for validity of pistol license throughout the state , passed
senate. currently awaiting action in assembly committee.

north dakota hb 1484 , granting victims compensation in certain
circumstances , was signed into law by the governor on april 8.

oregon sb 334 , banning firearms on school grounds and in court
buildings , withdrawn as a result of gun owners opposition.

rhode island hb 5273 , mandatory firearms storage legislation ,
defeated in committee by a vote of 8 5. hb 6347 , an act prohibiting
aliens from owning firearm defeated by unanimous vote in committee.
hb 5650 , excepting nra instructors from the firearms safety
requirement , reported favorably. hb 5781 , exempting persons with an
attorney general 's permit from the 7 day waiting period , reported to
the floor by a vote of 11 1.
hb 6917 , extending the term of a permit to carry from two years to
three years , reported to the floor unanimously.

utah hb 290 , reforming the state 's concealed carry statute , passed
out of house committee. sb 32 , creating civil liability for
so called negligent storage of a firearm , and sb 33 creating the
offense of reckless endangerment with a firearm , killed on senate
floor.

virginia s.b. 336 , and s.b. 803 , requiring proof of state residence
to obtain virginia driver 's license passed. s.b. 804 , which
increases the penalty and imposes a mandatory minimum sentence for
straw man purchases of multiple firearms passed. s.b. 858 ,
allowing possession of sawed off rifles and shotguns in compliance
with federal law passed. s.b. 1054 , making it a felony for first
offense of carrying a concealed firearm without a license (which the
nra opposes until law abiding citizens can acquire a concealed carry
license for self defense) , was defeated. h.b. 1900 , increasing the
penalty for use of a firearm in committing a felony was passed. h.b.
2076 , requiring proof of residence to obtain a driver 's license
passed. h.b. 2272 , providing for a referendum on the imposition of a
statewide three day waiting period in handgun purchases was
defeated.

washington sb 5160 , calling for waiting periods and licensing for
all semi automatic firearms , died in committee.

west virginia s.c.r. 18 , which calls for a study to control
transfers of handguns and assault weapons was defeated in the
senate 24 10.

wisconsin in a referendum up against all odds , the determined
efforts of the madison area citizens against crime paid off on april
6 when a nonbinding referendum banning the possession of handguns in
madison , wisconsin , was defeated. despite opposition to the ban
aired largely by firearms owners at a series of public meetings on
the issue the common council voted on february 17 to place the
referendum on the ballot , allowing only seven weeks of campaigning to
reverse public opinion on the controversial issue.

an october 1992 poll conducted by the wisconsin state journal found
57 in support and 38 opposed , with 5 expressing no opinion. by
election day , of the more than 56 , 000 voters who went to the polls ,
51 cast ballots in opposition to the proposal while 49 voted to
have the madison common council enact such a ban. the campaign
committee , spearheaded by the wisconsin pro gun movement and nra ila ,
relied on neighborhood canvassing , direct mail and radio tv
advertising to educate voters on the civil liberties implications
raised by enforcement of the ban if the referendum was approved.

despite the surprising defeat , it is expected that the madison
initiative 's chief proponent , mayor paul soglin , will attempt to have
the common council enact an ordinance banning handguns.

downloaded from gun talk (703 719 6406)
a service of the
national rifle association
institute for legislative action
washington , dc 20036

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 76
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article cmm.0.90.2.734814613.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes


observations from a naive norwegian

1) guns are made to kill people , not to shoot target or to
have something more macho than stamps to collect.....

2) it is more easy to kill injure someone with a gun than
with a knife or a bat (as in baseball).

3) it 's not very wise to compare two completely different
countries like usa and , let 's say , island on issues like
crime and violence.

4) yes , the problem is people committing crimes , not the tools
beeing used , but 1) should be taken into concideration.

only as far as it affects the crime rate.

we have a very strict gun legislation in norway , but until recently
it was possible for enyone over 18 years to buy a shotgun.
shotguns are used mainly for hunting in norway(...) , but because it
was so easy to accuire one , it was the most used gun in crimes.
the solution was to restrict the sale , so it 's now necessary to
apply and register your shotgun.
and unbelievable the use of guns in crime fell.....

did the rate of crime fall \? if not , the ban was of no use. it is the rate of
violent crime that matters , not the tools used. it 's the crime , stupid !

there are now a new law against wearing long knives in public ,
and why should it be allowed \? \?


apparently that became the weapon of choice after the shotguns were banned.
after that , they 'll decide the car of choice is the saab , and propose a ban on
that !

what i , as an scandinavian , have problems to understand is that
you (americans) have a more liberal view on guns and violence
than on nudity and sex.
try showing a bare breast on tv insted of violence and murder...

yes , i know a little american history , but is it a civil human
right to have an assault gun in your home and or an handgun
in your car \? \?


yes. we still trust honest people here. for the time being.


the bad english is not my fault , it 's probably
the keyboard software or the quality of the
subtext on tv......


disclamer(not)
these are the views of all studens at my university ,
all norwegians and probably whole of the universe...


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no




jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from crrob@sony1.sdrc.com (rob davis)
subject re insane gun toting wackos unite ! ! !
summary backcountry
distribution na
lines 16


fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary @ university of colorado , boulder)

i do n't know about animal attacks , but there are 23 , 500 murders
each year and under 500 die in the manner you suggest. if only
2.1 of the murders were killings by wacko s , you would be
wrong. worse , there are also 102 , 500 rapes and 1 , 055 , 000 aggravated
assaults each year. these numbers make violent attacks , and
preventing them , thousands of times more significant than the
accidents you are worried about.

these stats are invalid we 're talking backcountry. these stats for
rapes assaults deaths do not represent the backcountry singularly the
great majority represent urban incidents. you should have pointed this out.

rob

from lwb@cs.utexas.edu (lance w. bledsoe)
subject re atf suspects drug lab in compound
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 24
nntp posting host im4u.cs.utexas.edu

in article 1993mar28.180629.21574@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy) writes
a associated press news story 3 28 93 reports

in other developments saturday , david troy , intelligence chief for
the atf , confirmed reports that authorities suspected the cult had a
methamphetamine lab. he said evidence of possible drug activity
surfaced late in the atf' investigation of the cult 's gun dealings.

wow , the scope of the mission of the atf continues to expand. besides
alcohol , tobacco , and firearms , they now seem to be involded in child
protective services , drug enforcement and tax evasion.

they look to be on the road to being the nations boys in blue !
no knock in one hand , m 16 in the other. zeik heil ! ! !

lance





lance w. bledsoe lwb@im4u.cs.utexas.edu (512) 258 0112
ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free.


from kdw@icd.ab.com (kenneth d. whitehead)
subject letter to the president
nntp posting host sora.icd.ab.com
organization allen bradley company , inc.
lines 46

here 's a copy of a letter i'm e mailing to the slickster at
his address of 75300.3115@compuserve.com



to william j. clinton
president of the united states of america

mr. president

i am writing to express my utter outrage at the conduct of various
government agencies in regards to the tragedy in waco. i demand
the dismissal or resignation of lloyd bensen , secretary of the treasury ,
who bears responsibility for the initial helicopter and grenade attack
by the atf against the branch davidians , and of janet reno , who authorized
the final assault on the very day that we were commemorating the warsaw
ghetto revolt. and i would truly appreciate it if you would make
sure something like this never happens again on your watch.

respectfully yours ,

kenneth d. whitehead




get involved , gang. it 's your republic. let 's take it back.



i will be much more willing to believe the government 's side of the
waco story after we are allowed to hear from the survivors. so far ,
all we 've gotten has been censored by the very people who have the
most to cover up. and i 'd really like to know how they got the
press , who complained so loudly about being kept off the front lines
during the gulf war , be such obedient lap dogs in waco... kind of
makes me wonder if this so called freedom of the press is n't
highly overrated.

ken whitehead (kdw@odin.icd.ab.com)







from gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 49
nntp posting host sam.cchem.berkeley.edu
originator gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu

oh christ , here we go again. i'm actually going to assume that
this was a serious posting , fool that i am.

in article 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
yea , there are millions of cases where yoy say that firearms
'deter' criminals. alas , this is not provable. i think that that
there are actually few cases where this is so.

and i suppose i should just take your word for it. did you ever
think that many people who use firearms to protect themselves
might not admit to it because of the ridiculous laws which exist
forbidding concealed carry \?

the bulk of firarems are used against unworthy and unnesessary
opponents ... those who posessa a cool jakcet you want , those who
would argue with you about a parking space , those who would
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes.

i already own a cool jacket. i ride a bicycle to work and park
it behind my desk. and if my woman decides to go with someone
else , i 'd be disappointed but killing her new suitor will probably
not endear her to me any more than before. frankly , i 've never
met a woman worth killing for anyway. (now , an ar 15 with a chrome
barrel , that 's worth killing for ... ! ))

too much of this has ruined you cause. there is no recovery.
in the near future , federal martials will come for your arms.
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking ,
than the 'criminal'. this is your own fault.

does this pinhead know something the rest of us do n't \?
i'm not too worried about federal martials coming to get my guns.
the government ca n't seem to keep violent criminals in jail since
they do n't have enough prison space , and the legal system is over
burdened anyway. where are they going to put all the millions of
gun owners who wo n't fork over their weapons \? maybe you 'd like to
volunteer the services of your humble abode , since you obviously
feel sooooo strongly about this.

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

your argument has been rendered useless. accept this. find another
newsgroup.


lee gaucher nra my opinions.
gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu no one else 's.



from 0005111312@mcimail.com (peter nesbitt)
subject newspapers censoring gun advertisements
lines 88

recently while looking around in traders sporting goods store , a very well
stocked firearms store , i discovered a printed document that was being
distributed by the good folks who work there. traders , btw , is located in
san leandro , ca.

granted , the document may be asking you and i to help out traders , but in the
big scope of things , i feel that we would do all gun owners a favor by helping
to this cause.

anyway , here it is

newspaper ad censorship

are you letting the newspapers tell you how to live your life , what 's good for
you , what 's not , and exercise blatant censorship over what you read in their
advertisments \?

the newspapers have now decided to censor gun ads which is why you no longer
see the ads that traders , san leandro , has run for many years.

these ads were run for the law abiding honest citizens who own firearms for
sporting use or self protection. they certainly have the right to do so , under
the second amendment right to bear arms.

if you are tired of newspapers who run sex and liquor ads galor , yet refuse to
run legitimate gun ads , please send a letter to the editors indicating your
displeasure over their censorship doctrine.

following is a list of bay area newspapers who censor gun ads. perhaps you 'd
like to send them your thoughts on this issue !

oakland tribune daily review alameda times star
pob 28883 pob 5050 1516 oak st.
oakland , ca 94604 hayward , 94540 alameda , ca 94501

argus tri valley herald san leandro times
3850 decoto rd. pob 10367 161 w. juana ave.
fremont , ca 94555 pleasanton , ca 94588 san leandro , ca 94577

contra costa times san mateo times san francisco chronicle
pob 5088 pob 5400 901 mission st.
walnut creek , ca 94596 san mateo , ca 94402 san francisco , ca 94103

san fran. independent san fran. examiner san jose mercury news
1201 evans ave 110 5th st. 750 ridder park dr.
san fran. , ca 94124 san fran. , ca 94103 san jose , ca 95190

then there are six pages of facts . i can not validate these facts , and
there were no sources , but many feel and sound very true. here are the topic
headlines

big media snow job
blaming firearms for murder is like blaming hospitals for death
i could use the same nazi journalistic technique of cbs and abc to prove
that hospitals cause death
how nbc , cbs , and abc have scammed the american people on gun control
american tv journalism is based on nazi journalism
why tv journalists lie
the government with the help of the tv networks , has succeeded in playing
one group against the other
gun laws are unconstitutional
american gun laws are based on nazi gun laws
the government is trying to devide and conquer
the cia wants your firearms

and so on for six pages.

so now we have the media trying help put gun dealers out of business by trying
to limit their exposure to potential customers , and preventing the customers
from reading about sales of ammunition and firearms for sporting , hunting , or
other recreational use.

let me know if you write to any of these bozos.



peter d. nesbitt air traffic controller pnesbitt@mcimail.com

oakland bay tracon



cbr600f2 pilot nra member ccx1380f s w .41 magnum carrier






from chiu@io.nosc.mil (francis chiu)
subject re blast them next time
organization san diego state university , college of sciences
lines 39
distribution usa
nntp posting host io.nosc.mil
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7

daniel oldham (oldham@ces.cwru.edu) wrote
what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

initial assault on the compound ( more like a wooden farm house if
it burned to the ground like it did ) for what \? regardless of who
started caused the fire , none of this would have happened if the
atf can honestly justify their initial assault and handled it
properly !

question authority !

snip
with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with

show me some evidenence instead of repeating what the fbi atf
told you.

mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.

then i'm sure you wo n't mind if the atf or the dea raid your house
someday on a bogus informant tip. so what if they killed wounded your
family accidentally during the raid , it 's just a fair price to pay
for law and order in this country , right \? answer this question
honestly before making anymore ignorant statements !

what is even more disturbing than out of control government agencies
are citizens who allow them to be irresponsible.

f. chiu

nntp posting host surt.ifi.uio.no
from thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no
subject re my gun is like my american express card
in reply to jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) 's message of 15 apr 1993
13 08 14 gmt
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
1qjmnuinnlmd@clem.handheld.com
lines 73
originator thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no


i hate long postings , but this turned out to be rather lengthy....


overall crime rate
it fell....just like that...

acquiring weapons in norway
you can buy (almost) all kinds of weapons in norway , but you must have a
permit , and a good reason to get the permit....
if i would like to have a handgun , i would have to get an gun licence from
the police and to be a member of a gun club.
the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and or
records of serious mental diseases.
now , if a got my licence , i would have to be an active member of the gun
club for 6 months before i could collect my gun.
it 's a little like getting a drivers licence is n't it \? \? \?
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to...

use of guns in crimes (in norway)
some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners 'arms'
for a long time , but these are rather the exeption.
most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short
time befor the crime.

use of knives
it is allowed to cary knifes in public , but not in your belt or 'open'.
you (americans) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open
in public rigth \? \?

scandinavians are 'aggressive'
we northeners are not as hot livered as southeners , but when we decide
to take action we do.
ask any historian or millitary with an knowledge of europe....
(or ask any german who served in norway in ww2.....)

individual vs masses
yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some
extent....
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses \? \?
what happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of
all the others \? \?


the issue
i believe the issue is guns , and gun legislation.
we should n't mix weapons and items that can serve as one....
if i lived in amerika i would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in home.
but should it have to be like that \? \?
do you think it 's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) \? \?
if you believe it 's smart neccacery to have drivers licence why do you think
it should be free to buy guns \? \?

disclaim her
i'm not a pacifist or anti gun.
i would defend my home , loved ones and country , but i do n't view guns as
neccities or toys.
i have done army service , and have used a variaty of weapons , but would n't
want to have one for self defence or because they 'feel good'....







this is not a .signature.
it 's marly a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

from mpetro@brtph126.bnr.ca (myron petro p030)
subject re boston gun buy back
organization bnr inc. rtp , nc
lines 17

ron miller wrote
when you ask the question of the authorities or sponsors of buyback
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer
no , it 's total amnesty .
(good point about registration schemes being used only for harassment deleted)

i would also like to point out that this is receiving stolen property and is
no different than a pawn shop owner doing the same thing.


myron petro
nra , uspsa
dvc y'all

the opinions included in this post are my sole responsibility.
and are protected by the first amendment and guarnteed by the
second amendment.

from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re gun control proud to be a canuck
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 11
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com

does anyone really believe the swiss have had no war within their borders
because every adult male owns a rifle \? i'm a great admirer of the swiss , but
500 years of peace on their turf has zilch to do with gun ownership. can you
picture hitler , with panzers and focke wulfs poised on the border , losing
sleep over a few thousand expert rifleman \? sure.
hitler stayed out of switzerland because the swiss run the money in this
world. we 'd do well to emulate them on that and forget about getting more
rifles on the street. let 's disband the nra and start a national investment
banking association , replete with red and black sticker for the back window
of bubba 's mercedes 600 ! we could fire charlton heston and get paul volcker
for a spokesman.

from eyc@acpub.duke.edu (emil chuck)
subject re bill 'blame america first' clinton strikes again.
summary repost from alt.rush limbaugh
distribution na
organization duke university durham , n.c.
lines 31
nntp posting host red5.acpub.duke.edu

jeddi@next06pg2.wam.umd.edu (anheuser busch) writes
this argument sounds very stupid.. if the ability to make guns from
simple metalworking was easy , then drug dealers would make their own
would n't they \? \? \? .. why spend hundreds of dollars buying a gun that
somebody else made cheap and is selling it to you at an
exorbitant markup \? \? \? ... the simple truth of the matter is , that regardless
of how easy it is to make guns , banning guns will reduce the
the number of new guns and seriuosly impede the efforts of a
killer intent on buying a weapon....
to show why the tools argument is the silliest i have ever seen.. take an
analogy from computer science... almost every computer science major
can write a wordprocessor yet we(comp sci majors) would willingly pay 3
to 400 bucks for a professional software like wordperfect... why do n't we
just all write our own software \? \? \? ...... because it is highly
inconvinient ! ! ! ..
same with guns... secondly.. how does one get this gunpowder for the
home made gun \? \? \? take a quick trip to the local 7 eleven \? \? \? .
if guns were really that simple to make... the bosnian muslims would
be very happy people (or is it the case that metalworking tools are
banned in bosnia \? \? \? (deep sarcasm) ).

well this is my two cents..
i will now resume reading all these ridiculus post from people
who must make their living doing stand up comedy.
end of forwarded material


and so , the rubber spheroid arced beneath the brilliant lights.
headed for a hoop of dreams he 'd dreamt of all those nights.
the crowd gasped as the ball descended would it grant their fondest wish \?
there was no doubt in casey 's mind , he knew it was a swish !

from chiu@io.nosc.mil (francis chiu)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization san diego state university , college of sciences
lines 50
nntp posting host io.nosc.mil
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu wrote
you are loosing.
there is no question about it.
of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

care to show some real numbers instead of something hci make up \?
i thought so , all foaming at the mouth shouting but nothing is
ever said...

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void. tough titty.

well , we 'll just have to wait and see about that , wo n't we \? or are
you quite satisified with living in your little fantasy \?

snip
cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause. there is nothing you
snip
the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

not true , it is only those who are ignorant and are afraid to understand ,
accept , and deal with the real problems behind this violent society
who are proposing gun control as a band aid solution. may be i should
refresh your memory with a quote from prez. clintion \?

it 's the criminals , stupid !

hey , why is he cutting the budget for more prisons \? may be someone need
to remind him of what he promised...on second thought , why bother...

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.
your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'.

oooh , waco ii , coming to your living room soon... when was the last
time you turned off your tv \? ca n't remember \? i thought so...

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

wait , i got it , this is a late april fool post , right \? i did n't
think anybody is stupid enough to post something like this...good one
guys , this group was getting boring without holly and susan.

francis chiu , professional student , programmer , tax payer.


from hambidge@bms.com
subject re some more about gun control...
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 51

in article c5l0n2.5ll@ulowell.ulowell.edu , jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes

so the phrase the right of the people to keep and bear arms , shall
not be infringed must either qualify or explain the phrase a well
regulated militia , being necessary to the security of a free state.

stuff deleted

since the right of the people to keep and bear arms , shall not be
infringed does not describe , modify or make less harsh anything and
it has nothing to do with grammar or some sort of position or task.
by process of elimination it must fall into definition 3. and since
3 deals with legal power , the same thing the constitution does , it
must be the correct definition in this case. therefore , the right
of the people to keep and bear arms gives legal power to the well
regualated militia and this legal power shall not be infringed .

ah , clarification by obfuscation.

actually , the words a well regulated milita , being necessary to the
security of a free state is a present participle , used as an
adjective to modify 'militia' , which is followed by the main clause of
the sentence , the subject being 'the right' , the verb 'shall'. it
asserts that the right to keep and bear arms is essential for
maintaining a milita. the sentence does n't restrict the right , or
state or imply possession of the right by anyone or anything other
than the people. all it does is make a positive statement regarding a
right of the people. the people , as in you and me , as in the first ,
fourth , ninth , tenth , as well as the second amendment.
the existence of this right is assumed it is not granted by the
amendment. there is no stated or implied condition relating the right
to bear arms to the necessity of a well regulated militia to the security of
a free state.
in other words , the entire sentence says that the right to keep and
bear arms is unconditional.


so in effort not to force my views and not to destory our liberties and
rights , i state that nothing i have written , or will write , in
the matter of liberties and rights is the final word. for i am only
one person among many and the final word on liberties and rights cleary
and irrevocably belongs to the many.

the final word on liberties and rights should not belong to the
many . that is why we have a constitution. otherwise , a tyrrany of
the majority can ensue from popular opinion , a concept which you
should be familiar with from the federalist papers.

al
standard disclaimer


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re important holly silva information
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 19
distribution usa
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1pkojminnmuq@cae.cad.gatech.edu , vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox) writes
in a separate post over on soc.culture.usa she explicitly said that while
she cross posts to t.p.g and sets follow ups to there , she does not read
talk.politics.guns. if you think about it , it 's a clever way of keeping
some of the politer respondents who will edit their newsgoup line , or
properly use the follow up from being heard over there. it also makes it
easier for her to claim all she ever sees is squeaky weasels .

so if you want her to see your insiteful analysis , e mail it. if you
want to point out her flaws in public , make sure your newsgroup line
includes soc.culture.usa.

to keep from flooding s.c.u , i e mailed it. however , i agree that it 's
quite the sneaky trick. no more than i would expect , however.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from ndallen@r node.hub.org (nigel allen)
subject fbi director 's statement on waco standoff
organization r node public access unix 1 416 249 5366
lines 26

in the interests of completeness , i thought readers of these
newsgroups would want to see fbi director william sessions'
statement , as released by the fbi press office.

fbi director 's statement on waco standoff
to national desk
contact federal bureau of investigation , press office ,
202 324 3691

washington , april 19 the following is a statement by
fbi director william s. sessions regarding the branch davidian
incident in waco , texas

i had hoped to be making a very different statement this evening.
after very careful planning and extensive preparation we all thought
that today 's efforts by the fbi to bring the branch davidians out of
their compound would result in the peaceful resolution of the
stand off or at least meaningful negotiation.
instead , we are faced with devastation and death. however , i
have no question that our plan was correct and was conducted with
extreme professionalism and care. i applaud the restraint shown by
agents in the face of life threatening gunfire , and i thank them for
risking their lives to try to end this peacefully. i have only the
greatest admiration for the courage and professionalism of all
involved.
30

from turmoil@halcyon.com (tim crowley)
subject re waco clinton press conference , part 1
organization northwest nexus inc.
lines 13
nntp posting host nwfocus.wa.com

cathyf@is.rice.edu (catherine anne foulston) writes

could y'all please stop posting this stuff to tx.general. tx.politics
is sufficient and is where this stuff belongs. thanks.

cathy

cathy foulston rice university network systems support cathyf@rice.edu

why \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \?




from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent
irvine) writes
in article 1r1j3n 4t@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d.
tavares) writes
in article 1r19tp 5em@bigboote.wpi.edu , mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael
frederick rhein) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm
day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

brent shows his ignorance once again. power had been cut for weeks. and he 's
never lived in a rural area if he thinks electric stoves have favor there.
they stop working when the power fails , and power restoration come much slower
in the country , than the city. lp gas stoves and ovens are very much prefered.


personal opinions \? why ,
brent irvine yes. what did you think irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu
they were \? .......

jim


jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu (mr. nice guy)
subject re blast them next time
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
distribution usa
lines 35

in article 1r19l9 7dv@usenet.ins.cwru.edu oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes
what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.



i hope that you are in the way of the noble federal enforcers and
are blown away accidently by the governments goons.

you would cheer the death to 25 childern \?

this is the sort of person who served as a death camp guard.

rod anderson n0nzo the only acceptable substitute
boulder , co for brains is silence.
rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu solomon short
satellite n0nzo on ao 16

from vojak@icebucket.stortek.com (bill vojak)
subject aclu policies
originator vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nntp posting host icebucket.stortek.com
organization storage technology corp.
distribution usa
lines 59

aclu official policies.

policy 18 , for example , opposes rating systems for motion
pictures industry sponsored ratings systems create the
potential for constraining the creative process and thus
contracting the marketplace of ideas. despite the stated goal of
providing guidance to parents , experience has shown that ratings
inevitably have serious chilling effects on freedom of
expression.

in regards to the pledge of allegiance , the aclu states in its
policy 84 the insertion of the words `under god' into the
pledge of allegiance is a violation of the constitutional
principle of separation of church and state.

policy 120 states that , military conscription under any
circumstances is a violation of civil liberties and
constitutional guarantees. the aclu objects to the draft even
during wartime because of the anti democratic power it gives
government to wage war without support of the people.

policy 125 states , the aclu calls for a broad based inquiry into
war crimes within the widest possible definition of war crimes
against humanity , and crimes against the peace , focusing upon the
actions of the united states military and other combatants
against the people of south vietnam , laos , cambodia , and north
vietnam.

policy 133 states , the aclu recognizes that us government
reliance upon nuclear weaponry as a dominant element of foreign
and domestic policy , while propounded as a defense of democracy ,
is in fact a great threat to civil liberties. four decades of
adherence to this policy has fundamentally altered the nature of
our constitutional democratic process and poses a paramount
threat to our civil liberties.

policy 217 objects to roadblocks where drivers are stopped for
sobriety tests because they violate fourth amendment
principles.

policy 242 states the following on criminal
sentencing the most appropriate correctional approach is
reintegrating the offender into the community , and the goals of
reintegration are furthered much more readily by working with the
offender within the community than by incarceration. probation
should be authorized by the legislature in every case exceptions
to the principle are not favored , and any exceptions , if made ,
should be limited to the most serious of offenses , such as murder
or treason.

bill vojak
vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nra , ila ,
colorado firearms coalition

the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather not ! )
the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather biased ! )



from strait@cheetah.csl.uiuc.edu (jeffrey c. strait)
subject re nra address \?
organization the university of illinois
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host cheetah.csl.uiuc.edu
keywords nra waco rkba

in article 7307@pdxgate.uucp , barker@rigel.cs.pdx.edu (james barker) writes
could someone email me a usnail address for the nra \? i 'd like to write them
a letter encouraging them to see to it very emphatically that the 2nd
amendment is restored to the form that the founding fathers intended.

national rifle association
1600 rhode island ave. nw
washington , dc 20036 3268
1 800 368 5714 (membership)


jeff strait strait@uicsl.csl.uiuc.edu
university of illinois phone (217) 333 6444
if you ladies leave this island , if you survive basic recruit
training , you will be a weapon , a minister of death praying for war

from yoony@aix.rpi.edu (young hoon yoon)
subject re constitutionality of 18 u.s.c 922(o)
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
distribution usa
lines 50

brians@atlastele.com (brian sheets) writes

you know , i was reading 18 u.s.c. 922 and something just did not make
sence and i was wondering if someone could help me out.

say u.s.c. 922

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) , it shall be unlawful for
any person to transfer or possess a machinegun.

well i got to looking in my law dictionary and i found that a person
might also be an artificial entity that is created by government
and has no rights under the federal constitution. so , what i
do n't understand is how a statute like 922 can be enforced on
an individual. so someone tell me how my government can tell
me what i can or cannot possess. just passing a law
does not make it law. everyone knows that laws are constitional
until it goes to court. so , has it ever gone to court , not
just your run of the mill ok i had it i am guilty , put me in jail

has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to possess and was told
by the supreme court that they did n't have that right \?




brian sheets truck \? ! what truck \?
support engineer `o o'
atlas telecom inc. ( ) raiders of the lost ark
brians@atlastele.com u

i'm not a lawyer but to the best of my understanding , the congress has no
more rights than what is enumerated in the constitution. that is the
prime reason why the national firearms act is based on collecting revenue.
since the congress has the authority to levy taxes , the nfa is a tax act and
the registration requirement within it is to assist in that tax collection.
u.s.c 922 , in order to be constitutional , must have a basis on a particular
authority granted to the congress by the constitution. congress can not
arbitrarily ban a substance or product. that is why prohibition came into
effect , only by passing an ammendment. what you said about constitutionality
of law needs to be clarified. i believe that an unconstitutional law was
never constitutional. when a law is determined by the supreme court , to be
unconstitutional , that law was never really a law. the very nature of the law
being unconstitutional invalidates the law at it 's inception. please correct
me if i'm wrong , but when a law is deemed to be unconstitutional , anyone
convicted of breaking that law is absolved.
i do n't believe u.s.c 922 has ever been challenged in court. nfa has been
invalidated in two federal district court cases( one may have been appellate
level u.s. vs rock island armory and u.s. vs dalton ).


from hambidge@bms.com
subject re lavishly funded gun epidemic propaganda campaign to commence
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
distribution usa
lines 20

in article c4txek.fcq@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
morris the cat (rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com) wrote

well , as neal knox of the firearms coalition points out , the full
force of the anti gun ruling class , their multi millions , their
polling organizations , their schools , their news media , their
entertainment media

the entertainment media... a force of the anti gun ruling class \? \?
is this the same media that 's made billions producing films and
television that glorify guns and gun users \? or is that another
anti gun media \?

you 've got to be kidding.

i'm afraid he is n't. they are a hypocritical lot.

al
standard disclaimer


from jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization interactive media group university of massachusetts at lowell
lines 76

in article 1993apr16.171115.16812@synapse.bms.com , hambidge@bms.com writes
actually , the words a well regulated milita , being necessary to the
security of a free state is a present participle , used as an
adjective to modify 'militia' , which is followed by the main clause of
the sentence , the subject being 'the right' , the verb 'shall'. it
asserts that the right to keep and bear arms is essential for
maintaining a milita.
a free state.

yes , i agree the first half of the amendment does modify the noun
militia. but the difinition of modify that applies to how well regulated
modifies militia is
to qualify or limit the meaning of. for example , wet
modifes day in the phrase a wet day.

the amendment is similiar to the statement
a wet day , being annoying , the right of the people to keep
and wear boots , shall not be infringed.
so how does a dry day pertain the right to use boots \? similiar ,
what does the unorganized militia have to due with the right to
own guns \?

the sentence in the second amendment does n't restrict the right , or
state or imply possession of the right by anyone or anything other
than the people. all it does is make a positive statement regarding a
right of the people. the people , as in you and me , as in the first ,
fourth , ninth , tenth , as well as the second amendment.
the existence of this right is assumed it is not granted by the
amendment. there is no stated or implied condition relating the right
to bear arms to the necessity of a well regulated militia to the security of
in other words , the entire sentence says that the right to keep and
bear arms is unconditional.

no not , unconditional , but shall not be infringed . infringed
is defined as
to break or ignore the terms of or obligations (an oath ,
an agreement , law , or the like) to disreguard violate.
to go beyond the boundaries or limits tresspass encroach.
this definition implies the following of some form of existing
agreement. laws and agreements are made in advance. boundaries
or limits of behavior are set by society as a whole. the word
unconditional implies no agreements or all previous agreements
are off , which is the opposite.

the words used in the first amendment are much stronger , i.e. ,
congress shall make no law , are much stronger. they clearly

imply unconditional. if the writers of the amendment , wanted
unconditional whay did n't they says , congress shall make no
laws pertaining the the right of the people to keep and bear arms \?
the second amendment implies a sort contract between the people
the people and the state. the bigger part of the contract is
the people have the right to overthrew the government and its laws
at any time. to guarantee this right , the laws cannot stopped
the people from forming a well regutaled militia. the duties
of a well regulated militia to the government are descussed in
federalist no. 29. and the limits of of the governmental control
of the militia are descussed in article i section 8 , article ii
section 2 , and the second amendment of the constitution.



if only it were a modern document , with a
john lawrence rutledge smart index and hyper links stretching all
research assistant through the world data net. it was terribly
frustrating to flip back and forth between
interactive media group the pages and crude flat illustrations that
computer science department never even moved. nor were there animated
umass lowell arrows or zoom ins. it completely lacked a
1 university ave. for sound.
lowell , ma 01854 most baffling of all was the problem of new
words... in normal text you 'd only have to
(508) 934 3568 touch an unfamiliar word and the definition
jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu would pop up just below.
from david brin 's earth


from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 25

in article 1qkcok s9i@usenet.ins.cwru.edu ci946@cleveland.freenet.edu (john k. gever) writes
public health experts will tell you that you are far more likely
have your gun stolen , use it yourself on a family member or
have it used on you than you are to use it on an actual criminal.

actually , they wo n't. what they 'll tell you is that if you add up the
number of suicides , murders of one drug dealer by another , legit
self defenses of a battered spouse , and so on , you 'll end up with a
number that is much larger than the number of self defense killings
against strangers committed in the bedroom. (btw they did n't
honestly count the latter either , but let 's not quibble.) they
try to claim that comparison is between the costs of self defense
and the benefits , but they 're wrong.

this comparison does n't measure the costs of self defense and it
does n't measure the benefits either. for example , the goal is not to
kill the attacker , whatever your relationship to him , but to stop him.
while the number of killings may be proportional to the number of
stops , it is n't equal.

anyone who confuses that comparison with an honest evaluation
is either lying or....

andy


nntp posting host surt.ifi.uio.no
from thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no
subject re my gun is like my american express card
in reply to viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson) 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993
07 24 55 gmt
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
1qjmnuinnlmd@clem.handheld.com
cmm.0.90.2.734911642.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no
viking.734945095@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu
lines 72
originator thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no


gun clubs
if you are a member you can borrow weapons....(suprised \? \? )
you are supposed to train with a .22 for the 6 months , then
you can start with anything bigger.

drivers licence
forgot that usa is the land of cars.....
getting one in scandinavia (and northern europe) is not easy.
average time is about 20 hours of training , and the cost is rather......
but we think this is acceptable because a car is not a toy , and
bad drivers tend to hurt others.
(if you are really bad , you won't get a lincence ! )

abuse by the goverment
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control
would just be abused by the goverment.( ! )
either some of you are a little paranoid (no offence...) or you should
get a new goverment. (you do have elections \? \? )

guns 'n criminals
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen.
known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control.
and because gun control are strict in whole scandinavia (and most of europe) ,
we dont have any problem with smuggled guns.

mixing weapons and things that can be use as one
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns !
someone said that if we 'ban' guns we 'd have to ban cars to , because they 'kill' to...
i do n't think we should argue on this one..... )

the issue (i hope..)
i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem.
guns are not a problem , but the way they are used is.... (and what are they for \? \? )

i think this discusion is interesting when you think of (ex)jugoslavia
they should all have weapons , it 's their rigth to have them , and if they use them
to kill other (innocent) people the problem is humans , not guns.

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some regulations on them
or just say that they are ment to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem ,
it 's the 'axer' \? \?
(an example , do n't flame me just because not exactly 50 are killed by guns...)

think about the situation in los angeles where people are buying guns to protect
themselves. is this a good situation \? \? is it the rigth way to deal with the problem \? \?

if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals (and their neighbor who have
guns) what do you think will happen \? \? (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa)

do n't flame the englishmen because of northern irland , they have gun control that works
(in england) and fonds from usa are one of the reasons why ira can bomb innocents...
(something about throwing stones in glass houses...)
do n't flame them because of what to (three \? ) children did either.
(can an jugoslav have an oppinion on guns or even peace \? \? ) (yes ! )

(my numbers about crime rates after restrictions on shot guns are from the police
and the statistisk sentralbyraa) (understood that one sorenson \? \? )

last word
responsible gun owners are not a problem , but they will be affected if you want to protect
your citicens.



this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

from meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization n i
lines 16

in article 1993apr14.232806.18970@beaver.cs.washington.edu graham@cs.washington.edu (stephen graham) writes
...
it 's worth noting that us vs. miller sustained miller 's conviction
of possession of an illegal firearm , noting that a sawed off shotgun
was not a proper militia weapon. therefore , us vs. miller supports
limited government regulation of firearms.

then it also supports basing such regulations on ignorance.

miller had disappeared , and nobody bothered to present his
side to the supreme court in particular , that sawed off
shotguns were used in the world war i trenches , and in other
tight spots ever since guns had been invented. would you
turn one down if you had to clean an alley in e. st. louis \?

vegetarians kill , too

from billma@utoday.com (bill mallon)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
reply to billma@utoday.com (bill mallon)
organization cmp publications , inc. , manhasset , ny
lines 18

in article 1993apr18.000152.2339
@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

surrender your arms. soon enough ,
officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they

will overwhelm you one at a time.

are you certain you did n't mean to post
to alt.french.captain.borg.borg.borg \?

you 'd better rush home...i hear kruschev
calling come to papa , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu !

i am endeavoring , ma'am , to construct a mnemonic memory
circuit , using stone knives and bearskins. spock
humble typesetter

from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 66

in article 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
you are loosing.

what 's loosing \?

of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

i vote. i do n't consider rkba an abomination.

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void. tough titty.

i'm sure sarah brady would be delighted to hear your ranting and
raving. however , clinton has not publically stated that he would
like to repeal the second amendment. tough titty to you.

you had better discover ways to make do without firearms. the number of
cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause. there is nothing you
can do about it. those who live by the sword shall die by it.

are we going to make do without like the people in new york city \?
you know new york city that gun ban utopia you dream about , with
the millions of unregistered handguns \? new york city , by the way ,
has a very high crime rate.

perhaps you should know about a gungrabber 's nightmare idaho.
here in idaho , the police give concealed carry permits to anyone
over 21 without a criminal record. there are no gungrabber schemes
such as foids , waiting periods , gun a month , or ltcs. and horror
of horrors ! you do n't even need a permit to carry a concealed
weapon while outside of city limits (although you do need a permit
for concealed carry in an automobile).

i feel a hell of a lot safer in boise than i would in your gun ban
dream state (e.g. , washington , d.c.).

the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

the voting public in idaho is staunchly pro gun. both senators
are nra endorsed a rated ! buy a clue , pal.

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.
your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'.

get out your wallet and buy another clue. there are millions upon
millions of pre 1968 (i.e. , non 4473'ed) firearms out there.
they have a half life approaching eternity. and cosmoline is not
exactly tracked by the feds.

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

gun control laws were passed to protect the kkk from blacks !

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 138
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5tlxr.1xq@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1r21g2inneah@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de
arras) writes
in article c5sou8.lnb@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1993apr20.163730.16128@guinness.idbsu.edu
betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
(andrew betz) writes
in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people
come out with their hands up several weeks ago.

it did n't happen.

and who is responsible for it not happening \?
certainly not the children. koresh was calling the shots. he was
talking with his lawyer and the fbi. since others were released safely ,
there is no sane reason for keeping the children inside the compound.


the fbi and koresh were calling the shots. and there were very sane reasons
for keeping the children , if they let them go , the parents would never see them
again. that is not an easy choice , in spite of you cold attitude about it.

scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating
that mlk was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government.

more than someone who would not release children from the compound.

obviously. you are an authority worshiper.

not at all. are you a koresh worshiper \?

i am a constitution worshiper. you quite obviously eat anything the
authorities feed you , without doubt , which makes you no different that a koresh
worshiper


i.e. , more than david koresh vernon howell jesus christ .
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult.

give me a camera , and time with you , and i can present excerpts that show
you
to be a cult leader. guarenteed.

thanks for my laugh of the day ! definitely a very silly supposition.

if you do not believe this , you are truly naive. it is not only possible , it
is easy. i worked in the broadcast profession , at a network station , in the
late 70s , i know what i'm saying here. embarrasing footage is easy to get , add
a little sinister music , and the right voice over , and i 'll have you mother
agreeing to commit you.

you should at least view the whole
documentary before you claim it as a source.

i would if i could. the news show that showed the lengthy excerpts also
had interviews with the filmmaker who made the documentary who basically
confirmed what was shown in the excerpts from the time he spent at the
compound in 1992.

the news shows were looking for excerpts which backed their position. do you
think they would show excerpts which disproved their points \?

i am not pleased with the batf handling of the affair. i think they
bungled it badly from the start. but i do n't think they are
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places.

two places , eh \? you saw this \? or did the wonderful fbi tell you this \?
i saw one place.

i believe that this was reported by local radio reporters on site.
a fire started in a three story tower at the same time as the two
story window shown on the tv coverage.

the reports of multi starts came solely from the fbi. anyone observing the
fire from the available video would be hard pressed to see more than one point
of fire. which spread across the compound as a uniform rate.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

i suspect that there were plenty of camerapeople willing to
risk small arms fire to get some good footage. these people
were told to get the hell out of camera range. why \?

could n't answer this one , eh \? this is the most important question of all ,
it
is the root cause of all the other suspicion.

i thought about mentioning how reagan and the military treated the press
in grenada and how that set the precedent , but decided it was n't worthy
of discussion. if the news reporter got shot , you can bet his family
would sue the government for letting him into the danger area.

no reported has ever sued the government for such a situation. they know the
dangers. remember , the batf invited the initial coverage. and how about a
simple , remote controlled , camera or two \? there were ways to provide media
access. the fbi obviously just did n't want any.


the root cause of suspicion in my mind is why 100 people would n't flee
a building that had numerous exits during the 30 minutes time it took
to burn down. or why did n't they flee hours earlier when the tear gas was
first introduced \? i can find no rational explanation for their behavior.

i can find several. tear gas and smoke making it impossible to remove the
barricades. flames blocking exits to the saferooms. perhaps the gun shots were
from the fbi , keeping them pinned in \? who knows \?




jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re the usual
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 77

in article viking.734084516@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson) writes
yes , i am pro gun , and yes , i do disagree with this statement.
nuclear weapons in and of themselves are dangerous. radioactive
decay of plutonium and uranium , as well as the tritium in the
weapon , tends to be somewhat dangerous to living things.
(can you say neutron flux \? )

can you say , i get more background radiation from living in
denver or having an office in a limestone building than i do standing
next to a power reactor at full power or standing next to a nuclear
warhead that is armed \? look up shielding in your dictionary. you
do n't need six feet of lead to make decent shielding your dead skin
cell layer does an excellent job on alpha particles , and neutrons
are slowed by mere water . what do you think 75 of you is \?

but whatever the neutrons hit has a good chance of absorbing the
neutron and becoming radioactive itself. mostly , that means water
turning into (harmless) heavy water. but some neutrons would
also hit bones , and the resulting harmfull , secondard radioactives
would remain in the body for decades. i think an unshielded nuclear
warhead could reasonably be considered a public health hazard.

as for a shielded warhead , i think a fair amount of maintaince
is required for it to remain safely shielded (e.g. storage in
a dry , temperature regulated facility , etc...) for private
ownership to be unregulated , i think a single individual must
be able not only to keep the weapon , but keep it in a safe
condition. if any random private citizen could not properly
keep , maintain and store a nuclear weapon , then some regulation
is clearly appropriate.

plus these things have no self
defense purposes. it 's kinda hard to justify their use as
a militia weapon when at best they are meant for battlefield use
(low yield weapons) or at worst for industrial target obliteration
(translation cities and population centers).

if the militia has as its job the overthrow of an illegal
government , they are indeed useful weapons to the militia.

i disagree with this purpose the job of the militia is to defend
themselves and their community. if you look at the american
revolution as an example , the militias won by seperating themselves
from , and becoming independent of , a repressive government. they
did n't overthrow it , and those communities (canada and england , for
example) that did n't defend themselves were still under that same
old regime. if the role of the militia were offensive , to go out and
destroy repressive governments , nuclear weapons might be appropriate.
but their jobs is defensive , and nuclear weapons are n't suited
for that.

there is also the question of personal and collective arms the
second amendment definately protects ownership of personal
weapons (since the very nature of the militia requires members
to provide their own arms.) but it is n't clear if it covers
other arms. certainly , not all members would supply (for example)
a tank , only a few could or (if they were to be used effectively)
should. however , those providing the heavy weapons have a
disproportionate control over the militia and its fierpower.
the militias , as the framers envisioned them , were extremely
democratic if only 50 of the members supported the cause , only
50 would respond to a muster , and the militia 's firepower would
be proportionately reduced. militia firepower and the popular
will were , therefore , linked. but if a small minority of the
members supplied a large fraction of the firepower (in the
form of heavy weapons) this would all change the militia 's
firepower would depend on the will of a small minority , not
of the general public. worse , that minority would be quite
different from the general public (at the very least , they
would be much richer.) as a result , i think the nature and
character of the militia requires that each member provide
a roughly equal share of the militia 's firepower his personal
weapons , and some equitable fraction of a squad 's heavier firepower.

frank crary
cu boulder


from kratz@cs.uiuc.edu (jason kratz)
subject re criminals machineguns
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign
distribution usa
lines 52

in 1993apr16.202441.16032@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes

in article 93104.175256u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
people are getting killed by gang violence every day \? every single day i hear
about more people getting killed by gang violence and see some of the weapons
that are being confiscated.

is kratz claiming that he can reliably visually distinguish an m 16
from an ar 15 \? that he can see the difference between a semi auto and
a full auto uzi \? that he can see the difference between the various
versions (some full auto , some semi auto only) of the m 11 9 \?

well , let me see. uzi , no. m 11 9 , no. m 16 ar 15 , maybe. i remember there
being a selector swtich on the ar 15. if i remember correctly (please correct
me if i'm wrong) the switch would set to an off position or an on position
because the gun (ar 15) is semi automatic. would n't the m 16 have a position
for semi auto fire and full auto fire (or maybe 3 round bursts) \? if this is
correct would n't it be easy to distinguish each gun by this alone \? of course
if the ar 15 were modified to full auto fire i would n't think it would be that
easy but i'm talking about distinguishing between an unmodified ar 15 and m 16.
how about the other guns \? do they also have selector switch to switch between
semi auto and fully auto fire \?

if so , i 'd love to hear the details , if only because they 'll demonstrate
that kratz is blowing smoke.

considering that one can design a gun so that it looks just like
another gun , yet have very different properties , and that that 's
quite common....

most kids in my neighborhood were quite young when they figured out
that my parents car was n't much like richard petty 's , even though it
looked just like it (except for the paint job). things must have been
different with kratz.

actually it was pretty hard for the kids in my neighborhood to figure that out
as richard petty lived in my neighborhood and left his stock car in the
driveway. )

sure it 's on tv but why does that make a difference \?

no , it does n't , but that 's irrelevant. if visual inspection of the
outside worked , tv would be acceptable , but since it does n't , the fact
that it 's just as good as seeing in person does n't mean much.

well , what about what i said above \? if that is correct i guess tv would be
acceptable (if you had a good enough picture and a picture of the lower
receiver of the ar 15 m 16).

andy gave kratz a chance to back down on this in private

jason kratz did n't take andy 's offer to back down in private

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
lines 67
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 0096b294.aad9c1e0@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu reimer@uinpla.npl.uiuc.edu (paul e. reimer) writes

in article 1qkftjinnoij@cronkite.cisco.com , pitargue@cisco.com (marciano pitargue) writes

stuff deleted about causes of people in er

and your factoid about shooting victims in the er. count how many come in
due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes. maybe we should outlaw
cars.
marciano pitargue@cisco.com

there are a lot of automobile accidents , but atleast there is some
regulation to try to combat this. when i got my drivers license , i had
to take a drivers safety class.

tennessee , at least , does not require any sort of safety class to
get a driver 's license. all that is required is one twenty question
quiz and to drive a car around the block without crashing.

i have to be licensed to drive.

in all probability , no you do n't. you are required to be licensed
to drive on public roads. a license is not necessary on private property.

my car
must be registered.

most states do not require the registration of cars that are
not used on public roads. those that do (california i know of) do
so for tax purposes more than anything else.

i must (at least where i live) have liability
insurance on both myself driving and my car (if someone else had an
accident with it).

many states do not currently require this , and most , again ,
only make this requirement for public roads. a car sitting unused
is not required to have insurance.

hmm , would n't manditory saftey classes , registration
of both the owner and gun , and manditory liability insurance be nice for
gun owners.

the two are not the same , as i pointed out above. there are
significant difference between making rules for use on public property
and making rules for ownership .

the other half of the objection is trust. similar things to this
have been tried in many local jurisdications across the country , and
have been abused in far too many cases. safety classes which are
never sheduled , never funded , or only one or two is held a year for
a limited number of participants. registration lists in new york ,
chicago , and california have been used for confiscation. many gun
owners would , in theory , support these planes. (although the
numbers overwhelmingly show that competence is not the problem , that
intentional misuse is). they 've simply seen it abused and are leery of
the next person who comes down the pike with a reasonable suggestion
they 've already seen abused.





david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 79
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
you are loosing.

loosing \? well , i 'll avoid the spelling flames and see if this person
can make up for it.


there is no question about it.

oh , there 's lots of question about it. people are becoming more aware each
day that their rights are being threatened , so much so that nra membership
is growing at the rate of nearly 2 , 000 per day . we are slowly gaining
our rightful voice , despite the biases , prejudices , and veiled motives of
the liberal media and anti gun politicians. we will win.

of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

what do you base this on \? some highly skewed poll conducted by nbc news \?
the same group who faked gm pickup explosions just to make news \? right.

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void. tough titty.

it is true that we face even greater obstacles to our rights , betrayed by
those lying politicians who swear an oath to protect the constitution from
all enemies , both foreign and domestic. but the people will take only so
many lies and deceits.

you had better discover ways to make do without firearms. the number of
cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause. there is nothing you
can do about it. those who live by the sword shall die by it.

then the criminals who live by murder shall die by it. honest , law abiding
citizens need have no fear on that count. you , however , will evidently
die by (or at least in) ignorance. and the number of firearms self defenses
shall spell out our ultimate victory.

the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

the flow of history was against the founding fathers , but they managed to
successfully form the first real free republic on the face of this planet ,
a republic that has become the model for all others to follow. the press
is against us , for its own selfish motivations. and the people will soon
realize the depths of deceit being spread by that media , and nullify its
ill directed power. the people are with us.

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.
your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'.

i shall never submit to an illegal , unconstitutional police state. i will
take my own vow to uphold the constitution , and i shall defend it and my
country against a tyrannical government gone mad , should it become
necessary.

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

i will not be your sacrificial sheep , and i shall not bow down to you or
anyone else who seeks to control my life. being an unarmed target is the
surest way of encouraging criminals , and believe me , i shall avoid it as
much as possible. then i shall be as safe as possible. i will answer
with violence only when no other option exists , but i shall surely answer.

mike ruff




this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
organization manes and associates , nyc
distribution na
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 44

jim de arras (jmd@cube.handheld.com) wrote
in article c4u3x5.fw7@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve
manes) writes
...
i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no
effect on homicide rates. there were over 250 accidental handgun
homicides in america in 1990 , most with licensed weapons. more
american children accidentally shot other children last year (15)
than all the handgun homicides in great britain. (source national
safety council. please... no dictionary arguments about rates vs
total numbers , okay \? they 're offered for emphasis , not comparison).


you 're a great debater. you chose your sources of information , claim them
to be superior ,

i 've made no such claim. please direct my attention towards any
posting of mine where i claimed superior sources of information.
it 's probably because i bothered to post any references at all while
others seem content to post numbers pulled from the ozone , that
you 've confused it with fact twisting. if so , i apologize.

then take those twisted numbers and twist them further by trying

well then , here 's fair opportunity for you to prove that i 've twisted
numbers. on what grounds do you contradict those references \? do you have
any citations... any sources of your own that i can take similar
gratuitous shots at \?

to compare absolute numbers between two countries that have major population
differences , the usa and gb , and then whine that you are afraid someone might
attack your process , and so claim the numbers are for emphasis , not
comparison \? emphasis of what \?

nitpicking and scolding is a whiney debating style , jim.

anything else is blowing smoke.

you seddit , brudda.


stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o


from syck5280@miller.cs.uwm.edu (steven b syck)
subject wi and il firearms law questions
organization university of wisconsin , milwaukee
lines 39
nntp posting host 129.89.9.13



a couple of questions for you firearms law experts out there

question 1

according to the nra ila state firearms lawbook , in wisconsin it is
'unlawful for any person except a peace officer to go armed with a
concealed and dangerous weapon. there is no statutory provision for
obtaining a lixense or permit to carry a concealed weapon.'

jury instructions indicate that 'to go armed' one must have a firearm
on one 's person or within his immediate control and available for use.



does this mean that open carry is allowed \? if so , just how 'open' does it
have to be \? would an in the pants holster be considered concealing \? what
if one had their jacket on and it partially covered the weapon \? also ,
is there any way to be allowed to carry concealed , or is it just not allowed ,
period \?

question 2

as i understand it , in evanston , il , they have a ordinance banning handguns.
is there any way to get around this provision \? what would the penalty if
you were found out be \? what if you used said handgun in a defensive shooting
in your apartment there \? how would the city law apply to your impending
trial for the shooting \?
also , what is il state law concerning short barreled weapons \? short barreled
shotgun is what i would be interested in if a handgun were not available ,
either that or a shortened 9mm carbine (ie colt , marlin).
one more thing , what is the chance of getting a ccw permit in il without being
rich or famous or related to the mayor \?

please send replies via e mail , as things seem to be piling up around t.p.g
a little faster than i can handle. thanks again
steve syck syck5280@miller.cs.uwm.edu


from manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
organization manes and associates , nyc
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 24

j. spencer (j.m.spencer@newcastle.ac.uk) wrote
manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

jim de arras (jmd@cube.handheld.com) wrote
last year the us suffered almost 10 , 000 wrongful or accidental
deaths by handguns alone (fbi statistics). in the same year , the uk
suffered 35 such deaths (scotland yard statistics). the population
of the uk is about 1 5 that of the us (10 , 000 (35 5)). weighted
for population , the us has 57x as many handgun related deaths as the
uk. and , no , the brits do n't make up for this by murdering 57x as
many people with baseball bats.

snip

if you examine the figures , they do. stabbing is favourite , closely
followed by striking , punching , kicking. many more people are burnt to
death in britain as are shot to death. take at look and you 'll see for
yourself.

it means that very few people are shot to death in great britain.

stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o


from ghm@sserve.cc.adfa.oz.au (geoff miller)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization australian defence force academy , canberra , australia
lines 18

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

so why did the australian customs service make a public statement to
a parliamentary committee last year that weapons smuggling was a problem
which it was not able to control \? possibly criminals do n't have your
grasp of economics \?

geoff miller (g miller@adfa.edu.au)
computer centre , australian defence force academy

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re constitutionality of 18 u.s.c 922(o)
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 53
distribution usa
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr15.142322.1318@atlastele.com , brians@atlastele.com (brian sheets) writes
you know , i was reading 18 u.s.c. 922 and something just did not make
sence and i was wondering if someone could help me out.

say u.s.c. 922

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) , it shall be unlawful for
any person to transfer or possess a machinegun.

well i got to looking in my law dictionary and i found that a person
might also be an artificial entity that is created by government

and has no rights under the federal constitution. so , what i
do n't understand is how a statute like 922 can be enforced on
an individual. so someone tell me how my government can tell
me what i can or cannot possess. just passing a law

does not make it law.

sorry , but i really ca n't figure out what you 're trying to say , above.

everyone knows that laws are constitional
until it goes to court.

not exactly

an unconstitutional act is not law it confers no rights it imposes
no duties affords no protection it creates no office it is in legal
contemplation , as inoperative as though it had never been passed.
norton vs. shelby county , 118 us 425 p.442

the general rule is that an unconstitutional statute , though having the
form and name of law , is in reality no law , but is wholly void , and
ineffective for any purpose since unconstitutionality dates from the
time of it 's enactment , and not merely from the date of the decision so
branding it.

no on is bound to obey an uncontitutional law , and no courts are
bound to enforce it.
16 am jur 2d , sec 177
late 2d , sec 256

so , has it ever gone to court , not
just your run of the mill ok i had it i am guilty , put me in jail
has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to possess and was told
by the supreme court that they did n't have that right \?

automatic weapons \? no. the supreme court has never heard such a case.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from chuck@eng.umd.edu (chuck harris wa3uqv)
subject re riddle me this...
organization university of maryland , department of electrical engineering
lines 15
distribution usa
nntp posting host bree.eng.umd.edu

in article 1993apr20.050550.4660@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m) writes
does a not harmful gassing mean that you can , with a little willpower ,
stay inside indefinitely without suffering any serious health problems \?

if so , why was cs often employed against tunnels in vietnam \?

what is the difference , anyway \?

cs tear gas was used in vietnam because it makes you wretch so hard that
your stomach comes out thru your throat. well , not quite that bad , but
you ca n't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies.

chuck harris wa3uqv
chuck@eng.umd.edu


from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization totally unorganized
lines 53

in article 1993apr16.010235.14225@mtu.edu cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter) writes
in article c5bu9m.2k7@ulowell.ulowell.edu
jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) wrote

... excellent exchange deleted ...
it seems to me the whole reason for the second amendment , to give
the people protection from the us government by guaranteeing that the
people can over through the government if necessary , is a little bit
of an anachronism is this day and age. maybe its time to re think
how this should be done and amend the constitution appropriately.

abraham lincoln , first inaugural address , march 4 , 1861 this
country , with its institutions , belongs to the people who inhabit
it. whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government ,
they can exercise their constitutional right of amending it , or
their revolutionary right to dismember it or overthrow it.

rep. elbridge gerry of massachusetts , spoken during floor debate
over the second amendment , i annals of congress at 750 , 17 august
1789 what , sir , is the use of a militia \? it is to prevent the
establishment of a standing army , the bane of liberty. ...
whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of
the people , they always attempt to destroy the militia , in order
to raise an army upon their ruins.

so now we know which category mr. rutledge is in he means to destroy
our liberties and rights.

what i find so hard to understand is how come some people , apparantly
not connected with government or otherwise privileged , will
go to great lengths , redefinitions , re interpretations , in a full bore
attempt to throw away the protection of their own rights under the
constitution ! ! !

almost makes me think of lemmings running into the sea during a lemming
year...

i really wonder that jefferson and madison would say to these folks \?


...when all government... in little as in great things , shall be
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render
powerless the checks provided of one government on another and will
become as venal and oppressive as the government from which we
separated. thomas jefferson , 1821

excellent quote.


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from robs@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (robert sipe)
subject senator patty murrey 's tax proposal
organization boeing
lines 19

if you have n't heard yet , us senator patty murrey , a mom in
tennis shoes , is planning to introduce legislation to tax
all handgun transactions and increase dealer licnese costs in
order to raise money to cover the costs of un insured shooting
victums. she plans to start with 2500.00 per year dealer fees
and 40.00 or so , depending on the type of firearm , per gun
transaction. she plans to make it federal.
she was elected in washington state under the trade mark as
just a mom in tennis shoes. she can be written to via the
united states senate , washinton dc. she is looking for your
tennis shoes. so if you have a pair please send them to her
with your feelings regarding this tax.
she claims she has heard little from the opposition.

lets inundate her !



bigot ! the definition of a bigot is a conservative winning an argument !

from halat@pooh.bears (jim halat)
subject re that silly outdated bill (was re koresh and miranda)
reply to halat@pooh.bears (jim halat)
lines 9

in article 1993apr14.165633.2170@cbnews.cb.att.com , lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani) writes
as for the move incident , was n't the mayor of philadelphia at the time black \?

for the first move incident (no bomb , several members killed in
gunfire , circa 1978) the mayor was the very white frank rizzo.
for the second (bomb included) the mayor was wilson goode , who
is indeed black.

jim halat

from yoony@aix.rpi.edu (young hoon yoon)
subject re a scoop of waco road , please
keywords topical , smirk
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
lines 62

cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes

your lite posting for the day , from rec.humor.funny

in article s539.2adf@looking.on.ca , bellas@tti.com (pete bellas) writes

there is a new ice cream flavor inspired by the incident at waco.

it 's called mount caramel , it 's full of nuts but you ca n't get it out
of the carton.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


even though i find this to be funny on the surface , the original poster of the
joke has tried and convicted the members of the bd to be a bunch of nuts .
this may be a dangerous thing to do. it is my opinion that most educated
or well informed people of this country have some distrust of the government.
this should exist because as a bureaucracy , any government given enough time
will tend to exist for it self and not for the original purpose it was
created for. this distrust by the people should keep those in power in line.
that and a properly functioning press. when a sensationalism oriented press
portrays a group of people as nuts or crazies , a violation of those
people 's civil rights seem justified. since we , as american 's , have the
gurantee of rights as enumerated in the constitution , to include the
2nd ammendment , the government must appease the public 's opinion or risk
voted out of existance , or if it has become corrupt enough to tamper with
domocratic process itself , being thrown out by force.
our government as it stands , must appease the public. therefore the
official press releases portray the bd 's as fanatics who are a threat to
public safety. we must not prejudge people based on one sided information.
so far the only information that we are being given is comming from the very
agency that was embarrased by the bd(branch davidians sp \? ). it is to their
advantage to make the bd 's as fanatical and dangerous as possible. if they
were portrayed as law abiding citizen 's , then they(atf) had no justification
what so ever of doing what they did.
so let 's keep an open mind. jokes like above , even though it may be funny ,
may mislead the public from the truth of the matter.

just as an aside , my understanding of u.s. vs rock island and u.s. vs dalton
leads me to believe that the national firearms act , which allows the fed 's
(in this case atf) to regulate firearms(machine guns) , has been deemed to be
unconstitutional since 1986.(by two federal district courts at least).
and since , i believe the only reason atf was involved
in this case is because of firearms violations , it would be interesting to
find out whether or not the search warrent was based on the nfa.
it would be very embarrassing indeed if a search warrent based on a possibly
unconstitutional law has resulted in 4 deaths(law enforcement).



the above opinions are mine and mine only.
i'm solely responsible for my opinions and my actions. if you must flame
then flame away , but a well constructed argument will be much more respected.

young hoon yoon yoony@rpi.edu
211 north hall n6zud@hibp1.ecse.rpi.edu
rensselaer polytechnic institute n6zud 2 hl9kmt(former)
troy , ny 12180


from wwarf@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (wayne j. warf)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 46

in article c5tenu.112f@ns1.nodak.edu green@plains.nodak.edu (bill green) writes
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported (ap , etc.) that
there were several witnesses to bd folks starting the fires. it has also
been reported that the fires broke out in several places at once , which
rules out a bradley knocking over a lamp , etc. as the cause.

the only folks claiming this are the atf fbi who have an interest in
putting the blame on the bd 's. wake up.


what i would like to see is some serious discussion of this incident. i
believe the moves made were right and proper , but i still have some problems
with some of the tactics. after watching the abc special on it tonight , as
well as cnn and nightline , i question some of the atf and fbi actions.

right and proper \? how \? it was fubar from day 1.

1) could it have been possible to have taken koresh outside the compound at
some time before the feb. 28th raid \?

from all independent sources. yes.

2) could a further wait have resulted in a different outcome.

it would have hurt nothing to wait and the result could hardly have been
worse.

3) were fbi actions (blaring loudspeakers , etc.) the right course of action \?

sure , it you want to someone you claim is a dangerous paranoid even
more paranoid.

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in
general , were proper. but i still have some reservations.

one other point , i'm no fan of janet reno , but i do like the way she had the
balls to go ahead and take full responsibility. seems like the waffle boy
had problems figuring out just where he stood on the issue.

and what makes you think that waffle boy did n't tell her to take the
wrap. it was job preservation not balls .

wayne j. warf wwarf@ucs.indiana.edu i speak for myself only
clinton gore cia fbi dea assassinate bomb wod bor atf irs resist nsa
christian god satan apocalypse zog nazi socialist communist explosive
fundamentalist revolution nsc federal reserve constitution gold fema

from tsmith @cs.cmu.edu (tom smith)
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
nntp posting host seismo.soar.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 34

in article 1993apr16.022926.27270@ucsu.colorado.edu fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary) writes
in article c5jif8.i4n@boi.hp.com slack@boi.hp.com (david slack) writes
the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , do
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it
only going to be required to be presented when trying to ge medical aid \?

this , at least , has already been determined the blue cross medical
coverage for all federal employees is a good model for a future
national system. to get emergency medical care , anyone so insured
must always carry their blue cross card. before entering a hospital ,
you must notify blue cross , or they will refuse to pay your bills.
in an emergency , where you must be treated before notifying them ,
you must inform them within 24 hours or (if you are unable to do
so for medical reasons) the hospital must. failing to do so within
24 hours means they will not cover the hospitalization. in you need
your card to notify them (and without the card , the hospital certainly
would n't know they had to.) therefore , you are required to carry
the card at all times , or do without emergency medical coverage.

frank crary
cu boulder

which works fine until you end up in the hospital because you were hit on the
head and your wallet , with your insurance card , is stolen. this happened to
me , and it took six months to sort the mess out. these sorts of plans sound
nice at first , but in the end they just create a lot of paperwork and
bureaucracy to deal with all the checking and filing they involve.

tom the non hacker
tsmith@seismo.soar.cs.cmu.edu
the return address is set wrong , send personal
response to the above address.



from yoony@aix.rpi.edu (young hoon yoon)
subject re jffo has gone a bit too far
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
distribution usa
lines 29

rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat) writes


would somebody please post evidence that the gun control act of
1968 is a verbatim transcription of a nazi law \?

the evidence is that the two laws are basically identical.
however , that 's not evidence that one is a copy of the other.

there 's no evidence that the 68 gca 's authors used the nazi law as a
guide. yes , they ended up with roughly the same thing , but that comes
from their shared goal , disarming those menacing minorities.

i thought the same thing too , until jpfo 's rkba article
in the latest guns ammo
at the newstands. this article makes it certain that sen. thomas dodd
(d md \? ) back before 1968 definitely asked for a translation of the
german weapons laws back then. read the article , and see what you think
of jpfo 's argument. they note that ted kennedy and john dingell are
among the three of the originals left from the 1968 stuff , and they
are asking that folks request of john dingell that he introduce
legislation to lift gca '68 , something which i would support whole
heartedly !

andy

can someone post a general idea of what gca '68 does \?
thanks.


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
93104.173826u28037@uicv pa146008.711.734832476@utkvm1.utk.edu
lines 79

in article pa146008.711.734832476@utkvm1.utk.edu , pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu
(david veal) says

stuff deleted

me
what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of
proportion. in my post i was referring to your regular patrolman in a car
cruising around the city vs. gang members. of course the police have access
to the things that you mentioned but do they use tanks and such all of the
time \? of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i
see are still carrying revolvers. not that there is anything wrong with a
revolver but if you 're a cop that is up against some gang member with a
couple
of automatics in his coat (i mean semi auto handguns) you 're going to be at a
disadvantage even with training.

david

this is the arms race fallacy. that somehow bigger guns make an
individual safer. the problem is that for each corresponding level of
offensive power the is not an automatic level of defense increase. the
problem is that there 's a sort of lethality threshold that once you get
past you 're only talking about a metter of degree.

regardless of what cops are up against there 's really no reason
for the average beat cop to have anything bigger than a pistol on him
as a personal weapon and maybe a rifle and a shotgun in the cruiser.

i mean , think about it. carrying a monster pistol or sub machinegun
does n't make the cop any less wounded if somebody shoots him. a lot
of police departenments have switched to semi automatics , as better
more reliable weapons , and more stopping power , but there 's a point
of diminishing returns.

this is a very , very good point. who cares what kind of gun you 've got if
you 're lying on the ground dead.

and as far as automatics go , any gang member carrying around a
couple of automatics (an incredible rarity) is going to be far more of
a menace to himself and innocent bystanders than anything he might be
tryinh to aim at. one auto is hard enough to control. anybody who
could control two is going to get the police officer regardless of
what the police officer is armed with.

more stuff deleted. mostly mine
my question is this what would a police officer gain from
having a sub machinegun or similar personal weapon that he already
does n't have with a 9mm or 10mm semi automatic pistol \? i do n't see
as how the police should be hosing around full auto fire , nor has
my experience with police officers (or the stats regarding how many
police officers get killed by other cops) made me feel such would be a
good idea. precise fire is far more preferable. nor should they using
bigger guns. most standard sidearms have more then sufficient
stopping power when properly applied. all more powerful weapons would
do is make the likelihood of death higher without really giving police
significantly more options.

another very good point that is well taken. it seems that when lots of lead
is flying (either the cops or the gangs) someone innocent always gets caught
in the crossfire.

david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

all points made above are well taken. i guess i am in the mindset of
having more makes it better which is obviously not the correct mindset
to take in this discussion. now that i think about the situation a
little more carefully i see your point exactly david and i
wholeheartedly (sp \? ) agree. like i said i'm just assuming that more
bullets and or bigger bullets is better . once again though i want to
state that i am a pro gun individual and do not believe that gun control
is really a viable option here in the united states regardless of the drivel
that i spout here )

jason

from atfurman@cup.portal.com (a t furman)
subject re the cold war who really won \?
organization the portal system (tm)
lines 51

if one reasons that the united states of america at one time represented
and protected freedom individual liberty and personal responsibility
(and i do , in fact , think that this is true) and that totalitarianism
absolute government control and tyranny represents freedom 's opposite
(which it does) , did the usa really win the cold war \?

standard disclaimers always apply !


graham k. glover


the cold war has not ended. the only thing that has happened is that
the two sides have exchanged roles.

the usa has a higher imprisonment rate (400 per 100 , 000 population)
than any country in europe by a factor of 10 or so. in california ,
it is over 600 per 100 , 000 population. the prison population in
california is now over 100 , 000 , a quadrupling since 1980. most of
these inmates were convicted under the drug prohibition laws. police
now confiscate property , without trial , under a good faith probable
cause standard , in the name of depriving the horrible ghastly drug
dealers of their ill gotten gains. conduct an opinion poll , and a
majority will answer yes if you ask them whether civil liberties and
due process should be diluted in order to send our young people the
message that we are serious about winning the war on drugs. i do n't
know whether anyone has measured such a figure among gun owners , but
i would expect the same result. they certainly seem to vote that way.

according to jack herer 's book the emperor wears no clothes , over
twelve million years of prison time have been served under the
marijuana prohibition laws , by people who were minding their own
business and causing no harm to others (and less harm to themselves
than users of tobacco , with 400 , 000 confirmed kills year). under
the war on drugs campaign of zero tolerance due process protections
have eroded , and mandatory sentences of ten years without parole have
proliferated. by and large , gun owners have voted for the politicians
who favor such measures. and now , all the precedents not only
legal , but political my fellow americans , we must send our young
people the message that we are serious about winning the war on
murder are going to be applied to the oncoming wave of gun
prohibition laws. gun owners are about to get a taste of the medicine
they voted for believing it would be used only on those with different
tastes in recreational drugs.

what goes around comes around.


alan t. furman do n't blame me i voted libertarian

atfurman@cup.portal.com (800)682 1776 for more information

from hambidge@bms.com
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
distribution na
lines 28

in article c4tm1h.ecf@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

for chrissakes , take out your calculator and work out the numbers.
here... i 've preformatted them for you to make it easier

handgun homicides population

switzerland 24 6 , 350 , 000
uk 8 55 , 670 , 000

.... and then tell me again how switzerland is safer with a more
liberal handgun law than the uk is without...by rate or total number.
your choice.

please , pay attention.
i , and others , were referring to total homicide deaths , not just
handgun homicides. in terms of how likely are you to be killed ,
(regardless of how it 's done , 'cause dead is dead) , the uk has a
higher homicide rate. period. you are more likely to be killed in the
uk than in switzerland. if you were to be murdered with a handgun ,
then yes , switzerland has a higher rate. but , to belabor the point ,
you are more likely to be murdered in the uk. in that sense , the
weapon is irrelevant. the uk is more violent , period.

al
standard disclaimer



from cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter)
subject re some more about gun control...
nntp posting host fishlab3.fsh.mtu.edu
organization help , my server 's fallen , and ca n't get up (mtu)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 185

in article c5bu9m.2k7@ulowell.ulowell.edu
jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) wrote

in article 1q96tpinnpcn@gap.caltech.edu arc@cco.caltech.edu
(aaron ray clements) writes
the second amendment is a guarantee of the right to bear arms. clearly
and unequivocally , without infringement.

unfortunately the second amendment is not as clear as you state. if last
part of it is taken along , it follows what you have said. the problem
i have is with the first part of the single sentence which makes up the
amendment. the second amendment is

a well regulated militia , being necessary to the security
militia

of a free state , the right of the people to keep and bear
state

arms , shall not be infringed.
arms

you did n't even get the capitalization correct ! try reading usca on
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the
constitution.

this mention of a well regulated militia is what confuses me. according
to the federalist paper 's , a well regulated militia has a well defined
structure and follows nationally uniform regulations.

perhaps you should actually read the federalist papers ! !

james madison , federalist paper 46 besides the advantage of
being armed , which the americans possess over the people of almost
every other nation , the existence of subordinate governments , to
which the people are attached , and by which the militia officers
are appointed , forms a barrier against the enterprises of
ambition , more insurmountable than any which a simple government
of any form can admit of. notwithstanding the military
establishments in the several kingdoms of europe , which are
carried as far as the public resources will bear , the governments
are afraid to trust the people with arms.


james madison , i annals of congress 434 , 8 june 1789 the right
of the people to keep and bear... arms shall not be infringed. a
well regulated militia , composed of the body of the people ,

trained to arms , is the best and most natural defense of a free
country...

alexander hamilton , federalist paper 29 (on the organization of
the militia) little more can reasonably be aimed at , with
respect to the people at large , than to have them properly armed

and equipped and in order to see that this be not neglected , it
will be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the course of
a year.

alexander hamilton , federalist paper 29 (speaking of standing
armies) ... if circumstances should at any time oblige the
government to form an army of any magnitude that army can never be
formidable to the liberties of the people while there is a large
body of citizens , little , if at all , inferior to them in

discipline and the use of arms , who stand ready to defend their

own rights and those of their fellow citizens.


but surely hamilton and madison did n't mean the people when they
said people , right \? that 's why the amendment refers to the right
of the militia \? ... )

your average
17 45 year old male does not fall into the definition.

you 're right , the militia consists of all able bodied males (and
probably females under current interpretation).

therefore most
members of the militia , the one the every gun advocate refers to , are
not members of a well organized militia and therefore are not directly

the amendment does nor refer to well organized , it says well
regulated . i have some targets you may examine if you wish to check
how well regulated i am.

mentioned in the amendment.

if this amendment wanted to allow every member of the militia to keep
and bear arms , why did it specificly mention a well organized militia
in the same sentence as the right to keep and bear arms \?

correct. that 's why the right is reserved to the people. and that
was to insure the people could form a well regulated militia , not a
well organized militia .

it could be
argued that the first part of the sentence is separate from the last
part. if so , why was it include in the same atomic unit of written

what do atomic units have to do with this argument \? any moron can set
h bar c 1...

instead of a separate sentence \?

oh , i see what your question is why do n't you read the federalist
papers \? !

james madison , federalist paper 41 (regarding the general
welfare clause) nothing is more natural nor common than first
to use a general phrase , and then to explain and qualify it by a
recital of particulars.

but what does madison know about the grammatical style of the 2nd \? he
only wrote it.

the amendment also implies that the right to arms has to due with
the security of a free state. the federalist paper 's mention of a
well regulated militia gives many examples of how this militia protects
the security of a free state. all these examples are actions of a
very organized force , not some john q. public with a gun.

that 's obviously because you 've never actually read the federalist
papers.

all that the second amendment clearly states to me is that the people 's
right to form well regulated militias shall not be infringed. that is
people have the right to join a well organized militia. this well
organized militia will , of course , provide training in how to use arms
and in basic military tactics. these training members of the militia
can keep and bear the arms.

ca n't read , huh \? show me where the document says well organized
militia .

lastly , reading through the federalist paper 's on well organized
militia it is very clear that many of the reasons for these militias.
one reason stated is the protection from a standing army. these days
the standing army could easily defeat a group consisting of every
17 45 year old male and female not in the armied forces.

that is exactly why every person should be allowed to own any
weapon currently in use in the armed forces.

another
reason stated for well organized militias is to reduced the need
for a standing army. well , the us armied forces have been a standing
army for more than half the history of the us.

but the major reason is to protect against that very same army.

it seems to me the whole reason for the second amendment , to give
the people protection from the us government by guaranteeing that the
people can over through the government if necessary , is a little bit
of an anachronism is this day and age. maybe its time to re think
how this should be done and amend the constitution appropriately.

abraham lincoln , first inaugural address , march 4 , 1861 this
country , with its institutions , belongs to the people who inhabit
it. whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government ,
they can exercise their constitutional right of amending it , or
their revolutionary right to dismember it or overthrow it.

rep. elbridge gerry of massachusetts , spoken during floor debate
over the second amendment , i annals of congress at 750 , 17 august
1789 what , sir , is the use of a militia \? it is to prevent the
establishment of a standing army , the bane of liberty. ...
whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of
the people , they always attempt to destroy the militia , in order
to raise an army upon their ruins.

so now we know which category mr. rutledge is in he means to destroy
our liberties and rights.


charles scripter cescript@phy.mtu.edu
dept of physics , michigan tech , houghton , mi 49931

...when all government... in little as in great things , shall be
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render
powerless the checks provided of one government on another and will
become as venal and oppressive as the government from which we
separated. thomas jefferson , 1821

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 21

in article c5jif8.i4n@boi.hp.com slack@boi.hp.com (david slack) writes
the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , do
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it
only going to be required to be presented when trying to ge medical aid \?

this , at least , has already been determined the blue cross medical
coverage for all federal employees is a good model for a future
national system. to get emergency medical care , anyone so insured
must always carry their blue cross card. before entering a hospital ,
you must notify blue cross , or they will refuse to pay your bills.
in an emergency , where you must be treated before notifying them ,
you must inform them within 24 hours or (if you are unable to do
so for medical reasons) the hospital must. failing to do so within
24 hours means they will not cover the hospitalization. in you need
your card to notify them (and without the card , the hospital certainly
would n't know they had to.) therefore , you are required to carry
the card at all times , or do without emergency medical coverage.

frank crary
cu boulder


from tnyurkiw@descartes.uwaterloo.ca (tn)
subject definition of 2nd
organization university of waterloo
lines 9


the debate over the second amendment rages on.
arguments continue over what a well regulated militia
is and what trkba means in practical terms. however , the
only authority in this area , is a binding court decision
on the matter. even a decision in this area is subject to
an overturning by a higher court. is there anyone who
has the facts of a legal precedent , preferably a supreme
court decision on the specific meaning of the 2nd amendment \?

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 70
distribution na
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c519mt.apq@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve
manes) writes
jim de arras (jmd@cube.handheld.com) wrote
in article c4u3x5.fw7@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve
manes) writes
...
i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no
effect on homicide rates. there were over 250 accidental handgun
homicides in america in 1990 , most with licensed weapons. more
american children accidentally shot other children last year (15)
than all the handgun homicides in great britain. (source national
safety council. please... no dictionary arguments about rates vs
total numbers , okay \? they 're offered for emphasis , not comparison).


you 're a great debater. you chose your sources of information , claim them
to be superior. i'm not aware of using any numbers from the ozone , unless
you consider those i got from you to be such.

i 've made no such claim. please direct my attention towards any
posting of mine where i claimed superior sources of information.
it 's probably because i bothered to post any references at all while
others seem content to post numbers pulled from the ozone , that
you 've confused it with fact twisting. if so , i apologize.


yes , you state the reference , and then you claim it 's a good or fair treatment.

then take those twisted numbers and twist them further by trying

well then , here 's fair opportunity for you to prove that i 've twisted
numbers. on what grounds do you contradict those references \? do you have
any citations... any sources of your own that i can take similar
gratuitous shots at \?


you fail to see the differences between absolute numbers and rates.

to compare absolute numbers between two countries that have major
population
differences , the usa and gb , and then whine that you are afraid someone
might
attack your process , and so claim the numbers are for emphasis , not
comparison \? emphasis of what \?

nitpicking and scolding is a whiney debating style , jim.


no , you just miss the point. by your methods , i can prove gun control to be a
total failure. new york 's total homocide count , with it 's strict gun control ,
is much higher than rhode island 's , with it 's less strict gun control. far
more folks are killed in new york , than rhode island. therefore , according to
mane logic(tm) , gun control has made new york a much more dangerous place than
rhode island. remember , it 's nitpicking and a whiney debating style to
point out the differences between new york and rhode island that might defeat
my argument.

anything else is blowing smoke.

you seddit , brudda.

now you agree \? wow , a break through !


stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o



jim

from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re gun lovers (was re my gun is like my american express card)
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 35

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

you 're getting warmer. the 'little thing in the trigger' has to be
depressed before the trigger can move. what this means is the damned
thing wo n't go off until the trigger is pulled. this makes it just
about (there have been some problems , but we 're assuming the gun is
functioning correctly..) as safe as a revolver. the gun when working
correctly is totally drop safe.

now , in police work this is a consideration. there is not a single
documented case i'm aware of where a police officer was killed because
he failed to operate the safety on his firearm. there are quite a few
documented cases where criminals got hold of the cops gun and could n't
figure out how to get the safety off in time to use the gun , thus the
proprietary nature of the safety (to the criminal at least) very likely
prevented the office from getting shot.

the purpose of a safety is to make the gun safe from unintentional fire.
this does not mean it should be so complicated as to slow down
intentional use ! thus the glock safety is perfectly adequate from a
'safety' standpoint , but not necessarily the most desirable from the
standpoint of open carry where it is easily grabbed by somebody else.
by this criteria it does make a lot of sense as a concealed carry piece.
from the standpoint of police use , it is no better (or worse) than a
revolver as far as being 'proprietary' to the officer in the method of
firing it.

the ideal solution may someday be biometric sensing of the user so that
the firearm ca n't be used by anybody but it 's owner , but for now the
wide variety of safety systems helps , unless the criminal happens to be
familiar with that particular type of firearm.

rick.

from william mosco@vos.stratus.com
subject re blast them next time
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma.
lines 29
distribution usa
nntp posting host hudm4 enet.mfg.stratus.com


deleted because it sounds twisted
with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

flame thrower on
well i do n't want my tax dollars going to that kind of philosophy.
maybe if the good folks you are talking about are people like you
than i might be inclined to accept it. what does the batf do anyway \?
why do n't we have a bureau for militant , paranoid , freedom killers
like yourself. people like you are more dangerous than alcohol ,
tobacco and firearms.
with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.
maybe we should just have nuked the whole city , i mean , what 's a
100 , 000 good souls anyway \?
get real , you sound like a racist. i guess life is n't so precious
to you , do you realize that there were 24 children killed ! ! !
they will never get to fall in love , they wo n't see another sunrise ,
no prom , no first date , no football , baseball no nothing. why does n't
some people think first before they let everyone know how narrow they
are.

flame thrower off

from gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu
subject re newspapers censoring gun advertisements
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 33
nntp posting host sam.cchem.berkeley.edu
originator gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu

in article 81930415084418 0005111312na3em@mcimail.com 0005111312@mcimail.com (peter nesbitt) writes

recently while looking around in traders sporting goods store , a very well
stocked firearms store , i discovered a printed document that was being
distributed by the good folks who work there. traders , btw , is located in
san leandro , ca.
.
.
.
the newspapers have now decided to censor gun ads which is why you no longer
see the ads that traders , san leandro , has run for many years.

these ads were run for the law abiding honest citizens who own firearms for
sporting use or self protection. they certainly have the right to do so , under
the second amendment right to bear arms.

are you sure about this \? i'm currently looking at a copy of last
thursday 's sf chronicle and there is the typical one column traders
ad on page c7 in the sports section. not only that , but there is
a part in the middle which rather prominently says wanted we pay
cash for assault rifles and pistols. . granted , i have n't seen today 's
paper yet. but i 'd be surprised if there was n't a traders ad in it.
it 's probably worth it to write to the chronicle (and other papers)
anyway , because all their anti gun editorials are disgusting.

by the way , let me put in a plug for traders. i have shopped all
over the sf bay area and i have never seen another store with lower
prices. and their selection is amazing.


lee gaucher my opinions.
gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu no one else 's.


from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization ideology busters , inc.
lines 88

in article 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
you are loosing.

there is no question about it.

of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

not so. surveys have shown while the public thinks certain types
of gun control may be acceptable they do believe they have an
individual right to keep and bear arms , and that the police should
not have discretion over who may and may not own firearms.

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void.

by the end of the clinton administration a lot of things will be
screwed up. hell , we 'll probably be just like england.

tough titty.

tough titty \? my how eloquent you are.

as for your claim , i think clinton has a big fight ahead of him if
he thinks he 's going to pass some comprehensive gun legislation.
he will sign the brady bill if it gets to his desk. we will do
whatever we can to either keep that from happening , or modify it
such that it is acceptable to us.

you had better discover ways to make do without firearms.

sorry , that 's not possible. and that 's why we wo n't give them up
either. legally or illegally , american 's will keep their firearms.
the number of unregistered weapons in new york city is in the millions.
there are n't even close to that number of violent criminals there.

the number of cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause.

if the gov't was serious about stopping violent crime they would
keep violent criminals in jail for a long long time where they
belong instead of letting them out on early release.

there is nothing you can do about it.

hey , we can go into politics too if we feel like it.

those who live by the sword shall die by it.

i do n't believe this one bit.

the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

snore. like i take advice on the rkba from a brit. no way.

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless.

you watch too much star trek . actually , this is an understandable
attitude from a brit you are a subject of the state.

they will overwhelm you one at a time.

not necessarily. there are ways of resisting oppression without
getting caught by the gov't.

your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'.

the abstract criminal like the ones who killed a relative of mine
while she was working in a carry out.

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'.

while undesirable , they are sometimes unavoidable. if you do n't want
to resist a criminal attack by all means do nothing. i will (a) take
my chances resisting violent attack , and (b) stand a better chance of
being unharmed than someone who does nothing.

avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

what a joke. criminals want a disarmed population. how can you keep
criminals from preying on us after our best means of self defense is
taken away \?

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from cntrspy@netcom.com (executive protection assoc)
subject re blast them next time
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
distribution usa
lines 32

and we thought the unfortunate people in the branch dividians were
brainwashed \? \? they do n't hold a candle to this guy......


d d
wq


b

daniel oldham (oldham@ces.cwru.edu) wrote
what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.


from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject re my gun is like my....
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 84

in article 1993apr16.194708.13273@vax.oxford.ac.uk jaj@vax.oxford.ac.uk writes
what all you turkey pro pistol and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you
just make me chuckle i remeber being in bellingham , washington and seeing a

warning flammage to follow...

ah , that british sense of humor. probably got a real gut buster going
when the ira blew that kid up a couple of weeks ago , huh \? of course ,
in britain , your government has ordered you defenseless , so your way
of coping with violent criminals is to laugh at victims.

pick up truck in front of the car that my friend and i were in. it had a bumper
sticker proclaiming gun control is a firm grip on a .45. now i'm sure that
that wanker thought he was pretty cool.

i do n't know about a .45. my own preference is for 9mm.

what he did n't realize was that we took a photo of the back of his truck , and
showed it to our friends when we got back to vancouver , canada (where i'm from
originally). people were guffawing at the basic stupidity of such a
sticker , and the even greater stupidity of the person who put it there in the
first place ! )

ah , canada. where the criminals do n't bother with checking to see
if the victims are home. they just break on in. america 's a little
different , you see. criminals worry a bit more about getting shot ,
so they more frequently check to see if anyone 's home.

i knew somebody else who went to one of your gun mart superstore places , just
so he could experience the sight of people putting guns and ammo into shopping
carts ! i did n't believe it myself until i drove by one in vegas last year ! ! !

i 've heard gun world in phoenix , arizona , is fantastic ! i'm hoping
to visit there myself soon.

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world
perceives you gun nut morons. the bbc recently referred to the american
penchant for pistols , automatic weapons , etc. very appropriately it was
called a national eccentricity.

ah , britain again. is n't that the place where you 're guilty until
proven innocent \? tell me , mr. jaj@vax.oxford.ac.uk did n't britain
come begging to us gun nut morons in the early 1940s for guns to
defend yourselves against hitler \? seems as though your supposedly
enlightened government had disarmed you aw chaps , you can jolly
give up your guns. if that hitler man starts to threaten , we can
always hit up the yanks for a few guns. they 've got a bloody
eccentric habit about those guns , you know. just hand in your
shotgun , that 's it. thank you.

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national
eccentricity , in that easy to purchase weapons are being smuggled cross the
border.

ai n't it just amazing how those black markets work \? damn if those
drugs from south america keep coming over our borders , too , even
though we 've banned them. guess we might as well legalize them.
makes you want to send fifty bucks to the libertarian party just
thinking about it , does n't it \?

anyway , all you gun nut rush limbaugh fans , please keep up your diatribes
against brady and other evil liberal media plots you 're so damn funny !
you provide endless amounts of entertainment in your arguments and examples of
why someone should be allowed to carry a piece ! keep us all chuckling !

your close minded ignorance is without parallel. i guess that 's what
happens when you 're raised as a subject without rights. your
type gravitates to those who desire to hold power over you.

hell , i miss those nra ads with gerald mcrainey now that i'm over here ! those
were like monty python sketches !

just chuckle as the cops beat you senseless to get a confession.
just laugh yourself silly when you find that confession is valid
in court. hey mate , this is justice , british style.

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

from brians@atlastele.com (brian sheets)
subject constitutionality of 18 u.s.c 922(o)
organization atlas telecom inc.
disclaimer views expressed do not necessarily represent those of my employer.
distribution usa
lines 28

you know , i was reading 18 u.s.c. 922 and something just did not make
sence and i was wondering if someone could help me out.

say u.s.c. 922

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) , it shall be unlawful for
any person to transfer or possess a machinegun.

well i got to looking in my law dictionary and i found that a person
might also be an artificial entity that is created by government
and has no rights under the federal constitution. so , what i
do n't understand is how a statute like 922 can be enforced on
an individual. so someone tell me how my government can tell
me what i can or cannot possess. just passing a law
does not make it law. everyone knows that laws are constitional
until it goes to court. so , has it ever gone to court , not
just your run of the mill ok i had it i am guilty , put me in jail

has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to possess and was told
by the supreme court that they did n't have that right \?




brian sheets truck \? ! what truck \?
support engineer `o o'
atlas telecom inc. ( ) raiders of the lost ark
brians@atlastele.com u

from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject re clinton joins list of genocidal socialist leaders
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 13

in article 1r00ug d60@btr.btr.com michaelh@public.btr.com (michael hahn michaelh@btr.com) writes
pol pot 100 , 000s killed \?

i 've read estimates that pol pot killed somewhere in the neighborhood
of 2 million.

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from u23590@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re waco dates are these coincidental \?
distribution usa
1993apr5.193927.19951@hplabsz.hpl.hp.com
lines 19

i do not think it is at all unlikely that clinton ro his policy
wonk facilitators arranged the waco raid as a display piece for the
gun war on the constitution. look at what the bush administration did to
get material for the drug war on the constitution remember that baggie of
crack george waved at the cameras \? they took a dealer from the ghetto
and brought him to the white house so they could say drugs had been
dealt onb the white house lawn.
and i do n't think anybody could honestly think clinton would have any
moral qualms about the raid...
the only really worrisome thing is that the bd 's heroic defense of
their ranch will make clinton 's gun war on the constitution more
successfull exactly as he wanted. the media and politicians will
filter this so that the general public will think the bd 's
are bad guys ! do n't help them. stand up for the bd 's with your
friends and family adnd in public anytime you can their supposed
moral qualms are not important to the issue. they are heroes in the
fight against oppressive government it could just as well have been
you.
watkins@earth.eecs.uic.edu (brian e watkins)

from cower@csli.stanford.edu (richard cower)
subject waco dates are these coincidental \?
organization csli , stanford university
distribution usa
lines 34


the atf agent interviewed on street stories reported that the raid was
ill planned , and went ahead even when they (the bd 's) knew the atf was
coming. why \?

i believe this raid was ill planned because they only had 2 days to plan it ,
and it was continued when failure was obvious because it had a bit part
in the much larger political agenda of president clinton. i would even
suggest that the loss of 4 atf agents is inconsequential in this the
context of his political agenda. it might even be beneficial to his agenda ,
as it helps point up just how evil these assualt weapons are. further proof
might be that the atf denied their agents (street stories report) requests
for sufficient fire power.

important dates
feb 25th nj assembly votes to overturn assault weapon ban.
feb 28th compound in waco attacked.

on feb. 25th the new jersey assembly voted to overturn the assault weapon
ban in that state. it looked like it might be a tight vote , but the senate
in n.j. was going to vote to overturn the ban. it would not sit well to have
an eastern state overturn an assault weapon ban , given clintons stated
agenda on gun control. i suspect clinton gave the order to get someone or some
group with assualt weapons and have the press present (they were initially
at the incident in waco) to record the event for the tv audience. the agent
on street stories reported that a supervisor was urging them all to get
ready fast , as they know we are coming . i believe this attack continued ,
even tho the probablility of failure was high , because it came from the top
down. after the n.j. assembly vote , the atf had a limited amount of time to
come up with something , and the wackos in waco fit the bill nicely.

...rich



from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject my gun is like my ame
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 23
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


mark wilson responding to c.d. tavares


mw so the laws exist , and the penalties are as you say , but nobody is ever
mw prosecuted under these laws. they are traded away for easy pleas.

mw having such gun laws on the books is still better than nothing.
mw what would the da have traded away in order to get the guilty plea if the
mw gun law had not been in effect.

our liberty \?

right...do n't even think about enforcing the law and imposing the prescribed
penalty....let 's hose the citizens instead.

. olx 2.2 . madness takes its toll please have exact change



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 43
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider) writes

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ. koresh
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound.
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of
his magnified horn . ex members describe him in ways not dissimilar
to the way jim jones has been described.

i do n't know how accurate the documentary was however , koresh was never
convicted of any crimes against children , nor was the batf after him for
child abuse. their purview (in this case) is strictly in firearms violations ,
so this information is irrelevant to the discussion.

fbi agents have to pass rigorous psychological examinations and background
checks. plus , those in charge will undoubtedly have to explain their
decisions in great detail to congress. why would the fbi want to fulfill
koresh 's own prophecy \?

those in charge will undoubtedly have to explain something , but whether
their answers even remotely resembles the truth we may never know. and who
is left alive to care whether the prophecy is fulfilled \? it only holds
meaning for the nine who survived.

correction the fbi said that two of the cult members said this so far ,
no one else has been able to talk to them.

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same
details , will you believe them \?

if they confirm the story , i probably will. definitely not until then ,
however.


mike ruff

this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
organization manes and associates , nyc
distribution na
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 39

steve kao (k@hprnd.rose.hp.com) wrote
frank crary posted
sure , but the difference in per capita crime rates predates the
gun control laws the homicide rate in england was a tenth that
of america , back when anyone in england could buy a gun without
any paperwork at all.

steve manes asks
got a citation for this \?

colin greenwood from scotland yard did a study that showed that gun
control has had no effect on crime or murder rates in the uk. his book ,
firearms controls , has been published in london by keegan paul (name
may be misspelled).

others dispute that , like richard hofstadter , america as a gun culture ,
and newton and zimring 's firearms and violence in american life . but ,
again , statistics between too dissimilar cultures are difficult to
quantify.

i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no
effect on homicide rates. there were over 250 accidental handgun
homicides in america in 1990 , most with licensed weapons. more
american children accidentally shot other children last year (15)
than all the handgun homicides in great britain. (source national
safety council. please... no dictionary arguments about rates vs
total numbers , okay \? they 're offered for emphasis , not comparison).

if mr. greenwood believes that brits are much too sober and
coordinated to make such mistakes i 'd like to introduce him to my
friend , amanda from brighton. i used to have some pretty nice
crystal in my place until she moved in. i 've gotten used to the
snide comments from guests about the clown motif on my rubber
wine glasses.


stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o


from gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone)
subject re change of name \? \?
reply to glenns@eas.gatech.edu
organization the group w bench
lines 15

in cmm.0.90.2.735315429.thomasp@holmenkollen.ifi.uio.no thomasp@ifi.uio.no (thomas parsli) writes

1. make a new newsgroup called talk.politics.guns.paranoid or
talk.politics.guns.they'r.here.to.take.me.away

2. move all postings about waco and burn to (guess where)..

what does this censored from norway think he 's doing telling us
how to run the place \? i wanna know... somebody please 'splain.

guess how norway survived the third reich \? give you a hint ,
it was n't by passive resistance the way the danes did it....

glenn r. stone (glenns@eas.gatech.edu)
wearer of asbestos underoos

from earlw@apple.com (earl wallace)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization apple computer inc. esd osbu cross platform software
lines 16
nntp posting host apple.com

in article 1993apr20.003522.22480@midway.uchicago.edu thf2@midway.uchicago.edu writes
in article 1qvfik 6rf@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cj195@cleveland.freenet.edu (john w. redelfs) writes
now that big brother has rubbed out one minority religion in waco , who is
next \? the mormons or jews \?

the koreshians rubbed themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a
propensity for dousing themselves with kerosene , so i'm not particularly
concerned. (or shall we blame jim jones on the government also \? )
...

let 's see if i have this straight. a law is created that says you can not
have a automatic weapon and therefore it 's ok for the government to use
any level of force to enforce that law. does n't matter if the entire
population of the planet is destroyed as long as that law is obeyed.

do i read you correctly \?

from crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com (ron phillips)
subject randy weaver trail day 3
nntp posting host hound
reply to crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics , mountain view , ca
distribution usa
lines 85

this was posted to the firearms politics mailing list.

hi folks

thursday , april 15 marked day 3 of the trial.

this day marked the first testimony of the trial. deputy
u.s. marshal larry cooper took the stand for the prosecution.

the short version is that his testimony was consistent with
the opening statements for the prosecution.

cooper testified that he had arrived in spokane (washington)
on august 17 , 1992 to participate in a surveillance operation
with five other deputies near the weaver cabin. the team was
using night vision equipment for surveillance , and split up
into two teams of three people. the six later met at an
observation point above the cabin. after this , deputies
cooper , william degan , and arthur roderick began a descent to
scout further possible surveillance sites.

cooper told the court that roderick threw two large rocks into
a gully to see , whether the weaver family dogs would respond.
striker , the weaver 's yellow lab , started toward them barking
loudly. roderick led the three in a run from the area.

they ran through some dense woods into an open area called the
fern field with the dog in pursuit. by this time , kevin
harris and samuel weaver had joined the chase. the surveillance
team had reached a y in the road cooper decided that they should
take cover in the woods because otherwise they would be an easy
target and might be shot in the back.

as degan reached the y , he spotted randy weaver coming down the
road from the cabin ahead. weaver was startled but did not fire.

at this moment , striker reached degan , and cooper had to fend
him off with his gun. it is unclear whether this means he
clubbed the dog or shot the dog . both cooper and degan then
took cover in the woods. according to cooper , kevin harris and
samuel weaver continued walking down the road , apparently not
noticing the two. after they had passed by on the road , degan
got up on one knee , raised his gun , and shouted , stop ! u.s.
marshal ! harris then ...brought the weapon around at hip level
and fired. he did n't bring the weapon up to eye level. i saw
bill 's arm going back , and i knew he had been hit. cooper fired
at harris , and harris went down. cooper then brought his weapon
to bear on samuel , but did not fire. at this point , cooper then
heard two shots to his right. samuel weaver looked in the
direction of the shots , yelled , you son of a bitch ! and ran
toward them. cooper then realized that shots were coming at him
from directly ahead , so he fired a three round burst at the
cabin. at this point he then saw samuel weaver running toward
the cabin. when cooper reached degan , he placed his first two
fingers on degan carotid artery , counted two or three beats , and
then his heart stopped. shortly thereafter , roderick and the
other three marshals joined him. they then all heard a large
burst of gunfire from the area around the cabin.

on cross examination , david nevin questioned the point of
throwing rocks into the gulley , asking , you wanted to lure that
dog out so you could shoot that dog , did n't you \? nevin also
pointed out that in last september 's testimony , cooper had
claimed that he spotted weaver after the dog had left him.
cooper claimed that he had gone over the events in his head and
decided that thursday 's account was correct. nevin continued the
cross examination by asking what cooper would have done had an
armed man dressed in full camouflage jumped out of the woods at
him no answer was available .

friday , april 16 marks continued cross examination of cooper.

notes there was no coverage of protestors.

drew




ron phillips crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
senior customer engineer
intergraph electronics
381 east evelyn avenue voice (415) 691 6473
mountain view , ca 94041 fax (415) 691 0350


from gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone)
subject re my reply to ny times editorial dear member of the nra
reply to glenns@eas.gatech.edu
organization the group w bench
lines 32

in 1993apr20.004532.23086@husc3.harvard.edu kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim) writes


as a legal gun owner , i must disagree. even when i do n't see eye
to eye with the n.r.a. on a particular issue , they are the only
national group which has effectively fought for my rights to target
shoot , hunt , and protect myself from dangerous criminals.

one more time.

it ai n't about duck hunting.

it ai n't about lone perps on lonely streets.

it 's about defending our rights from the government , which
has seen fit to ignore history and attempt once again to take
them from us. they will succeed if we do n't do something now.

that 's why i think the nra is a bunch of weenies , because they
have forgotten that fundamental fact.

pardon all my shouting , but there seem to be a whole helluva lot
of people on condition white , fat , dumb , and happy , sucking that
glass teat for all they 're worth.... wake up and smell the cordite ,
gang , they 're shooting at us , and it 's high time we shot back ,
at least with our keyboards.....

my two bits'

glenn r. stone (glenns@eas.gatech.edu)
fly your flags at half staff and upside down ,
to mourn and protest the death of the bor.

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 47
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5tki1.c8s@rice.edu fontenot@ravl.rice.edu (dwayne jacques
fontenot) writes
in c5tenu.112f@ns1.nodak.edu green@plains.nodak.edu (bill green) writes
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported (ap , etc.) that
there were several witnesses to bd folks starting the fires. it has also
been reported that the fires broke out in several places at once , which
rules out a bradley knocking over a lamp , etc. as the cause.

consider this the bds had more than one lamp the tanks made more than
one hole in the building. did anyone else notice on the video that it
appeared that wherever there was smoke coming out of the building , there
was a tank nearby \?

the fact that it appears that fires started in several places does not
rule out anything.

i watched it live , and have re watched it several times , and from the press
vantage point , there was only one starting point visible , where the tank
punched in on the windward side , and the winds whipped that fire across the
whole , dry , wooden , structure in minutes. faned by the 30 mph gusts , and the
hueys. if there were other fires started , they were not visible , nor were
they needed to cause the flame progression i observed.

also , where are these several witnesses \? the way i heard it (from the fbi
spokesman on cnn) the witnesses were all people driving the tanks.

all witnesses get thier paychecks from the fbi.

one other point , i'm no fan of janet reno , but i do like the way she had the
balls to go ahead and take full responsibility. seems like the waffle boy
had problems figuring out just where he stood on the issue.

too bad nothing will happen to her or him. the fbi and the media have
done their job well.

yep. they media has endorsed the fbi version without question. sad.

dwayne jacques fontenot
jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 51

in article 1r0qsrinnc61@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
i agree that they deserved a trial. they had more than 40 days to come
out and get their trial. they chose to keep the children with them and
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear gassed.
i do not find these actions rational. even noriega was smart enough to
give up and go for the trial he deserved.


mr. roby , you are a government sucking heartless bastard.

unworthy of comment.

humans died
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the
actions
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them.

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty.
that is undeniable truth. my heart bleeds just as much as yours for
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities
to do so. my heart also bleeds for people so blinded by religious devotion
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when tanks came up
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning.

you seem to say
they got what they deserved.

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire (which started in
more than one place and spread very quickly) , then they got what they
wanted and put into motion themselves.

i see the batf is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely
by arlen spectre and congress. this is good. they have bungled the affair
from the start.

jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777






from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 43


what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of
proportion. in my post i was referring to your regular patrolman in a car
cruising around the city vs. gang members. of course the police have access
to the things that you mentioned but do they use tanks and such all of the
time \? of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i
see are still carrying revolvers. not that there is anything wrong with a
revolver but if you 're a cop that is up against some gang member with a couple
of automatics in his coat (i mean semi auto handguns) you 're going to be at a
disadvantage even with training. i have been at a shooting range where gang
gang members were practicing shooting. they were actually practicing
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target
and they were n't doing too badly either. the university cops here (who are
are state cops) are armed better than the chicago police. it seems most
state cops are. i do n't know where you are originally from david but you live
in tennesse and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news
and in the papers. i think the situation is just a tad different here
than there.

however , do n't forget that the police in chicago can carry just about
anything they want except for the glock , which is not approved for
carry (guess they figure all cops are like the police chief of winnetka ,
who happened to let off a stray round of 9mm. this is the same anti gun
police chief that wanted full auto uzis for his patrol cars...).

perhaps in the judgement of the majority of chicago 's finest , a close to
100 reliable weapon like a revolver is preferable to a 99.99 reliable
automatic. i note that in germany , where certainly the 9mm semi auto
handgun is king , some of the more elite police types want revolvers.

i do n't think the issue is cost , because chicago police certainly make
on the order of at least 40k year.

your presumption of disadvantage i think is not borne out by the
experiences of new york city 's cops there the cops usually come out
on top with their standard .38 spl revolvers.

i 've seen s ws , rugers and beretta 9mms in addition to the revolvers
carried by chicago cops.... in the past , i 've seen .45 m1911s others
have seen browning hi powers...

jason

from jagst18 @pitt.edu (josh a grossman)
subject re dillon puts foot in mouth , film at 11
organization the zets at the university of pittsburgh (aka the pitt)
lines 17


i have also heard about hci claiming thant anyone they get an address
from is a member. if this is the case their membership rolls are
grossly inflated and we should not call them and give them a name
and address to add to their already false rolls. perhaps
if you could get a copy of their existing membership , then pretend to
be an existing member , do that several thousand times , you could
hurt hci. but names are power. remeber the nra uses the fact
that it has 3 million paid members in order to flex its muscles.

perhaps politicians do n't realize the lying tactics of hci , wait a
minute , hci learned it from politicians....

later ,
josh



from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re gun control proud to be a canuck
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 29

in article 1pqsruinniae@hp col.col.hp.com dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff) writes
does anyone really believe the swiss have had no war within their borders
because every adult male owns a rifle \? i'm a great admirer of the swiss , but
500 years of peace on their turf has zilch to do with gun ownership. can you
picture hitler , with panzers and focke wulfs poised on the border , losing
sleep over a few thousand expert rifleman \? sure.

the swiss population is (and well was) far larger than that. i think
your question should be , ...losing sleep over a million expert
riflemen \? certainly he could have conquered switzerland , but
a million armed militiamen (especially in a mountainous area ,
where tanks' effectiveness is limited) would have made it a
real pain. the question a conqueror would ask , is is it worth
the trouble \? the more difficult an invasion is , the more likely
the answer would be no. certainly a million riflemen (as
opposed to a professional army of only ten or twenty thousand , the
best a country the size of switzerland could support) , makes
invasions more difficult.

hitler stayed out of switzerland because the swiss run the money in this
world.

really \? in 1939 \? i'm not even sure you could prove that today (despite
the steriotype.) certainly the swiss bankers were not essential
to the german war time economy.

frank crary
cu boulder


from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject batf 's prime directive
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 7

bully , them bludgeon them , bury them.

dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 50

in article 1993apr20.163730.16128@guinness.idbsu.edu betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz) writes
in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people
come out with their hands up several weeks ago.

scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating
that mlk was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government.

more than someone who would not release children from the compound.

i.e. , more than david koresh vernon howell jesus christ .
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult.

i am not pleased with the batf handling of the affair. i think they
bungled it badly from the start. but i do n't think they are
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

i suspect that there were plenty of camerapeople willing to
risk small arms fire to get some good footage. these people
were told to get the hell out of camera range. why \?

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium






from auerbach@batman.bmd.trw.com
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
lines 23

in article 1r19tp 5em@bigboote.wpi.edu , mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes
in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

in short mr. gorman (i am assuming mr. as a title because i do n't think a
woman would be stupid enough to make this post) i do n't know what episode of cnn you


what an incrediblt sexist remark ! come now , mike , what ever possessed you to
make such a un pc remark \? i hope all women out there reading this are as
incensed as i am. remember , woman are just as good as men ! ! ! !

women stand up for your right to be just as stupid as men. in fact , insist on
every oppurtunity to be even more stupid than men ! you 've got the right , use
it !

hey , it 's a slow afternoon and i really do n't want to get back to that
report... )

btw mega smileys for the humor impaired...

karl

from lsacks@angelo.amd.com (larry sacks)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization advanced micro devices , inc.
lines 29

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

you are loosing.

stuff deleted

avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...

really \? how do you avoid situations which encourage criminals \? i 'd
really like to know. would you , say , prohibit female college
students from riding their bicycles near the university during the
daytime \?

sounds a bit drastic , does n't it \? especially when the university is
locatd in a nice residential area. a friend of mine was attacked and
nearly raped in just this situation. the police did n't feel she was
in a situation which 'encouraged criminals'.

what do you think \? should we just tell her , that it was her fault
for daring to ride a bicycle in the middle of the day \? that she
did n't avoid a situation that encouraged criminals \? if that 's the
case , then we 'd all better put bars on our doors and windows and
pray for a police state to keep us all safe. crime happens in all
situations there are no defined areas that criminals avoid.

larry sacks
advanced micro devices
lsacks@angelo.amd.com

from phz@cadence.com (pete zakel)
subject re some more about gun control...
nntp posting host cds709.cadence.com
organization cadence design systems , inc.
lines 24

in article 1993apr16.010235.14225@mtu.edu cescript@mtu.edu (charles scripter) writes
you did n't even get the capitalization correct ! try reading usca on
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the
constitution.

this is really stupid nitpicking. capitalization rules in the late 18th
century were quite different from today , and what was posted matches current
capitalization rules.

we also do n't make 's' look like 'f' and other such things done in the late
seventeen hundreds.

in the original constitution , militia , arms , etc. were capitalized simply
because they were nouns. this is also done currently in german. there is
no special significance to these words simply because they are capitalized.
the capitalization denotes no special emphasis.

pete zakel
(phz@cadence.com or .. ! uunet ! cadence ! phz)

aries (mar 21 apr 19)
you are the pioneer type and hold most people in contempt. you are
quick tempered , impatient , and scornful of advice. you are not very
nice.

from mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 74
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt

murder most foul ! !

cnn is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all

i watched the cnn report and i never heard them report that the atf started the
fire. they did speculate that the type of cs gas might have accidentaly
started the fire.

the buildings of the branch dividian ranch near waco , tx. the
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and 'non lethal' tear
gas pumped in . a few minutes after this started the whole thing went up.

from my understanding of the cnn report it was 6 hours after they started.

all buildings are aflame. no one has escaped. i think it obvious that
the atf used armored flame thrower vehicles to pump in unlit

the track vehicle that i saw in the vicinity of the building where fire was
first noticed looked more like an armored recovery vehicle (the type used to
tow tanks of battle fields) and not an armored flame thrower vehicle.

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas. it seems to me that it would be very poor planing to hope for a wood
stove to ignite the napalm when the stove would probably not be in use. and
i doubt that it would have taken 6 hours to ignite it.


this is murder !

atf murderers ! butchers ! !

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

right clinton is in office. (sorry i could n't resist , please no flames ))


i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors !

god help us all.


please crosspost don't let them get away with the slaughter of the children !


w. k. gorman an american in tears.

in short mr. gorman (i am assuming mr. as a title because i do n't think a woman
would be stupid enough to make this post) i do n't know what episode of cnn you
were watching but it obviously was not the same one that i was watching or your
tears seamed to have blured your hearing along with your eye sight.

please excuse any mispelled words as i am a product of the arkansas education
system which slick willie of the double bubba ticket has so greately improved
during his tenour as governer of my great state (taking it from 49th in the
nation in 1980 and allowing it to drop to 51st , how i do n't know , and bringing
it to 44st and back to either 48th or 49th in 1990 sorry i ca n't rember the
source of these numbers but they can be found).

michael f. rhein



from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject randy weaver trial update day 1.
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 49


here is a copy of my first update on the randy weaver trial.
after a large response (about 15 email messages) , i 've decided
that there is sufficient interest here on t.p.g. to warrant
posting.

file follows

hi folks

as perhaps the only boise resident on the list , i guess it
kind of falls on me to keep people updated about the
randy weaver kevin harris trial.

yesterday marked the seating of the jury. apparently no other
legal activities occurred. the jury was selected and things
start today.

more interesting is what happenned outside. about a dozen
weaver supporters showed up to stage a protest outside the
courthouse. one woman carried a sign that read , who stands
trial for the murder of vicki and (son 's name i forget)
weaver \? on the evening news she said , i am here protesting
because i believe in freedom of speech and freedom of religion.
i thought we all did. nice sound bite (grin) !

the news reporter also interviewed some guy named tim
who refused to give his last name. not to prejudge the
guy , but he looked like a neo nazi. he also said he
expected many neo nazis to show up throughout the trial.
tim had been handing out leaflets in support of weaver
and harris and the news had footage of a boise cop
telling him to move along or he 'd arrest. i do n't know
the finer points of this one. perhaps there 's a law
against political activity within x feet of a courthouse
or something (what happenned to the first amendment \? ! \? ).

most ominous of all was that the local reporter filmed
an agent of the gestapo...err...atf with a minicam
filming the protestors ! welcome to the world of big brother.

anyhow , gerry spence came out and asked the protestors to
leave because he did n't think it would help weaver 's case
any. he said he was confident that , once the evidence
came out , that weaver would be aquitted.

more stuff as it comes available.

drew

from k@hprnd.rose.hp.com (steve kao)
subject re blast them next time
organization hewlett packard roseville site
lines 16
distribution usa
nntp posting host hprnd.rose.hp.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.8

daniel oldham (oldham@ces.cwru.edu) wrote
the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. ...

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.

is this a joke \? the legal way to serve a search warrant is to knock on
the door. tossing in a grenade to serve a search warrant violates the
us constitution and is hence , illegal. the bd complied with legal
search warrants in the past. i do not understand why the batf used an
illegal means to serve their search warrant last february.

steve kao

from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject re news says batf indictment warrant unsealed...
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 26


question
what will californians do with all those guns after the reginald
denny trial \?

the wall street journal had an article on how the police were whining
about all the new guns excuse me , but police are employees of the
government. rather like having your janitor complain about job
conditions.

i say californians should form armed block clubs that would engage
in coordinated strategies should batf attempt to disarm them based
on the nefarious tipster theory of law enforcement. unlike waco ,
californians should be able to destroy armored vehicles in city
streets with incendiary weapons , acetylene after slowing them down
with abandoned car blockades. m 1 garands should easily outclass
batf shock troops with their h k mp 5 smgs , and there should be
enough sony walkmans and boom boxes to overwhelm any fbi psy war
operation... yes , a good time would be had by all. billary clinton
would get what he wanted , a war on gunowners , the batf would attempt
to show the anti gun press they they really , really were in charge
with a 500 man charge of the light brigade , and the fbi would attempt
to show how they really were in charge by asking the californian
national guard to level the area with artillary !

) ) )

from paull@hplabsz.hpl.hp.com (robert paull)
subject re newspapers censoring gun advertisements
organization hewlett packard laboratories palo alto , ca
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
lines 17

andy freeman (andy@sail.stanford.edu) wrote
newspaper ad censorship

san fran. independent san fran. examiner san jose mercury news
1201 evans ave 110 5th st. 750 ridder park dr.
san fran. , ca 94124 san fran. , ca 94103 san jose , ca 95190

hmmm , the sj merc. carries targemasters west , national shooting club ,
reeds sportshop , sportsmens supply and big 5 ads. they all sell guns.
no they do n't have any adds like in shotgun news. if they wo n't at least
run the current adds i swear i 'll cancel my subscription and end to cash
to the crpa.

rob p.




from dswartz@osf.org (dan swartzendruber)
subject re ax the atf
organization open software foundation research institute
distribution usa
lines 64


a few comments on the atf 's botched handling of this case

1. attempting to storm the compound in broad daylight \? the explanation
we were given (at least at one point) was that they thought the cult
members would be at religious services. my only comment on this bit
of idiocy is that if you 're going to operate as a quasi military unit ,
you 'd better understand basic military tactics. one cardinal rule
is that only a fool plans an operation where if one assumption is
incorrect , the operation will fail disastrously.

2. we were told that atf got four agents killed because they were
outgunned , they did n't expect such heavy resistance. when
questioned about why such an overwhelming military style assault
was planned , we were told that it was because the cultists were
thought to be heavily armed. can you say contradictory \? i knew
you could !

3. the batf has had a bad reputation for years as a bunch of arrogant ,
hotdoggers. i was talking to relatives a couple of weeks ago and
referred to them as a bunch of crockett and tubbs wannabes. i'm
more than ever convinced that 's right on target. an anecdote not
related to the waco fiasco is that apparently the batf screwed up
some of the evidence in the world trade center bombing. there 's
now an excellent chance some of the forensic evidence gathered by
the fbi will not be admissible in court. this is not hearsay. i
was told this by a relative of my wife 's who happens to be an fbi
agent. his opinion of the batf was , ummm , well , let 's just say
uncomplimentary.

4. i have still not been presented with one iota of evidence that
the bd 's had any of the alleged illegal weaponry which was the
reason for the raid in the first place. btw , we 're still hearing
this justification. ag reno , on cnn yesterday , made references
to this issue , without any substantiation. she also waved around
the he 's a child abuser and we heard he was beating the children !
flag. sigh.

5. a point re the feds in general their handling of the whole siege
reflected a complete lack of understanding of the probable thought
processes of the cultists. ag reno said they pushed the button
because they were afraid a mass suicide was in the offing. my
only comment on that is that if the cultists were that close to
the edge , what the hell did she think their reaction would be to
an hours long assault on the compound where holes were punched in
the walls and cs gas pumped in \? if i were a bd , i 'd expect the
forces of the godless government to assault me at any time. in
that light , whether they torched themselves or drank jim jones
kool aid is irrelevant. also , look at how the siege was conducted
bright lights , loud rock music , cutting off communications and
other contact with the outside. all measures designed to make the
bd 's feel more and more isolated and threatened. this might have
been a great strategy if they were dealing with criminals. as it
was , it looks to me like everything they did fed into koresh 's
paranoid delusions.






include std disclaimer.h

dan s.

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 22

in article 1993apr20.124518.886@batman.bmd.trw.com auerbach@batman.bmd.trw.com writes
women stand up for your right to be just as stupid as men.

our new attorney general seems determined to do so. in the past
few days she has said

she hopes the king beating will not reduce public confidince
in law enforcement.

the tactics of using tear gas and driving tanks through
walls in waco were intended to further a peacefull solution
to the crisis.

those same tactics were intended to prevent a mass suicide ,
but she never expected the sect to react by killing themselves.

it 's comforting to know , at least , that she was n't clinton 's first
choice...

frank crary
cu boulder


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re my gun is like my american express card
distribution usa
93104.173826u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
1993apr15.202811.29312@csd newshost.stanford.edu
lines 28

in article 1993apr15.202811.29312@csd newshost.stanford.edu ,
andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says

i have been at a shooting range where
gang members were practicing shooting.

how do we know that they were gang members and not undercover cops
or even law abiding menacing minorities. btw why the sneer quotes \?

we know because the area that the gun shop shooting range is in is right on
the border of the west side of chicago. that is a gang infested area. there
are many , many bad things going on in that area. also , i have several friends
that live very close to that area who have had problems with some of these
folks. by the way , where did i say that they were minorities \? do you think
that only minorities have gangs \? not so. as far as the quotes are concerned
it was totally obvious that they were n't just practicing for marksmanship. i
do n't know about you but i have never seen anyone else practice marksmanship by
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting. if
you would have been there andy it would 've been obvious to you too. of course
it might not have been. who knows. all i do know is that i was there , i live
here and i know that they were gang bangers. when you live here long enough it
becomes pretty easy to spot them via gang colors , gang signs , etc. one last
thing. my sister is a social worker. she makes it her point to find these
things out (gang signs , colors , etc) because it is in her best interest to do
so. she is nice enough to let me know these things so i can watch out for
myself as i live right on the border of the west side of the city. enough said.

jason

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 93110.11265034aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet , 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
as a minor point of interest , earlier news reports claim to have
been quoting the governor of texas when her holiness referred to
the dividians as mormons and called for their expulsion
from tx. any texans have details \?

the davidians are a 60 year old splinter from the seventh day adventists ,
if that 's the information you were looking for.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com
keywords nata thing ! !

in article 1993apr20.143255.12711@mcs.kent.edu , mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman) writes

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !

is this guy serious \? \? \? \?

if he would ever really pay attention to the news (oops i forgot that the media
for the most part loves to jump right on top of a story before all the facts
are known , as well as to manipulate what we see and thus what we believe).

besides , a majority of
these children were children that he was supposed to have been the father of ,
this then makes them bastard children to a sacraligious zeloit (sp).

oh , then , i guess that shooting those kind of babies is all right.

you sick bastard.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject re my turn
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 29
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


dan sorenson writing

...

ds i 'd rather not get into the nationalized medical care debate
ds here , but i find it amazing that criminals often live better than the
ds rest of the population , in some aspects , and that we 're paying for

ds them to do so. as an example , in november i had my annual dental

...

here , you are somewhat in error.....in all respects we are paying. when we
are not paying for their countryclub incarceration , we are paying with our
lives and belongings as their prey. upon what would they practice their
nefarious predatory acts if not for the citizens of this country. what is
amazing to me is the mindset of those who overtly and covertly perpetuate
a justice system (har) that essentially mandates that some of us offer up
ourselves as that prey while they suitably insulate themselves from the
preyground.

. olx 2.2 . church of crime justice....come , let us prey !



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 16
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

new to this planet \? everything is dependent on either public
or political opinion , usually political. to imagine that
inalienable 'rights' are somehow wired into the vast cold
cosmos is purest egotism and a dangerous delusion.

we hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created
equal , that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable
rights , that among these are life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness.

declaration of independence
4 july 1776

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ....
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 28
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

in article 1qanj0 22d@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cj195@cleveland.freenet.edu (john w. redelfs) writes
how many are aware that the gun control act of 1968 is a verbatim translation
of a nazi gun control law passed shortly before the holocaust \?

for those of you who think i'm being paranoid in asking these questions ,
pray that you are right. unchecked democracies usually end in
dictatorship. remember , germany was a democracy when hitler rose to power.
can we be absolutely certain nothing like that could happen today \?

i ca n't speak for the organizations you cited but everywhere you look in
our society and government , one can see the relentless movement toward
one world government. the fact that the media demeans such charished
values as patriotism , nationalism and protectionism are some of the
clues. the fact that we are sapping the economic strength of americans
to prop up a former and possibly future enemy is just another. the fact
the words like community of nations , global village and international
business are in vogue are others. international corporations are
destroying our identy and economy and the propaganda they are playing
through the media and government is over powering our ability to resist.
our porous border both people and trade are an indiciation that we have
already lost a great deal of sovergnty.

the bottome line is that the single most evil aspect of one world
government is that you have nowhere to run to and history has proven
that would be a disaster.

beware the liberal and the conservative and the moderate. think for yourself


from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 41
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas) writes

nerve gas and mustard gas are well defined. other poisonous
gasses should be individually banned only if it can be shown that there
is no use not related to weaponry. licenses should be available for
research purposes on such chemicals.

i am not a lawyer , but these ideas could certainly be a basis for
definitions.

i hope you realize how trivial it is to manufacture these compounds. given
about 10k in lab equipment and chemicals (which are commercially available)
and given the knowledge that i have (graduating bs , ch , 1993) i could
synthesize enough of these compounds to make a serious dent in the population
of several major us cities. as also noted , the knowledge is there for
the production of nuclear weapons. it 's not even that restricted. the
only thing is the expense.

now i'm not going around making these things , but it 's not 'cause of any
law i simply do n't get any marginal benefit out of killing anyone. any
law you enact in this respect is only going to give you the ability to
add a charge against someone who does make and use said weapons. in the
case of chemical agents , i seriously doubt that you would even know that
someone had set up a lab until after the weapons had been used.

part of the trouble with the chemical weapons ban treaty between the us
and the ussr is that many of the precursors to chemical weapons such as
gb and sarin , etc. , is that they have very valid commercial uses , and
it is very easy to divert those precursors to chemical weapons manufacture
without anyone knowing about it.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.



doug foxvog
douglas.foxvog@vtt.fi

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from franceschi@pasadena dc.bofa.com
subject re gov't break ins (re 60 minutes)
organization bank america systems engineering , pasadena , ca
lines 20

on a los angeles radio station last weekend , the lawyers for the
family of the murdered rancher said that the los angeles sheriff 's
department had an assessment done of the rancher 's property before
the raid.

this strongly implies that the sheriff 's department wanted the property
any drugs (which were not found) were only an excuse.

in viet nam , lt calley was tried and convicted of murder because his
troops , in a war setting , deliberately killed innocent people. it is time
that the domestic law enforcement agencies in this country adhere to
standards at least as moral as the military 's.

greed killed the rancher , possibly greed killed the davidian children.
government greed.

it is time to prosecute the leaders who perform these invasions.


fred franceschi (these are my own opinions ! )

organization stanford linear accelerator center
from mgb@slacvm.slac.stanford.edu
subject re cost benefit analysis (was fbi director 's statement...)
1993apr20.212028.17463@twisto.eng.hou.compaq.com
1r3dvninnr29@senator bedfellow.mit.edu
lines 6

has anyone noticed or commented on the fact that so many of those who
were willing , nay demanding , that we wait forever for mr hussein and
iraq , that we use tremendously costly sanctions , to avoid a loss
of life , are now at the fore front of those clammoring that we should
have smashed those religious radicals and we were wasting money allowing
this stand off to go on \? how the worm turns when the sect changes.

from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization sun microsystems
lines 20
distribution world
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com

the two situations are hardly analogous , unless you wish to make the
dubious claim that the us legal system would provide equivalent treatment
to bd children that the romans did for those of conquered rebels.

actually , all the analogy calls for the the branch davidian feeling
their treatment would be along these lines. after a military
assualt (instead of a peacefull effort to serve a warrant) and
weeks os siege , such a feeling might not be completely irrational.


actually , if i were one of the survivors and wanted to institute a civil
rights violation lawsuit against the treasury dept. , i would claim that
the batf fbi itself was to blame for any mass hysteria insanity...

without due process , the siegers shone lights , laser beams , multi colored
spotlights , all the while playing loudly amplified music consisting of
everything from tibetan chant to heavy metal , and coupled with the fear ,
the poor nutrition , the rampant paranoia , i 'd say it was very likely
those poor nuts were made even nuttier. after all , is n't sleep deprivation ,
sensory overload , etc. , part of the new age method of torture \?

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re ban all firearms !
lines 89
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr14.184448.2331@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
in article 1993apr14.183025.29688@sco.com , allanh@sco.com (allan j. heim) writes

papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod)

drugs are banned , please tell me when this supply will dry up \?

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to smuggle , easier to hide.
no comparison.

then let 's use another example alcoholic beverages. bottles of whiskey
are larger , heavier , and more fragile than bags of drugs. barrels and
kegs are larger and heavier still , and are difficult to manipulate.
yet , a lot of people managed to get very rich off of the smuggling of
booze into this country during the years of prohibition. there was a
demand , so an entire industry formed to supply it.

if alcohol were again banned today , it would be much more
difficult to manage a large scale smuggling operation.
the cops now rank just a narrow notch below the military
in communications , intelligence gathering and firepower.

in a similar vein , the amount of marijuana smuggled into
this country has greatly decreased. this is because its
value per pound is very low when compared to cocaine or
heroin. it 's simply not worth the risk , it 's uneconomical.
now , most reefer is domestic. there is less pressure on
the domestic producer (showy raids notwithstanding) and
thus it is economical.

here 's a question if most marijuana is domestic and
producing it here is economical , why would we expect it to be
imported \?

of note though ... domestic reefer
is now very strong , so a small volume goes a long way.
you cannot make alcohol stronger than 200 proof not a
good dollar pound deal.

yet it was done. done quite successfully for a number of years.
somebody thought it was worth the risk.

firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in.

your assumption is that this low dollar pound area is
sufficiently low as to make gun running unprofitable. on what
do you base this \?

and given that smuggling channels are already established ,
and given the economies of scale , would it really add significantly
more expense to start smuggling firearms , especially considering
doing so would be less hazardous (in terms of getting caught) than
drugs \?

all production
would have to be local.

now that was a jump. in any case , define local. it 's
a big country.

there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

wow , you gotta love the speculation.

as i posted before , we import billions upon billions of raw
ores across the mexican border. not only that but ships come in and
out of u.s. harbors every day full stuff. and customs does n't even
have the extra advantage of being able to sniff them out.

i 'd be willing to wager that a shipload of handguns would be
worth more than a shipload of raw ore , and you 're virtually guaranteed
to get it past customs , because they 'd have to hand search every hold of
every ship which came through.

it 's not simply a matter of how much money are they worth , but how
much more money are they worth than other goods , based on the likelihood
of being caught. less money than drugs , but also a safer thing to smuggle.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet
followups to talk.politics.guns
subject re atf burns dividian ranch update
distribution usa
1993apr19.202756.6889@msuvx2.memst.edu
lines 11

ah yes , i see a few liberal weenies have come out of the woodwork
to defend the burning of the children. probably drooled all over themselves
while watching the tv coverage.

probably had a few like that in nazi germany , as well.

oh yeah , atf fbi now claims , according the the media , that there are
a few survivors. the number seems to vary minute by minute.




from ccdarg@dct.ac.uk (alan greig)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization dundee institute of technology
lines 22

in article c5tenu.112f@ns1.nodak.edu , green@plains.nodak.edu (bill green) writes

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in
general , were proper. but i still have some reservations.

we 've heard a lot of talk about brainwashing in waco but the brainwashing
of the general population never ceases to amaze me. here is an
example of action being taken which results in the worst possible
outcome and despite people 's deep intuition telling them something
is wrong the programming will still cut in and say that the
agents probably acted in good faith. no they didn't. they either did
not have enough information to act in good faith or else they acted
knowing the risk. sums up human stupidity all over and one of these
days it will destroy the fucking planet oh sorry. did n't think they
would respond by launching a strike. all our best calculations told
us they were bluffing.


alan greig janet a.greig@uk.ac.dct
dundee institute of technology internet a.greig@dct.ac.uk
tel (0382) 308810 (int 44 382 308810)
never underestimate the power of human stupidity

from dlo@druwa.att.com (olsondl)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
lines 20

in article 1993apr14.182610.2330@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
the vast majority get through life without ever having to
own , use or display a firearm.
...

given society
as we now experience it it seems safer to get rid of
as many guns as possible.

considering that the uses include self defense , hunting , target shooting
and collecting , i do n't buy the notion that the vast majority of people
do n't own , use or display a firearm .

but let 's say your contention is true. what 's the point of get ting
rid of as many guns as possible , if they were n't being used anyway \?

david olson dlo@drutx.att.com
well , i did say we 'll put it out and we 'll put it out when we can.
but i do n't know what we can put out or when we can put it out.
george stephanopolous.

from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
article i.d. martha.1993apr6.161640.18833
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education
lines 46

in article c4tm1h.ecf@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
hambidge@bms.com wrote
in article c4psog.c6@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

rate per capita rate. the uk is more dangerous.
though you may be less likely to be killed by a handgun , the average
individual citizen in the uk is twice as likely to be killed
by whatever means as the average swiss. would you feel any better
about being killed by means other than a handgun \? i would n't.

what an absurd argument. switzerland is one fifth the size of the
uk with one eigth as many people therefore at any given point on
swiss soil you are more likely to be crow bait. more importantly ,
you are 4x as likely to be killed by the next stranger approaching
you on a swiss street than in the uk.

you are betraying your lack of understanding about rate versus total
number. rates are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population.
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the
rate would be 10 100 , 000. a place that had 50 deaths and a population
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000. the former has a higher
rate , the latter a higher total. you are less likely to die in the
latter. simple enuff \?

for chrissakes , take out your calculator and work out the numbers.
here... i 've preformatted them for you to make it easier

handgun homicides population

switzerland 24 6 , 350 , 000
uk 8 55 , 670 , 000

.... and then tell me again how switzerland is safer with a more
liberal handgun law than the uk is without...by rate or total number.
your choice.

if you want to talk less likely to get killed with a handgun
you 'd have a point. safer includes other things than simply handguns ,
and you ca n't conclude safer by ignoring them.

now if somebody 's got the total homicide rates...


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (mail to veal@utkvm1.utk.edu will bounce.)
taxes are not levied for the benefit of the taxed. lazarus long

from fontenot@ravl.rice.edu (dwayne jacques fontenot)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization rice university
lines 25

in c5tenu.112f@ns1.nodak.edu green@plains.nodak.edu (bill green) writes
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported (ap , etc.) that
there were several witnesses to bd folks starting the fires. it has also
been reported that the fires broke out in several places at once , which
rules out a bradley knocking over a lamp , etc. as the cause.

consider this the bds had more than one lamp the tanks made more than
one hole in the building. did anyone else notice on the video that it
appeared that wherever there was smoke coming out of the building , there
was a tank nearby \?

the fact that it appears that fires started in several places does not
rule out anything.

also , where are these several witnesses \? the way i heard it (from the fbi
spokesman on cnn) the witnesses were all people driving the tanks.

one other point , i'm no fan of janet reno , but i do like the way she had the
balls to go ahead and take full responsibility. seems like the waffle boy
had problems figuring out just where he stood on the issue.

too bad nothing will happen to her or him. the fbi and the media have
done their job well.

dwayne jacques fontenot

from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re the usual
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 30
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

kendall@lds.loral.com (colin kendall 6842) writes

i just heard some anti gun control people giving the usual arguments
it 's everyone 's right to bear arms , and the way to solve the problem
of people getting killed by guns is better law enforcement.

it strikes me that this argument could be logically extended as follows

a nuclear weapon is an arm , hence anyone has a right to have
nuclear weapons. and if someone uses his nuclear weapons to blow
up new york , l.a. , and chicago , that 's okay as long as we have a
good police force capable of finding him and putting him in jail ,
which will serve as a deterrent to others.

do any anti gun control people disagree with this , and if so , why \?

yes , i am pro gun , and yes , i do disagree with this statement.
nuclear weapons in and of themselves are dangerous. radioactive
decay of plutonium and uranium , as well as the tritium in the
weapon , tends to be somewhat dangerous to living things.
(can you say neutron flux \? ) plus these things have no self
defense purposes. it 's kinda hard to justify their use as
a militia weapon when at best they are meant for battlefield use
(low yield weapons) or at worst for industrial target obliteration
(translation cities and population centers). not to mention that
for it to be used as a militia weapon and expect the user to live
requires some sort of launch vehicle . . .

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject re ban all firearms !
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 58

in article 1993apr14.184448.2331@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
if alcohol were again banned today , it would be much more
difficult to manage a large scale smuggling operation.
the cops now rank just a narrow notch below the military
in communications , intelligence gathering and firepower.

proof by assertion ! i love it ! uh , please explain why the smugglers
do not also rank a notch below (or above) the military in terms
of communications , intelligence gathering (e.g. , why fight officials
when you can bribe them... i 'll give you a hundred grand to let that
semi past... ) , and firepower.

in a similar vein , the amount of marijuana smuggled into
this country has greatly decreased. this is because its
value per pound is very low when compared to cocaine or
heroin. it 's simply not worth the risk , it 's uneconomical.
now , most reefer is domestic. there is less pressure on
the domestic producer (showy raids notwithstanding) and
thus it is economical. of note though ... domestic reefer
is now very strong , so a small volume goes a long way.
you cannot make alcohol stronger than 200 proof not a
good dollar pound deal.

what 's the point here \? you 're arguing that the black market
works (which it does , of course).

firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.

this is the wrong way to quantify things. the smuggler would
be concerned about value cubic foot. go to a gun show and
price out a crate of good quality handguns.

it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people

what 's local \?

who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could

what is a worthwhile firearm \? hell , anything that works ! go
get yourself a copy of the army 's 1969 improvised munitions manual.
see how easy it is to make a functional firearm.

obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

if paying 10 for inconspicuous parts at the local k mart is
through the nose.

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject randy weaver trial update day 4.
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 87

note these trial updates are summarized from reports in the
idaho statesman and the local nbc affiliate television
station , ktvb channel 7.

randy weaver kevin harris trial update day 4.

friday , april 16 , 1993 was the fourth day of the trial.

synopsis defense attorney gerry spence cross examined agent
cooper under repeated objections from prosecutor ronald
howen. spence moved for a mistrial but was denied.

the day was marked by a caustic cross examination of deputy
marshal larry cooper by defense attorney gerry spence. although
spence has not explicitly stated so , one angle of his stategy
must involve destroying the credibility of agent cooper. cooper is
the government 's only eyewitness to the death of agent degan.
spence attacked cooper 's credibility by pointing out discrepancies
between cooper 's statements last september and those made in court.
cooper conceded that , you have all these things compressed into
a few seconds...it 's difficult to remember what went on first.

cooper acknowledged that he carried a 9mm colt commando submachine
gun with a silenced barrel. i thought a colt commando was a revolver !
cooper continued by stating that the federal agents had no specific
plans to use the weapon when they started to kill weaver 's dog.

when spence asked how seven cartridges could be fired by degan 's
m 16 rifle when degan was apparently dead , cooper could not say for
sure that degan did not return fire before going down.

spence continued by asking with how many agents (and to what extent)
had cooper discussed last august 's events , cooper responded , if
you 're implying that we got our story together , you 're wrong ,
counselor. spence continued to advance the defense 's version of
the events namely , that a marshal had started the shooting by
killing the weaver 's dog. cooper disagreed.

assistant u.s. attorney ronald howen repeatedly objected to spence 's
virulent cross examination of agent cooper , arguing that the questions
were repetitive and spence was wasting time. howen also complained
that spence was improperly using a cross examination to advance the
defense 's version of the events. u.s. district judge edward lodge
sustained many of the objections however , both lawyers persisted
until judge lodge had the jury leave the room and proceded to
admonish both attorneys. i'm not going to play games with either
counsel. this has been a personality problem from day 1 , so start
acting like professionals.

spence told the judge that , when all the evidence is in , we 'll see
that ... his agent larry cooper testimony is not credible , that
he was panicked and cannot remember the sequence of events.
spence continued , we 're going to find...that there is a very unlikely
similarity almost as if it had come out of a cookie cutter between
the testimony of mr. cooper and the other witnesses.

spence then moved for a mistrial on the grounds that howen 's repeated
objections would prevent a fair trial , we ca n't have a fair trial if the
jury believes i'm some sort of charlatan , if the jury believes i'm
bending the rules or engaging in some delaying tactic or that i'm
violating court orders.

judge lodge called the notion that his repeated sustainings of howen 's
objections had somehow prejudiced the jury was preposterous and
denied the motion for a mistrial. lodge did tell howen to restrict
his comments when objecting.

the trial resumed with the prosecution calling fbi special agent greg
rampton. the prosecution 's purpose was simply to introduce five
weapons found in the cabin as evidence however , the defense seized
on the opportunity to further address cooper 's credibility.

defense attorney ellison matthews (harris' other attorney) questioned
rampton about the dog. rampton stated that there were no specific
plans to kill the weaver 's dog without being detected. matthews then
had rampton read a septtember 15 , 1992 transcript in which rampton
had said that cooper had said that the purpose of the silenced weapon
was to kill the dog without being detected , if the dog chased them.
rampton then acknowledged that he believed that cooper had said that ,
but he could not remember when. he then stated that , i did not conduct
the primary interview with deputy cooper , but i have had conversations
with him since the interview was conducted.

monday , april 19 , 1993 will begin the fifth day of the trial. scheduled
is the continued cross examination of fbi agent greg rampton.



from tomgift@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tom gift)
subject re batf fbi revenge
keywords batf fbi korash child abuse guns murder control
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 10

pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes

well , maybe i am overreacting.

this is probably the best part of your post. everything else is
shrill speculation.

tom gift
tomgift@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu


from pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re change of name \? \?
lines 31
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article cmm.0.90.2.735383339.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes

note ! ! !
my posting was in reply to those about fbi torching the plasce after
filling it with napalm , and arrested people dissapering.

...

about waco
it looks to me as the batf and fbi ca n't handle situations like this.
the way it went reminds me of 'stun' bomb beeing dropped on a house
in la from a helicopter. (whole block went up in flames , 5 died...)

it does n't have to be a conspiracy , maybe they just screwed up \? \? \?

i do n't think we 've got a conspiracy on our hands , or anything
vaugely similar. i do think that the feds showed a distinct lack of
both intelligence and disregard for others safety throughout this whole
mess.

i do think the fbi and the batf screwed up big. what made me
really concerned was fbi director william sessions being on cnn engaging
in what could only be called spin control before the place had even
cooled down. evertyhing had literally blown up in their faces and i felt
there had to be something more important he should have been doing...


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re gun lovers (was re my gun is like my american express card)
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 104

iftccu talk.politics.guns vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox) 10 34 am apr 14 , 1993

this is n't rec.guns , so maybe this is getting a bet technical , but i
ca n't resist....

a revolver also has the advantage that if it misfires you just pull
the trigger again.

sometimes..... depends on why it misfired....

a double action revolver (almost all of them) can be hand cocked first ,
but will fire merely by pulling the trigger.

i ca n't imagine doing much combat type shooting single action.....

a misfire in a revolver merely means you must pull the trigger again
to rotate to the next round.

assuming the cylinder will rotate....

a revolver can be carried with the 6th chamber empty and under the
hammer for maximum safety , but still can be drawn and fired with an
easy motion , even one handed.

never hurts to err on the side of safety , but if you 've got one of those
'new fangled' hammer blocks or transfer bar safeties , it 's unnecessarily
redundant. i 'd rather have the extra round.

speedloaders for a revolver allow reloads almost as fast as magazines
on semi autos. can be faster depending on users.

quite true. speed loaders are a little less convenient to pack around
than magazines though.

a misfire in a semi auto will require you to clear a jammed shell
first , time spent which can be fatal. and a vital second or so is often
lost as you realize hey , it 's jammed ! before starting to do anything
about clearing it.

true , but this is a training function.

most semi autos must have the slide worked to chamber the first round
and cock the hammer. some police carry their semi autos with the
chamber loaded and hammer cocked , but a safety engaged. i do not consider
this safe however. you must trade off safety to get the same speed
of employment as a revolver.

cocked and locked for single actions or hammer down on double actions
are the only carry modes that make sense... the 80 series colt 's for
example are quite safe to carry this way.

there are some double action semi autos out there , but the complexity of
operation of many of them requires more training.

agreed.

now that i 've shot off my mouth a bit , let me back some of this up. it
is true that a simple misfire on a revolver does n't cost you much. on
the other hand , i 've had all sorts of interesting things happen over the
years. for example , i 've had factory ammunition that has had high
primers. a high primer will tie your revolver up somewhere from seconds
to minutes while you try to pound the action open to clear the problem.
an auto \? jack the slide and continue.

i 've had bullets come out of the case , keeping the cylinder from
turning , see clearing paragraph above. about the worst that can happen
with a semi auto is a double feed. this can be cleared in seconds.

most revolvers are more 'fragile' then semi auto 's. there are all sorts
of close tolerance parts and fitting involved. dropping the gun , or a
blow to the gun or all sorts of things can take it out of action. many
of the problems that can be cured on the spot with a (quality) semi auto
take a gun smith for a revolver. in short a revolver may be less likely
to malfunction , but as a rule when it does , you 're out of the fight.
the majority of malfunctions that occur with semi autos does not fall
into that category.

vincint makes many good points in this post , but leaves off the opposing
view of most of them. a real good starting place is ayoob 's the semi
auto pistol for police and self defense.

in general , i 'd agree , the revolver is an excellent first gun and self
defense weapon for somebody that does not have the time , and inclination
that is necessary for the training and practice needed to use a semi
auto effectively as a self defense arm.

most cops are notoriously indifferent to firearms. if the department
is n't going to train them , they are n't going to take the time on their
own. there is no doubt that training is an issue. the amount of
training required for effective use of a semi auto is probably several
times that of a revolver. many cops do n't bother.

for myself , i 'd hate to be limited to one or the other. i 'd rather pick
what fits better with my personal inclination , what i'm wearing that day
and so on. like the moderator on rec.guns says , buy em all !

that said , i have to admit that often my advice to people thinking of
buying their first defense arm is (right after taking a class) get a
ruger or smith revolver.... (sorry colt fans. colt revolvers are ok
too ! )

if this post had gone the other way , i 'd be arguing for revolvers. )

rick.

from chrisb@natinst.com (chris bartz)
subject re hr 1276 ( a gun law i can live with ! )
organization national instruments , austin , tx
lines 26
distribution usa
nntp posting host eagle.natinst.com

in article 1993apr15.171601.25930@dg rtp.dg.com meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers) writes
(a) establishment of right. a person not pro
hibited by federal law from receiving a firearm shall have
the right to obtain firearms for security , and to use fire
arms in defense of self , family , or home.


so , you have the right unless the federal government says you do n't.
i do n't think i like this very much.

this would be much better if it said everyone except those who have
been striped of this right by due process of law or some such thing.

also , i do n't care for the federal government stepping on states rights
regardless of which state right is being stepped on. if the constitution
does n't give the feds some power then they have to just shut up about
it.

the only way the feds should have anything to say is if the constitution
prohibits localities from infringing on the rkba. in which case this
bill should just reiterate that the rkba is guaranteed by the constitution
and that the feds will take appropriate action if it is infringed.



chris bartz (chrisb@natinst.com)

from hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization university of houston administrative computing
lines 43
distribution world
nntp posting host uhad2.admin.uh.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24
in reply to jmd@cube.handheld.com 's message of 20 apr 1993 16 26 47 gmt

in 1r1887inncsd@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com writes

in article 1r0v4c i1j@menudo.uh.edu hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
writes
in 1r0poqinnc4k@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com writes

according to kikk radio in houston , all nine survivors are either in hos
pitals or in jails. including the two who allegedly helped start the
fires.

in the fbi briefing , no mention was made of having the fire starters in
custody.

which one \? the one yesterday , or has there been another \? if it was yester
day , catch up.

imo , 90 of all conspiracy charges are easily explained by the simple
fact that in these days of instantaneous news transmission , all kinds of
stuff gets said when people really just do n't know what the hell 's going on.
then the story changes once the facts are in and suddenly cries of its all a
whitewash ! start. naturally , everybody wants to cover his her ass.

why the total isolation \?

well , it was n't total , 100 isolation. after the lawyer snuck in the
first time , they (the fbi , etc) let him go back inside several times , in
cluding , i think , the day before the final assualt.

why not his mother \? why not the media \?

damnfino. i just tend to take issue with absolute statements that are ob
viously wrong on their face and tend to inflame , not inform. the isolation
was significant , but not total.

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph

from hambidge@bms.com
subject re some more about gun control...
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 39

in article c5mzyk.e7g@ulowell.ulowell.edu , jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes

no not , unconditional , but shall not be infringed . infringed
is defined as
to break or ignore the terms of or obligations (an oath ,
an agreement , law , or the like) to disreguard violate.
to go beyond the boundaries or limits tresspass encroach.
this definition implies the following of some form of existing
agreement. laws and agreements are made in advance.

the rights guaranteed by the constitution were considered to be
pre existing. the only agreement was that they exist. therefore , no
law grants such rights. laws can only guarantee , protect , or infringe
such rights.


websters third new international dictionary of the english language ,
unabridged 1986

infringe
1.a. to break down destroy
b. defeat , frustrate
c. confute , refute
d. impair , weaken
2. to commit a breach of neglect to fulfill or obey violate ,
transgress
vi encroach , trespass

infringement
1. the act of infringing breach , violation , nonfulfillment
2. an encroachment or trespass on a right or priveledge trespass


now , by what stretch of the imagination do you get your ideas about
infringement of rights \?

al
standard disclaimer


from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re the usual
organization iowa state university , ames ia
distribution na
lines 45

arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements) writes

i was under the impression that to obtain fissionable materials (i.e. ,
plutonium or reactor weapons grade uranium) one was required to obtain
a federal permit to own such materials.

no , you merely have to start working on yellowcake or else
devise a system to get it from other sources. btw the doe handles
reactor fuel , and merely leases it to reactors. the nrc certifies these
reactors. the military have their own sources. a private citizen has
none of these official sources.

actually , why bother looking it up \? from the material we covered last
term (in 10 weeks) of ge ch 127 (nuclear chemistry) , i could derive
what it would take to build a bomb.

that 's freshman level chemistry. big deal. can you make it
work \? that 's phd level physics. big difference.

and as far as the explosive charge ,
i (as a chemist) could synthesize a variety of explosives from commonly
available chemicals in the garage if i felt like. the electronics
behind the detonator and the shaped charges are a little trickier ,
however . . . but not impossible using a few tricks of the trade.
and if i really wanted to be nasty , i could include a core of
hydrogen and deuterium . . .

so you admit that there 's no law that could stop you \? physics
aside , could you make one if you had the funds and time \? the answer
is yes. so , do we lock you up now because of this \? surely you can
see where the comparison with anti gun laws comes into play here \?

of course , the hardest part is getting the fissionable material
to start with , and living long enough to put a bomb together.
(plutonium has some nasty properties . . .)

precisely why it 's not as readily utilized as you seem to have
been lead to believe. btw 98 u235 is far better for home made bombs
than trying to use plutonium. the laws of physics make the creation of
a device without serious manufacturing facilities very low in probability.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject re wi and il firearms law questions
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 56


question 2

as i understand it , in evanston , il , they have a ordinance banning handguns.
is there any way to get around this provision \?

why do n't you call the city and ask \? oak park also has an illegal handgun
ban as well , but does allow those with a collectors ffl to possess
( collectible \? ) handguns.

what would the penalty if you were found out be \?

probably a fine in practical terms.

what if you used said handgun in a defensive shooting in your apartment
there \? how would the city law apply to your impending
trial for the shooting \?

it would n't impede your defense at all. there was an actual incident
in oak park where a gas station owner engaged in a shootout with a
handgun the grand jury decided not to presecute. on the other hand ,
a black man used an illegally owned handgun in oak park to defend
himself , and the village tried to make an example out of him. an nra
director who lived there made a stink about this , and it was decided
not to charge the guy. of course , pissing off anti gun police thugs
has it 's own drawbacks , like when the oak park police chief came to his
house , and told him this is stepping over the line this could get
dangerous for you. whereupon the few black oak park police officers
watched over his house to ensure that the white anti gun police chief
and his anti gun cronies would n't f ck with him , his home or family.

also , what is il state law concerning short barreled weapons \? short barreled
shotgun is what i would be interested in if a handgun were not available ,
either that or a shortened 9mm carbine (ie colt , marlin).

l.v. cipriani states that the any other weapon category is allowed ,
but the exact relationship between an ithaca auto burgular , which i
believe is in the any other weapon category and a chopped barrel
h k hk 94 (class 3 for sure) is not clear to me...

one more thing , what is the chance of getting a ccw permit in il without being
rich or famous or related to the mayor \?

in your dreams , buddy. as long as democrats reign in chicago , illinois
residents will always be disarmed and helpless in the streets. politicians
get around this by provisions in the law that allow them to carry
concealed weapons. voters in chicago are too stupid to vote these a holes
out of office because the dems are always in power , the illinois
supreme court is always tilted to the democratic party 's views on guns.
all candidates supported by political consultant david axelrod are
anti gun , which explains anti rkba crook county states attorney
jack(ass) o'malley being a so called republican.

get rid of the chicago democrats , get rid of their members on the il
judiciary , and you got a fighting chance of a preemption law and a ccw
law...

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re govs. florio , wilder hit airwaves in support of brady bill
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr1.015043.5662@r node.hub.org , ndallen@r node.hub.org (nigel allen) writes
here is a press release from handgun control inc.

it is ironic that jim and i are observing this march 30 in a
country that finds america 's level of gun violence not only
unacceptable , but unbelievable , said mrs. brady , chair of handgun
control inc.

so where was she \? and would she consider staying there \?


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re ax the atf
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 14

in article 1r1173innajc@cronkite.central.sun.com
dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com writes
even if it were a capital offense , the warrant was not even an arrest warrant ,
but a search warrant. in other words , there was no evidence of illegal
arms , just enough of a suggestion to get a judge to sign a license to
search for illegal evidence.

it 's hard to know what who to believe. however , the letter i received from
the batf , in response to one i sent to bentsen , said that there was a search
warrant and an arrest warrant.

don



from nagle@netcom.com (john nagle)
subject re gov't break ins (re 60 minutes)
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 9

aj336@cleveland.freenet.edu (pat weber) writes
ever notice that people in these cases are always described by clever
handles such as eccentric , religious wackos , gun nuts , cultists ,
survivalists , etc. so the general public will not identify with them \?

the san jose mercury news described him as a 61 year old retired
chemical engineer .

john nagle

from dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas)
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
organization vtt
lines 55

in article viking.735378520@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson) writes
dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas) writes

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of
mass destruction \? i find it hard to believe that you would support a
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and nerve
gas on his her property.

that really depends upon where you draw the line while defining
these weapons ,

this means you would support a ban if it were narrow enough. good.

and also on if you intend the law to be reflective of
modern practice five months or five centuries down the road.

i would hope so. let 's define a nuclear weapon as an explosive weapon
whose majority of energy comes from fission and or fusion of atomic
nuclei. let 's define a biological weapon as live organisms or viruses
in such state , quantity , and with such a vector that they could cause
death or serious disease further defined to a significant number of
people if released in a city , similarly populated area , resevoir , or
cropland.


nerve gas and mustard gas are well defined. other poisonous
gasses should be individually banned only if it can be shown that there
is no use not related to weaponry. licenses should be available for
research purposes on such chemicals.

i am not a lawyer , but these ideas could certainly be a basis for
definitions.

i 'll give
you a little hint see that manure pile in the farmer 's field down the
road \? in the usa , that is a weapon of mass destruction ,

nope. it is not considered a weapon.

biological in
nature , because if it gets washed into an open well it will contaminate
the aquifers that supply thousands of cities with drinking water. so ,
where do you draw the line \? in the usa , the epa has ruled that
a pile of scrap iron is illegal. care to draw a thinner line this time \?

it is not defined as a weapon of mass destruction. many things are
banned for other reasons.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.



doug foxvog
douglas.foxvog@vtt.fi

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re nuclear heavy weapons and the militia long
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 194

fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary) writes

down to 170 some odd lines. we must be making progress !
on an ironic note , where i deleted lines emacs continually gave me
the message garbage collecting... done. think it 's trying to
tell me something \?

viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson) writes

and thank you it 's a great change from the same tired old debates...

you lurkers can join in at any time , you know ! ahhh..
talk.politics.guns the kindler , gentler newsgroup. who would
have thought \?

no , not exactly the only reason for this sort of restriction is
the possible endangerment of others. a poorly maintained
rifle is dangerous , but only to the user since it does n't
endanger others , there is no justification for such restrictions.

i remind you of shrapnel. i consider 5' a reasonable space
limitation , but make no mistake a gun blowing up is a hazard to
those nearby , say in the next lane at the range. my point was at
what distance , or level of threat , we draw the line. is it the
endangerment of others , so we do a 5' restriction , or the possibility
of being shot , hence we draw a 1.5 mile restriction , or a nuke and
draw a 5 mile restriction \? to me they al suffer from the fundamental
flaw that they restrict based upon the instrument rather than placing
the responsibility for usage squarely upon the shoulders of the user.
perhaps sen. metzenbaum declaring the barrett light fifty an assault
rifle has made this more apparent to me , since the barrett has
only range and acurracy going for it.

they have determined that their lives are worth the effort to
protect their homes and families. using nuclear weapons close
to home will not accomplish this.

i disagree , on the grounds that a house can be rebuilt much
more easily than my family once i have died. i assume that word
would get to the citizens that such an attack was planned. if this
is not the case , the tactical and strategic implications change
quite a bit. personally , my home is worth , say , twenty martians
intent on taking over the world. my family \? all of them. the
balancing act here is hard to judge sitting at my desk.

there is , however , another problem in any case of civil war ,
the strength of the militias fighting on each side should
reflect the popular will. if the public is split 67 versus
33 , then the minorities' militias should be at a 2 1 disadvantage.
such a need for popular support would , hopefully , prevent
insurrections unless the people really were behind the rebels.
but heavy weapons owned by a small fraction of the militia
could distort this what if the 33 minority included all the
tank and artillery owners \?

that seems to be the case already , given that heavy
weapons are n't commonly owned by the citizenry. with such low
numbers , obviously due to cost , i do n't think the superior
weapons are going to be of great effect against a numerically
superior foe. furthermore , it is even more doubtful their training
includes proper tactical movements that best utilize tanks ,
whereas the commonly rifleman is not so hampered in effectiveness.

i think it is vital to avoid such a situation , where a small
minority would have a reasonable chance of gaining political power
through violence. to prevent this , it may be necessary to give
control of heavy weapons (e.g. those which only a small number
of individuals would own and whose firepower would grossly
distort the relation between popular support and military
strength) to someone other that individual militiamen. this is
certainly not a good thing , but i think it is the lesser of two evils.
whoever controls these weapons must be a democratic body ,
responsive to the will of the people.

i had envisioned that the armorer , perhaps the officers
of a select group , and the like would exercise control over the
heavier , more complex weapons. but , if joe bob owns an old sherman
tank i certainly would n't ask him to give it up. follow orders
from the officers , yes. since the expense of a tank is so large ,
though , chances are it would be jointly purchased and should
therefore be jointly maintained and operated.

here , i think we have to be carefull about which state we
are talking about certainly one role of the militia is to
overthrow a repressive government , and it would be completely
destructive to that end for that same government to control
the militia 's arms. but the united states have several levels
of government , each able to act independently , but not all
likely targets of rebelion.
as such , rebelions against state and
local governments are very unlikely. i think , therefore , that the
state (or possibly local) governments could safely be allowed to
keep the select militia 's heavy weapons. the risk of abuse , while
still something to consider , is far less than the similar risk
were the federal government in control.

this i 'll agree with to a point. the state having control
over the heavy weapons should not be justification for the state
to have them centrally located. keep them spread out , such that
the ability of the state to lock them up is n't so easy. otherwise ,
i would have to assume that state control would rest on the
authority of the governor and militia officers.

that is eaxctly why i think they should be removed the select
militia should privide the militia 's heavy weapons and highly trained
specialists. for the reasons i have outlines above , i think
these heavy weapons (tanks , artillery , aircraft , etc...) are
better off being kept by local governments than by a small
number of individuals. however , local governments should n't
be able to use the select militia without the support to the
people. ideally , the general militia , under the direct
control of the people , and the select militia , under the direction
of democratic , local governments , would opperate together.
but even in the worst case , the general militia should be able
to functional without the select militia. similarly , the
select militia should be incapable of action without the
aid of the general militia.

i'm having a hard time seeing how these heavy weapons ,
fairly few in numbers , could not be easily wielded by a few
people with government support. just as you argued above that
the weapons should be divvied up and under democratic control
so one side does n't have all of them , i ca n't see where this
situation is alleviated in having the select militia holding
all the weapons and the unorganized militia being the infantry.
i think a better mix is called for. but , i would argue that
the federal army should rely upon the select militia and the
unorganized militia for the bulk of its infantry units.

consider , then , the effect of removing the national guard 's
infantry and placing the guard under the control of local
governments. the government controled select militia could
not fight effectively without infantry support provided by
the general militia (an inherently infantry organization.)
on the other hand , the general militia could function (although
at a disadvantage) without the backing of local governments and
the select militia.

we have to assume that there would be those who would
side with the government controlled forces , and if they 've all
the equipment an infantry force 3x the size would be in trouble.
i 'd like to see that heavy stuff , say tanks , offset by the
local troups having a few 105 's and anti tank weapons in their
armory. these would be much more useful to infantry than the
tank would be when cost and training requirements are figured in.
i suppose i'm quibbling over what constitutes heavy equipment.

...but a mechanized infantry unit is what builds
dikes in times of flood , sets up disaster relief cities , and
the like.

i would much rather see these things handled by the local ,
general militias.

so would i , but the resources often are n't available to
outfit local units well enough. thus , we will certainly have to
call in others , and a mechanized unit carries more stuff faster
than anything else.

perhaps the national guard is n't as close to my conception of
the select militia as i thought i was considering them to
be the heavy weapons armor arm of the militia , not the infantry
arm of the regular army.

perhaps our ideas of heavy weapons are different \? i think
main battle tanks , self propelled artillery , and 155mm and up
field pieces are heavy stuff. m113 troop carriers , 2 1 2 ton
trucks , humvee 's , old m60 tanks , 105 howitzers , are more the stuff
of a mechanized infantry. actually , this is what the guard units
in iowa are currently fielding in some units.

perhaps it is just my innate fear of having the real heavy
equipment under state control , with little but numbers and light
stuff to act as a deterrent. allowing main battle tanks to the
states should be balanced with anti tank capability in the local
ranks. similarly , local units would need to band together quickly ,
hence small and fast response means mechanized infantry. finally ,
the militia is more than just fighting. equipment is needed for
other responses. the federal army , i'm convinced , should have a
very minumum of infantry , relying on the state and local militias
for these functions.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.









from paul hager hagerp@cs.indiana.edu
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization computer science , indiana university
lines 82

roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

in article c5rrot.mmm@rice.edu fontenot@ravl.rice.edu (dwayne jacques fontenot) writes
in article c5rpoj.ijv@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
in article 1993apr19.184303.6205@stortek.com vojak@icebucket.stortek.com (bill vojak) writes

...
5) point out that even if the fire was set by someone inside of the
building , it came as a direct result of the actions of the fbi batf.
and the people inside (including 17 children) deserved a trial , instead
of this.

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv
to get the trial they deserved. instead they chose to set fire to their
compund hours after the tanks dropped off the tear gas.

correction the fbi says that the davidians set fire to their buildings.

and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

well the attorneys of the davidians reported on larry king that
the tanks had actually damaged the structure to the extent that
effectuating egress from the building was difficult at best.
with a rapidly spreading fire and large amounts of smoke and
tear gas , finding the right exits , or acceptible holes in the walls
were nearly impossible. i find this explanation to be completely
plausible. does n't mean that it 's true , but i do n't find it
intrinsically less believable than the government stories.

the fbi also said that the davidians had a methanphetamine lab in their
basement and that the davidians had .50 cal machine guns.

do you believe everything the fbi says \?

do you disbelieve everything the fbi says \?
i balance my gut reaction to question authority together with the
independent facts as i see them on video. i usually adopt the
scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

i concur.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

indeed. according to the lawyers , the davidian survivors say that
lanterns were knocked over during the probing and that 's how
the fire started. a tragic accident , if true.

do you trust that snivelling little
piece of sh t special agent ricks \? he seems to think he is a comedian , and
the media who laugh at his sick jokes are just as guilty as he , imho.

up until now the batf had been making me sick. today the people inside
the compound who set the fire made me sick. keeping the children inside
the compund when they should have been released earlier with the other
people weeks ago is absolutely inexcuseable. not releasing them before
deciding to set the place afire is the work of madmen.

two of the nine who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set
by cult members.

correction the fbi says that two of the nine said the fire was deliberately
set by the sect members.

if the fire were set by accident or by people outside the compound , i would
have expected far more cult members to flee the compound. or at least come
out shooting.

see above. this one is going to be thoroughly investigated. maybe
we 'll eventually get some idea of what happened. my view is that ,
from beginning to end , this operation was a botch and that it is
completely possible that nut cases who were otherwise law abiding
citizens were victims of a bureaucratic execution.

paul hager hagerp@moose.cs.indiana.edu

i would give the devil benefit of the law for my own safety 's sake.
from a man for all seasons by robert bolt

from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re aclu (was re waco shootout ...)
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 17
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

paul hager hagerp@cs.indiana.edu writes

the 2nd amendment does say keep and bear. if bear is defined to
mean carry , then most people are physically unable to carry a several
hundred pound nuclear device.

as i understand it , sub kiloton nuclear demolitions are man portable
and carried in a backpack.

as i recall , in the 60 's the kennedy administration had sub kiloton
nuclear weapons withdrawn from europe and destroyed. they were man
portable and made for use in shoulder mount rocket launchers. the
smallest nuclear test i 've seen data for was a .1 (yes , one tenth)
kiloton weapon tested either in the late 40 's or early 50 's.

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from phd85@seq1.keele.ac.uk (d.h. holden)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host seq1.cc.keele.ac.uk

from article 1qvjh9innh4l@hp col.col.hp.com , by dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
nut case panics ! ! ! ! jumps the gun on the net before getting facts straight ! ! ! !

brilliant i like it !

dave holden phys. dept. email
keele university. phd85@uk.ac.keele.seq1
keele. staffs. england.
x

from bixledn@eng.auburn.edu (david n. bixler)
subject re criminals machineguns
nntp posting host mosquito.eng.auburn.edu
reply to bixledn@eng.auburn.edu
organization auburn university engineering
lines 14

there 's only one way i know of to tell an ar 15 from an m 16.
pick it up , hold it about a foot from your face and look closely
at the saftey lever. if it has two positions , its an ar 15 , if
it has three , its an m 16. there are numerous internal differences
as well , but since one would have to field strip the weapon to see
them , they are not valid in this discussion. so , in conclusion ,
there is very little external differences to distinguish an ar 15
from an m 16 except at close (very close) range.

david bixler
auburn university

all standard disclaimers apply.


from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 21

woops. i'm not sure if i screwed up , but this is either forgery or some
sort of mistake (aborted post that did n't abort) on my part.

bogus article below if seen in another post should be ignored..


iftccu talk.politics.guns bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler) 3 29 pm apr 13 , 1993
iftccu talk.politics.guns papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) 1 49 am apr 12 , 1993
in article 92468@hydra.gatech.edu gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh) writes

i certainly hope this is somebody 's idea of a joke , as poor as it it...
my earlier posting mentioning an illegal firearms manufacturing site being
searched for by the feds in the florida area was evidently ignored..

let 's look at this critically
1.how many guns did this illegal manufacturing site make compared to

and so on...

sorry.
rick.

from pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com (dillon pyron)
subject do n't knock the glock (was re my gun is like my am ex card)
lines 36
nntp posting host skndiv.dseg.ti.com
reply to pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
organization ti dseg vax support
distribution usa


in article 93104.231049u28037@uicvm.uic.edu , jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
in article 1qie2rinn1b9@cae.cad.gatech.edu , vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent
fox) says

all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as
i am not really familiar enough with handguns.

some police departments switched to glocks , and then started quietly
switching many officers back to the old revolvers. too many were having
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received. not that glocks
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex
as the timer on a vcr.

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

ahem ! ! ! hrumph ! ! ! ! you have encurred the wrath of glock owners. we will beat
you with our hammers. oooops , do n't have any )

seriously. there is no difference in the safeties betweena glock and any da
revolver. intellectually , think of the glock as a very high cap revolver.
ignoring stove pipes , misfeeds and all the other bonus exercises that
autoloaders give you , that is.

every gun has its safe moment and its dangerous moment. if you just learn how
to handle it , it becomes a lot less dangerous (to you).

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com solutions , not gestures.
padi dm 54909


from 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
distribution usa
1qfrhbinno80@cae.cad.gatech.edu
lines 27

in article 1qfrhbinno80@cae.cad.gatech.edu , vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent
fox) says
...
this measure as it will prevent the evil bambi killers from hunting ,
and another will fight it for the interference with nature that it is.

such a measure would also have another benefit. it would relieve the
various states of the thorny problem of what to do with the hundreds
of millions of dollars hunters pour into the economy annually. i'm
sure that , to attain sure a lofty , humane , liberal and ecologically
(not to mention politically) correct goal , the environmental and animal
rights groups individuals supporting such a measure would be more than
willing to add their names to a list of supporters seeking increased
taxation to replace these lost revenues. i am equally confident that
these same entities , given their noteworthy record in the area of social
responsibility and respect for private property , would feel morally
and ethically bound to raise the necessary funds to acquire the
hundreds of thousands of acres of land now held in private hands
solely for use as private hunting preserves by the landowner(s). to
do less than this would place these same groups individuals in
the ethically untenable (to say nothing of environmentally and
politically incorrect) position of sanctioning the logging and
subsequent development and urbanization of these former private
hunting lands , which would no longer be useable by , or of any
benefit to , the landowner(s) in such a capacity.

w. k. gorman

from jon@atlas.mitre.org (j. e. shum)
subject re change of name \? \?
originator jon@atlas
nntp posting host atlas.mitre.org
organization the mitre corp. mclean va.
lines 33


in article cmm.0.90.2.735315429.thomasp@holmenkollen.ifi.uio.no , thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
1. make a new newsgroup called talk.politics.guns.paranoid or
talk.politics.guns.they'r.here.to.take.me.away

2. move all postings about waco and burn to (guess where)..

3. stop posting on this newsgroup

we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil
goverment , but would you mail this in regular mail to
let 's say 1000 people \? \? \? \?




this is not a .signature.
it 's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
and to bring down the evil internet.


thomas parsli
thomasp@ifi.uio.no

how about a group called talk.that.thomas.parsli.approves \?

clinton administration e mail addresses clintonhq@campaign92.org (mcimail)
provided as a public service by 75300.3115@compuserve.com (compuserve)
jon edward shum (jon@mitre.org) clintonpz@aol.com (america online)

clinton administration e mail addresses clintonhq@campaign92.org (mcimail)
provided as a public service by 75300.3115@compuserve.com (compuserve)
jon edward shum (jon@mitre.org) clintonpz@aol.com (america online)

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from u23590@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ...
lines 5

note that bo gritz was on the populist party ticket with david
duke (for veep) in 1988 until he found out that duke was leading
he ticket , when he withdrew his candidacy. so gritz gave up his
chance to be vice president of the us just to aviod supporting
duke.

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 147
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5tngt.224@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1r21vqinneb8@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de
arras) writes
in article c5spov.lre@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1r0qsrinnc61@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de
arras) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
i agree that they deserved a trial. they had more than 40 days to come
out and get their trial. they chose to keep the children with them and
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear
gassed.
i do not find these actions rational. even noriega was smart enough to
give up and go for the trial he deserved.


mr. roby , you are a government sucking heartless bastard.

unworthy of comment.

but apparently true. my opinion , only , of course.

so , your opinion is truth. i see... )


still mastering the language , eh \? notice the use of apparently .

humans died
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the
actions
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them.

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty.
that is undeniable truth.

no , it is not. it is possible the fbi planned for this to happen , and the
gunfire heard was the fbi keeping the folks inside. i'm not proposing this
as
the way it went down , but just to point out that it 's not undeniable that
if
they walked out yesterday , they would be alive today.

you can believe that if you wish. it is undeniable , however , that people
have left the compound unharmed and alive earier in the standoff.

and since their leader was preaching that they would have an apocalypse , you
can not say undeniably that there would n't have been a mass suicide if the
fbi had simply stayed outside and waited another 51 days.


i'm not denying that at all. but every day is another chance for a good
ending , why push it \? mr. roby , you are going to die , anyway , why not today \?
every moment of life is precious.

my heart bleeds just as much as yours for
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities
to do so. my heart also bleeds for people so blinded by religious
devotion
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when tanks came up
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning.

my heart bleeds for no one. you are the bleeding heart . and i'm sure
beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as i do.
you
can not say the heartless things you have said if you did.

i am the heartless bleeding heart \? you are not making sense.

no , you are the heartless bleeding heart . a flaming liberal who cares
deeply , who feels your pain .

you seem to have no concern that someone would keep children inside this
compound when they had 51 days to let them out. that sounds pretty heartless
to me.


you have continually raised this issue , without any understanding of the bonds
between parent and child. it is not easy to say a final goodbye to your
children , i do not think i could do it , either. if that makes me heartless , so
be it. how many children do you have \? i have three.


i just heard on the news that some of the survivors regret they had n't
stayed in the inferno to prove their loyalty to koresh. this makes me
sad and sick.


it just makes me sad. i never claimed koresh was an angel.

you seem to say
they got what they deserved.

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire (which started in
more than one place and spread very quickly) , then they got what they
wanted and put into motion themselves.

they got what they wanted . what kind of creature are you that you can
believe this \?

have you ever heard of jonestown \?
the sad thing is the people inside the compound were the authority
worshipers and their only authority was koresh howell. if these
people were able to think for themselves , there would likely be a lot
more survivors today. koresh preached a fiery apocalypse as early as
last year.


i made the same authority worshiper point about you a few lines back. and once
again , jonestown , however sick it was , was doing ok , until the authorities
showed up and pushed a fragile person over the edge.

a bull in a china shop.

i see the batf is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely
by arlen spectre and congress. this is good. they have bungled the
affair
from the start.

we agree on this. now lets have your god , the fbi , investigated , too.

by all means , the fbi should be investigated , too.
btw , i thought the second ammendment was god. )


nope , the constitution in total is , for me. if you think the rkba is all i'm
about , you misjudge me.

jim

jmd@handheld.com





jim


jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from jbs@rti.rti.org
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption
organization joe 's bar and grill
distribution na
lines 24

in article strnlghtc5tr6d.n3n@netcom.com strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes

though i agree this is not the place to discuss guns , i note in passing that
a number of gun apologists seem to have ignored the words well regulated
in their distorted interpretations of the second amendment.

what interpretations \? just read it as it 's written.
a well regulated militia , being necessary to the security of a free
state , the right of the people , to keep and bear arms , shall not be
infringed.

where does it say the right of the people to be members of a militia shall
not be infringed or the right of the militia to keep and bear arms shall
not be infringed \? nowhere.


well educated businessmen being necessary to the ability of the nation to
compete in the international marketplace , the right of the people to attend
schools shall not be infringed.

would you interpret this to mean that only businessmen should have a
protected right to attend schools \? why or why not \?

joe

from ipser@solomon.technet.sg (ed ipser)
subject re waco shootout highlights total irresponsibility of the
nntp posting host solomon.technet.sg
organization technet , singapore
lines 20

in article 1993apr5.213034.10706@gtephx.uucp forda@gtephx.uucp (andrew ford @ agcs , phoenix , arizona) writes
in article 1pdmgainn95f@kitty.ksu.ksu.edu , strat@kitty.ksu.ksu.edu (steve davis) writes
cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes

if she needs a gun right now , why does n't she already have one \?

you are the victim of a cut and run purse snatcher. he makes off
with your purse , containing your id , your house keys... and your gun.

so you 're saying she can run right into a store , buy a gun , run back
outside and shoot the guy in the back as he runs off \? this does n't

no , he 's saying she just lost her gun and she wants to buy another
so that as she sits home alone tonight , she 's not a sitting duck to
any bastard who wants to break in.

in fact , the situation is more grim that that , even. the purse snatcher
now has her home address. if the woman lives alone , she is in great
personal danger.


from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution usa
lines 44

in 93104.173826u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of
proportion. in my post i was referring to your regular patrolman in a car
cruising around the city vs. gang members. of course the police have access
to the things that you mentioned but do they use tanks and such all of the
time \? of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i
see are still carrying revolvers.

so \? look in the trunk some time. heck look at the dash. that
funny thing attached with a quick release is a gun. the ones in the
trunk are better . (i do n't have numbers for chicago , but
philadelphia police cars carried multiple automatic weapons and
thousands of rounds as standard issue in the 60s.)

not that there is anything wrong with a
revolver but if you 're a cop that is up against some gang member with a couple
of automatics in his coat (i mean semi auto handguns) you 're going to be at a
disadvantage even with training.

what is the nature of this disadvantage \? if the cop can shoot , 6
rounds will do the job against a single opponent (especially since the
cop has guaranteed backup). if the gang member can shoot , the extra
rounds do n't help. the only time this difference can matter is if
neither can shoot , and cops are n't supposed to be throwing lead around
like that.

btw most cops carry multiple guns. you 're not supposed to know
about the second , third , and so on.

i have been at a shooting range where
gang members were practicing shooting.

how do we know that they were gang members and not undercover cops
or even law abiding menacing minorities. btw why the sneer quotes \?

they were actually practicing
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target
and they were n't doing too badly either.

then the extra rounds wo n't make any difference , so why is it an issue \?

andy


from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject re waco clinton press conference , part 1
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 10

i predict that the outcome of the study of what went wrong with the
federal assault in waco will result in future assaults of that type
being conducted as full scale military operations with explicit
shoot to kill directives.

dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re who 's next \? mormons and jews \?
organization sun microsystems
lines 32
distribution world
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com

this is a stretch. in fact , a great many of the persecuted indians were
christian , a great many. it would be simpler to state the obvious , that
white people wanted land the indians dominated or threatened. i really
do n't think the government cared a hill of beans about the indians' religion.

my native american girlfriend asks if the government really does n't
'care a hill of beans' about our religion , how come they 're still
busting us for it in oregon , washington , and a few other places \?
you 'd be a christian , too , if the u.s. army marched you into church
at gunpoint.

are you saying that the indians who became christians did so because the
us army marched them into church at gunpoint \?

this will be news to the indians of the great lakes and upper mississippi
basin of the southwest of mexico and south america who converted even
before there was such a thing as the us. are you saying that indians are
incapable of coming to a decision themselves about their religion without
being forced to at gunpoint \? what about the christian cherokees who were
given the boot by the us government after the civil war... because the
cherokee nation gave mild support to the confederacy , since they themselves
owned black slaves. no , reducing it all to a matter of religion is to
support a much too narrow view of history.

i 've never heard of a single treaty , whether broken by the us government or
not (were any not \? \? \? \? ) , that said , if you guys convert to christianity , you
get to keep all the land you claim. no , treaties were invariably about land...
it meant ceding indian claims to the government. sometimes in return the
us government promised the hunter gatherer tribes (and plenty of tribes were
already farming for centuries , but we do n't hear about non plains indians
in movies) food and training in return for taking up a non nomadic existence.
promises , of course , which all to often proved empty.

from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject janet reno and responsibility
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 11

i see no difference between janet reno 's claim of responsibility for
the waco massacre and the ira 's claims of responsibility for various
acts of terrorism against british citizens.



dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 21

dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas) writes

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of
mass destruction \? i find it hard to believe that you would support a
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and nerve
gas on his her property.

that really depends upon where you draw the line while defining
these weapons , and also on if you intend the law to be reflective of
modern practice five months or five centuries down the road. i 'll give
you a little hint see that manure pile in the farmer 's field down the
road \? in the usa , that is a weapon of mass destruction , biological in
nature , because if it gets washed into an open well it will contaminate
the aquifers that supply thousands of cities with drinking water. so ,
where do you draw the line \? in the usa , the epa has ruled that
a pile of scrap iron is illegal. care to draw a thinner line this time \?

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from mech24135045@msuvx2.memst.edu
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
distribution world
organization memphis state university
lines 49

in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet , 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
cnn is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all
the buildings of the branch dividian ranch near waco , tx. the
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and 'non lethal' tear
gas pumped in . a few minutes after this started the whole thing went up.
all buildings are aflame. no one has escaped. i think it obvious that
the atf used armored flame thrower vehicles to pump in unlit
napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

well , actually , the davidians (koreshians \? ) started the fire themselves ,
the last i heard ( around 15 00 est). eight people ran out into the feilds
surrounding the compound. all were captured and two admitted to setting the
fire. i do n't buy your napalm theory at all (although it would have made a
great commercial for my .sig). why the hell would they have a wood stove
burning on such a warm day \? flame throwers use liquid petroleum , napalm
is more of a gel. now to further dispute your theory , the diluted cs gas
was inserted around 06 00 if i understood correctly. the place did n't start
burning until around 10 00 or 11 00.

this is murder ! atf murderers ! butchers ! !
this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !
i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

calm down kid. vernon (koresh 's real name) said himself that he would not leave
that compound alive. the inhabitants thereof had accepted the fact that they
may very well have to kill themselves before it was all over.

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors !

there are at least eight survivors. a caller on rush limbaugh today suggested
that the rest may even be hiding in underground bunkers. that 's not such a wild
idea considering their weaponry and resolve.

god help us all.
please crosspost don't let them get away with the slaughter of the
children !
w. k. gorman an american in tears.

sheesh ! get over it. i have n't heard (read) such ranting since the hindenberg
burned. this should have ended 50 days ago. i'm glad my tax dollars have
finally stopped working to pay a bunch of guys to stand around and give press
conferences. now they can get back to more important things , like catching
cigarrette smugglers.

troy
napalm sticks to kids.

from j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m)
subject re riddle me this...
organization university of new brunswick
distribution usa
lines 30

in article 1993apr21.040839.20574@ucsu.colorado.edu fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary) writes
in article 1993apr20.050550.4660@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m) writes
that the gas was not harmful , as the sensitive , caring janet reno described
it \?

is it \? as far as i know , tear gas , especially in large concentrations ,
is very dangerous (even toxic) for small children. this makes the
fbi 's supposedconcern for the safety of the children seem rather
hypocritical.


not to mention that the g men believed the children did n't have gas masks.

but that was not , with respect to the children , the point of the gassing.
the feds knew that the children 's health would be in danger and proceeded
under the assumption that the motherly instinct of the davidian women
would remove them from harm 's way. i busted a gut on that one.

someone else on the net observed that the administration 's appeal to a
woman 's motherly instinct would never wash with feminists and liberals
if a republican were in the white house. i say that such an justification
could only come from a feminist mindset.

btw i 'd read in the paper yesterday that the type of gas used was cs2.
the paper did n't provide any specifics about it.

guess i'm still writing...
malcolm fuller , surveying engineering , university of new brunswick
malcolm@atlantic.cs.unb.ca or j979@jupiter.csd.unb.ca
malo periculosam libertatem quam quietam servitutem

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 38

as quoted from 1993apr14.184448.2331@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in.

that depends only on the profit of doing so. the differences
in cost of production will determine local vs smuggle.

would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile

those of us who have actually made semi autos (full autos are easier)
are getting quite a giggle out of this. i 'd estimate that 5 of
the people at my high school could n't do it. (i was one of the
few who failed shop.) people who have actually seen me do mechanical
work would probably say that 1 is more like it.

starting with even 90 of the population , you can be sure that
enough people will be motivated.

firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

how much is through the nose \? after all , we know quite a bit
about how much a gun is worth to a criminal , so if that is dwarfed
by the price demanded by the bad part of that 90 ....

the relevant economic analysis has been made. the profit of
gun crime is high enough that the price required to push criminals
out of the market is high enough that everyone will be motivated.
that analysis ignored some improvements in the criminal gun
market that could make them even cheaper. (they 're not efficiently
used now , but a loaner set up would drive the value still higher
without affecting criminal use.)

andy


from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization computer science department , stanford university.
distribution usa
lines 35

in article 93105.215548u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
i have been at a shooting range where
gang members were practicing shooting.

in article 1993apr15.202811.29312@csd newshost.stanford.edu andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) says
how do we know that they were gang members and not undercover cops
or even law abiding menacing minorities. btw why the sneer quotes \?

we know because the area that the gun shop shooting range is in is right on
the border of the west side of chicago. that is a gang infested area.

so \? kratz was there does that mean that he 's a gang member \?

even in the most gang infested areas , most of the residents are not
gang members.

that only minorities have gangs \? not so. as far as the quotes are concerned
it was totally obvious that they were n't just practicing for marksmanship.

how was it obvious \? were they not trying to hit the target \? or , does
kratz confuse marksmanship with trying to simulate a post \? if so ,
that excludes self defense shooting , but the rest of us understand
that that exclusion would be an error. (it excludes a lot of legit
gun games as well.)

do n't know about you but i have never seen anyone else practice marksmanship by
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting.

sounds like practical pistol or maybe ipsc. it also sounds like how a
self defense shooter might well practice. the only things that action
excludes are hunting and like a post shooting. kratz should get out
more often.

andy


from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 44
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 1993apr20.143255.12711@mcs.kent.edu mhamilto@nimitz.mcs.kent.edu
(the lawnmowerman) writes
also
someone should have told david and his followers that if they ca n't the
heat
then they should stay out of the kitchen ! ! (pun intended)

this tops the cold hearted bastard list ! unbelievable ! had this countries
morals sunk this low , that the death of innocent people is so callously viewed \?

flame off

aaah daniaalson yah wanna fight , fight me ! !



matthew r. hamilton mhamilto@mcs.kent.edu a.k.a

cs physics major 1499h751@ksuvxb.kent.edu (the lawnmowerman)

kent state university 1299h751@ksuvxb.kent.edu







look here for future advice.quotes.sayings.jibberish.philosohy








jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from syck5280@miller.cs.uwm.edu (steven b syck)
subject re do n't knock the glock (was re my gun is like my am ex card)
organization university of wisconsin , milwaukee
lines 61
distribution usa
nntp posting host 129.89.9.13

in article 93105.164406u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes

all very true. i'm going on what i have read and heard from friends.
basically the glock is great but i have heard read that it is a lot harder to
learn proper handling because of the type of safety that it has. i was
looking at a glock .40s w and the s w 4006 a couple of weeks ago and the
safties on the guns were very different. the saftey on the 4006 seemed a lot
more safe (for lack of a better word) than the one on the glock. of course
this could also be a bad thing if you were to pull the gun on somebody. you
would spend more time fiddling around turning the safety off. personally i
like the glocks because they are very light and i think they look really cool
(guess that 's why they use them in so many movies) but i would n't get one as
my first semi auto because of the safety. i would prefer more training with
a traditional semi auto (ala colt .45) but of course that 's just my opinion.

jason

at the risk of starting the 'my gun is better than yours' flame
war , i must disagree.

there is no secret in handling a glock. in fact , it is often
chosen (besides its other merits) because it shoots like a revolver does
basically. it can limit the training time (read budget ) due to the
fact there are no 'external' safties other than the trigger , hence less
training time required.

smith wesson (among other types) are chosen due to the fact taht
they do have the external safties (hammer drop , as well as mag drop) which
if properly used have saved many lives when 'mr. bad' snatched the gun
from the officer and tried to shoot said officer the gun was on safe and
would not fire. this point had been made in many articles in various
gun magazines. if fact , one author (ca n't remember who) staged a little
test where he had a revolver and a s w on safe laying on a table and asked
people with little firearms experience to on his signal , grab the gun and
shoot a target. he timed the people using each gun. the revolver times
were pretty close , but some of the times with the s w were in minutes , or
the person just gave up because they could not figure out the saftey.

you do n't often see colt 45 autos issued due to the light trigger
which can be accidentally fired in a stress situation , opening the issuing
city , county , etc.. to lawsuits , bad press , etc..

of course any problem can be overcome with enough training , but
such training is not always available to budget crunched departments. i
know if i were a cop i would want something like a s w just for the off
chance of the gun getting taken away. the safety does n't guarantee that
'mr. bad' wo n't figure it out and shoot me , but it could buy enough time
to draw a second gun and shoot 'mr. bad' before it 's too late.

do n't think i am too biassed here just because i have had 3 glocks
in my possession at one time , because i have had a .45 as well. in fact ,
it was my first handgun. remember , the ultimate 'safety' is you the
operator , and no safety is going to stop an negligent discharge (note i
do n't say accidental) if you break the rules of gun handling.

as per the part of being light weight and looking cool , i agree
100 . i would n't rule it out as a first purchase.

just my .02 tax
steve syck syck5280@miller.cs.uwm.edu


from fjk6478@ritvax.isc.rit.edu (fred)
subject re luser !
nntp posting host vaxc.isc.rit.edu
reply to fjk6478@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
organization rochester institute of technology


actually , now we have established that i do n't believe what you believe , as
well as why i do n't believe it. and if it 's boring , then i yield the last
word to you , if you want it. you may say anything you like with
impunity i am dropping the subject.

john l. scott



how very kind of you !




from hambidge@bms.com
subject re gun control proud to be a canuck
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 28

in article 1pqsruinniae@hp col.col.hp.com , dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff) writes
does anyone really believe the swiss have had no war within their borders
because every adult male owns a rifle \? i'm a great admirer of the swiss , but
500 years of peace on their turf has zilch to do with gun ownership. can you
picture hitler , with panzers and focke wulfs poised on the border , losing
sleep over a few thousand expert rifleman \?

not just because of the riflemen. they also have many hard bunkers in
the mountains that would be nearly impossible to penetrate. as for
tanks , they would be rather useless in such mountainous terrain.

hitler stayed out of switzerland because the swiss run the money in this
world.

gee , that 's a new one. he thought it was a different ethnic group.
since hitler was determined to control , at the least , all of europe ,
do you think he gave a damn about international monetary concerns \?
also , there 's a lot of gold in swiss vaults. do n't you think he new
that \? if he could have , he would have taken switzerland. however ,
crazy as he was , he was n't totally stupid. it would have cost him a
hell of a lot to take switzerland , with no guarantee that an invasion
would be successful. he probably figured (or his generals did , when
he was listening to them) that it was n't worth the cost.

al
standard disclaimer



from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re riddle me this...
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution usa
lines 12

in article 1993apr20.050550.4660@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m) writes
that the gas was not harmful , as the sensitive , caring janet reno described
it \?

is it \? as far as i know , tear gas , especially in large concentrations ,
is very dangerous (even toxic) for small children. this makes the
fbi 's supposedconcern for the safety of the children seem rather
hypocritical.

frank crary
cu boulder


from vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization deep thirteen , gizmonics institute
lines 90
distribution usa
nntp posting host cae.cad.gatech.edu

in 93104.173826u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes
deleted
and as far as fully automatic weapons , you can be a lot better
armed if you want to hit what you aim at.

what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of
proportion. in my post i was referring to your regular patrolman in a car
cruising around the city vs. gang members. of course the police have access
to the things that you mentioned but do they use tanks and such all of the
time \? of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i
see are still carrying revolvers. not that there is anything wrong with a
revolver but if you 're a cop that is up against some gang member with a couple
of automatics in his coat (i mean semi auto handguns) you 're going to be at a
disadvantage even with training. i have been at a shooting range where gang
gang members were practicing shooting. they were actually practicing
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target
and they were n't doing too badly either. the university cops here (who are
are state cops) are armed better than the chicago police. it seems most
state cops are.

define armed better . go shoot a revolver and a semi auto like the
colt .45. does one fires faster than the other \? nope. aside from which
faster rate of fire is usually not desirable. sure it makes the other
guys duck for cover , but just you trying hitting anything with a thompson
in hose mode. this is why the military is limiting it 's m 16 now to
3 round burst fire. simple semi auto would be better , but the troops
like to be able to rock and roll even if it is wasteful of ammo (something
often in short supply when the enemy is plentiful).

a revolver is equally capable as a semi auto in the same caliber.

a revolver also has the advantage that if it misfires you just pull
the trigger again.
a double action revolver (almost all of them) can be hand cocked first ,
but will fire merely by pulling the trigger.
a misfire in a revolver merely means you must pull the trigger again
to rotate to the next round.
a revolver can be carried with the 6th chamber empty and under the
hammer for maximum safety , but still can be drawn and fired with an
easy motion , even one handed.
speedloaders for a revolver allow reloads almost as fast as magazines
on semi autos. can be faster depending on users.

a misfire in a semi auto will require you to clear a jammed shell
first , time spent which can be fatal. and a vital second or so is often
lost as you realize hey , it 's jammed ! before starting to do anything
about clearing it.
most semi autos must have the slide worked to chamber the first round
and cock the hammer. some police carry their semi autos with the
chamber loaded and hammer cocked , but a safety engaged. i do not consider
this safe however. you must trade off safety to get the same speed
of employment as a revolver.
there are some double action semi autos out there , but the complexity of
operation of many of them requires more training.

some police departments switched to glocks , and then started quietly
switching many officers back to the old revolvers. too many were having
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received. not that glocks
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex
as the timer on a vcr.

anyone who goes anyone saying that the criminals obviously outgun
the police do n't know nothing about firearms. turn off cops and hunter
and pay attention. i do not seek here to say semi autos are junk
merely that assuming they are better for all jobs is stupid. a cop
with a revolver on his hip and a shotgun in the rack is more than
equipped for anything short of a riot.

gun control is hitting what you aim at. if you whip out a
wonder nine and fire real fast you may find you do n't hit anything.
good controlled fire from a revolver is more likely to get you a hit.
i own a 9mm beretta myself but consider it inferior as a carry weapon
to something like the ruger security six revolver. if i have n't hit
what i'm aiming at in the first 5 shots , something is quite seriously
wrong somewheres. while i might like having the backup capacity of those
extra shots in certain cases , overwhelmingly the of shots fired in
criminal encounters is less than 5.

what do crooks overwhelmingly use in crime \? why the same nice simple
.38 revolvers that the police often use. well actually some police
prefer the much heftier .357 magnum , but anyway.....

obplea do n't flame me , i prefer semi autos for most things. but they
introduce unneccessary complications to something as nerve wracking
as an abrupt encounter with a lone criminal.


if everything had gone as planned , everything would have been perfect.
batf spokesperson on cnn 3 2 93 , regarding failed raid attempt in tx.

from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re blast them next time
organization iowa state university , ames ia
distribution usa
lines 69

oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes

what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.

seal team six should have handled it \? delta force \? the
batf had more than enough equipment and men. they did not have
good intel , but they did have poor planning. they fucked up. even
in just the most basic military sense , they fucked up. excuses do
not justify body counts.

the batf needs more people , better weapons and more armored
transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.

and your excuses fall upon deaf ears when the same batf
has shown shitty leadership despite more people , better weapons ,
and exclusive use of armor against their targets. batf is nothing
more than a private army of the government. do the agents swear an
oath , as i did , to uphold the constitution \? you know , that document
that stipulates the highest law of the land \? if they do , they should
be up for charges in a court of law. remember , the law \? that 's
the whole reason for any of this.

with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
of ours.

yeah , i 've been related to many of them. this is flame bait ,
right \? i'm not paying your price. mind if i sight in my guns on
your body \? think of it as the price you have to pay that we may all
live without fear of my making a stray shot. it 's fine and dandy to
revel in the other guy being the target and your supposed safety. in
the military , we called this chicken shit. leadership from the rear.
the war on drugs , despite being a catchy term for nothing more than
a continuation of policy since before this century , seems to have
gotten you convinced that my rights are n't worth your good vibes.
mind if i cut your net access , as well as access to any and all forms
of expression \? see , you make me nervous , what with you being able
to influence so many. i'm sure you can see how this is the price we
have to pay for freedom and liberty in this country , as well as
a fair and unbiased judiciary.

with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
to death 51 days later.

mind if we include you in the body count \? i'm sure we could
all file it under civic improvement and your life would n't have
been sacrificed in vain. if you like , you can will your estate to
defecit reduction , too. now , when you learn how the law protects , or
does n't protect , everybody equally and how our collective boot may
one day be on your collective throat , perhaps at that time you will
mature enough to realize just what you 're talking about and how
serious this is.

next time , include a smiley. while i hesitate to think that
you could have meant this seriously , it deserved a small flame anyway.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com (dillon pyron)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
lines 131
nntp posting host skndiv.dseg.ti.com
reply to pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
organization ti dseg vax support


in article cmm.0.90.2.735132009.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no , thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
gun clubs
if you are a member you can borrow weapons....(suprised \? \? )
you are supposed to train with a .22 for the 6 months , then
you can start with anything bigger.

drivers licence
forgot that usa is the land of cars.....
getting one in scandinavia (and northern europe) is not easy.
average time is about 20 hours of training , and the cost is rather......
but we think this is acceptable because a car is not a toy , and
bad drivers tend to hurt others.
(if you are really bad , you won't get a lincence ! )

abuse by the goverment
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control
would just be abused by the goverment.( ! )
either some of you are a little paranoid (no offence...) or you should
get a new goverment. (you do have elections \? \? )

unfortunately , elections can , and are , bought. promise the voters money , and
they will vote for you.


guns 'n criminals
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen.
known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control.

same here. convicted felons may not legally purchase firearms.

and because gun control are strict in whole scandinavia (and most of europe) ,
we dont have any problem with smuggled guns.

that you know of.

while i lived in the dbr , a gang robbed a joint us army bundewehr armoury and
got several hundred m 16s , ammunition , handguns and some explosives. when i
left two years later , there were no clues.


mixing weapons and things that can be use as one
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns !
someone said that if we 'ban' guns we 'd have to ban cars to , because they 'kill' to...
i do n't think we should argue on this one..... )

the issue (i hope..)
i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem.
guns are not a problem , but the way they are used is.... (and what are they for \? \? )

who uses them is the problem. crime , in the u.s. , is no big deal if you are
the criminal. how about 5 years for murder. credit for time served (in jail ,
waiting for trial) and you are out in 12 months , worst case. if we would put
criminals , especially violent ones , in the slam for true sentences , crime would
drop. instead , we reward them for being good and let them out early , very
early.


i think this discusion is interesting when you think of (ex)jugoslavia
they should all have weapons , it 's their rigth to have them , and if they use them
to kill other (innocent) people the problem is humans , not guns.

serbs , croats and muslims have been killing each other almost since before the
invention of guns. old women are throwing stones at un trucks. this is a
hatred that goes beyond reason.

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some regulations on them
or just say that they are ment to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem ,
it 's the 'axer' \? \?
(an example , do n't flame me just because not exactly 50 are killed by guns...)

yes , the problem is the user. question back (since you are one of the rational
ones) if all gun crime were to stop , would you support dropping all gun
controls \?


think about the situation in los angeles where people are buying guns to protect
themselves. is this a good situation \? \? is it the rigth way to deal with the problem \? \?

they did not believe , from experience , that the police (including national
guard) could would protect them. unless you want to argue that a human being
does not have a right to protect him herself , they did the right thing. what
would you suggest as a defense against a mob throwing bottles and rocks , and
also likely armed with stolen firearms \?


if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals (and their neighbor who have
guns) what do you think will happen \? \? (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa)

criminals would move to scandinavia \? \? \? ) the average criminal would look for
a less hazardous job , and the rest would likely be buried at county expense.


do n't flame the englishmen because of northern irland , they have gun control that works
(in england) and fonds from usa are one of the reasons why ira can bomb innocents...
(something about throwing stones in glass houses...)

personally , i criticize the fools who send money to the ira to make ireland
free . of course , this is the last thing the ira wants , because they lose
power if england pulls out. but that 's for another group.

do n't flame them because of what to (three \? ) children did either.

the u.s. has roughly 20 times the major sporting events as the u.k.. how many
riots did we have at sporting events last year (off the playing field) \?
hooligan is a word never used when reffering to sports fans here. i guess
that 's where the different cultures thing comes in.

(can an jugoslav have an oppinion on guns or even peace \? \? ) (yes ! )

yes. the question is , is the problem one of too many guns (mostly from the
army) or not enough (nonserbians can not defend themselves.


(my numbers about crime rates after restrictions on shot guns are from the police
and the statistisk sentralbyraa) (understood that one sorenson \? \? )

last word
responsible gun owners are not a problem , but they will be affected if you want to protect
your citicens.

but disarming responsible gun owners is not the solution. yet , that is exactly
what hci is proposing.

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com solutions , not gestures.
padi dm 54909


from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re my gun is like my....
lines 88
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1993apr16.194708.13273@vax.oxford.ac.uk jaj@vax.oxford.ac.uk writes

what all you turkey pro pistol and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you
just make me chuckle

that 's nice. we strive for entertainment value. )

i remeber being in bellingham , washington and seeing a
pick up truck in front of the car that my friend and i were in. it had a bumper
sticker proclaiming gun control is a firm grip on a .45. now i'm sure that
that wanker thought he was pretty cool.
what he did n't realize was that we took a photo of the back of his truck , and
showed it to our friends when we got back to vancouver , canada (where i'm from
originally). people were guffawing at the basic stupidity of such a
sticker , and the even greater stupidity of the person who put it there in the
first place ! )

in the first place , you have to realize the feeling goes both
ways. canadians laugh at the u.s. , and americans simply shrug and
woner why the hell we let them be a state in the first place. )

i knew somebody else who went to one of your gun mart superstore places , just
so he could experience the sight of people putting guns and ammo into shopping
carts ! i did n't believe it myself until i drove by one in vegas last year ! ! !

interesting strategy , posting here with complaints about
people elsewhere.

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world
perceives you gun nut morons.

courtesy is apparently a dead commodity in the rest of the
civilized world. gun nut morons , indeed.

the bbc recently referred to the american
penchant for pistols , automatic weapons , etc. very appropriately it was
called a national eccentricity.

we 've got guns , they 've got a monarch and an economy on the verg
of collapse. finger pointing across the atlanticis a waste or time.

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national
eccentricity , in that easy to purchase weapons are being smuggled cross the
border.

canada has been blaming the u.s. for their problems for years.
the simple fact of the matter is this ten years ago they crowed about
how great their system was because they 'd gotten rid of the guns and
the u.s. would be so much better if they 'd just get into the divine light
shining from the north. we pointed out that it was cultural differences ,
and pointed to their pre control crime rates. we also pointed out that
the history of the entire world contained smuggling , and that whenever
something was wanted , it was smuggled in.
if the problem were based on u.s. guns , it would have surfaced
years before.

now more canadian criminals want guns. and they are being provided.
canada has its own version of the drug problem. yet drugs are prohibited
in the u.s.

hell , here in britain , the cops do n't even carry guns. (that 's another funny
thing you see a us border guard , and he 's got his .45 or .38 on his belt ,
with tons o' spare ammo never know , maybe some canadian shopper might get out
of hand. hell , as i recall , in people 's court , even rusty carried a gun ! never
know , some plaintiff might go nuts. ) )

saw a news report out of britain that armed crime is on the rise ,
and several police agencies are considering have permanent firearms
officers to deal with it.

according to u.s. news world report , british handgun deaths have
risen over 250 over the past twelve years. the u.s. number has dropped
5 .

maybe they 're smuggling them across the u.s. u.k. border. yeah ,
that 's the ticket.

cya !

have a nice day , steve. learn a little common courtesy and
politeness.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
lines 128
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article cmm.0.90.2.735132009.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes

abuse by the goverment
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control
would just be abused by the goverment.( ! )
either some of you are a little paranoid (no offence...)

mr. parsli , i have to take exception at this. there are
verifiable , previous examples of levels of u.s. governments
abusing gun control restrictions. i do n't think it is paranoid
to worry that what has been abused in the recent past might be abused
in thye future. after so many times of getting burned any sane person
will stop putting his hand on the stove.

or you should
get a new goverment. (you do have elections \? \? )

i 'd love to. but as long as the politicians grab power to sell
pork back to their constituents , there 's not a lot i can do.

it 's silly to suggest that if there 's anything we ca n't trust
the government to do , and therefore the government should be allowed
to do it , then we should change governments. down that road lies
total government power. i 've never been a fan of totalitarianism.

guns 'n criminals
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen.

this is very likely.

known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control.
and because gun control are strict in whole scandinavia (and most of europe) ,
we dont have any problem with smuggled guns.

the north american continent is not europe , no matter how many
people would like it to be. drugs are very illegal and they 're
here. for years canada has crowed about its gun control. if it is
necessary to control guns over the whole continent , then canada should
have always had comparable rates to the u.s. , yet they still do n't.
unless you can tell me why the canadian border is so much more
magical than the mexican border (which is shorter and far more
heavily patrolled) then i really ca n't accept that argument.

mixing weapons and things that can be use as one
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns !

no , there are approximately 31 , 000 deaths due to guns in the u.s. ,
two thirds of which are suicides. (unfortunately i do n't have suicide
rates for norway.) however , this makes the per gun death rate about
half the per car death rate.

the issue (i hope..)
i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem.
guns are not a problem , but the way they are used is.... (and what are they for \? \? )

i think this discusion is interesting when you think of (ex)jugoslavia
they should all have weapons , it 's their rigth to have them , and if they use them
to kill other (innocent) people the problem is humans , not guns.

the problem 's been humans since before we had stone axes. the
fct of the matter is simply this if nobody ever assaulted anybody ,
whether there is a weapon of any sort around would be totally
irrelevent.

yet weapons are built . i 'd suggest , then , that the murderous
impulse in humanity pre dates weapons.

anyway , the bosnians et al. have been making an excellent attempt
to kill each other for half a thousand years. taking away their guns , even
if we could , would neither halt the killing nor reduce the brutality.

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some regulations on them
or just say that they are ment to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem ,
it 's the 'axer' \? \?
(an example , do n't flame me just because not exactly 50 are killed by guns...)


in the u.s. , approximately 60 of murders are commited with firearms.
(50 with handguns , 10 with non handguns.) the reason i say that guns , per
se , are not the problem , is that our non gun rate exceeds most of europe 's
countries entire violent crime rate. i do n't really think we 've got
more knives or fists.

in any case , i think examples of gun control applied to the u.s.
have been abkect failures , just like drug prohibition and other forms
of prohibition. until you deal with why people are doing what they
are doing , you wo n't solve your problem. and if the problem is
violent crime , you should n't concentrate on the tools instead. the
vast majority of guns is never , ever misused. (on the order of
99.5 over the entire lifetime of the gun). this says to me that
you ca n't make the argument that the gun itself causes the misuse.

think about the situation in los angeles where people are buying guns to protect
themselves. is this a good situation \? \?

the situation is not good in that people fear for their lives.
but recall the scenes of the store owners during the last riots ,
protecting their shops with guns. would it have been better they ,
too , lost their livelihoods \?

is it the rigth way to deal with the problem \? \?

the problem of poverty and rage in los angeles , no it is n't.
however , if that problem becomes a violent action , then yes , it can
be appropriate. whether or not some person has been hurt by their condition
wo n't make me less dead if they burn down my house with me in it.

you have to examine which problem you 're referring to. if
you 're discussing someone violently assaulting you , then it is
a perfectly legitimate response to make them stop. (hopefully
simply letting them know you 're prepared to shoot them would be enough ,
as it was with the above mentioned store owners.)

if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals (and their neighbor who have
guns) what do you think will happen \? \? (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa)

45 of households have some form of firearm , usually a long gun.
that accounts for a level of access for at least 100 million americans.
firearm ownership is most likely among educated , well off whites , the
group least likely to be involved in violent crime.

you may take that for what it 's worth.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from yodicet@gtewd.mtv.gtegsc.com
subject re atf burns dividian ranch update
distribution usa
organization gte govt. systems , electronics def. div.
lines 12

in article 93110.11320334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet , 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
ah yes , i see a few liberal weenies have come out of the woodwork
to defend the burning of the children. probably drooled all over themselves
while watching the tv coverage.

probably had a few like that in nazi germany , as well.

oh yeah , atf fbi now claims , according the the media , that there are
a few survivors. the number seems to vary minute by minute.




from hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization university of houston administrative computing
lines 44
distribution world
nntp posting host uhad2.admin.uh.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24
in reply to mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu 's message of 21 apr 1993 02 42 37 gmt

in 1r2cat 5a9@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu writes

cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

thank you for pointing out the obvious to people who so clearly missed it.
i ca n't stand it when people 's first reaction is to defend the aggressor.

minor quibble the assualt (and it was one) began near dawn. the fire did
not break out for several hours. i find it highly unlikely that the bd would
be cooking lunch while armored vehicles punch holes in their house and are
pumping in tear gas. the lantern story makes more sense , except the fire
seemed to spread too quickly , even given the nature of the buildings and the
very high winds. and it was daylight , but i guess in the innner recesses it
could be dark shutters probably closed as well.

which puts us back to the fbi did it , or the bd did it , or some other screw
up occured , which is quite possible.

the problem with the fbi as a monolithic entity doing it is that it requires
everybody involved to keep their mouths shut. while they tended to behave
like total idiots , that does not make them homocidal maniacs , either. and if
it was one nutcase agent , then it serves no purpose to blame the whole agency.

i can believe that a real nut case like a koresh would start such a fire ,
but i'm far from convinced he actually did so.

then again , i rarely go off making blanket condemnations and pronouncments
within 2 hours of a very confusing incident over 175 miles away...

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph

from manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
organization manes and associates , nyc
distribution na
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 38

hambidge@bms.com wrote
in article c4psog.c6@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes

rate per capita rate. the uk is more dangerous.
though you may be less likely to be killed by a handgun , the average
individual citizen in the uk is twice as likely to be killed
by whatever means as the average swiss. would you feel any better
about being killed by means other than a handgun \? i would n't.

what an absurd argument. switzerland is one fifth the size of the
uk with one eigth as many people therefore at any given point on
swiss soil you are more likely to be crow bait. more importantly ,
you are 4x as likely to be killed by the next stranger approaching
you on a swiss street than in the uk.

you are betraying your lack of understanding about rate versus total
number. rates are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population.
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the
rate would be 10 100 , 000. a place that had 50 deaths and a population
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000. the former has a higher
rate , the latter a higher total. you are less likely to die in the
latter. simple enuff \?

for chrissakes , take out your calculator and work out the numbers.
here... i 've preformatted them for you to make it easier

handgun homicides population

switzerland 24 6 , 350 , 000
uk 8 55 , 670 , 000

... and then tell me again how switzerland is safer with a more
liberal handgun law than the uk is without...by rate or total number.
your choice.

stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o


from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re ama support brady bill
lines 27
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 1r044ainnh9f@tamsun.tamu.edu dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf) writes

the following was sent to me by a friend of mine (a med student). it
originally appeared in a medical discussion list.

gun control the ama expressed support for s. 414 and h.r. 1025 (the brady
handgun violence prevention act ). citing its strong support for the brady
bill in past congresses , the ama termed as particularly alarming violence
associated with , and stemming from , the widespread and easy availability and
use of firearms. the ama proceeded to comment while we recognize that a
waiting period of 5 business days before a handgun purchase will not address
all of the difficult problems that have made violence so prevalent in our
society , we believe that it is a beginning and will save lives. physicians
are first hand witnesses to the horrendous cost in human life being exacted
by firearm violence. a reasonable waiting period before the purchase of a
handgun is a protection that the american people deserve. (letters to
senator howard m. metzenbaum and representative charles e. schumer march 11 ,
1993.)

i wonder if the ama has an exact listing of lives saved in
tennessee , california , and other waiting period states.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from jdw@unislc.slc.unisys.com (james warren)
subject re reasonable (for criminals \? ) civie arms limits
organization unisys corporation slc
lines 27

in article 1993apr19.223925.2342@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
a poster claims he 'always asks anti gunners what they think would
be reasonable personal firepower restrictions'. ok then ...

caliber not greater than 32
muzzle not greater than 300 ft lbs with any combo of bullet wt vel
action single shot rifles and single action revolvers
revolvers bearing no more than six rounds and incorporating
an 'anti fanning' mechanism to discourage roy rogers wannabes.
bullets any non explosive variety , hps just fine.

now these specs leave the 32 h r magnum as about the most powerful
allowable civie cartridge for handgun or rifle use. it would be
reasonably effective against home intruders , muggers , rabid wolves
and other such nasties , even with the firearm type limitations. at the
same time , this caliber power limit would reduce the ultimate lethality
of hits.

i suspect that you think that this is less lethal than the typical
assault weapon . you are wrong. compared to what most criminals use , a
9mm with military ammo (fmjs) , or a military rifle (use is extremely
rare) , .223 or 7.62mm with military ammo (fmjs) , the .32 h r magnum with
civie bullets is more lethal. most of the arms which criminals (and
the military) use are among the least lethal arms in existance.

what if we just punish the criminal and leave the law abiding citizen
alone \? it has n't been tried in recient times , but it might work.

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 24

in article c518b1.amf@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
last year the us suffered almost 10 , 000 wrongful or accidental
deaths by handguns alone (fbi statistics). in the same year , the uk
suffered 35 such deaths (scotland yard statistics). the population
of the uk is about 1 5 that of the us (10 , 000 (35 5)). weighted
for population , the us has 57x as many handgun related deaths as the
uk. and , no , the brits do n't make up for this by murdering 57x as
many people with baseball bats.

if you examine the figures , they do. stabbing is favourite , closely
followed by striking , punching , kicking. many more people are burnt to
death in britain as are shot to death. take at look and you 'll see for
yourself.

it means that very few people are shot to death in great britain.

and i'm sure that is a great comfort to the widows and children of
those stabbed , beaten and burned to death. the real question is ,
did the crime rate in england go down , after they enacted
gun control laws \? if you look at the rates before and after their
first such law in 1920 , you will see no effect.

frank crary
cu boulder

from arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements)
subject re aclu (was re waco shootout ...)
organization california institute of technology , pasadena
lines 22
nntp posting host sandman.caltech.edu

jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes

in article 1993mar31.140529.10843@news.cs.indiana.edu paul hager
hagerp@cs.indiana.edu writes

as an old post of mine came up in a collection of posts about
the aclu 's position on gun control , i would like to note that my
own position has been evolving. but , i'm still not sure how to
answer the question , does the 2nd allow me to have my own nuclear
device \?

the second amendment does not prohibit it , but it can probably be argued that
there is no way you can operate one without severely impacting on the safety
and rights of others , and so might not be permitted on that basis.

the existence of the weapon in and of itself (and this is also
true for biologics and chemical weapons , but for slightly different
reasons) poses a threat to living critters. can you say neutron
and other radiation flux due to radioactive decay , boys and girls \?

aaron
arc@cco.caltech.edu

from tms@cs.umd.edu (tom swiss (not swift , not suiss , swiss ! ))
subject re fwd free nra membership offer
organization the reality liberation front (pixels to the people ! )
lines 28

andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes

the nra supports anyone who 's pro gun and has a chance of winning
election , regardless of their other positions. is it their fault that
some drug legalizers are anti gun \? is it their fault that the
drug legalizers who are pro gun ca n't get elected \?

it 's not the nra 's fault but it is something to consider if you are
considering contributing to the nra. if candidate b is a complete asshole
whose only saving grace is that he opposes unnecessary restrictions on
firearms , i would n't want my membership dues funding efforts to get him
re elected.

i have other problems with the nra (as an organization the individual
members i 've met have been loyal , trustworthy , honest , brave , etc. ,
especially my boss who probably reads this newsgroup b ) they are
definitely pro hunting , and i recall seeing a pro desert storm nra bumper
sticker. sometimes they come on too strong in the political arena , which
contributes to their reputation as bad guys amoung many people.


tom swiss tms@cs.umd.edu born to die keep your laws off my brain !
what 's so funny 'bout peace , love and understanding \? nick lowe
this .sig contains no animal products and was not tested on animals.
i would feel more optimistic about a bright future for man if he spent
less time proving that he can outwit nature and more time tasting her
sweetness and respecting her seniority. e.b. white


from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re the cold war who really won \?
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 1993apr20.220335.9235@linus.mitre.org glover@tafs2.mitre.org
(graham k. glover) writes
if one reasons that the united states of america at one time represented
and protected freedom individual liberty and personal responsibility
(and i do , in fact , think that this is true) and that totalitarianism
absolute government control and tyranny represents freedom 's opposite
(which it does) , did the usa really win the cold war \?

of course not. the usa 's only hope is for yelsen (how ever you spell it) to
fail the referendum , and have the hard liners take over again.


standard disclaimers always apply !


graham k. glover


unmutual


jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re impeach clinton , reno
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
organization sun microsystems
lines 22
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com


i heartily agree. now that the batf warrant has been
unsealed , it is clear that clinton and reno supported an
illegal raid. did they not know this \?



no authority for a 'no knock raid
no authority to use helicopters.
no authority to search for a drug lab

and , apparently , not even any authority to search for automatic
weapons .

51 days of government lies.

sorry , i missed all this ! can you please give an update on
the warrant \? i had n't heard that it was unsealed. there
was no authority for a no knock \? this is news. how about
an ok for a wiretap \?

please summarize !

from cathyf@is.rice.edu (catherine anne foulston)
subject re waco clinton press conference , part 1
organization rice university
lines 6

could y'all please stop posting this stuff to tx.general. tx.politics
is sufficient and is where this stuff belongs. thanks.

cathy

cathy foulston rice university network systems support cathyf@rice.edu

from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re some more about gun control...
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 42

in article 1993apr14.232806.18970@beaver.cs.washington.edu graham@cs.washington.edu (stephen graham) writes
in article 1qhpcn b12@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
consider a similar structure
a well educated electorate , being necessary for the security of a
free state , the right of the people to keep and read books , shall not
be infringed.

now , does this mean only the electorate can keep and read books \? does
it mean only registered voters can keep and read books \? does it mean
only those who have voted can keep and read books \? does it imply any
restrictions at all on the right to keep and read books \?

but it would imply that the state had the right to regulate and enforce
education.

that 's nice , but it does n't answer the question. there is a difference
between the feds can mandate literacy and the feds ca n't interfere
with literacy book possession .

as far as john q. public with a gun , the supreme court has already
ruled in cases such as us v. miller (307 u.s. 175 (1939)) , and us v.
verdugo urquidez (110 s. ct. 1839 (1990)) that that is exactly what
the amendment protects. this interpretation can be found as far back
as the dred scott case , in 1857.

it 's worth noting that us vs. miller sustained miller 's conviction
of possession of an illegal firearm , noting that a sawed off shotgun
was not a proper militia weapon. therefore , us vs. miller supports
limited government regulation of firearms.

actually , the miller court did nothing of the kind. it remanded
the case back to the trial court because the miller court did n't
know if the weapon in question was a militia weapon. (does n't it
bother anyone that a major constitutional issue was taken up in
a case where there was no defense \? miller had been released by
the appeals court and disappeared only the govt was represented.)

we do n't know what would have happened with the reasonable all guns
are militia weapons argument.

andy


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
lines 18

in article 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu says

ah i love posts like this. many people have already replied to this one as i
knew they would. i'm not going to say much as this just seems like baiting to
me. someone decided to post to see how many people would get mad and reply. i
am just going to ignore it but i do have one thing to say. see below.

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect
them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.


listen buddy , if you 're going to quote star trek get the quote right. it was
resistance is futile . get it right the next time )

jason u28037@uicvm.cc.uic.edu




from whughes@lonestar.utsa.edu (william w. hughes)
subject re batf fbi revenge
keywords batf fbi korash child abuse guns murder control
nntp posting host lonestar.utsa.edu
organization university of texas at san antonio
lines 20

in article 2077@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes
i am sick , dismayed , discouraged. and ashamed of our administration.

anybody for impeachment \?

i have already called senators , legislators and the governor demanding
that the warrants be unsealed , and that all involved in this atrocity
(including the president , attorney general and governor) be suspended
pending an investigation.

i seriously doubt , however , that anything will ever be done.


welcome to amerika !



remember waco !
who will the government decide to murder next \? maybe you \?
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state.

from random@cbnewse.cb.att.com (david l. pope)
subject riddle me something else.
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 11

on the other hand , i wonder if ,
with a face full of massive amounts of cs , i would be able to escape
a burning tinder box like that ranch house assuming my best efforts.

what ever happened to the 'adobe fortress' i kept hearing about \? i
thought this was a 'cult stronghold' ! if the kgbatf knew it was a
tinderbox , why did n't they just have all the talking heads line up
and start huffin' and puffin \?

random


from pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com (dillon pyron)
subject re founding father questions
lines 35
nntp posting host skndiv.dseg.ti.com
reply to pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
organization ti dseg vax support


in article 1993apr5.153951.25005@eagle.lerc.nasa.gov , pspod@bigbird.lerc.nasa.gov (steve podleski) writes
arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements) writes
was n't she the one making the comment in '88 about george being born with
a silver foot in his mouth \? sounds like another damn politician to me.

ai n't like the old days in texas anymore. the politicians may have been
corrupt then , but at least they 'd take a stand. (my apologies to a few
exceptions i can think of.)

news now is that the house may already have a two thirds majority , so
her opposition out of her concern for image (she 's even said this
publicly) may not matter.

do people expect the texans congressmen to act as the n.j. republicans did \?

there is a (likely) veto proof majority in the house. the senate ,
unfortunately , is a different story. the lt.gov. has vowed that the bill will
not be voted on , and he has the power to do it. in addition , the senate is a
much smaller , and more readily manipulated body.

on ther other hand , the semi automatic ban will likely not live , as at least
fifty per cent of the house currently opposes it , and it is very far down in
the bill order in the senate (i believe it will be addressed after the ccw
bill).

and i thought my tx political science class was a waste of time !

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) god gave us weather so we would n't complain
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com about other things.
padi dm 54909


from ron@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (ron miller)
subject re waco , they did it. ( masada )
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa
lines 8

re flaming wreckage

i wrote my congressmen strongly worded letters demanding they dissolve the
batf.

perhaps anger and grief can help spur a letter writing campaign \?

ron miller

from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody
lines 29
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article 93108.025818u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu writes

i have heard many opinions on this subject and would like to hear more from
the people on the net.

say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody. you
give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in their
action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my question is
what do you do \? should you stay and wait for the cops or should you
collect your brass (if you 're using a semi auto) and get out of there
(provided of course you do n't think that you have been seen) \?

as a data point from tennessee , a friend of mine and a police
officer essentially recommends that if you can , fade away. even if
you were perfectly justified you 're likely in for a great deal of
hassle. (a side note , carrying a gun concealed is a misdemeanor.)

what kind
of laws are on the books regarding this type of situation \? what would
be the most likely thing to happen to you if you stayed and waited and
it was a first offense \? what would happen if you took off but someone
saw you and you were caught \?

it 's one of those by state things , pretty much.

david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from hambidge@bms.com
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 81

in article 1993apr14.182610.2330@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
in article 1993apr14.120958.11363@synapse.bms.com , hambidge@bms.com writes

the second amendment is about sovereignty , not sporting goods.

perfectly correct , but it wo n't make any difference.

hmm. i beg to differ. it will probably make a big difference at some
point.


self defense is a valid reason for rkba.

the vast majority get through life without ever having to
own , use or display a firearm. besides , there are other
means of self protection which can be just as effective
as firearms.

thankfully , it is true that the majority go through life without
having to use a firearm. howver , there are situations where firearms
are the most effective means of self protection. what other means do
you propose as equally effective \?



freedoms and rights are not dependent on public opinion , necessity , or
scientific scrutiny.

new to this planet \? everything is dependent on either public
or political opinion , usually political. to imagine that
inalienable 'rights' are somehow wired into the vast cold
cosmos is purest egotism and a dangerous delusion.

new to this country \? new to political theory \?
alas , i was speaking of principle. without principle , all attempts at
republican forms of gov't are futile. there are times when public and
political opinion are contrary to principle , which is why we have a
constitution which enumerates gov't powers and presumes certain
rights. a major reason for this was to prevent a tyranny of the
majority.


no arguments against rkba can withstand scientific scrutiny.

they do n't have to. like so many other things , the issue
is one of perception rather than boring statistics.
every time some young innocent is gunned down in a drive
by , every time some kid is murdered for a jacket , every
time a store clerk is executed for three dollars in change ,
every time some moron kills his wife because she took the
last beer from the fridge , every time someone hears a 'bang'
in the night .... the rkba dies. the stats are not all that
clearly behind firearms the protection factor does not
strongly outweigh the mindless mayhem factor. given society
as we now experience it it seems safer to get rid of
as many guns as possible. that may be an error , but enough
active voters believe in that course.

this is exactly why law should be based on reasoned thought , not
immediate perception. of course , it does n't always work that way.
fortunately , while there are no guarantees , logic sometimes does
prevail. and , if not , there are still means for correction.
as far as enough active voters are concerned , that is still
an open question until the vote is made.


how do you intend to 'silence' rkba supporters \?

talk all you want. talk about the good old days when
you used to own firearms. after a while , such talk will
take on the character of war stories ... and no one will
be very interested anymore.

you portray a possible scenario for the future. but , how will you
silence rkba supporters right now \? as long as public debate is
allowed , such debate will continue. if we allow public debate to be
restricted or denied , then we will get a gov't we deserve.

al
standard disclaimer


from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 90

in article 1r21g2inneah@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes
in article c5sou8.lnb@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1993apr20.163730.16128@guinness.idbsu.edu betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
(andrew betz) writes
in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people
come out with their hands up several weeks ago.

it did n't happen.

and who is responsible for it not happening \?
certainly not the children. koresh was calling the shots. he was
talking with his lawyer and the fbi. since others were released safely ,
there is no sane reason for keeping the children inside the compound.

scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating
that mlk was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government.

more than someone who would not release children from the compound.

obviously. you are an authority worshiper.

not at all. are you a koresh worshiper \?

i.e. , more than david koresh vernon howell jesus christ .
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult.

give me a camera , and time with you , and i can present excerpts that show you
to be a cult leader. guarenteed.

thanks for my laugh of the day ! definitely a very silly supposition.

you should at least view the whole
documentary before you claim it as a source.

i would if i could. the news show that showed the lengthy excerpts also
had interviews with the filmmaker who made the documentary who basically
confirmed what was shown in the excerpts from the time he spent at the
compound in 1992.

i am not pleased with the batf handling of the affair. i think they
bungled it badly from the start. but i do n't think they are
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places.

two places , eh \? you saw this \? or did the wonderful fbi tell you this \?
i saw one place.

i believe that this was reported by local radio reporters on site.
a fire started in a three story tower at the same time as the two
story window shown on the tv coverage.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

i suspect that there were plenty of camerapeople willing to
risk small arms fire to get some good footage. these people
were told to get the hell out of camera range. why \?

could n't answer this one , eh \? this is the most important question of all , it
is the root cause of all the other suspicion.

i thought about mentioning how reagan and the military treated the press
in grenada and how that set the precedent , but decided it was n't worthy
of discussion. if the news reporter got shot , you can bet his family
would sue the government for letting him into the danger area.

the root cause of suspicion in my mind is why 100 people would n't flee
a building that had numerous exits during the 30 minutes time it took
to burn down. or why did n't they flee hours earlier when the tear gas was
first introduced \? i can find no rational explanation for their behavior.





from rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization at t
distribution usa
lines 38


firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

this is not borne out of reality the old soviet union had a very
serious domestic handgun and submachinegun trade , guns that were
of commercial grade because they were produced in honest to goodness
machineshops. why would all production have to be local do n't we
have a road system that is the envy of the world \?

i seem to recall incidents in the past where chinese entreprenaurs
attempted to smuggle ak 47s (semi autos) into this country to
get around import number limitations (may have been gunweek where
i read that years ago...)

any person with high school drafting skills and vocational school
machineshop training could produce a submachinegun. you talk about
the average person not being able get even a zip gun well now , think
of all that private cnc controlled machinery that is not being used for
3 shifts a day do you think that if guns were being sold on the
black market for say , 150 , an enterprising mechanical engineer
could be using that machinery to produce workable submachineguns
for sale \? after all , gunweek had an article and pictures on how batf
was looking for the manufacturer of quite efficient silencers that
were of commercial quality and finish.

look at it this way , 25 of the u.s. households have a handgun. say
at least half of those keep one for self defense. you are talking a
potential market of of tens of millions of people who would seek
firearms for the purpose of self preservation. only a fool would
believe that market would not be filled , regardless of government
prohibitions.

from klm@gozer.mv.com (kevin l. mcbride)
subject the holocaust revisited
organization ghostbuster central southern nh usenet access , nashua , nh
lines 17

the u.s. government 's campaign of persecution and genocide against the
branch davidians was a resounding success.

heil clinton ! heil reno ! the gestapo is alive and well and living in
washington , d.c.


kevin , who agrees that david koresh was probably a first rate nutcase
but who firmly believes that the bill of rights guaranteed his
his right to be a religious fanatic and that the government is
guilty of violating his civil rights and of 1st degree murder.

ok , which small , under represented in congress religious group
are we going to persecute next and are we going to torch their
church with a rolled up copy of the constitution \?

i think i'm going to be sick now. . .

from dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard)
subject re riddle me this...
organization sun microsystems
lines 24
distribution world
reply to dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com
nntp posting host clesun.central.sun.com

in article 1r1lp1inn752@mojo.eng.umd.edu , chuck@eng.umd.edu (chuck harris wa3uqv) writes
in article 1993apr20.050550.4660@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca j979@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca (fuller m) writes
does a not harmful gassing mean that you can , with a little willpower ,
stay inside indefinitely without suffering any serious health problems \?

if so , why was cs often employed against tunnels in vietnam \?

what is the difference , anyway \?

cs tear gas was used in vietnam because it makes you wretch so hard that
your stomach comes out thru your throat. well , not quite that bad , but
you ca n't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies.

chuck harris wa3uqv
chuck@eng.umd.edu



interesting... after several hours worth of exposure , do you still posess
the presence of mind to be able to determine how to escape from an inferno
surrounding you \? in other words , is it possible that the prolonged gassing
disoriented the wackos enough that possibility of escape was rendered
questionable \?


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re hr 1276 ( a gun law i can live with ! )
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 15
distribution usa
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr15.171601.25930@dg rtp.dg.com , meyers@leonardo.rtp.dg.com (bill meyers) writes

a bill

to establish the right to obtain firearms for security , and
to use firearms in defense of self , family , or home , and
to provide for the enforcement of such right.

maybe i'm too religious , but when i see a bill to establish a right ,
i wince. keep in mind , what the law giveth , the law can taketh away.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani)
subject ohio house bill 278 (otto beatty 's military weapons ban)
organization ideology busters , inc.
distribution usa
keywords otto beatty , military weapons , registration , sales ban
lines 486

note , ohio legislation unlike federal legislation , shows the entire
law as it would be changed by the legislation. these parts are in
all capitals , the rest (i.e. , current law is in regular type) .

as introduced

120th general asembly

regular session h. b. no. 278

1993 1994

represenative beatty

a bill

to amend sections2923.11 , 2923.17 , and 2923.20 and
to enact section 2923.181 of the revised code
to expand the defintion of dangerous ordnance to
include military weapons that do not use bolt
action , to increase the penalty for a violation
of the prohibition against possession of
dangerous ordnance , to prohibit any person from
acquiring a military weapon on or after the act 's
effective date , to require the licensure of
military weapons acquired for aproper purpose
prior to the act 's effective dte , to prohibit a
person from importing , manufacturing , or selling
a military weapon , and to declare an emergency.

be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of ohio

section 1. that sections 2923.11 , 2923.17 and 2923.20 be

amended and section 2923.181 of the revised code be enacted to

read as follows

sec. 2923.11. as used in section 2923.11 to 2923.24 of
the revised code
(a) deadly weapon means any instrument , device , or thing
capable of inflicting death , and designed or specially adapted
for use as a weapon , or possessed , carried , or used as a weapon.
(b)(1) firearm means any deadly weapon capable of
expelling or propelling one or more projectiles by the action of
an explosive or combustible propellant. firarms includes an
unloaded firearm , and any firearm which is inoperable but which
can readily be rendered operable.
(2) when determining whether a firearm is capable of
expelling or propelling one or more projectiles by the action of
an explosive or combustible propellant , the trier of fact may
rely upon circumstancial evidence , including , but not limited to ,
the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
(c) handgun means any firearm designed to be fired while
held in one hand.
(d) semi automatic firearm means any firearm designed or
specially adapted to fire a single cartridge and automatically
chamber a suceeding cartridge ready to fire , with a single
function of the trigger.
(e) automatic firearm means any firearm designed or
specially adapted to fire a succession of cartridges with a
single function of the trigger. automatic firearm also means
any semi automatic firearm designed or specially adapted to fire
more than thirty one cartridges without reloading , other than a
firearm chambering only .22 caliber short , long , or long rifle
cartridges.
(f) sawed off firearm means a shotgun with a barrel less
than eighteen inches long , or a rifle with a barrel less than
sixteen inches long , or a shotgun or rifle less than twenty six
inches long overall.
(g) zip gun means any of the following
(1) any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture
(2) any device , including without limitation a starter 's
pistol , not designed as a firearm , but which is specially adapted
for use as a firearm
(3) any industrial tool , signalling device , or safety
device , not designed as a firearm , but which as designed is
capable of use as such a firearm , when possessed , carried , or
used as a firearm.
(h) explosive device means any device designed or
specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property
by means of an explosion , and consisting of an explosive
substance or agency and a means to detonate it. explosive
device includes without limitation any bomb , any explosive
demolition device , any blasting cap or detonator containing an
explosive charge , and any pressure vessel which has been
knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
(i) incendiary device means any firebomb , and any device
designed or specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons
or property by means of fire , and consisting of an incendiary
substance or agency and a means to ignite it.
(j) ballistic knife means a knife with a detachable
blade that is propelled by a spring operated mechanism.
(k) dangerous ordinance means any of the following ,
except as provided in division (l) of this section
(1) any automatic or sawed off firearms. zip gun , or
ballistic knife
(2) any explosive device or incendiary device
(3) nitroglycerin , nitrocellulose , nitrostarch , petn ,
cyclonite , tnt , picric acid , and other high explosives amatol ,
tritonal , tetrytol , pentolite , pecretol , cyclotol , and other high
explosive compositions plastic explosives dynamite , blasting
gelatin , gelatin dynamite , sensitized ammonium nitrate , liquid
oxygen blasting explosives , blasting powder , and other blasting
agents and any other explosive substance having sufficient
brisance or power to be particularly suitable for use as a
military explosive , or for use in mining , quarrying , excavating ,
or demolitions
(4) any firearm , rocket launcher , mortar , artillery piece
grenade , mine , bomb , torpedo , or similar weapon , designed and
manufactured for military purposes , and the ammunition for that
weapon
(5) any firearm muffler or silencer
(6) any military weapon
(7) any detachable magazine , magazine , drum , belt , feed
strip , or similar device that has a capacity of , or that readily
can be restored or converted to accept , more than fifteen rounds
of ammunition
(8) any combination of parts that is intended by the owner
for use in converting any firearm or other device into a
dangerous ordinance.
(l) dangerous ordnance does not include any of the
following
(1) any firearm , including a military weapon and the
ammunition for that weapon , and regardless of its actual
age , which employs a percussion cap or other obsolete ignition
system or which is designed and safe for use only with black
powder , and
(2) any pistol , rifle , or shotgun , designed or suitable
for sporting purposes , unless the firearm is either of the
following
(a) a military weapon as issued or as modified , and the
ammunition for that weapon
(b) an automatic or sawed off firearm.
(3) any cannon or other artilery piece which ,
regardless of its actual age , is of a type in accepted use prior
to 1887 , has no mechanical , hydraulic , pneumatic , or other system
for absorbing recoil and returning the tube into battery without
displacing the carriage , and is designed and safe for use only
with black powder
(4) black powder , priming quills , and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in
division (l) (3) of this section during displays , celebrations ,
organized matches or shoots , and target practice , and smokeless
and black powder , primers , and percussion caps possed and
lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small arms or
small arms ammunition
(5) dangerous ordinance which is inoperable or inert and
cannot readily be rendered operable or activated , and which is
kept as a trophy , souvenir , curio , or museum piece.
(6) any device which is expressly excepted from the
definition of a destructive device pursuant to the gun control
act of 1968 , 82 stat. 1213 , 18 u.s.c. 921(a)(4) , as amended , and
regulations issued under that act.
(m) military weapon' means any of the following
(1) any firearm that originally was manufactured for
military use , or a copy of any such firearm , if the firearm is
not a bolt action firearm
(2) any model of any of the following firearms that is a
semi automatic firearm and is a rifle or any model of any copy of
any of the following firearms that is a semi automatic firearm
and is a rifle
(a) armalite ar 180
(b) auto ordnance thompson models 1927a1 and m 1
(c) avtomat kalashnikov
(d) poly tech ak 47s
(e) china sports ak 47 bullpup
(f) mitchell ak 47 and m 76
(g) barrett light fifty model 82a1
(h) baretta ar 70
(i) bushmaster auto rifle
(j) calico m900 and m 100
(k) colt ar 15
(l) commando arms carbine , mark 111 , mark 45 , and mark 9
(m) universal 5000 carbine , enforcer
(n) american arms arm 1 and aky 39
(o) daewoo max 1 and max 2
(p) fabrique nationale fn fal , fn lar. and fn fnc
(q) famas mas 223
(r) feather at 9
(s) federal kc 900 and xc 450
(t) galil ar and arm
(u) goncz high tech carbine
(v) heckler and koch hk 91 , hk 93 , hk 94 , and psg 1
(w) mandall tac 1 carbine
(x) ruger mini 14 sf folding stock model
(y) sig 57 amt and 500 series
(z) springfield armory sar 48 , g 3 , bm 59 alpine , and m1a

carbine
(aa) sterling mk 6 and mark 7
(bb) steyr aug
(cc) uzi carbine and mini carbine
(dd) valmet m 62s , m 76 , m 78 , and m82 bullpup carbine
(ee) weaver arms nighthawk
(ff) military m14 and military m1 carbine .30
(gg) springfield armory m1a assault
(hh) thompson 27a 5 with drum magazine
(ii) plainfield commando universe 5000 carbine
(jj) cobray m 11 with or without silencer
(kk) spectre auto carbine
(ll) swd cobray
(mm) armi jager ap 74 and ap 74 commando
(nn) armscorp of america israeli fn fal
(oo) clayco sks carbine
(pp) dragunov sniper
(qq) emf ap 74
(rr) iver johnson pm30 p paratrooper
(ss) norinco sks
(tt) partisan avenger
(uu) sigarms sg 550 sp and sg 551 sp
(vv) squires bingham m 16
(ww) wilkinson terry carbine.

(3) any model of any of the following firearms that is a
semi automatic firearm and is a pistol or any model of any copy
of any of the following firearms that is a semi automatic firearm
and is a pistol

(a) bushmaster auto pistol
(b) calico 100 p auto pistol
(c) ebcin nj iv , mp 9 , and mp 45
(d) feather mini at
(e) goncz high tech pistol'
(f) holmes mp 83 and mp 22
(g) intratec tec 9 and scorpion .22
(h) iver johnson enforcer
(i) ingram mac 10 and mac 11
(j) mitchell arms spectre auto
(k) scarab skorpion
(l) sterling mk 7
(m) uzi pistol
(n) universal enforcer
(o) wilkinson linda auto pistol.

(4) any model of any of the following firearms that is a
semi automatic firearm and is a shotgun or any model of any copy
of any of the following firearms that is a semi automatic firearm
and is a shotgun

(a) franchi spas 12 and law 12
(b) striker 12 and street sweeper
(c) benelli m1 super 90
(d) mossberg 500 bullpup
(e) usas 12 auto shotgun.

sec. 2923.17. (a)(1) no person shall knowingly acquire ,
have , or carry any dangerous ordnance.

(2) no person shall knowingly use any dangerous ordnance.
(b) this section does not apply to any of the following
(1) officers , agents , or employees of this or any other
state or the united states , members of the armed forces of the
united states or the organized militia of this or any other
state , and law enforcement officers , to the extent that any such
person is authorized to acquire , have , carry , or use dangerous
ordnance and is acting within the scope of his duties
(2) importers , manufacturers , dealers , and users of
explosives , having a license or user permit issued and in effect
pursuant to the organized crime control act of 1970 , 84 stat.
952 , 18 u.s.c. 843 , and any amendments or additions to or
reenactments of that act , with respect to explosives and
explosive devices lawfully acquired , possessed , carried , or used
under the laws of this state and applicable federal law
(3) importers , manufactuers , and dealers having a license
to deal in destructive devices or their ammunition , issued and in
effect pursuant to the gun control act of 1968 , 82 stat. 1213.
18 u.s.c. 923 and any amendments or additions to or
reenactments of that act , with respect to dangerous
ordnance lawfully acquired , possessed , carried , or used under the
laws of this state and applicable federal law
(4) persons to whom surplus ordnance has been sold ,
loaned , or given by the secretary of the army pursuant to 70a
stat. 62 and 263 , 10 u.s.c. 4684 , 4685 , 4686 , and any
amendments or additions to or reenactments of that act , with
respect to dangerous ordnance when lawfully possessed and used
for the purpose specified in that section
(5) owners of dangerous ordnance registered in the
national firearms registration and transfer record pursuant to
the act of october 22 , 1968 , 82 stat.1229 , 26 u.s.c. 5841 , and
any amendments or additions to or reenactments of , and
regulations issued under the act.
(6) carriers , warehousemen , and others engaged in the
business of transporting or storing goods for hire , with respect
to dangerous ordnance lawfully transported or stored in the usual
course of their business and in compliance with the laws of this
state and applicable federal law
(7) the holders of a license or temporary permit issued
and in effect pursuant to section 2923.18 of the revised code ,
with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired , possessed ,
carried , or used for the purposes and in the manner specified in
the license or permit.
(c) division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to the
acquisition , having , or carrying of dangerous ordnance that is a
military weapon if both of the following apply
(1) the person who acquires , has , or carries the dangerous
ordnance in question acquired it before the effective date of
this amendment as a collector's item or for a legitimate
research , scientific , educational , industrial , or other proper
purpose
(2) no later than the close of business on the seventh day
after the effective date of this amendment , the person who
acquired the dangerous ordnance in question in accordance with
division (c)(1) of this section submitted an application pursuant
to section 2923.181 of the revised code for a license to have and
carry it and the application has not been denied or a valid
license has been issued to the person.
(d) divisions (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply
to the acquisition , having , carrying , or using of any dangerous
ordnance described in division (k)(7) of section 2923.11 of the
revised code that was acquired prior to the effective date of
this amendment.
(e) whoever violates this section is quilty of unlawful
possession of dangerous ordnance , a an aggravated felony of the
first degree.
sec. 2923.181. (a) any person who acquired a military
weapon before the effective date of this section shall file a
written application for a license to have and carry the military
weapon with the sheriff of the county or safety director or
police chief of the municipal corporation where the applicant
resides or has his principal place of business. the application
shall be filed no later than the close of business on the seventh
day after the effective date of this section and shall be
accompanied by a filing fee of fifty dollars. the person shall
file a separate application and pay a separate filing fee for
each military weapon that he has or intends to carry. the
application shall contain all of the following information
(1) the name , age , address , occupation , and business
address of the applicant , if the applicant is a natural person ,
or the name , address , and principal place of business of the
applicant , if the applicant is a corporation
(2) a description of the military weapon for which a
license is requested , including the serial number and all
identification marks
(3) a statement of the purpose for which the military
weapon was acquired and for which it is to be possessed , carried ,
or used
(4) any other information that the issuing authority may
require in giving effect to this section
(5) the oath of the applicant that the information on the
application is true.
(b)(1) no later than the close of business on the
fourteenth day after an application for a license to have and
carry a military weapon has been filed under division (a) of this
section , the issuing authority shall either approve the
application and issue a license to the applicant or deny the
application and send a letter of denial by ordinary mail to the
applicant. after conducting any necessary investigation , the
issuing authority shall issue a license to an applicant whom it
determines satisfies the following criteria
(a) the applicant is twenty one years of age or older , if
the applicant is a natural person
(b) it appears that the applicant will possess and carry
the military weapon as a collector's item or for a legitimate ,
scientific , educational , industrial , or other proper purpose
(c) it appears that the applicant has sufficient
competence to have and carry the military weapon and that proper
precautions will be taken to ensure the security of the military
weapon and the safety of persons and property
(d) the applicant otherswise is not prohibited by law from
having or carrying dangerous ordnance.
(2) a license issued pursuant to division (b)(1) of this
section shall be valid for one year after the date of its
issuance. the license shall be renewed pursuant to division
(c) of this section.
(c)(1) except as provided in division (c)(3) of this
section , any person who is issued a license under division (b)(1)
of this section shall renew the license by filing an application
for renewal by regular mail with the sheriff of the county or the
safety director or police chief of the municipal corporation who
was the issuing authority of the license. an application for
renewal shall be filed annually no later than one year after the
date on which the license was issued or last renewed.
(2) each sheriff and each safety director and peace officer
of a municipal corporation shall make available applications for
the renewal of a license issued under division (b)(1) of this
section. in the application the applicant , under oath , shall
update the information submitted in the previous application for
a license or the renewal of a license.
the application for the renewal of a license shall be
accompanied by a fee of five dollars. the applicant shall file a
seperate application for renewal and pay a seperate renewal fee
for each military weapon that he intends to continue to have and
carry.
(3) a person who has changed his residence or principal
place of business to a location outside of the jurisdiction of
the issuing authority subsequent to the issuance or renewal of a
license under this section shall renew his license by filing an
application in the manner prescribed by division (a) of this
section with the sheriff of the county or the safety director or
police chief of the municipal corporation where he then resides
or has his principal place of business. when making an
application to renew a license after a change in residence or
place of business , the applicant shall give notice of the change
of address by regular mail to the original issuing authority for
the license and the state fire marshall on notification forms
prescribed by the sheriff , safety director , or police chief from
whom he seeks renewal.
(d) a license to have and carry a military weapon shall
identify the person to whom it is issued , identify the military
weapon for which it is issued , state the purpose identified in
division (b)(1)(b) of this section for which the military weapon
will be possessed and carried , state its expiration date , and
list all restrictions on the having or carrying of the military
weapon as prescribed by the laws of this state and applicable
federal law.
(e) any person who is issued a license to have and carry a
military weapon under this section and who changes his address
shall notify the issuing authority of the change of his address
no later than ninety days after the change has occurred.
(f) the issuing authority shall forward to the state fire
marshall a copy of each license issued or renewed under this
section. the state fire marshall shall keep a permanent file of
all licenses issued or renewed under this section.
(g) the issuing authority shall cause each application fee
of fifty dollars , filed under division (a) of this section , to be
deposited in the general fund of the county or muncipal
corporation served by the issuing authority. the issuing
authority shall cause two dollars and fifty cents of each renewal
fee , filed under division (c) of this section , to be deposited in
the general fund of the county or municipal corporation served by
the issuing authority and shall send two dollars and fifty cents
of each renewal fee to the treasurer of state for deposit in the
state treasury to the credit of the general revenue fund.
(h) whoever violates division (a) of this section is
guilty of failing to apply for the licensure of a military
weapon , a felony of the fourth degree. whoever violates division
(c) of this section is guilty of failing to apply for renewal of
a license for a military weapon , a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(i) a military weapon that is not licensed as required by
this section is contraband , as defined in section 2901.01 of the
revised code and is subject to forfeiture under section 2933.43
of the revised code.
sec. 2933.20. (a) no person shall do any of the
following
(1) import , manufacture , possess for sale , sell , or
furnish to any person any military weapon
(2) recklessly sell , lend , give , or furnish any firearm to
any person prohibited by section 2923.13 or 2923.15 of the
revised code from acquiring or using any firearm , or recklessly
sell , lend , give , or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person
prohibited by section 2923.13 , 2923.15 , or 2923.17 of the revised
code from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance
(3) possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with
purpose to dispose of it in violation of division (a) of this
section
(4) manufacture , possess for sale , sell , or furnish to
any person other than a law enforcement agency for authorized use
in police work , any brass knuckles , cestus , billy , blackjack ,
sandbag , switchblade knife , springblade knife , gravity knife , or
similar weapon
(5) when transferring any dangerous ordnance to
another , negligently fail to require the transferes to exhibit
any identification , license , or permit showing him to be
authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant to section
2923.17 of the revised code , or negligently fail to take a
complete record of the transaction and forthwith forward a copy
of the record to the sheriff of the county or safety
director or police chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place
(6) knowingly fail to report to law enforcement
authorities forthwith the loss or theft of any firearm or
dangerous ordnance in such person 's possession or under his
control.
(b) whoever violates this section is quilty of unlawful
transactions in weapons. violation of division (a)(1) of this
section is an aggravated felony of the first degree. violation
of division (a)(2) or (3) oof this section is a felony of the
third degree. violation of division (a) (4) or (5) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. violation of
division (6) of this section is a midemeanor of the fourth
degree.
section 2. that existing section 2923.11 , 2923.17 and
2923.20 of the revised code are hereby repealed.
section 3. this act is hereby declared to be an emergency
measure necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace , health , and safety. the reason for this necessity is that
with immediate action , this act will prohibit the continued
purchase , possession , and use of military weapons and as a result
will ameliorate a substantial threat of death and injury to the
public caused by the misuse of improper use of these weapons.
therefore , this act shall go into immediate effect.

larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com

from shaffer@achilles.ctd.anl.gov (michael a. shaffer)
subject re batf fbi revenge
organization argonne national laboratory
lines 29

hmmm... i had n't heard about rockets. atf must be escalating their
tall tails... anyway
if they had rocket launchers and such (as the press and gov claims) why
should n't they have done something \?

why should they have done something \? the davidians had not attacked
or even threatened anyone.

what possible use would a religious cult have for a rocket launcher \?

it is not yours nor the governments right to tell others what they have
a legitimate right to own.

also , is child abuse covered by the bill of rights \?

is child abuse now within the jurisdiction of the department of the
treasury \? attacking citizens without due process on the strength of
unsubstantiated rumors about a violation of a law which does not
fall under your jurisdiction is a pretty serious breech of rights.

shit , if people dont get what they want right away there is an instant problem.
clinton has only been in office for a few months. give him a chance to get
something done. the guy had a lot of shit thrown in his lap in the beginning.
give him a chance to work on things a little. as they say rome was n't built
in a day.

if he gets any more done we will really be in trouble !

mike

from mjp@austin.ibm.com (michael phelps)
subject re is it really apples to apples \? (lawful vs. unlawful use of guns)
originator mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com
reply to mjp@vnet.ibm.com (michael j. phelps)
organization ibm kingston ny
lines 51


in article 1993apr16.092618.22936@husc3.harvard.edu ,
kim39@scws8.harvard.edu (john kim) writes
i have been convinced of the right of americans to an effective
self defense , but something strikes me as odd among the
pro rkba arguments presented here.

the numbers comparing hundreds of thousands (indeed , even a
million) of instances of law abiding citizens deterring
criminal activity , seem valid to me. likewise the number
of gun caused homicides each year (about 11 , 000 year \? ). however ,
it is surprising that the evil antigun empire (darth vader
breathing sound effect here) never tries to compare
all legitimate gun defenses vs. all gun crimes. instead ,
it 's always all legitimate gun defenses , which includes
cases in which the criminals are shot but not killed , and
cases in which the criminal is not here , vs. just
criminal gun homicides , which only includes case sin which
the victim died.

why is this \? of course , it would n't be unreasonable to say
that in each crime already measured (involving guns) , the
consequnces are already known and it is safe to assume that
a gun based bank robbery last week will not suddenly turn
into a gun basd robbery homicide. whereas in the legitimate
gun defenses , one may assume that all those criminals who
were deterred would have committed more crime or more
serious crimes had they not been deterred.

i think its an attempt to show lives saved v lives lost all other
gun related crimes do n't result in lives lost. on the other hand ,
its impossible to know how many of the successful self defenses
prevented lives from being lost. in other words , the lives lost
is pretty clear its the homicide and non negligent manslaughter
number , while the lives saved is some percentage of the successful
self defenses. clearly that percentage does n't have to be real
high to show that lives saved lives lost.

as a semi related point , check out kleck 's point blank . i believe
it goes into some related areas it also is well written and informative.


case kim

kim39@husc.harvard.edu



michael phelps , (external) mjp@vnet.ibm.com ..
(internal) mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com .. mjp at kgnvmy
(and last but not least a disclaimer) these opinions are mine..

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re ax the atf
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article donbc5sl69.f7i@netcom.com , donb@netcom.com (don baldwin) writes

it 's hard to know what who to believe. however , the letter i received from
the batf , in response to one i sent to bentsen , said that there was a search
warrant and an arrest warrant.

check again. you may find that the arrest warrant was issued after the
first firefight.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject statement to everyone on t.p.g
lines 24

ok , here goes. yes folks , i realize i have stuck my foot in my mouth
quite a few times already so please let me make some clarifications. my
inaccurate information in my posts was due to lack of knowledge. thanks
to you kind (and some not so kind) people i am learning. some people
have given me several good points to ponder and i see how i was wrong.
in no way was this inaccurate information supposed to be trying to
further the anti gun cause. i have said several times before (but
nobody seemed to be listening) that i am pro gun and anti gun control.

as far as the race can of worms that i have opened up i have only one
thing to say i am in no way prejudiced. some of the things i have
stated were said to demonstrate that i am not prejudiced and or a racist
but i have been accused of being too aware of race and prejudiced. i will not
say anymore about that subject because no matter what i say it will be the
wrong thing.

boy , what a start to being on a new group. oh well , things have been
worse in my life.

i hope this clears things up but i guess that will remain to be seen.

by for now ,

jason

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re riddle me this...
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution usa
lines 16

in article 1r1lp1inn752@mojo.eng.umd.edu chuck@eng.umd.edu (chuck harris wa3uqv) writes
if so , why was cs often employed against tunnels in vietnam \?

cs tear gas was used in vietnam because it makes you wretch so hard that
your stomach comes out thru your throat. well , not quite that bad , but
you ca n't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies.

i think the is bz gas , not cs or cn. bz gas exposure results in projectile
vomiting , loss of essentially all muscle control , inability to concentrate
or think rationally and fatal reactions in a significant fraction of
the population. for that reason its use is limited to military
applications.

frank crary
cu boulder


from yoony@aix.rpi.edu (young hoon yoon)
subject re boston gun buy back
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
lines 27

mpetro@brtph126.bnr.ca (myron petro p030) writes

ron miller wrote
when you ask the question of the authorities or sponsors of buyback
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer
no , it 's total amnesty .
(good point about registration schemes being used only for harassment deleted)

i would also like to point out that this is receiving stolen property and is
no different than a pawn shop owner doing the same thing.


myron petro
nra , uspsa
dvc y'all

the opinions included in this post are my sole responsibility.
and are protected by the first amendment and guarnteed by the
second amendment.

an interesting idea consider
at any locality where a buy back program is being instituted , get a list
of guns they received and compare serial numbers with a list of stolen guns
and sue the people responsible for the program if those guns were destroyed.
criminal charges can also be made.( receiving stolen property , destruction of
private property etc.)


from kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot)
subject re 2nd amendment dead good !
organization oklahoma state university
lines 49

from article 1993apr18.001319.2340@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
yea , there are millions of cases where yoy say that firearms
'deter' criminals. alas , this is not provable. i think that that
there are actually few cases where this is so.

it certainly is provable. around a million americans every year defend
themselves with firearms. in many of these cases the defender does n't even
have to fire a shot ! the mere presence of a gun is oftentimes all the
deterrent that is needed.

i do n't like violence anymore than anyone else does. but , taking away the
right of americans to keep and bear arms is not the solution to the violent
crime problem in this country. if honest , law abiding citizens are unable
to get firearms then they will be preyed on even more by criminals who will
be able to acquire guns through illegal channels. expect to start seeing
the crime syndicates who smuggle drugs into this country start smuggling
guns. believe me this will happen. there is plenty of economic
incentive for gangsters to illegaly import guns into this country if guns
should be banned by the klintonistas.

the bulk of firarems are used against unworthy and unnesessary
opponents ... those who posessa a cool jakcet you want , those who
would argue with you about a parking space , those who would
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes.

statistics , por favor \?

too much of this has ruined you cause. there is no recovery.
in the near future , federal martials will come for your arms.
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking ,
than the 'criminal'. this is your own fault.

see my previous post. that ought to set you straight.

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way.

people have the right to keep and bear arms no matter what the
constitution says. that means that even if the 2nd amendment is
repealed the people (that 's all american citizens fyi) will still
have the right to keep and bear arms.


scott kennedy , brewer and patriot

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
the bible through the barrel of a gun... atf spokesman
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets
the constitution through the barrel of a gun... me


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re another nytimes yellow sheet editorial (4 4 93)
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 23
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1pmol6innod9@gap.caltech.edu , arc@cco.caltech.edu (aaron ray clements) writes

thanks to the n.r.a. , the a.t.f. is prohibited from researching the
effectiveness of using taggants in explosives , taggants are a cheap
and technologically feasible microscopic additive that would help
investigators at crime scenes like the world trade center bombing
trace the explosives involved.

i want this man to tell me how in the hell you can take the
explosives used in the wtc bombing , considering that the
consensus seems to be that the explosive was a fertilizer based
one.

proper counter to this claim forensic analysis of the wtc bomb by
means of taggants would have been as impossible as semantic analysis
of nyt editorials by means of taggants the difficulty in both cases
being to have persuaded the bull to consume the taggants before
production of either item.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from earlw@apple.com (earl wallace)
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith
organization apple computer inc. esd osbu cross platform software
lines 17
nntp posting host apple.com


look , if you can figure out a reliable means of keeping guns away from
bad people , while not interfering with good people , i think we 'd all be
for it. the problem is , the methods we 're using now do n't do the trick.

do n't manufacture them. do n't sell them. do n't import them.

some guns will get through , but far fewer , and far less people will
die because of them. hunting weapons could be allowed , of course , as
long as they are big , and bulky , and require reloading after a few
shots (how many times can you shoot at the same animal , anyways one
assumes they are moving ! )

a better solution

if the 'bad' people ca n't be trusted with guns , then lock them or knock
them off. stop punishing good people.

from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject re we knew it would happen
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 8

god forgive me for being an american who pays taxes to a government
that commits atrocities like the waco massacre of 1993.

dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 45

in article 1993apr20.195636.17742@guinness.idbsu.edu betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz) writes
in article c5sou8.lnb@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people
come out with their hands up several weeks ago.

no answer.

you did n't answer the question. the fbi took people out of
camera range. it is thus possible that they were engaging in
questionable activities.

i do not feel like the cameras were out of range. cameras watched the first
confrontation. cameras watched the banners. cmaeras watched the final
confrontation with tanks. cameras watched the fire. when were n't cameras
able to watch \? when would cameras be unable to watch people coming out with
their hands up \?

as to your question , please tell me what you think would have happened
had the atf goon squad knocked and asked politely several weeks
ago (as opposed to playing rambo with a t.v. crew in tow).

well , that is what batf should have done. either , koresh would have gone
peaceably as he has done in the past , or perhaps it was already too close
to the apocalypse in his own mind. it is hard to predict the actions of
a leader who would not release the children when most rational people would.

now will you answer my question up top \?


drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium






from veal@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal)
subject re militia (incredibly long)
lines 47
organization university of tennessee division of continuing education

in article c5n0vy.ej6@ulowell.ulowell.edu jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes

in article 1qna9m nq8@transfer.stratus.com , cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes

again , my response is , so what \? is mr. rutledge arguing that since
the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support
such activity , and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from
doing so , that they have eliminated the basis for the rkba \? on the
contrary , to anyone who understands the game , they have strengthened it.

no , i originally argued that the second amendment was a little bit
and an anachronism. these prohibiting laws are examples why the are
an anachronism. after all , laws in made by representatives of the
people. these representatives of the people have already decided
that the second amendment does not apply or is too broad in some
cases. since these representatives feel an unconditional
interpretation is not wanted , then it is probable that they majority
of the people feel the same way. if this is so , it is an example
of the people using their power of government. if this is not
how the people feel , the people should stand up and state their wishes.

i 'll point out that the whole point of the difficult amendment
process was to require a super majority to change the supreme law ,
making it impossible for a majority of the people to simply change
the law on a whim. simply changing the meaning based on the
representatives of the people effectively destroys the amendment
process. the state 's , you know , are also entitled to a say under
that process.

mox nix , mr. rutledge. you are the only one here claiming that the
rkba is dependent on the existence of a top flight , well regulated
militia. why this is a false assumption has already been posted a
number of times.

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well
organized militia.

i 'll note that that right could be considered protected under
the first amendment 's protection of peaceful assembly. unless
you would consider a militia inherently non peaceful , then they 've
stated the same thing twice.


david veal univ. of tenn. div. of cont. education info. services group
pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu i still remember the way you laughed , the day
your pushed me down the elevator shaft i'm beginning to think you do n't
love me anymore. weird al

from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 89
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5spov.lre@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1r0qsrinnc61@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de
arras) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
i agree that they deserved a trial. they had more than 40 days to come
out and get their trial. they chose to keep the children with them and
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear
gassed.
i do not find these actions rational. even noriega was smart enough to
give up and go for the trial he deserved.


mr. roby , you are a government sucking heartless bastard.

unworthy of comment.

but apparently true. my opinion , only , of course.


humans died
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the
actions
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them.

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty.
that is undeniable truth.

no , it is not. it is possible the fbi planned for this to happen , and the
gunfire heard was the fbi keeping the folks inside. i'm not proposing this as
the way it went down , but just to point out that it 's not undeniable that if
they walked out yesterday , they would be alive today.

my heart bleeds just as much as yours for
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities
to do so. my heart also bleeds for people so blinded by religious devotion
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when tanks came up
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning.


my heart bleeds for no one. you are the bleeding heart . and i'm sure
beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as i do. you
can not say the heartless things you have said if you did.

you seem to say
they got what they deserved.

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire (which started in
more than one place and spread very quickly) , then they got what they
wanted and put into motion themselves.

they got what they wanted . what kind of creature are you that you can
believe this \?

i see the batf is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely
by arlen spectre and congress. this is good. they have bungled the affair
from the start.


we agree on this. now lets have your god , the fbi , investigated , too.

jim

jmd@handheld.com



i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't
rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was
landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777





jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com (rick bressler)
subject re armed citizen april '93
organization boeing commercial airplane group
lines 22

iftccu talk.politics.guns kendall@lds.loral.com (colin kendall 6842) 9 23 am apr 13 , 1993

in article 1993apr5.164728.10847@dazixco.ingr.com crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com writes

the armed citizen

mere presence of a firearm , without a shot being fired , prevents
crime in many instances , as shown by news reports sent to the
armed citizen.

perhaps so , but note that of the accounts cited , there was only
one in which no shot was fired. of the other twelve , five
described cases in which the assailant was wounded by a shot ,
and six described cases in which the assailant was killed by a
shot.

follow more than one months posting. as more than one reader has noted ,
there is some reporting bias here. i have seen months where these
numbers were reversed. i do n't keep a constant tally , but it seems
this particular issue had more shots fired than any other i can remember.

rick.

from brant@seq.uncwil.edu (at dreamer)
subject re insane gun toting wackos unite ! ! !
organization univ. of north carolina @ wilmington
distribution na
lines 10

anyone who worries about his own gun should not have one. if you carry
any pistol with a empty chamber and safety the chances of it going off
are about zero. unless you sit it on top of a lite stove for a couple
of minutes or put it in a fire. )



what does n't kill us makes us stronger spoken by many a.t. hikers
kilo delta four zulu papa uniform kd4zpu 146.82


from dnewcomb@whale.st.usm.edu (donald r. newcomb)
subject re some more about gun control...
nntp posting host whale.st.usm.edu
organization university of southern mississippi
lines 145

first , i would like to say how much i appreciate having so literate and
erudite an individual as mr. rutledge with whom to discuss this topic.
frankly , most anti rkba posters refuse even to approach the topic of
the original understanding of the bill of rights as detailed in the
writings of the era. this is most refreshing.

second , i must apologize for leaving the discussion for several days.
my brigade 's quarterly drill was this weekend and i needed to attend
to several matters pertaining to the state militia.

some people seem to feel that the concept of the militia is an anachro
nism that is out of place in the 20th century. i'm not sure the swiss
would agree and i think perhaps a discussion of how the militia , both
organized and unorganized , fits into the defense plans of my state ,
mississippi. please do not assume that this describes something peculiar
to one southern state. for instance , the commonwealth of massachusetts
has a well organized militia which , members report , maintains stocks
of both riot guns and machine guns. the laws of other states will vary
but are probably similar.

title 35 of mississippi code defines our militia as all able bodied
citizens of the state between the ages of seventeen (17) and sixty
two (62) years... . the militia is divided into 3 classes the national
guard , the mississippi state guard and the unorganized militia. the
national guard is a strange sort of fish from a constitutional perspective.
it tries to be both state militia and federal reserve. the discussion
of this para constitutional arrangement is quite interesting in itself
but somewhat beyond the scope of this discussion. suffice it that , at this
date , the national guard has ceased to have any constitutional standing
as anything but a federal reserve force.

mississippi , and most other states , maintains a purely state organized
militia. in mississippi this is called the state guard. in other
states it may be called something else. the state guard exists as
a cadre or training corps made up of mostly experienced officers and
senior ncos who serve as volunteers without compensation. we drill
on a monthly basis at the company and battalion level , brigade once
a quarter and have an annual drill of the whole organization. our
state authorized cadre strength is 694. this is a skeleton of an
organization without any flesh. the muscle and sinew when needed will
come from the unorganized militia.

in time of invasion , insurrection or calamity the governor can order
the activation of the state guard. when this takes place a call will
first be made for volunteers to fill the organization out to either
its contingency strength of 2194 or full strength of 4910. in the
event that a sufficient number of people fail to volunteer , the law
provides detailed instructions for the conducting of a draft of the
unorganized militia. the size of the state guard is not specified by
law , but rather by executive order. at one time , the organized militia
of mississippi consisted of 68 regiments. needless to say , the state
does not have armories brimming with weapons with which to equip such
a force. the historical precedent for arming such a force is by use
of mostly the private arms of the militiamen.

it is my hope that demonstrates that state militias are far from being
the long dead anachronisms that some may wish to claim.

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well
organized militia. and i have also stated that a militia that
meets once or twice a year is clearly well organized. and this
state of readiness that i have claimed the people have a right
to , is the same state of readiness expected of the militia as stated
by hamilton.

regarding hamilton if you take hamilton 's opinion as being the sole
representative of the opinions of the founding fathers , you will have
chosen a highly skewed sample set. hamilton was on the extreme federalist
end of the political spectrum. others , such as coxe and henry , can
be chosen to represent the other end. many contemporaries felt that
the idea of having a standing army of any sort or even a select militia
or train bands were contrary to the egalitarian nature of the govern
ment they were striving to perfect. the compromise reached was to
provide for a small army , which had to be refinanced every two years ,
and iron clad protection for the militia , which was to remain ever ,
terrible and irresistible .

these protections included state control , not federal limitation
of federal utilization of the militia (i.e. execute laws , suppress
insurrections and repel invasions) , and the right to keep and bear
arms to prevent what the british had tried to do at lexington.
these limitations eventually proved so onerous to the federal govern
ment that they were skirted by the creation of the national guard.

the national guard was created for one very simple reason the
constitutional militia was had proved too unreliable for fighting
wars of imperial expansion. (e.g. spanish american war). the
constitution provided that the militia could only be employed by
the federal government in very limited purposes. as far back as the
war of 1812 , militia units had refused to leave united states
territory to attack the enemy. further , there was no constitutional
authorization for any conscription of anyone into the federal
military and militiamen were particularly protected. in all wars until
ww i every american who left the country under arms was a volunteer.
when the national guard acts of 1903 1916 required that each new
member also enlist as a reservest in the army , existing soldiers were
grandfathered . at least one of these grandfathered individuals
refused to go to france in 1918 and his refusal was upheld by the
federal courts.

mr. rutledge has stated that the second amendment applies only to
members of a well organized militia. however , the pre constitutional
history of the american militia shows relatively few periods when
the militia came close to meeting either messrs. rutledge or hamilton 's
definition of well organized . in the period of peace between the
french indian war and the revolution many companies simply stopped
drilling and had to be reconstituted just prior to the revolution.
perhaps mr. rutledge would care to argue that those of my ancestors
who answered the lexington alarm had forfeited their rights because
their units did n't drill for a few years in the 1760s. i would not
be so bold.

again , i wish to repeat. the national guard , for all its merits , is
not the militia described by the constitution nor by mr. hamilton
nor by mr. henry nor by mr. coxe. the fact that the federal government
and many states are delinquent in their attentions to and organizing
of their constitutional militias diminishes neither their
responsibilities nor the rights of the militia as detailed in the
constitution.

misunderstanding of the nature and purpose of the militia is but one
error that has crept into modern readings of the constitution. the
constitution prohibits states from keeping troops or ships of war
in time of peace . i have heard some insist this prevents states from
maintaining a militia , but this comes about because people today do not
understand the meanings of the words in their 18th century usage.
today we call any large vessel a ship but in the 18th century the word
described a particular kind of vessel. a ship is a large vessel with
three or more masts each carrying square rigged sails. a brig has two
masts. in the contemporary usage the states were prohibited only from keeping
the largest warships of the day , those capable of global operations. today 's
equivalent might be a prohibition on the states' keeping nuclear missiles.
troops at this time meant a full time professional military organization.
any study of contemporaneous writings will bear this out.

in at least one respect , i am in agreement with mr. rutledge being
personally involved in the maintenance and advancement of the militia
as a viable means of defense for a modern society , i am frequently
both bemused and saddened when friends and associates wax poetic on
their place in the unorganized militia and become strangely silent or
scarce when invited to attend a drill of their state 's militia.

donald r. newcomb university of southern mississippi
dnewcomb@whale.st.usm.edu this is the way we tax and spend , tax
dnewcomb@falcon.st.usm.edu and spend. we 're democrats in office.

from pngai@adobe.com (phil ngai)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
organization adobe systems incorporated
lines 11

in article 1qk3jm 9sh@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
i know a number of ex hci members who have recently become nra members.
i 've never heard of a single one who has gone the other way.

i 've been a member of the nra for several years and recently joined
hci. i wanted to see what they were up to and paid the minimum ( 15)
to get a membership. i also sent the nra another 120.


would the founding fathers have approved of encryption so
strong that the government could not break it \?

subject re nazi memoribilia
from cmay@helium.gas.uug.arizona.edu (christopher c may)
organization university of arizona tucson , arizona
lines 34

in 1993apr2.232511.10711@raid.dell.com mikepb@lupus.dell.com (michael p. brininstool) writes

swatikas were also common in american indian markings painted walls etc. is
it the swastika that is bad \?

just want to back this up with a personal anecdote. my grandparents
have a navajo rug made in the 1920 's , which they received in trade
from the weaver while living in flagstaff , arizona. the decorative motif
consists of 4 large black swastikas , one in each corner. what 's more , the
color scheme is black , white , and red. to the casual glance it would
undoubtedly appear to be a nazi relic of some kind. yet they owned it
ten years before hitler and the national socialists came to power.

as i recall , they took it down in the 30 's , and did n't feel quite right
about putting it back up until the 60 's. it still draws comments from
those who do n't know what it is.

ccm


christopher c. may u. of ariz. coll. of medicine '93 cmay@ccit.arizona.edu

do your part for liberty teach your children to hate big government.

do you care about freedom \? dreams may have inspired it , and wishes promoted
it , but only war and weapons have made it yours. robert ardrey
armaque in armatos sumere jura sinunt. ovid
the wise man 's understanding inclineth him toward his right hand , but a
fool 's heart turneth him to the left. ecclesiastes 10 2

christopher c. may u. of ariz. coll. of medicine '93 cmay@ccit.arizona.edu

do your part for liberty teach your children to hate big government.


from crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com (ron phillips)
subject re armed citizen april '93
nntp posting host hound
reply to crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics , mountain view , ca
distribution usa
lines 30

in article 1993apr13.162304.16721@lds.loral.com , kendall@lds.loral.com (colin kendall 6842) writes
in article 1993apr5.164728.10847@dazixco.ingr.com crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com writes

the armed citizen

mere presence of a firearm , without a shot being fired , prevents
crime in many instances , as shown by news reports sent to the
armed citizen.

perhaps so , but note that of the accounts cited , there was only
one in which no shot was fired. of the other twelve , five
described cases in which the assailant was wounded by a shot ,
and six described cases in which the assailant was killed by a
shot.

and , had not these citizens accepted the moral responsibility to
protect their own lives , there could well have been at least
13 innocent victims lying dead and several criminals still out
walking the streets perpetrating their crimes on others.





ron phillips crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
senior customer engineer
intergraph electronics
381 east evelyn avenue voice (415) 691 6473
mountain view , ca 94041 fax (415) 691 0350


from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re newspapers censoring gun advertisements
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 48

newspaper ad censorship

the newspapers have now decided to censor gun ads which is why you no longer
see the ads that traders , san leandro , has run for many years.

if you are tired of newspapers who run sex and liquor ads galor , yet refuse to
run legitimate gun ads , please send a letter to the editors indicating your
displeasure over their censorship doctrine.

following is a list of bay area newspapers who censor gun ads. perhaps you 'd
like to send them your thoughts on this issue !

contra costa times san mateo times san francisco chronicle
pob 5088 pob 5400 901 mission st.
walnut creek , ca 94596 san mateo , ca 94402 san francisco , ca 94103

san fran. independent san fran. examiner san jose mercury news
1201 evans ave 110 5th st. 750 ridder park dr.
san fran. , ca 94124 san fran. , ca 94103 san jose , ca 95190

i have the april 15 , 1993 issue of the sf chronicle in my lap. page
e7 (in the sporting green section) has a trader 's advert. (the
copy is a bit screwed up it says that the prices offered expire
4 14 93 , but the ad is there.)

the sf examiner and chronicle run the same set of adverts (because
they have a joint printing biz agreement and differ only in editorial
content).

i 've seen gun ads recently in the merc , which is anti gun editorially ,
albeit not from traders , but from its competitors.

i do n't know about the other papers.

does traders claim that things are changing \? when \?

why tv journalists lie

because it 's easier than telling the truth and no one much cares
either way.

let me know if you write to any of these bozos.

before you do , make sure that the bozos are actually doing what
you 're accusing them of.

andy


from zed@dartmouth.edu (ted schuerzinger)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
x posted from internews 1.0b16@dartmouth.edu
organization wdcr wfrd , hanover , nh
lines 49

in article 93109.13404334aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet
34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes

i will be surprised if this post makes it past the censors ,
but here goes

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt

murder most foul ! !

cnn is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all
the buildings of the branch dividian ranch near waco , tx. the
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and 'non lethal' tear
gas pumped in . a few minutes after this started the whole thing went up.
all buildings are aflame. no one has escaped. i think it obvious that
the atf used armored flame thrower vehicles to pump in unlit
napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

this is murder !

atf murderers ! butchers ! !

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children !

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it sickens me to see
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was
still some shred of the america i grew up with , and loved , left
alive. i was wrong. the nazis have won.

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors !

god help us all.


please crosspost don't let them get away with the slaughter of the children !


w. k. gorman an american in tears.

the latest news i saw was that two of the eight known survivors (not no
survivors ! ! ! as you so rudely put in all caps) said they started the
fire.

i wo n't go on with the things the wacko of waco did.


ted schuerzinger
zed@dartmouth.edu
this is not the secret message.

from pes3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu (paul eric stoufflet)
subject clipper chip
nntp posting host cunixf.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pes3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu (paul eric stoufflet)
organization columbia university
distribution usa
lines 12

i thought that the clipper chip that was posted to t.p.g (sorry , i lost
the original post) was a joke. i really did. i did n't believe it for
a second. but on the way to work this morning , i heard about it on npr.

this scares me almost as much as the doublespeak emanating from the
fbi and batf in waco.


paul eric stoufflet
columbia presbyterian medical center
internet pes3@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu
all opinions are my own

from cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
subject re what if the dividians were black \?
article i.d. ncoast.c528ww.l5m
reply to cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
organization north coast public access nix , cleveland , oh
lines 35

as quoted from 1993apr5.172734.8744@icd.ab.com by kdw@icd.ab.com (kenneth d. whitehead)

oleary@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (brian.m.leary) writes

questions for the media and the politically correct

try asking people who do n't understand why anyone would worry about
the tactics used against the child molesting , drug dealing , gun running ,
cop killing religious wackos in waco (1) these questions

if the people in the compound were black and the guys in ninja suits
charging in with assault weapons and grenades were lapd
what would you think \?


the charges are essentially the same they used against operation move
in philadelphia a few years back , where the cops dropped an incendiary
bomb on the roof of a tenement and burned down a whole block.

move was a black group.

there were some significant differences. whereas the branch davidians are
reported to have gotten along rather well with their neighbors , the move
people are generally conceded to have gone far out of the way to antagonize
their black neighbors , using loudspeakers to all hours of the night , keeping
large piles of garbage , promoting rat and insect infestation , and allegedly
threatening to kidnap their neighbors' children.

still the same sort of questions regarding use of force remain in that case.



you 're like a bunch of over educated , new york jewish aclu lawyers
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in
arkansas holly silva

from tzs@stein.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re fbi director 's statement on waco standoff
article i.d. shelley.1r2ko0innqe5
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 9
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu

feustel@netcom.com (david feustel) writes
we have no evidence that batf fbi would not have started shooting
when and if people had started coming out of the burning building.

oh \? how about the press \? if the batf fbi were going to shoot people
leaving a burning building , do n't you think they would get rid of the
press first \?

tim smith

from bu008@cleveland.freenet.edu (brandon d. ray)
subject re statement of sarah brady regarding texas state carrying concealed legislation
article i.d. usenet.1psstg bbe
reply to bu008@cleveland.freenet.edu (brandon d. ray)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 83
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , nigel.allen@canrem.com ( nigel allen ) says


here is a press release from handgun control inc.

statement of sarah brady regarding texas state carrying concealed
legislation
to state desk
contact susan whitmore of handgun control inc. , 202 898 0792

washington , march 25 following is a statement of sarah
brady regarding texas state carrying concealed legislation

a handful of lawmakers in austin today have told the public that
their safety is of less importance than the interests of the national
rifle association. this action comes as local , state and federal law
enforcement officials continue their stand off with a religious cult
that has highlighted the need for tougher gun laws , not weaker ones
like the carry concealed bill.

a handful of anti gun zealots are telling the public that their
right to self defense is of less importance than the interests of
handgun control , inc. this action comes as local , state and federal law
enforcement officials continue their assault on the branch davidian
compound an assault which has already resulted in the death of one
two year old child at the hands of federal agents. this has highlighted
the need for citizens to be able to defend themselves and their children
against the excesses of their own government.

any suggestion by proponents that this bill will help to reduce
crime is a distortion of the facts , at best. this so called
crime fighting law has resulted in a 16 percent increase in violent
crime in the state of florida , and i have never heard law enforcement
officials bragging that more guns on the streets is the way to reduce
crime.

any suggestion by opponents that this bill will increase crime is a
distortion of the facts , at best. the aggressive outreach by officials
in central florida to train and arm women has led to a dramatic drop in
the level of assault and rape in that area. of course , this program is
a rare gem , as many law enforcement officials apparently believe that an
unarmed citizenry will be easier to control , and thus favor tighter
restrictions.

the vote today is an insult to the law enforcement officials who
are putting their lives on the line every day to end the standoff in
waco. the entire country now knows just how easy it is for an
individual bent on destruction to amass an arsenal of weapons. texas
lawmakers who voted for this concealed handgun bill have shown total
disregard for those law officials on the front lines , and the
families of those who have fallen.

the vote today is a tribute to the good sense of the public at large
who are putting their lives on the line every day as they go about their
lawful affairs. the entire country knows how vulnerable the average
citizen is , both to attacks from criminals and from armed assault by our
own police. texas lawmakers who voted for this concealed handgun bill have
shown total understanding for those innocent , law abiding citizens on the
front lines , and the families of those who have fallen.

i urge the house of representatives to listen to the 70 percent
of texans that oppose this measure , and reject this ill conceived
legislation.

i urge the house of representatives to pay attention to the needs
of their constituents , and not be stampeded by ill conceived arguments
from ideological fanatics.

30

nigel allen , toronto , ontario nigel.allen@canrem.com

canada remote systems toronto , ontario
416 629 7000 629 7044

ai n't propaganda fun \?



the opinions expressed by the author are insightful , intelligent and very
carefully thought out. it is therefore unlikely that they are shared by the
university of iowa or case western reserve university.

from jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge)
subject re militia (incredibly long)
organization interactive media group university of massachusetts at lowell
lines 54

in article 1qna9m nq8@transfer.stratus.com , cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5l0n2.5ll@ulowell.ulowell.edu , jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes
but , do you knew how much organization is required to training a large
group of poeple twice a year. just to try to get the same people
every year , provide a basic training to new people so they can
be integrated into the force , and find a suitable location , it
requires a continually standing committee of organizers.

again , my response is , so what \? is mr. rutledge arguing that since
the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support
such activity , and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from
doing so , that they have eliminated the basis for the rkba \? on the
contrary , to anyone who understands the game , they have strengthened it.

no , i originally argued that the second amendment was a little bit
and an anachronism. these prohibiting laws are examples why the are
an anachronism. after all , laws in made by representatives of the
people. these representatives of the people have already decided
that the second amendment does not apply or is too broad in some
cases. since these representatives feel an unconditional
interpretation is not wanted , then it is probable that they majority
of the people feel the same way. if this is so , it is an example
of the people using their power of government. if this is not
how the people feel , the people should stand up and state their wishes.

mox nix , mr. rutledge. you are the only one here claiming that the
rkba is dependent on the existence of a top flight , well regulated
militia. why this is a false assumption has already been posted a
number of times.

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well
organized militia. and i have also stated that a militia that
meets once or twice a year is clearly well organized. and this
state of readiness that i have claimed the people have a right
to , is the same state of readiness expected of the militia as stated
by hamilton.




if only it were a modern document , with a
john lawrence rutledge smart index and hyper links stretching all
research assistant through the world data net. it was terribly
frustrating to flip back and forth between
interactive media group the pages and crude flat illustrations that
computer science department never even moved. nor were there animated
umass lowell arrows or zoom ins. it completely lacked a
1 university ave. for sound.
lowell , ma 01854 most baffling of all was the problem of new
words... in normal text you 'd only have to
(508) 934 3568 touch an unfamiliar word and the definition
jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu would pop up just below.
from david brin 's earth


from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject the real reason politicians want guns confiscated
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 12

politicians want to eliminate private ownership of guns before the
general public starts violently resisting the tax increases needed
to fund the federal government as an ever higher percentage of tax
revenue goes to pay interest on the national debt (currently 57 cents
out of every tax dollar collected and rising).


dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject re die koresh die !
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 9

the explanations of federal law enforcement officials about what
happened in waco is just another example of the survivors writing the
history books to put themselves in the best of a bad light.

dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas)
subject re rewording the second amendment (ideas)
organization vtt
lines 58

in article 1r1eu1 4t@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1993apr20.083057.16899@ousrvr.oulu.fi , dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas) writes
in article 1qv87v 4j3@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5n3gi.f8f@ulowell.ulowell.edu , jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes

the massive destructive power of many modern weapons , makes the
cost of an accidental or crimial usage of these weapons to great.
the weapons of mass destruction need to be in the control of
the government only. individual access would result in the
needless deaths of millions. this makes the right of the people
to keep and bear many modern weapons non existant.

thanks for stating where you 're coming from. needless to say , i
disagree on every count.

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of
mass destruction \? i find it hard to believe that you would support a
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and nerve
gas on his her property.

if we cannot even agree on keeping weapons of mass destruction out of
the hands of individuals , can there be any hope for us \?

i do n't sign any blank checks.

of course. the term must be rigidly defined in any bill.

when doug foxvog says weapons of mass destruction , he means cbw and
nukes. when sarah brady says weapons of mass destruction she means
street sweeper shotguns and semi automatic sks rifles.

i doubt she uses this term for that. you are using a quote allegedly
from her , can you back it up \?

when john
lawrence rutledge says weapons of mass destruction , and then immediately
follows it with

the us has thousands of people killed each year by handguns ,
this number can easily be reduced by putting reasonable restrictions
on them.

...what does rutledge mean by the term \?

i read the article as presenting first an argument about weapons of mass
destruction (as commonly understood) and then switching to other topics.
the first point evidently was to show that not all weapons should be
allowed , and then the later analysis was , given this understanding , to
consider another class.

cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...




doug foxvog
douglas.foxvog@vtt.fi

from scottj@magic.dml.georgetown.edu (john l. scott)
subject luser !
organization j. random misconfigured site
x posted from iamac 1.dml.georgetown.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 112

awesley wrote
that was the entire point to you . what exactly did i claim \?

i 've heard eye witness descriptions of tanks using their main guns
to respond to sniper fire. quite effectively.


i was n't wrong . . . i 've heard those descriptions. if you 're
paying attention , i 've mentioned that i saw the tanks with my own
eyes , but the main gun firing was an account i heard. that helps
people judge whether or not to kick in the , to use your words ,
bullshit filters . stating that i claimed this is a falsehood.

later in the same post
another part of my memories was that while most damaged building
were burnt , some were in rubble. based on what i remember , i was and
am inclined to believe an old sarge or two.

fine , now you are stating that you believe their claims (or that you are
inclined to. see below for a stronger statement of your beliefs). those
claims are still ludicrous , however.

previously awesley had written
you can also read of the troops using grenade launchers.

prompting me to write
to fire fragmentary grenades \? i doubt that as well. to fire concussion
grenades \? perhaps. to fire tear gas \? certainly. but you would be
perfectly willing to let us believe they fired frags , would n't you , since
it makes your other claim seem more plausible.

to which awesley replied
john , again , strawman techniques. do you feel you 're losing it so you
have to stretch what i said and knock that down \? what i read said
nothing about what they fired. and so i put nothing in there. if you
need some help , let me know and i'l take your side of this for a
while. you 're not scoring here , you 're boring here.

but why did you mention grenade launchers at all \? because it supports the
notion that the tanks shelled buildings. and it supports that notion
because it conjures images of troops launching fragmentary grenades. but
that too is ludicrous.

i wrote
if tanks had fired their main guns in detroit , people would have been
screaming about it for the past two and half decades. i would know about
it.

awesley relied
glad to know you 're such an expert. nice to hear some an
authority. i especially appreciate your basis of knowledge if it
had happened , you would have know it. since you are such an
authority , you probably know that people did scream about an alleged
massive cover up in the number of people killed in the detroit riot.
some claimed 100 dead , others said 300. the offical number is 43 but
the concise columbia encyclopedia says it was several . i 've also
heard some things about that but i wo n't dare repeat them. you 'd
assert that i claimed they were truth.

yes , if it happened i would have heard about it. everybody would have.
army tanks do n't fire their cannons in american cities in the 1960 's
without it becoming common knowledge , without minority leaders seizing on
it and condemning it over and over again , without civil libertarians saying
this has gone far enough. so , yes , my never hearing of it was the basis
for my disbelieving the claim. now i have more reasons to disbelieve it.
not one poster has written to say , yes , i lived in detroit at that time and
everybody knew that the tanks had fired shells. this is the usenet. if it
had happened , somebody here would remember it. furthermore , your own
research failed to come up with any support for the claim. the claim is
extraordinary and it has no supporting evidence , extraordinary or not.
unless you count the brags of a couple of guardsmen shooting the shit. i
do not.

i wrote
unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up.

awesley wrote
taking the tour after the riots , it was pretty easy to tell the
difference between army and guard troops. or so i recall from 26
years ago. and i seem to recall it was the army running the tanks.
so it would have been an army cover up.

quibble. fine , it was an army cover up. six years in the reserves has
taught me the difference also. but do you think that in two and half
decades not one guilt ridden participant has come forward and said yes , i
shelled americans , or i gave the orders to fire the cannons , or i
helped cover it up \?

i wrote
if your mind is open enough to believe that , well , good for you. i
prefer
to live in reality. and here in reality , i find it hard to believe that
those tanks even had any shells , much less fired them.

awesley replied
given the level in destruction in detroit , i'm quite willing to believe
that they did fire their guns.

good. then we can drop the junk about you not claiming that they did.
your belief fails a basic reality check why is n't it known \?

awesley concludes
now then , we 've bored the shit out of anyone whose bothered to read
this far and all you 've managed to say is that you do n't believe the
account i cited.

actually , now we have established that i do n't believe what you believe , as
well as why i do n't believe it. and if it 's boring , then i yield the last
word to you , if you want it. you may say anything you like with
impunity i am dropping the subject.

john l. scott

from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 10

it 's truly unfortunate that we do n't have the japanese tradition of
hari kari for public officials to salvage some tatters of honor after
they commit offenses against humanity like were perpetrated in waco ,
texas today.

dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from ndallen@r node.hub.org (nigel allen)
subject waco clinton press conference , part 2
organization r node public access unix 1 416 249 5366
lines 99

here is a press release from the white house.

president clinton 's remarks on waco with q a
to national desk
contact white house office of the press secretary , 202 456 2100

washington , april 20 u.s. newswire following are
remarks by president clinton in a question and answer session
with the press (part 2 of 2)

go ahead , sarah.

q there are two questions i want to ask you. the
first is , i think that they knew very well that the children did not
have gas masks while the adults did , so the children had no chance
because this gas was very she said it was not lethal , but it was
very dangerous to the children and they could not have survived
without gas masks. and on february 28th let 's go back did n't
those people have a right to practice their religion \?

the president they were not just practicing their
religion , they were the treasury department believed that they had
violated federal laws , any number of them.

q what federal laws

the president let me go back and answer i ca n't
answer the question about the gas masks , except to tell you that the
whole purpose of using the tear gas was that it had been tested they
were convinced that it would n't kill either a child or an adult but
it would force anybody that breathed it to run outside. and one of
the things that i 've heard i do n't want to get into the details of
this because i do n't know but one of the things that they were
speculating about today was that the wind was blowing so fast that
the windows might have been opened and some of the gas might have
escaped and that may be why it did n't have the desired effect.

they also knew , sarah , that there was an underground
compound a bus buried underground where the children could be
sent. and they were i think they were hoping very much that if
the children were not released immediately outside that the humane
thing would be done and that the children would be sent someplace
where they could be protected.

in terms of the gas masks themselves , i learned
yesterday i did not ask this fact question before that the gas
was supposed to stay active in the compound longer than the gas masks
themselves were to work. so that it was thought that even if they
all had gas masks , that eventually the gas would force them out in a
nonviolent , nonshooting circumstance.

ms. myers last question.

q mr. president , why are you still saying that

q could you tell us whether or not you ever asked
janet reno about the possibility of a mass suicide \? and when you
learned about the actual fire and explosion what went through your
mind during those horrendous moments \?

the president what i asked janet reno is if they had
considered all the worse things that could happen. and she said
and , of course , the whole issue of suicide had been raised in the
public he had that had been debated anyway. and she said that
the people who were most knowledgeable about these kinds of issues
concluded that there was no greater risk of that now than there would
be tomorrow or the next day or the day after that or at anytime in
the future. that was the judgment they made. whether they were
right or wrong , of course , we will never know.

what happened when i saw the fire , when i saw the
building burning \? i was sick. i felt terrible. and my immediate
concern was whether the children had gotten out and whether they were
escaping or whether they were inside , trying to burn themselves up.
that 's the first thing i wanted to know.

thank you.

q mr. president , why are you still saying it was a
janet reno decision \? is n't it , in the end , your decision \?

the president well , what i'm saying is that i did n't
have a four or five hour , detailed briefing from the fbi. i did n't
go over every strategic part of it. it is a decision for which i
take responsibility. i'm the president of the united states and i
signed off on the general decision and giving her the authority to
make the last call. when i talked to her on sunday , some time had
elapsed. she might have made a decision to change her mind. i said ,
if you decide to go forward with this tomorrow , i will support you.
and i do support her.

she is not ultimately responsible to the american
people i am. but i think she has conducted her duties in an
appropriate fashion and she has dealt with this situation i think as
well as she could have.

thank you. (applause.)

30

from gardner@convex.com (steve gardner)
subject re ban all firearms !
nntp posting host imagine.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 20

in article 1993apr14.184448.2331@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes
firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
why \? either the numerator or the denominator could fluctuate.
the dollar value of a gun would (of course)
go up if supply were restricted. the weight of a gun might
go down significantly as technology improved. i do n't
think you have a basis to assert this.

it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch.
the skill is easily taught to anyone with a modicum of
mechanical aptitude and the only motivator needed is
money. if guns were banned then this motivator would kick
in big time. now , of course , it is not a moneymaking
proposition for every machine shop to make guns on the
side when it ai n't rebuilding engines. ban guns and
watch what happens. you 'll have to schedule a year in advance
to get your brakes resurfaced. )

from cathy@lance.colostate.edu (cathy smith)
subject questions to ponder
distribution usa
nntp posting host blanca.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523
lines 62

the libertarian second amendment caucus in fort collins , colorado ,
submitted this as a questionnaire to the city council candidates
in the upcoming election. as expected , very few of the candidates
(3 of 13) responded , but they know we 're watching.

feel free to use any and all of these questions that strike your
fancy or use them as inspiration for your own.



1. would you be willing to state , in writing , that if you are
publicly demonstrated to have violated your oath of office
you would resign and never run for office again \?

2. under what circumstances do the rights of the group come
before the rights of the individual \?

3. would you support a city charter amendment prohibiting the
city government , its officials , agents , and employees from
initiating force against any human being for any reason \?

4. please put the following list in order of precedence (from
lowest to highest) a) city ordinance , b) city resolution ,
c) state law , d) federal statute , e) u.s. constitution ,
f) state constitution.

5. do you believe that it 's appropriate for any city official or
employee to be paid more than his or her average private
sector constituent \?

6. do you believe that involuntary contributions are a legitimate
means of funding council programs \?

7. would you support a program recognizing the right of
taxpayers to earmark their taxes (either as must be used
or must not be used ) for specific programs \?

8. in the event that the candidate none of the above were to
win a city election , which option do you believe most
appropriate \? a) the candidate with the next highest vote total
fills the office. b) a special election is held to fill the
office , with none of the previous candidates eligible to run
again. c) let the office remain unfilled and unfunded until
the next election. d) abolish the office.

please return your questionnaire to address of your choice

a signature and date line were added here.

thank you for taking the time to fill out this questionnaire.



the questionnaires were sent with self addressed , stamped envelopes.

p.s. one person did get a perfect score on the questionnaire , and ,
no , he did n't help write it.

cathy smith

my opinions are , of course , my own.


from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 85

in article 1r27ld bp2@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5t38g.il@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
in article 1r1rad 7rl@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu , roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

the original question was about who started the fire and whether the
madmen were inside or outside the compound. to which i replied on
the possible sanity level of those inside and outside.

was that your argument. well , you did n't make it very well. you started
from the questionable premise that the fire was necessarily an act of
insanity , rather than an act of negligence or an accident. recall , one
survivor claims that the fire started when a tank knocked over a kerosene
lamp. kind of makes arguments regarding relative sanity somewhat moot , no \?

and another survivor claims he heard someone shouting the fire 's started ! .
odd terminology. that 's what one says when you know a fire is planned , not
when one occurs by accident. we will have to wait and see what the evidence
shows , assuming one is willing to believe any evidence offered by the
distrustful ones .

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ. koresh
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound.
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of
his magnified horn . ex members describe him in ways not dissimilar
to the way jim jones has been described.

point noted. have you submitted your faith and sex life for batf clearance \?
better hurry i believe the deadline was april 15.

i paid my taxes. there was no reference to sex or religion on the form.
the comments above and below were meant to address who might be unstable
enough to keep children in a building with tear gas or start a fire.

nice evasive maneuver , mr. chekov , but they 're still on our tail.

let me ask it more plainly. which of the above complaints about david
koresh 's religious or sexual proclivities justified an armed raid by the
bureau of alcohol , tobacco , and firearms \?

neither. again i was merely addressing the sanity level of the players.
i agree that the batf handled the affair badly from day one. btw , i heard
on the news today that the affadavit behind the no knock warrant was unsealed
today. grenade launcher was the only thing on the list that i found
unusual.

two of the nine who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set
by cult members.

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same details ,
will you believe them \?

believe them \? i wo n't even recognize them. and neither will anyone else
who does n't know them personally.

do you believe they would put impostors before the national tv cameras \?

it 's not entirely far fetched. nobody outside the compound would know
everybody inside the compound. do n't forget , the batf admits having
agents inside the compound , in any case.

ambitious news reporters could use the documentary filmed by an australian
in 1992 on the compound grounds to help identify survivors. i , for one ,
will check their stories for consistency with what i learned in a long
news story about that documentary.

at this point , we are getting conflicting reports from the survivors.
best wait til more light is shed upon them. of course , this is no
good if you believe in eternal darkness.

i'm simply being the devil 's advocate. there 's reasonable doubt by the
boatload standing in the way of anybody totally swallowing the official
government story on waco.

certainly there is some room for doubt. i certainly reserve the right
to change my opinions when new evidence warrants such a change. if i
were conspiratorially minded , however , i would never be able to change
my mind , because any evidence i disliked would have to be a lie
fabricated by the distrustful ones .






from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re cnn for sale
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 40
distribution usa
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

in article 93106.21394634aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet 34aej7d@cmuvm.bitnet writes
in article 2001.150.uupcb@yob.sccsi.com , jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
says

bill vojak

bv i read in the paper yestarday that ted turner wants to trim down
bv his media holdings and is putting cnn up for sale. the 1 potential
bv bidder \? time warner of course. sigh . . . . . just what we need. (

maybe now 's the time for us , the nra , goa , ccrtkba , saf , et al to band
together and buy cnn as our voice. would n't that be sumpin....broadcast
the truth for a change and be able to air a favorable pro gun item or two...

i would like to see this happen. i do n't think it will. i do n't
think the average gun owner will take any notice of what is happening
until they break down his door.

but i will go on record publicly to the effect that i will contribute a
minimum of 1 , 000.00 to the buy out fund if it can be organized and made
viable. anybody else want to put their money where their mouth is \? )
there ar 50 million gun owners out there. if and it 's a big and
not very realistic if we got hold of cnn , the anti gun bullshit would
stop right there. why wo n't it happen because nobody will get off their
ass and make it happen. nuts.

i will join the ranks here. if someone has the ability to actually put this
thing together and get enough support , i 'll also contribute 1000 to the
effort. and jeeze , people , i'm a student , with no job yet , and i will
put up my own hard earned savings if it means we have a shot at getting
the truth told on the airwaves. count me in.

mike ruff

this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch update
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 3
distribution usa
nntp posting host fajita19.cs.itc.hp.com

nut case panics ! ! ! ! realizes he's made a complete fool of himself in front of
thousands of netters ! ! ! ! backs away from earlier rash statements ! ! ! ! god have
mercy on him ! ! ! !

from se08 @andrew.cmu.edu (seth adam eliot)
subject reference needed....
organization doctoral student , materials science and engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 22


does anybody have any solid data on how many legally owned versus
illegally owned firearms are used in crime. i know the number of
legally owned guns used in crime is small , but i would like a number ,
and a reference if possible.

data should be e mailed to me.
open discussion should be directed to talk.politics.guns

seth


unlike cats dogs never scratch you when you wash them. they just
become very sad and try to figure out what they did wrong. dave barry

seth eliot dept of material science and engineering
carnegie mellon univerity , pittsburgh , pa
arpa eliot @cmu.edu
or se08 @andrew.cmu.edu
bitnet se08 andrew@cmccvb



from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 82
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article c5sou8.lnb@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1993apr20.163730.16128@guinness.idbsu.edu betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
(andrew betz) writes
in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people
come out with their hands up several weeks ago.

it did n't happen.

scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating
that mlk was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government.

more than someone who would not release children from the compound.

obviously. you are an authority worshiper.

i.e. , more than david koresh vernon howell jesus christ .
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult.


give me a camera , and time with you , and i can present excerpts that show you
to be a cult leader. guarenteed. you should at least view the whole
documentary before you claim it as a source.


i am not pleased with the batf handling of the affair. i think they
bungled it badly from the start. but i do n't think they are
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places.


two places , eh \? you saw this \? or did the wonderful fbi tell you this \?
i saw one place.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

i suspect that there were plenty of camerapeople willing to
risk small arms fire to get some good footage. these people
were told to get the hell out of camera range. why \?


could n't answer this one , eh \? this is the most important question of all , it
is the root cause of all the other suspicion.

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium





jim


jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from vojak@icebucket.stortek.com (bill vojak)
subject question on senate bills
originator vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nntp posting host icebucket.stortek.com
organization storage technology corp.
distribution usa
lines 49

i'm writting letters to my congresscritters and was wondering if
there is any reason(s) why i should not support the following
bills , other than the previous comments about s.458. just checking
before i mail the letter to make sure i do n't support something
that i really should n't.


i strongly support the following laws currently being considered in congress
as they would either have a positive effect towards reducing crime , or re
enforce our constitutional right under the 2nd amendment.

s. 441 (campbell) to amend title 18 , united states code , to provide a
mandatory minimum sentence for the unlawful possession
of a firearm by a convicted felon , a fugitive from
justice , a person who is addicted to , or an unlawful
user of , a controlled substance , or a transferor or
receiver of a stolen firearm , to increase the general
penalty for violation of federal firearms laws ,
and to increase the enhanced penalties provided for the
possession of a firearm in connection with a crime of
violence or drug trafficking crime , and for other
purposes.

s.458 (smith) to restore the second amendment rights of all americans.

s.488 (specter) to provide federal penalties for drive by shootings.

s.504 (kohl) to amend section 924 of title 18 , united states code to
make it a federal crime to steal a firearm or explosives
in interstate or foreign commerce.


bill vojak
vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nra , ila ,
colorado firearms coalition

here 's a story , bout a man named brady , who took a .22 bullet
in his head. even though he can act perfectly normal , he
prefers to pretend he 's brain dead.

here 's a story , bout a woman named brady , who had nothing to
do but sit around all day. then her husband became a media
martyr , now she wants to take all your guns away.

the brady bunch , the brady bunch , this is how we got stuck
with the brady bunch. . . . .



from gs26@prism.gatech.edu (glenn r. stone)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
reply to glenns@eas.gatech.edu
distribution git
organization the group w bench
lines 36

in c5sv4r.hfa@news.cso.uiuc.edu irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes

and quotes a lot of stuff unnecessarily
in article 93869@hydra.gatech.edu glenns@eas.gatech.edu writes

worth posting again
hey , gang , it 's not about duck hunting , or about dark alleys ,
it 's about black clad , helmeted and booted troops storming
houses and violating civil rights under color of law.

are you ready to defend your constitution \?

its also about crazy fatigue clad survivalist types blasting the
snot out of people who accidentally stray onto his land in the
name of 'self defense.'

do n't get too self righteous , mr. gun toter.

ai n't got a pair of fatigues... and i do n't blast people wandering aimlessly ,
i ask them what they 're doing there... i only blast people who display
obvious violent intent... like black clad men with weapons climbing thru
second story windows , or people who break down the door instead of knocking.
or people who knock my house down with tanks and set it afire. sound
familiar yet \?

riddle me this why the hell are the convicted criminals in ohio getting
the kid glove treatment , and the bd 's are burned alive without a trial \?
put aside who started the blaze , i still think any decent shyster can
make a case for cruel and unusual punishment , playing the sounds of
tortured rabbits over the loudspeakers (where 's the spca in all this \? )...

oh , and that 's mister gun toter sir to you , bucko. just because you choose
to abandon your rights , leave mine the hell alone , thankyouverymuch.

glenn r. stone (glenns@eas.gatech.edu)
impeach clinton , reno the case is prima facie.

from strait@cheetah.csl.uiuc.edu (jeffrey c. strait)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization the university of illinois
lines 25
distribution world
nntp posting host cheetah.csl.uiuc.edu

in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.


microwaves do n't work very well with no electricity mr engineer.


personal opinions \? why ,
brent irvine yes. what did you think irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu
they were \? .......


jeff strait strait@uicsl.csl.uiuc.edu
university of illinois phone (217) 333 6444
if you ladies leave this island , if you survive basic recruit
training , you will be a weapon , a minister of death praying for war

from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 31

in article c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

watch from where \? two miles away \? far enough away that whatever
really happenned must be explained through the vengeful filter of
a humiliated agency that said (quote ! ) enough is enough.

scenario that is simplest and most plausible. i do not generally
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely
scenarios.

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating
that mlk was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

i suspect that there were plenty of camerapeople willing to
risk small arms fire to get some good footage. these people
were told to get the hell out of camera range. why \?

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re the 'pill' for deer no hunting
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 144
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article 1993apr14.221646.2332@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes

you might have missed the u.s. news world report excerpt
i posted. it is fairly consistant with other such polls , finding
that approximately 40 50 of households have at least one firearm.

ok ... a near majority actually own firearms , but i will still
claim that the vast majority never needs to use them or even
threaten anyone with them.

500 , 000 to 1 , 000 , 000 self defense incidents a year does n't count with you \?

what do they do right ... or are
they just lucky \?

maybe they 're just unlucky. if a rapist pulls a woman into an alley
in boston , chances are almost certain that she wo n't be counted
as one of those self defenders because our local constabulary did n't
consider it important that she be allowed to arm herself. even though
the shotgun she owns at home makes her show up in the gun owner column.

in either case , this means the 'average
threat level' in this country is rather low.

ironic words for somebody who lives in florida. the average threat
level in florida has been reduced by a liberal ccw policy. it 's well
known that your local thugs like to target tourists precisely because
they are less likely to be carrying than your natives. come on up to
boston , or nyc , or washington dc , and see how much diddlysquat the
average threat level in the country means to a resident there.

i think you have weapons on the brain. i never said that these
alternative means of self protection involved any hardware.
why are 'good' neighborhoods 'good' \? it is n't because every
person is armed to the teeth. it is because of (1) attitude
and (2) cooperation. in the 'good' neighborhoods , the residents
make themselves aware of their neighbors and notice when
strangers are lurking around. 'good' neighborhoods form groups
like 'crime watch' to increase this effect , and the relative
effectiveness of the police. when hostiles are arrested , the
good neighbors step up and say that's the one officer ! he
was robbing mr. jones' house .

sometimes this works. sometimes it just lands your good neighbors
on the dance card for the next wave of drive bys. someone here once
told a story about la gangs moving into phoenix. i 've misplaced the
original text , but the story started with one resident calling the
cops on a gang member. sure enough , a few nights later , there was a
drive by performed at the resident 's house. except that this time ,
unlike in la , the entire street came out and returned fire , putting
an end to the car 's occupants. the gang packed up and left.

of course , in la , or in a place like florida after the hurricane ,
your first problem is to find an officer to step up to and tell
anything.

in short , the alternative to firepower is gangs ... or at
least a benificent manifestation of that social cooperative.
replace lead with flesh ... the flesh makes a better
conversationalist too and you can invite it over for a
block party.

look , nobody is arguing this. i have a fire extinguisher at home.
that does n't mean i can be careless about tossing my burnt matches
on the carpet. i live carefully , monitor the woodstove , get my flue
cleaned twice a year , and test my smoke alarms annually. but if
despite all this a fire does start , it 's too late for any of
these things except the extinguisher.

but legality and legitimacy also matter. if a government 's charter
makes a rule , which the government then violates , it is violated the
basis for its existance. enforcement of its will becomes a matter
solely of force of arms.

oliver north. the man is positively worshiped in many
all american 'conservative' quarters. he and big ron
set up a secret government and did all sorts of severely
illegal deeds the kind of stuff you and i would be doing
twenty to life for , yet he walks free. this bs happens all
the time. in fact , it happens so much that no one really
cares anymore. 'legitimacy' is a non issue. legality is
a non issue. so long as we get t bones and our mtv , who
gives a rats ass \?

you seem to be agreeing with your opponent. you ca n't trust your
government to protect you from abusers and violators white collar ,
blue collar , epauletted , or tank shirted. ultimately , no one has the
power to enforce your rights but you. unless you 've given up that
power.

no. i claimed that no one is interested in the statistical
aspects of the argument. pure emotion , like the abortion issue.

too many people fit that category , that is true. some of us like to
believe that they are uninterested in the facts behind the case for gun
ownership because they 've been conditioned to believe that there aren't
any. you seem content to underestimate the electorate i'm willing to
try to raise their consciousness.

argue away ... you ca n't win.

i think we can.

hci was founded in what , 1980 \? in the mid 80 's , they ran a one
million strong ! campaign for two years before reaching this goal.
my understanding is that they reached it by the stratagem of including
wide classes of people other than dues paying members. (i ca n't speak
authoritatively on this maybe somebody else has details.) then they
started running a two million strong ! campaign for a while but they
let it slip into unannounced obscurity when it became clear that they
simply were never going to reach that level of membership.

in 1964 , just after the commencement of the dodd hearings the starting
point of the modern gun control movement , the nra had a mere 625 , 000 members.
by 1968 , barely after the first murmurs of future registration , it had
about a million. today , it has over three million members , making it the
third largest membership organization in the country (next to aarp and aaa).
and its membership is growing faster than at any previous time. (historical
figures from kukla 's gun control , pp. 61 and 420.)

as you say , many of the people in the middle of this debate are bemused
by their t bones and mtv. that leaves hard core gun owners against
hard core gun banners.

i know a number of ex hci members who have recently become nra members.
i 've never heard of a single one who has gone the other way.

yes , i think we can and will win this one.

firearms related mindless mayhem will be related to the
availibility of firearms. if they become scarce and
and expensive , a different psychology will take hold.
i think they would be used far less to settle trivial
complaints.

i think they would be used far less to hammer nails , as well , but ,
like you , i ca n't give any citation showing that this utilization is
currently significant at more than an anecdotal level. if you can ,
i'm waiting.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from gress@ucsu.colorado.edu (gress joseph john )
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 33

in article c5d05g.6xw@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) writes
in article 1993apr10.155819.18237@sco.com allanh@sco.com (allan j. heim) writes
look , if you can figure out a reliable means of keeping guns away from
bad people , while not interfering with good people , i think we 'd all be
for it. the problem is , the methods we 're using now do n't do the trick.

do n't manufacture them. do n't sell them. do n't import them.

some guns will get through , but far fewer , and far less people will
die because of them. hunting weapons could be allowed , of course , as
long as they are big , and bulky , and require reloading after a few
shots (how many times can you shoot at the same animal , anyways one
assumes they are moving ! )


first of all let 's assume that you are right that fewer guns would make it
in to the country , that sounds great (to those that see guns as inherently
evil) except then every one of those guns would be in the hands of someone
who obviously could n't care less about following the law , after all they
got the gun illegally , so is more likely to commit a crime with that gun.
great then everyone with a gun is likely to use it in a crime , nice system.

now as to reducing the number of guns coming into society by making it
illegal to manufacture , sell , or import them in this coutry , let me use
a parallel for empiric evidence. the amount of cocaine in this country is
far less since its manufacture , sale , and importation was out lawwed. if
that last statement is true then perhaps we should consider your plan. this
could also apply to drugs in general.

plain old joe




from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re blast them next time
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
distribution usa
lines 9

in article 1r19l9 7dv@usenet.ins.cwru.edu oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes

flame bait , pure and simple







from betz@gozer.idbsu.edu (andrew betz)
subject weaver trial update
nntp posting host gozer
organization sigsauer fan club
lines 13

i 've been running a daily summary of the randy weaver kevin
harris trial from here in boise. these summaries are sent
primarily to mailing lists. however , i was wondering if
people would be interested in seeing them here. post or
email.

drew

betz@gozer.idbsu.edu
brought into your terminal from the free state of idaho
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights
spook fodder fema , nsa , clinton , gore , insurrection , nsc ,
semtex , neptunium , terrorist , cia , mi5 , mi6 , kgb , deuterium

from cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
subject re ban all firearms !
reply to cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
organization north coast public access nix , cleveland , oh
distribution usa
lines 30

as quoted from c5j5im.3c9@cbnewsc.cb.att.com by rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com (morris the cat)


firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area.
it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
would have to be local. there are not all that many people
who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
firearms from scratch. high ranking crime figures could
obtain imported uzis and such , but the average person , and
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would
pay through the nose for it.

this is not borne out of reality the old soviet union had a very
serious domestic handgun and submachinegun trade , guns that were
of commercial grade because they were produced in honest to goodness
machineshops. why would all production have to be local do n't we
have a road system that is the envy of the world \?

if anybody wanted proof of the nonsense of the you ca n't build guns claim ,
they need look no farther than the philippines. amateur gunsmiths there
regularly produce everything from .45 automatics to full auto shotguns. now
if this guy wants to claim that the philippines is either technologically
superior to the us or that their transportation is better than ours , all i
can say is that he 's living in a fantasy world.



you 're like a bunch of over educated , new york jewish aclu lawyers
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in
arkansas holly silva

from slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com (mark slagle)
subject re nra fucks up bigtime
reply to slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com
in reply to doctor1@cbnewse.cb.att.com 's message of mon , 5 apr 1993 04 24 50 gmt
organization you would n't ask this if you 'd seen my desk.
slagle.93mar29232337@sgi417.msd.lmsc.lockheed.com
1993apr5.042450.2071@cbnewse.cb.att.com
lines 27

in article 1993apr5.042450.2071@cbnewse.cb.att.com , doctor1@cbnewse.cb.att.com (patrick.b.hailey) writes

in article slagle.93mar29232337@sgi417.msd.lmsc.lockheed.com slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com writes

in article xw1twyl@dixie.com , jgd@dixie.com (john de armond) writes

no , actually i'm a lot more familiar with the libbers than i
care to be. i'm a bit hesitant to continue this thread because
it brings back horrible memories of my first encounter with the
libbers in the larouche branch. i made the mistake of buying a

any connection between lyndon larouche and the libertarian party
is a pure product of your own fertile imagination.

naw , perhaps he reads time magazine.

it 's a fair stretch of anyone 's imagination to expect them to
attach any credibility to anything written in time magazine in
the past twenty years , i 'd imagine. the enquirer at least gets
the names attached to the right body parts.

mark


mark e. slagle po box 61059
slagle@lmsc.lockheed.com sunnyvale , ca 94088
408 756 0895 usa

from loki@acca.nmsu.edu (entropic destroyer)
subject re need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation
organization new mexico state university
lines 26
distribution usa
nntp posting host rever.nmsu.edu
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9

entropic destroyer (loki@acca.nmsu.edu) wrote

i have seen these numbers quoted before , and i have seen very specific
refutation of them quoted as well. if someone will be so kind as to
email the relevant information , i will write a letter to the editor of
the co. daily (which might get published) and send a copy to usn wr as
well.

thanks to all who responded. the letter has been written (making liberal
use of info provided by various net.folks) and handed to the paper. i 'll
post if it gets into the paper !

dan


dod 202 loki@acca.nmsu.edu liberty or death taylordf@ucsu.colorado.edu
send me something even you ca n't read...
begin pgp public key block
version 2.1

mqcnaitfksqaaaeeakceejwi9f5kmjykp0logc5dghrpbmy2xhoo8kpehmdyuf8a
1bfdqsj53kostz6hroshsdzlvul1 40vpjmmntfr vyz4jvd3rl4iuq2ummmex3m
itf3ult8xn v qabsvhcfshvjvk4lf6wosucmo03m2tix31ai7vb0uzo4yxjaaux
tcreyw5pzwwgribuyxlsb3igpexva2laywnjys5ubxn1lmvkdt4
s5ib
end pgp public key block

from bbs.billand@tsoft.net (bill anderson)
subject handgun restrictions
organization the tsoft bbs and public access unix , 1 415 969 8238
lines 7

i would like to know what restrictions there are on purchasing handguns
(ie waiting periods , background check etc..) in the states of nevada and
oregon. thanks.
bill


bill anderson (bbs.billand@tsoft.net)

from gary@colossus.cgd.ucar.edu (gary strand)
subject re the slaughter
organization climate and global dynamics division ncar , boulder , co
lines 16

followups to talk.politics.guns

rl russell lawrence
kr karl rominger

kr i support the right of any citizen with out a criminal history to own and
use firearms , regardless of race , gender , and religion.

rl thanks for admitting that you , yourself , adhere to an illogical dogma.

well , folks in t.p.guns , want to show how russell 's illogical dogma is
wrong \?


gary strand opinions stated herein are mine alone and are
strandwg@ncar.ucar.edu not representative of ncar , ucar , or the nsf

from vojak@icebucket.stortek.com (bill vojak)
subject letter to david skaggs
distribution usa
organization storage technology corp.
lines 136
originator vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nntp posting host icebucket.stortek.com

here is a letter i sent to david skaggs , (dem , co). before anybody says
something , yes the letter is a bit sharp in tone. i have been writting
reasonable and polite letters to him for years , and all i get in return
in the hci party line. since he already is nra f rated , i do n't think that
upsetting him will harm the cause. sorry if you disagree , but recent events
in texas really have me pissed.


april 20 , 1993
representative skaggs ,

recently i wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the
bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms , (batf) , in texas. in your response
you stated that events in texas underscore the need for stricter gun control
legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the branch davidians.
my question to you is , what grounds would you use to deny them access to
firearms \? best i can tell this statement underscores your apparent total
ignorance of the subject , and highlights your personal bias against firearms.
i say this because there are only two possible paths of gun control which you
could have been referencing.

either
1) you were talking about their access to semi automatics firearms. in this
case i should point out that semi automatic firearms are legal in most areas of
this country , including texas and colorado. in addition the members of the
cult have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability
to purchase these weapons. so under what grounds would you deny them these
guns \? their religion \? the fact they they live in a large group alone by
themselves \? because you consider them to be a cult \? maybe i consider your
church to be a cult !

this line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of thought crimes. you
and pat robertson should really get along.

2) you were referring to the alleged fully automatic weapons possessed by the
cult. under current us law , fully automatic weapons have been covered by
some of the strictest gun control laws in this nation. so if david koresh
illegally possessed them , he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest
laws we have. how will more laws help \? by the way , it has been reported that
david koresh possessed a federal firearms license which would have permitted
him to possess fully automatic weapons. if true , the 85 people who perished
monday in the fire , died so that the federal government could collect a couple
hundred dollars in taxes on guns david koresh did n't declare.

i have heard claims that they were stockpiling weapons. yet considering the
number of people in the complex , even 200 weapons would not have been out of
line with gun ownership statistics for all of texas. what 's next \? a siege of
dallas ft worth for alleged stockpiling \?

face it david skaggs , you have voted for virtually every gun control law that
has passed through congress , yet you claim that you are only for reasonable
restrictions. bull ! handgun control inc. is struggling to maintain
250 , 000 paid members , while the nra has just exceeded 3 , 000 , 000 members. they
are still growing at a rate of 2 , 000 new members per day. driving around your
district i see nra stickers every day. in eight plus years of living here i
have only seen one hci bumper sticker. when you vote for your reasonable
gun control laws , are you really representing your district , or are you
representing sarah bradys' \?


thank you ,




william j. vojak





april 20 , 1993
representative skaggs ,

recently i wrote to you regarding my outrage over the tactics used by the
bureau of alcohol tobacco and firearms , (batf) , in texas. in your response
you stated that events in texas underscore the need for stricter gun control
legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the branch davidians.
my question to you is , what grounds would you use to deny them access to
firearms \? best i can tell this statement underscores your apparent total
ignorance of the subject , and highlights your personal bias against firearms.
i say this because there are only two possible paths of gun control which you
could have been referencing.

either
1) you were talking about their access to semi automatics firearms. in this
case i should point out that semi automatic firearms are legal in most areas of
this country , including texas and colorado. in addition the members of the
cult have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability
to purchase these weapons. so under what grounds would you deny them these
guns \? their religion \? the fact they they live in a large group alone by
themselves \? because you consider them to be a cult \? maybe i consider your
church to be a cult !

this line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of thought crimes. you
and pat robertson should really get along.

2) you were referring to the alleged fully automatic weapons possessed by the
cult. under current us law , fully automatic weapons have been covered by
some of the strictest gun control laws in this nation. so if david koresh
illegally possessed them , he would have had to circumvent some of the strictest
laws we have. how will more laws help \? by the way , it has been reported that
david koresh possessed a federal firearms license which would have permitted
him to possess fully automatic weapons. if true , the 85 people who perished
monday in the fire , died so that the federal government could collect a couple
hundred dollars in taxes on guns david koresh did n't declare.

i have heard claims that they were stockpiling weapons. yet considering the
number of people in the complex , even 200 weapons would not have been out of
line with gun ownership statistics for all of texas. what 's next \? a siege of
dallas ft worth for alleged stockpiling \?

face it david skaggs , you have voted for virtually every gun control law that
has passed through congress , yet you claim that you are only for reasonable
restrictions. bull ! handgun control inc. is struggling to maintain
250 , 000 paid members , while the nra has just exceeded 3 , 000 , 000 members. they
are still growing at a rate of 2 , 000 new members per day. driving around your
district i see nra stickers every day. in eight plus years of living here i
have only seen one hci bumper sticker. when you vote for your reasonable
gun control laws , are you really representing your district , or are you
representing sarah bradys' \?


thank you ,
william j. vojak



bill vojak
vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
nra , ila ,
colorado firearms coalition

the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather not ! )
the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather biased ! )


from ernie@ferris (ernest smith)
subject re handgun restrictions
originator ernie@ferris
lines 24
nntp posting host ferris.cray.com
organization cray research superservers , inc.
distribution usa

to bbs.billand@tsoft.net
subject re handgun restrictions
newsgroups talk.politics.guns
in reply to ow522b2w165w@tsoft.net
organization cray research , inc.
cc
bcc

in article ow522b2w165w@tsoft.net you write
i would like to know what restrictions there are on purchasing handguns
(ie waiting periods , background check etc..) in the states of nevada and
oregon. thanks.
bill


bill anderson (bbs.billand@tsoft.net)


in oregon your must get a background check (ie fingerprints , full slap) , 15
day waiting period. that is unless you have a ccw then all requirments
have been meet.

ernie smith
ernie@oregon.cray.com

from yoony@aix.rpi.edu (young hoon yoon)
subject re gun talk legislative update for states
keywords gun talk , ila
nntp posting host aix.rpi.edu
distribution usa
lines 27

viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson) writes

lvc@cbnews.cb.att.com (larry cipriani) writes

iowa all firearm related bills are dead. senate file 303
dealing with off duty police officers carrying concealed remains
viable.

the power of the word processor and a stamp at work.
the fact that around here the state rep generally lives no more than
nine miles from any constituent does n't hurt , either.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.


does anyone know the particulars on the senate file 303 \?
does this bill allow or deny off duty police from carrying concealed \?

from what information that i have , iowa has a discretionary permit policy
on ccw. if s 303 allows police(off duty) to carry concealed then i would
be inclined to oppose it. i do n't believe off duty police officers should
have any more rights than civilians. if law or policy prevents law abiding
citizens from being armed for self defense then why should off duty police
officer be treated any differently.

from mort@hpfcso.fc.hp.com (jeff mortensen)
subject re we knew it would happen
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co , usa
lines 19

in talk.politics.guns , jagst18 @pitt.edu (josh a grossman) writes

well josh i agree with you to some respect...less your spelling
errors. the gov'mnt always must win ! even if they kill every
man women and child....by god they must win at all costs......

this happens over and over and over in this country. lets make
excuses , get the worthless press to cover up everything , let the
officials take the heat for top management stupidity etc...etc...

i am sick with greif for the entire well being of this nation and the
constitution in claims to protect.

later ,
josh


later morty


from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 22
distribution usa
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 93109.172450u28037@uicvm.uic.edu jason kratz
...

it is kind of funny though how you were the only one who picked up
the part about my sister being a social worker and keeping me up to date on
the
gang thing. everyone else seemed to just skim by that part.

jason


i guess that just means everyone else was mistaken \?

jim

jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from minh lang minh@inst sun1.jpl.nasa.gov
subject re gov't break ins (re 60 minutes)
organization jet propulsion laboratory
lines 23
distribution world
nntp posting host 128.149.109.37
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
x xxdate mon , 5 apr 93 16 17 37 gmt

in article 1993apr5.155733.114@pasadena dc.bofa.com ,
franceschi@pasadena dc.bofa.com writes
in viet nam , lt calley was tried and convicted of murder because his
troops , in a war setting , deliberately killed innocent people. it is
time
that the domestic law enforcement agencies in this country adhere to
standards at least as moral as the military 's.

no , lt calley was later acquitted. his troops killed 400 500
people , including kids , elderly and women... i sure do n't want
to see the domestic law enforcement agencies in this country
adhere to those military standards ... if they did , we 're
all in big trouble...(the my lai massacre was covered up
by high ranking officials and all who were involved were
acquitted).

minh


minh lang , software engineer jet propulsion laboratory
instrumentation systems group instrumentation section 375
note my employer has nothing to do with what i said here...


from wdstarr@athena.mit.edu (william december starr)
subject cost benefit analysis (was fbi director 's statement...)
organization northeastern law , class of '93
lines 23
nntp posting host nw12 326 1.mit.edu
in reply to costley@solo.eng.hou.compaq.com (brett costley)


in article 1993apr20.212028.17463@twisto.eng.hou.compaq.com ,
costley@solo.eng.hou.compaq.com (brett costley) said

sigh i just don't understand why they could n't have waited koresh co
out. jlpicard@austin.ibm.com

uh , maybe because it was costing hundreds of thousands of dollars a
day to just sit and wait.

yeah. we do n't want to spend too much money preserving lives , after
all. escpecially when they 're all just a bunch of crazy fanatic
cultists anyway , instead of normal people.

the above is supposed to be dripping with sarcasm , but i'm too burned
out right now (get it \? burned out ha ha ! ) to tell if it 's working.
look , folks , what david koresh and his followers were was broken . it
takes a certain amount of flexibility and insanity to survive in this
world and they did n't have enough of it and that was n't their fault. so
please stop dancing on their graves , okay \?

william december starr wdstarr@athena.mit.edu


from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re some more about gun control...
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 18

in article 2071@rwing.uucp pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto) writes
what i find so hard to understand is how come some people , apparantly
not connected with government or otherwise privileged , will
go to great lengths , redefinitions , re interpretations , in a full bore
attempt to throw away the protection of their own rights under the
constitution ! ! !
almost makes me think of lemmings running into the sea during a lemming
year...
i really wonder that jefferson and madison would say to these folks \?

they 'd probably quote montesque (sp \? ) who was once asked if russia
was likely to become a democracy any time soon no , because
russia is a nation of slaves and the people get what they deserve.
since he said that , russia has changed a great deal. but so ,
unfortunately have other nations.

frank crary
cu boulder

from greg@puck.webo.dg.com ()
subject re rkba on nyc radio station
reply to greg@puck.webo.dg.com
organization nsdd x.500 , data general corp.
lines 31

actually , the real reason that stern was getting a bigger rating share was that
he was new in d.c. , not because of the quality (if you can call it that) of
his show. after the fine was issued he started to get better ratings because
of the curious individuals who wanted to see how bad he actually was. since
he came to d.c. he has had a greater turn over of listeners than the grease
has. in other words , more people get sick of him sooner than they do of the
grease . after all , saying vagina or penis on the air is hilarious at first ,
the second time it is still a little funny , but when you do it all the time ,
and at the same time , think you are the greatest man on the planet (and tell
everyone so) than you are going to get old really quick.
give it up mark you are wrong.

excuse me , but if you really new what the show was about , you 'd know that he
does n't just say vagina and penis and that is how he get 's his ratings. he
also addresss real issues as well as being outrageous. i do n't hear any of these
other idiots doing a funny show and getting into some serious topics at the
same time , he get 's people to think and entertains them at the same time ,
so try listening to his show a little closer before you tell them that they are
wrong , and by the way , if he is such a flash in the pan , why do his ratings sustain
so well \? hmm \?






greg w. lazar greg@puck.webo.dg.com

j e t s jets jets jets



from allanh@sco.com (allan j. heim)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization the santa cruz operation , inc.
lines 34


jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu

firearms tend to fall into this low dollar pound area. it would not
be economic to smuggle them in. all production would have to be
local. there are not all that many people who have both the skill
and motivation to assemble worthwhile firearms from scratch.
high ranking crime figures could obtain imported uzis and such , but
the average person , and average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun
and would pay through the nose for it.

good point you make. however , a zip gun , by definition , is a crude ,
homemade gun certainly not something capable of sustained , accurate
fire , but it would be useful as a means of getting a normal gun. recall
the tiny , single shot pistols made by the allies during world war ii for
use by partisans. they were essentially well made zipguns , incapable of
effective fire beyond a few feet. but they were useful as a means of
killing german soldiers for their guns.

also note that the crowd pleasin' favorite , the sten gun , was
specifically designed to require as little machine work as possible.
the point 's been made here that one could make a sten clone with steel
tubing , hand tools and a welder.

i still think that while the point is good , i think there 's a difference
between marijuana and firearms , in that quality marijuana can be grown
locally there 's no need to import the stuff. if guns are banned , i
think the demand for real guns will be sufficient to make smuggling
economically feasible , thus rendering a ban moot. in any case , the
result would be the same people who are n't criminals wo n't have
firearms , and bad guys will continue to have access to them , one way
or another. and i do n't see that as a necessary situation.

allan j. heim allanh@sco.com ... ! uunet ! sco ! allanh 1 408 427 7813

from manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
organization manes and associates , nyc
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9
lines 168

jim de arras (jmd@cube.handheld.com) wrote
last year the us suffered almost 10 , 000 wrongful or accidental
deaths by handguns alone (fbi statistics). in the same year , the uk
suffered 35 such deaths (scotland yard statistics). the population
of the uk is about 1 5 that of the us (10 , 000 (35 5)). weighted
for population , the us has 57x as many handgun related deaths as the
uk. and , no , the brits do n't make up for this by murdering 57x as
many people with baseball bats.

you just ca n't compare this way ! all homicides must be shown , per capita , not
just handguns. the availability of them in the usa makes them the preferred
murder weapon , but ban them , and some other weapon will step in as the
favorite.

as a favorite , sure. as lethal , not likely. a study of violence in
chicago produced this table

percentage of reported gun and knife attacks
resulting in death

weapon deaths as percentage of attacks

knives (16 , 518 total attacks) 2.4
guns (6 , 350 total attacks) 12.2

source firearms and violence in american life

it might be contended that if gun murderers were deprived of guns
that they would find a way to kill as often with knives. if this were
so , knife attacks in cities where guns were widely used in homicide
would be expected to show a low fatality rate , and knife attacks in
cities where guns were not so widely used (like vancouver) would show
a higher fatality rate. but the nat'l commission on the causes and
prevention of violence task force analyzed the data and found this
not to be the case. it appeared to them that as the number of knife
attacks increased in relation to the number of firearms attacks
(which presumably happened where guns were less available to assailants) ,
the proportion of fatal knife attacks did not increase relative to the
proportion of gun attacks. in fact , the reverse was true.

what was found was that most homicides did not show a determination on
the part of the assailant to kill. fatalities caused by knife tended
to show a single mindedness on the part of the assailant to do grave
physical injury multiple stabs wounds , wounds concentrated about the
head neck and chest , etc. most gun homicides did not show this
pattern. rather , more fatal attacks were committed during a moment of
rage and not the focused intent to kill the victim.

source report on firearms and violence

then , since england ! usa (my ancestors left because of the oppression) you
must compare england before strict gun laws to england after strict gun laws to
be able to draw any meaning at all. england has essentially legalized drugs ,
so there are no drug gangs battling for turf , etc. , there. if you drop out the
drug related killings here , the usa would look a whole lot more peaceful.

there are a lot of factors which make a difference. actually , i'm not
fond of making any kind of social parallels between europeans and
americans. there are more cultural , beahvioral and economic
differences between us than similarities. i just sort of found
myself backed into that corner over the last couple of weeks. i
do n't think we could ever attain the low levels of european violent
crime here in the us , whether we banned guns or required every
law abiding citizen to carry a loaded uzi.

on the other hand , we can draw lessons from neighbors who are more
culturally similar , namely the canadians. in fact , an exhaustive ,
seven year study has already been done of the respective crime rates
of vancouver , british columbia and seattle , washington... cities
with roughly the same population , urban economy , geography
and crime but with decidedly different approaches to gun control.

in seattle , handguns may be purchased legally for self defense. after
a 30 day waiting period , a permit can be obtained to carry a concealed
weapon. the recreational use of handguns is minimally restricted.

in vancouver , self defense is not considered a valid or legal reason
to purchase a handgun. concealed weapons are not permitted.
recreational uses of handguns (target shooting , collecting) are
regulated by the province. purchase of a handgun requires a
restricted weapons permit. a permit to carry may be obtained in
order to transport the weapon to licensed shooting clubs. handguns
transported by vehicle must be stored in the trunk in a locked box.
in short , gun control but not unreasonably so.

both cities aggressively enforce their gun laws. convictions for
gun related offenses carry similar penalties. the researchers
studied all cases of robbery , assault (simple and aggravated) ,
burglary and homicides occurring in seattle and vancouver from
1 1 80 to 12 31 86. in defining the cases , they used the same
standard the fbi 's unified crime report.

results during the seven year study the annual rate of robbery in
seattle was found to be only slightly higher than that in vancouver
(1.09 1.11). burglaries occurred at nearly identical rates (.99).
18 , 925 assaults were recorded in seattle versus 12 , 034 in
vancouver. the risk of being a victim of a simple assault in
seattle was found to be only slightly higher than vancouver (1.18
1.15) and the risk of aggravated assault was also slightly higher
(1.16 1.12). however , when aggravated assaults were subdivided by
weapon and the mechanism of assault , a clear pattern emerged.
although both cities reported nearly identical rates of aggravated
assault involving knives and other dangerous weapons , firearms were
far more likely to be used in seattle. in fact , 7.7 times as often.

over the seven year study , 388 homicides occurred in seattle
(11.3 per 100 , 000) vs. 204 homicides in vancouver (6.9 per 100 , 000).
after adjustment for differences in age and sex among the populations ,
the relative risk of being a victim of homicide in seattle , as
compared to vancouver , was found to be 1.63.

when homicides were subdivided by the mechanism of death , the rate
of homicide by knives and other weapons (excluding firearms) in
seattle was found to be almost identical to that in vancouver.
virtually all of the increased risk of death in seattle was due to
a more than fivefold higher rate of homicide by firearms. handguns
accounted for roughly 85 of homicides involving firearms. handguns
were 4.8 times more likely to be used in homicides in seattle than
in vancouver.

the authors of the report also investigated legally justifiable
homicides (self defense). only 32 such homicides occurred during
the seven year study , 11 of which were committed by police. only
21 cases of civilians acting in self defense occurrred 17 in
seattle and 4 in vancouver. only 13 involved firearms. after
excluding these cases , there was virtually no impact on these
earlier findings.



this is , i feel , a very fair report. one might even make the
argument that it is biased against canada as a whole because
vancouver reports annual rates of homicide two to three times
that of ottawa , calgary and toronto while seattle reports
annual homicide rates only half to two thirds that of nyc ,
chicago , los angeles and houston.

critics of handgun control always argue that limited legal access
to handguns will have little effect on the rates of homicide because
persons intent on killing others will only try harder to acquire a
gun or will kill by other means. this report shows differently.
if the rate of homicide in a community were influenced more by
the strength of intent than by the availability of weapons , we
could expect the rate of homicides by weapons other than guns to
be higher in vancouver than in seattle. however , during the study
interval , vancouver 's rate of homicide by weapons other than guns
was not significantly higher than that in seattle , suggesting that
few would be assailants switched to homicide by other methods.

as well , ready access to handguns for self defense by law abiding
citizens was not endorsed in this report. although seattle did
experience a higher rate of firearm death for self defense , these
cases accounted for less than 4 of the homicides in both cities
during the course of the study period. and , as was reported ,
seattle apparently did n't enjoy relief from any crime category
over vancouver because citizens may legally arm themselves for
self defense.

heavily quoted source handgun regulation , crime ,
assaults , and homicide a tale of two cities.

john h. sloan , arthur l. kellerman , donald t. reay ,
james a. ferris , thomas koepsall , frederick p. rivara ,
charles rice , laurel gray and james logerfo

stephen manes manes@magpie.linknet.com
manes and associates new york , ny , usa o o


from andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman)
subject re backcountry confidence
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 26

in article c5l02e.8gh@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu rbw3q@rayleigh.mech.virginia.edu (brad whitehurst) writes
the rest of us fall in the middle. there is too much violent
crime in the u.s. , but turning the whole country into an old time
dodge city (ref. to american old west) is not the way.

that 's an interesting statement. there 's quite a difference between
hollywood 's old west and the real one. yes , there were drunks ,
saloons , mining camps , and thugs. however , as mcgrath showed , the
thugs preyed almost exclusively on one another. mcgrath claims that
this was due to the fact that no one much cared if someone who
insisted on getting into a fight got his way , even if he lost , while
they really did care when thugs preyed on others.

citizens should be able to own weapons , but we see no sense in some
types.

we have n't figured out that those distinctions do n't actually work.
machine guns have been strictly regulated since 1934. said regulation
is both perfect (legally owned machine guns are n't ever used
criminally) and a complete waste of time (the criminal use of machine
guns has n't change at all). the result we 're now arguing about
guns that look like machine guns , but are no different than other
guns.

andy


from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re change of name \? \?
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 35

in article cmm.0.90.2.735315429.thomasp@holmenkollen.ifi.uio.no thomasp@ifi.uio.no (thomas parsli) writes


1. make a new newsgroup called talk.politics.guns.paranoid or
talk.politics.guns.they'r.here.to.take.me.away

2. move all postings about waco and burn to (guess where)..

3. stop posting on this newsgroup

we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil
goverment , but would you mail this in regular mail to
let 's say 1000 people \? \? \? \?


thomas parsli
and everybody who talked about the evil arising in europe was labeled
reactionary in the late 1930 's... after all , we could negotiate with hitler and
trust him to keep his end of the bargain... at least that 's what stalin and
chamberlin thought... i guess they forgot to teach you about your country being
overrun by the germans in wwii , 'eh thomas \? and i'm sorry you consider outrage
at government excesses to be ... everytime the israelis conduct a mass
operation against a terrorist group that is actively killing their citizens and
soldiers , the world gets indignant , but it 's ok for the us to assault it 's own
citizens who were a religous minority and accused of sexual deviation and
hoarding weapons... i find it real ironic this happened the same day al gore
arrived in poland to recognize the sacrifices made in the warsaw ghetto where
the same 'justifications' were raised for an armed assault by black clad troops
with armor support...



james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


from wolfone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (i am an android..)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin , texas
lines 29
nntp posting host happy.cc.utexas.edu

in article 1993apr21.113723.10103@synapse.bms.com hambidge@bms.com writes
in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
in article 1r1j3n 4t@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1r19tp 5em@bigboote.wpi.edu , mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

ever hear about cutting off the electricity \? that was done.
how effective is an electric stove then \?

did n't the branch davidans have an emergency generator \? oh well , i do n't think
brent thought of that anyway.




patrick chester (aka claypigeon) wolfone@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
the earth is our cradle , but one cannot stay in the cradle forever...
people 's organizations rarely stay that way... or even begin as such.
i only speak for myself. if i did speak for ut , would anyone listen \?


from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject cnn for sale
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 18
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


bill vojak

bv i read in the paper yestarday that ted turner wants to trim down
bv his media holdings and is putting cnn up for sale. the 1 potential
bv bidder \? time warner of course. sigh . . . . . just what we need. (

maybe now 's the time for us , the nra , goa , ccrtkba , saf , et al to band
together and buy cnn as our voice. would n't that be sumpin....broadcast
the truth for a change and be able to air a favorable pro gun item or two....

. olx 2.2 . there is no way they can get over here ! a. maginot



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from hambidge@bms.com
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 20

in article c5sv88.hjy@news.cso.uiuc.edu , irvine@uxh.cso.uiuc.edu (brent irvine) writes
in article 1r1j3n 4t@transfer.stratus.com cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article 1r19tp 5em@bigboote.wpi.edu , mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

napalm , then let the wood stove inside ignite it.

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

ever hear about cutting off the electricity \? that was done.
how effective is an electric stove then \?

al
standard disclaimer


from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re lavishly funded gun epidemic propaganda campaign to commence
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 38
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article c4txek.fcq@magpie.linknet.com , manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
morris the cat (rats@cbnewsc.cb.att.com) wrote

well , as neal knox of the firearms coalition points out , the full
force of the anti gun ruling class , their multi millions , their
polling organizations , their schools , their news media , their
entertainment media

the entertainment media... a force of the anti gun ruling class \? \?
is this the same media that 's made billions producing films and
television that glorify guns and gun users \? or is that another
anti gun media \?

you 've got to be kidding.

by this , do you mean that you consider it absolutely impossible for the
media to be guilty of hypocrisy \?

note that the film industry in california traded their political support
for an assault weapon ban in the state for an amendment to the bill
exempting the entertainment industry from that very ban.

note that the very issue of the batman comic book ( seduction of the gun )
that was produced as a tool for gun control organizations carries a back
page ad for a terminator ii video game extolling the numerous and
varied sophisticated weapons available to the player.

note that arthur ochs sulzberger , publisher of the ny times one of the
oldest and most incessant gun control grinders himself carries a
concealed handgun.

still , you find it completely incredible that these folks live by the
aphorism , do as i say , and not as i do.


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from pat@rwing.uucp (pat myrto)
subject re militia (incredibly long)
organization totally unorganized
lines 75

in article c5n0vy.ej6@ulowell.ulowell.edu jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes
in article 1qna9m nq8@transfer.stratus.com , cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
in article c5l0n2.5ll@ulowell.ulowell.edu , jrutledg@cs.ulowell.edu (john lawrence rutledge) writes
but , do you knew how much organization is required to training a large
group of poeple twice a year. just to try to get the same people
every year , provide a basic training to new people so they can
be integrated into the force , and find a suitable location , it
requires a continually standing committee of organizers.

again , my response is , so what \? is mr. rutledge arguing that since
the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support
such activity , and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from
doing so , that they have eliminated the basis for the rkba \? on the
contrary , to anyone who understands the game , they have strengthened it.

no , i originally argued that the second amendment was a little bit
and an anachronism. these prohibiting laws are examples why the are
an anachronism. after all , laws in made by representatives of the
people. these representatives of the people have already decided
that the second amendment does not apply or is too broad in some
cases. since these representatives feel an unconditional
interpretation is not wanted , then it is probable that they majority
of the people feel the same way. if this is so , it is an example
of the people using their power of government. if this is not
how the people feel , the people should stand up and state their wishes.

wrong. neglecting that the government and media have bullshitted the
people almost nonstop on this issue , constitutional limitations are
there to prevent a 'tyrrany of the majority'. for example , a majority
could vote that given ethnics have no rights , are not people , etc.
and it would fly using the logic above.

when government feels the constitution is not right for the times ,
there is a procedure called an amendment to the constitution. this
is deliberately difficult , and cumbersome , to prevent abuse of those
who decide to ignore the people , or impose unjust policies of a
majority on a minority. a lynch mob is a majority , remember , outvoting
the hangee.

what the government is doing are violations , end runs around the
limitations on the government , probably because they know that the
people would be very hard to convince that a good intention is behind
tampering with the bill of rights. government propeganda on guns has
been very strong and persistant , but not that strong. and it just
shows how gullible the people have become to i am from the government
and am here to help you sort of line . we have been lied to , fed
half truths , rigged stats , while the government knows their control
laws have no effect on crime. they want a government monopoly on
force , pure and simple. do you really want the government to be able
to override constitutional limitations by a simple vote of a bunch
of elitists (congresscritters) \? i sure do n't. the founding fathers
sure as hell did n't , either.

mox nix , mr. rutledge. you are the only one here claiming that the
rkba is dependent on the existence of a top flight , well regulated
militia. why this is a false assumption has already been posted a
number of times.

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well
organized militia. and i have also stated that a militia that
meets once or twice a year is clearly well organized. and this
state of readiness that i have claimed the people have a right
to , is the same state of readiness expected of the militia as stated
by hamilton.

you better read the senate subcommitte on the constitution regarding the
second amendment , and a linguist 's analisys of the second itself.
in the meanwhile , show us some stuff to back up your assertions.
and yes , i have the above mentioned documents (and more) online.


pat@rwing.uucp without prejudice ucc 1 207 (pat myrto) seattle , wa
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! pilchuck ! rwing ! pat
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity ,
and i am not sure about the former. albert einstien

from crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com (ron phillips)
subject randy weaver trial day 2
nntp posting host hound
reply to crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics , mountain view , ca
distribution usa
lines 89

this was posted to the firearms politics mailing list.

hi folks

wednesday marked day 2 , the beginning of the trial. opening
statements were given by both the prosecution and the defense ,
each side presenting its version of what happenned last august.

the prosecution argued that weaver and his family moved to
idaho in 1983 anticipating a battle with the evil federal
government. the prosecution alleges that weaver sold federal
agents sawed off shotguns and later failed to appear for
trial despite repeated good faith efforts to get weaver
to surrender peacefully , weaver refused. the shootout erupted
when weaver discovered agents on a surveillance mission and
began firing. according to the prosecution , three people
were taking an offensive action against an fbi helicopter
when an fbi sniper killed vicki weaver.

the defense argued that weaver and his family moved to northern
idaho in 1983 to practice their religion in peace. they wanted
simply to be left alone. weaver was induced by federal agents to
sell the short barrelled shotgun (and did not , as the prosecution
alleged , want to become a regular supplier ). the defense also
argued that the federal government sought to arrest weaver when
he would n't become an informant it is not specified explicitly ,
but i assume that this is a reference to the white separatist
angle of the story. we 'll know more as things develop . the
failure to appear in court happenned because weaver was given
an incorrect court date and then indicted before that date.
the shootout occurred when federal agent arthur roderick killed
weaver 's dog that was in proximity to weaver 's son , samuel. weaver
then fired in self defense. in the ensuing battle , federal
agent william degan was killed (when his gun was later found ,
there were 7 .223 cases nearby and the gun was on semi automatic
however , agents were near the body for an extended period of
time and could have played with the select fire this will
have to be more fully explained). finally , the defense claims
that vicki weaver was only going to look at the body not recover \?
of her son when she was cut down by an fbi sniper.

prosecution quote weaver wanted that confrontation , and he made
that confrontation. asst. u.s. attorney kim lindquist

defense quote the evidence in this case is going to show that
this is a case where randy weaver and kevin harris are charged
with crimes they did n't commit in order to cover crimes that
the government did commit. gerry spence nice soundbite !

notes the idaho statesman claims that weaver supporters
heeded a call from spence not to repeat yesterday 's protests
outside the courthouse. however , the local nbc affiliate
again had footage on the 10 00 news with 5 supporters including
tim again. tim claimed he was a skinhead , who were ordinary ,
working class people. he also claimed he was for white pride ,
not white power.

outside the courthouse the television crew had an impromptu interview
with bo gritz , who charged that the neo nazi protestors are exactly
what the government wants to smear randy weaver.

in an affiliated article carried in the idaho statesman , about
a dozen lawyers were among the 70 or so people packed into the
courthouse. these lawyers were present to watch gerry spence
in action , and to perhaps learn something from him. some
tidbits spence flatly told the jurors that he and his son kent
were volunteering their time to represent weaver because they
believed in him. spence , during his 90 minute opening statement ,
repeatedly walked behind weaver and placed his hands on the
defendants shoulders (weaver broke down and cried during the
recounting of his wife 's death) , and spence compared the sawed
off shotgun to driving 56 mph when the limit was 55 (another
good one ! ).

today (thursday , april 15th) the prosecution was scheduled to
begin presenting evidence.

drew





ron phillips crphilli@hound.dazixca.ingr.com
senior customer engineer
intergraph electronics
381 east evelyn avenue voice (415) 691 6473
mountain view , ca 94041 fax (415) 691 0350


from kennejs@a.cs.okstate.edu (kennedy james scot)
subject re guns gone. good riddance !
organization oklahoma state university
lines 63

from article 1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu , by jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu
you are loosing.

there is no question about it.

of those who vote , your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the rkba.

only irrational fools such as yourself are set against rkba. there are
plenty of people who support it.

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration , your
rkba will be null and void. tough titty.

the government will be overthrown long before that happens. a huge
millitia composed of all available men and women who care about their
country will defeat the forces of the evil klintonistas. the people
will prevail !

oh , so you think armed citizens alone ca n't overthrow the government \?
consider this do you think all law enforcement officials and members
of the armed forces will turn against the people that they are entrusted
to serve \? not hardly. you can count on a lot of people in the army ,
marines , air force , navy , national guard , police officers , and so on
joining in the cause to defend the liberties and freedoms of american
citizens. count on it ! the government will not be able to disarm
everyone without starting a civil war !

you had better discover ways to make do without firearms. the number of
cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause. there is nothing you
can do about it. those who live by the sword shall die by it.

the press is against you , the public (the voting public) is against
you , the flow of history is against you ... this is it !

surrender your arms. soon enough , officers will be around to collect

wrong again. people will just hide their guns so these officers
(more like jack booted stormtroopers) will not be able to find them.

them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you one at a time.
your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'.

they will unless they are idiots. they will realize that if they do n't
then they will be next including you. believe me if what you describe
happens they will be coming for more than guns. disarming citizens
would require that everyone 's cherished freedoms and liberties be
suspended temporarily. more likely , they 'd never be restored unless the
people do something about it.

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
be as safe as possible. such as it is ...


scott kennedy , brewer and patriot

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
the bible through the barrel of a gun... atf spokesman
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets
the constitution through the barrel of a gun... me


from donb@netcom.com (don baldwin)
subject re fyi batf reply on waco
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 43

in article c5l480.k7u@elite.intel.com dgw@elite.intel.com (dennis willson)
writes
on march 8 , i sent strongly worded letters critisizing the batf in
their handling of the randy weaver and branch davidian cases to
several politicians (ore. senators bob packwood and mark hatfield ,
representative elizabeth furse and treasury secretary lloyd bentsen).
while i have never been a supporter of bob packwood , i must admit
that he seems to be the only one who has done anything but round file
my letter.

well , i did n't bother writing to boxer , feinstein or eshoo , the terrible
trio who allegly represent me. instead , i wrote to bentsen. my letter
was not exactly strongly worded i simply stated that the batf approach
was immoral (military style assault , firing into a house where they knew
there were kids).

aparently , bentsen forwarded my letter to the batf and they responded to
me directly. it follows the text of your reply pretty closely. however ,
i intend to send another letter directly to them , in return.

prior to the service of the federal search warrant , numerous efforts
were made to locate and effect the arrest of david koresh away from the
compound. these efforts were unsuccessful. even if david koresh had
been arrested while away from the compound , action would have been
required against his followers (who are just as violent as he) during
the subsequent search of the premises.

this section is not in the letter that i received. the parts about atf
logo and steenking badges or their loss of the element of surprise
were not included , either.

sincerely yours ,

daniel m. h \? \? l \? \? tt ca n't make out signature
deputy director

the same guy with the bad handwriting apparently signed my letter , for
richard l. garner chief , special operations division .

don




from jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization hand held products , inc.
lines 48
distribution world
nntp posting host dale.handheld.com

in article 1r0v4c i1j@menudo.uh.edu hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
writes
in 1r0poqinnc4k@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com writes

in article c5rdaw.4s4@dartvax.dartmouth.edu zed@dartmouth.edu (ted
schuerzinger) writes
well , it 's now tuesday morning. where are those two arsons , now \? i said
yesterday they would vanish , and there has been no further mention of them ,
just the desired impression is left.

according to kikk radio in houston , all nine survivors are either in hos
pitals or in jails. inlucding the two who allegedly helped start the firess.

in the fbi briefing , no mention was made of having the fire starters in
custody.

why could no one else even talk to them \? why could koresh 's grandmother
not
talk to him or even send him a taped message \? why the total isolation \?

well , it was n't total , 100 isolation. after the lawyer snuck in the first
time , they (the fbi , etc) let him go back inside several times , including , i
think , the day before the final assualt.


why not his mother \? why not the media \?

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91



i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing
system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph


jmd@handheld.com

i'm always rethinking that. there 's never been a day when i have n't rethought
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93
if i were an american , as i am an englishman , while a foreign troop was landed
in my country , i never would lay down my arms , never never never !
william pitt , earl of chatham 1708 1778 18 nov. 1777

from dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf)
subject re do they really believe \?
organization texas a m university , college station
lines 38
nntp posting host tamuts.tamu.edu

in article 1993apr5.150031.3123@colorado.edu ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes

q do you think that hic et al really believe that the laws
that they are trying to get passed are for the good or are they just
lying through their teeth and trying to disarm the populace \?

i think that hci people honestly believe that passing more gun control
laws will be in the best interests of public safety. why do i think
this \? because i used to buy the hci line. during my freshman year (1987) ,
their line made so much sense only people who need guns should be
able to get them , and the people who need them are the police and
other elites. unfortunately for us , this position is highly emotional
and not well thought out. they never stop to think that hci 's position
basically says that the non elite are incompetents (that 's you and me ,
folks ! ) and that the second amendment has absolutely nothing to do with
hunting or other legitimate uses (which excludes overthrowing tyrannical
governments and defending yourself when the police have proven they
ca n't protect you).

we all know that the end result , regardless of the intention ,
will be to have a much easier to subdue population for the un nwo.
this is definitely a motivation of many in power , but i wonder to
what degree this is planned vs just duped.

every pro control person i 've talked to is always left stumped when i
simply argue the facts of gun control (that it has yet to be proven to
lower crime rates) and weapons terminology (and i'm no expert but
explaining exactly how an evil semiautomatic weapon really works
does wonders).

i hvae personally found well reasoned arguments to be most effective
against the emotional pro control people. the trick is to get them to
realize that the second amendment exists not for hunters but for the
oppressed and the terrorized.

daryl
daryl biberdorf n5gjm d biberdorf@tamu.edu
sola gratia sola fide sola scriptura

from feustel@netcom.com (david feustel)
subject government exlanations for waco
organization dafco os 2 software support consulting
lines 8

when you have no principles , you ca n't admit that someone else might ,
and everyone who acts differently from what you expect can only be a nutcase.

dave feustel n9myi feustel@netcom.com

i'm beginning to look forward to reaching the 100 allocation of taxes
to pay for the interest on the national debt. at that point the
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds.

from roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
nntp posting host chopin.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 97

in article 1r21vqinneb8@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de arras) writes
in article c5spov.lre@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
in article 1r0qsrinnc61@clem.handheld.com jmd@cube.handheld.com (jim de
arras) writes
in article c5s0ds.j54@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby)
writes
i agree that they deserved a trial. they had more than 40 days to come
out and get their trial. they chose to keep the children with them and
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear
gassed.
i do not find these actions rational. even noriega was smart enough to
give up and go for the trial he deserved.


mr. roby , you are a government sucking heartless bastard.

unworthy of comment.

but apparently true. my opinion , only , of course.

so , your opinion is truth. i see... )

humans died
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the
actions
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them.

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty.
that is undeniable truth.

no , it is not. it is possible the fbi planned for this to happen , and the
gunfire heard was the fbi keeping the folks inside. i'm not proposing this as
the way it went down , but just to point out that it 's not undeniable that if
they walked out yesterday , they would be alive today.

you can believe that if you wish. it is undeniable , however , that people
have left the compound unharmed and alive earier in the standoff.

and since their leader was preaching that they would have an apocalypse , you
can not say undeniably that there would n't have been a mass suicide if the
fbi had simply stayed outside and waited another 51 days.

my heart bleeds just as much as yours for
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities
to do so. my heart also bleeds for people so blinded by religious devotion
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when tanks came up
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning.

my heart bleeds for no one. you are the bleeding heart . and i'm sure
beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as i do. you
can not say the heartless things you have said if you did.

i am the heartless bleeding heart \? you are not making sense.
you seem to have no concern that someone would keep children inside this
compound when they had 51 days to let them out. that sounds pretty heartless
to me.

i just heard on the news that some of the survivors regret they had n't
stayed in the inferno to prove their loyalty to koresh. this makes me
sad and sick.

you seem to say
they got what they deserved.

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire (which started in
more than one place and spread very quickly) , then they got what they
wanted and put into motion themselves.

they got what they wanted . what kind of creature are you that you can
believe this \?

have you ever heard of jonestown \?
the sad thing is the people inside the compound were the authority
worshipers and their only authority was koresh howell. if these
people were able to think for themselves , there would likely be a lot
more survivors today. koresh preached a fiery apocalypse as early as
last year.

i see the batf is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely
by arlen spectre and congress. this is good. they have bungled the affair
from the start.

we agree on this. now lets have your god , the fbi , investigated , too.

by all means , the fbi should be investigated , too.
btw , i thought the second ammendment was god. )

jim

jmd@handheld.com







from viking@iastate.edu (dan sorenson)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization iowa state university , ames ia
lines 44

in c5rynw.iz8@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their
hands up while national tv cameras watch.

would you have come out if you knew the only national tv
cameras were well over a mile away , and yet the agents with the guns
were only a few yards away \? they had contact with a lawyer , so i
am inclined to believe they had an idea of what their situation
actually was. this also leads to the conspiracy theory that the
lawyer had the batf pinned on rights violations if the bd 's
acted as witnesses , hence the arson. i doubt that one too , but
it is still quite clear that leaving a safe place to surrender is
a rather stupid thing to do until that place is no longer safe.

do you disbelieve everything the fbi says \?

as a matter of course , given how they 've allowed no other
views to be heard. i 'll reserve judgement until the trial , but so
far as the fbi is concerned their statements carry the same amount
of weight as photons at rest.

the batf is by no means devoid of fault in the handling of this affair.
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is
ludicrous.

ludicrous , yes. possible , yes. plausible \? get the jury.

if the fire were set by accident or by people outside the compound , i would
have expected far more cult members to flee the compound. or at least come
out shooting.

that 's what gets me too. it is likely the cult members were
holed up in an enforced place inside the building. with a decent arson
attempt i suspect many of them could have been trapped. in addition ,
the introduction of cs gas for several hours would have rendered many
of them immobile if not unconscious when their masks quit. all the props
are there , but proving what scene was played is difficult. the only
certainty is that the fbi and batf have few witnesses against them.

dan sorenson , dod 1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu
isu only censors what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them.
usenet post to exotic , distant machines. meet exciting ,
unusual people. and flame them.

from nagle@netcom.com (john nagle)
subject re fyi batf reply on waco
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 8

the san francisco examiner reports that clinton has issued instructions
to federal law enforcement that they may not kill or injure anyone to
resolve the waco situation. so they 've built a fence around the compound ,
and are now seriously considering building up the fence to prison camp
levels , pulling out most of the manpower , and waiting however many months
it takes.

john nagle

from pspod@hooch.lerc.nasa.gov (steve podleski)
subject re waco , they did it. ( masada )
organization nasa lewis research center
lines 23
nntp posting host hooch.lerc.nasa.gov

fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary) writes
msn@reef.cis.ufl.edu (mike 'hk g3zf full auto' newsome) writes
i'm sick to my stomach as i write this. the bd compound
is on fire , and will burn to the ground in minutes.
i used exactly this one word reply , to suggest a likely ending to
the siege several weeks ago. but like masada , this was n't entirely
a government action the defenders held out as long as they could ,
and then killed themselves , their families and their children
rather than surrender. israel calls the action of the zelots
heroic , and trains their army to follow this example. now that
someone has repeated this action in modern times , what do we call it \?

liberals and supporters of clinton say that costs made the action
necessary.




steve podleski phone 216 433 4000
nasa lewis research center
cleveland , ohio 44135 email pspod@hooch.lerc.nasa.gov



from dlb5404@tamuts.tamu.edu (daryl biberdorf)
subject latest on texas hb 1776 (ccw)
organization texas a m university , college station
lines 9
nntp posting host tamuts.tamu.edu


i called the texas bill tracking people (800 253 9693) again today
regarding hb 1776 concealed carry. well , it was supposed to come
up for a vote this past wednesday , but the bill got sent back to
the public safety committee. the psc gave it a favorable rating
again , and the bill must now be scheduled for debate by
the calendars committee again.
daryl biberdorf n5gjm d biberdorf@tamu.edu
sola gratia sola fide sola scriptura

from jyoung@cadence.com (john young)
subject ffl gunsmithing questions
organization cadence design systems , inc.
lines 8

i have a few questions i 'd like to ask
first , how would someone(me)be able to get a dealers license
and second , besides dear old departed gramp 's , where would i
find a good place to learn gunsmithing.
all replies appreciated !
john



from dlo@druwa.att.com (olsondl)
subject re ban all firearms !
lines 16

in article 1qc5sa obl@pandora.sdsu.edu , chiu@io.nosc.mil (francis chiu) writes
a note on the lighter side , i 've noticed most gun banners (some of my
friends included) are the one who make comments that indicate they are
more likely to resort to violent. so are they really banning guns so they
would n't end up shooting someone else \?

could be.

it is also likely that since they feel they are more likely to resort to
violence , they have a hard time believing that anyone else would react
otherwise.

david olson dlo@drutx.att.com
well , i did say we 'll put it out and we 'll put it out when we can.
but i do n't know what we can put out or when we can put it out.
george stephanopolous.

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
from jason kratz u28037@uicvm.uic.edu
subject re do n't knock the glock (was re my gun is like my am ex card)
distribution usa
93104.231049u28037@uicv 1993apr15.152834.16638@mksol.dseg.ti.com
lines 46

in article 1993apr15.152834.16638@mksol.dseg.ti.com , pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com
(dillon pyron) says
some police departments switched to glocks , and then started quietly
switching many officers back to the old revolvers. too many were having
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received. not that glocks
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex
as the timer on a vcr.

hell , a glock is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing
that i know about a glock is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is
that little thing in the trigger but that is n't too great of a safety.

ahem ! ! ! hrumph ! ! ! ! you have encurred the wrath of glock owners. we will
beat
you with our hammers. oooops , do n't have any )

seriously. there is no difference in the safeties betweena glock and any da
revolver. intellectually , think of the glock as a very high cap revolver.
ignoring stove pipes , misfeeds and all the other bonus exercises that
autoloaders give you , that is.

every gun has its safe moment and its dangerous moment. if you just learn how
to handle it , it becomes a lot less dangerous (to you).

dillon pyron the opinions expressed are those of the
ti dseg lewisville vax support sender unless otherwise stated.
(214)462 3556 (when i'm here)
(214)492 4656 (when i'm home) texans vote no on robin hood. we need
pyron@skndiv.dseg.ti.com solutions , not gestures.
padi dm 54909


all very true. i'm going on what i have read and heard from friends.
basically the glock is great but i have heard read that it is a lot harder to
learn proper handling because of the type of safety that it has. i was
looking at a glock .40s w and the s w 4006 a couple of weeks ago and the
safties on the guns were very different. the saftey on the 4006 seemed a lot
more safe (for lack of a better word) than the one on the glock. of course
this could also be a bad thing if you were to pull the gun on somebody. you
would spend more time fiddling around turning the safety off. personally i
like the glocks because they are very light and i think they look really cool
(guess that 's why they use them in so many movies) but i would n't get one as
my first semi auto because of the safety. i would prefer more training with
a traditional semi auto (ala colt .45) but of course that 's just my opinion.

jason

from starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu (tim starr)
subject re ban all firearms !
organization udel school of life health sciences
lines 29

in article 16baece99.pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu pa146008@utkvm1.utk.edu (david veal) writes
in article c5d4hv.8dp@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca
papresco@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (paul prescod) writes

in article 92468@hydra.gatech.edu gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shpleigh) writes

2.if guns were banned , and a bunch showed up in south florida , it
would be 100x easier to trace and notice then a small ripple in the
huge wave of the american gun craze.


do they teach courses in rude in canada \?

they do n't have too. canadian culture is handed down largely from the united
empire loyalists who fled from the american revolution. canuckleheads tend
to have a cratophilic , or government loving attitude towards authority.

paul prescod is right in line with this elitist bigotry and prejudice that
all my canadian friends hate in their fellow citizens. his sort of snobbish
canuck have an irrational horror of american democratic armed mobs.

tim starr renaissance now !

assistant editor freedom network news , the newsletter of isil ,
the international society for individual liberty ,
1800 market st. , san francisco , ca 94102
(415) 864 0952 fax (415) 864 7506 71034.2711@compuserve.com

think universally , act selfishly starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu

from mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (strider)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 24
distribution world
nntp posting host louie.cc.utexas.edu

cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares) writes
mfrhein@wpi.wpi.edu (michael frederick rhein) writes

as someone else has pointed out , why would the stove be in use on a warm day
in texas.

do you eat all your food cold \?

thank you for pointing out the obvious to people who so clearly missed it.
i ca n't stand it when people 's first reaction is to defend the aggressor.

mr. tavares , you have a unique and thoughtful way of getting to the heart
of the matter , and i thank you for putting it to good use.

mike ruff



this above all , to thine own s t r i d e r mikey@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu
self be true. polonius
those who would sacrifice essential
liberties for a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty
nor safety. b. franklin

from chuck@eng.umd.edu (chuck harris wa3uqv)
subject re cnn for sale
organization university of maryland , department of electrical engineering
lines 11
distribution usa
nntp posting host bree.eng.umd.edu

in article c5somx.hmd@boi.hp.com kde@boi.hp.com (keith emmen) writes
if anyone is keeping a list of the potential contributors ,
you can put me down for 1000.00 under the conditions above

seems to me folks , that if you are so interested in acquiring cnn , just
buy your 1000 worth of stock today. it 's being traded everyday. after you
own your piece , we can work on the proxy votes later. it 's probably even a
good investment.

chuck harris wa3uqv
chuck@eng.umd.edu

from gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu (cochrane , james shapleigh)
subject re guns in backcountry \? no thanks
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 48

in article 121415@netnews.upenn.edu egedi@ahwenasa.cis.upenn.edu (dania m. egedi) writes
in article 1993apr16.222604.18331@csd newshost.stanford.edu , andy@sail.stanford.edu (andy freeman) writes
in article 1993apr16.174436.22897@midway.uchicago.edu pkgeragh@gsbphd.uchicago.edu (kevin geraghty) writes
wrong about the whole guns for protection mindset , it ignores the

why \? if you 're not a threat , you 're not affected at all.


aha. that 's the part that makes me nervous too. who gets to decide if
i am a threat \? based on appearance \? would someone feel more threatened

actions determine whether someone presents a threat... and i do n't carry a gun
so much for people , cause i tend to fade if there are any about , but due to
several encounters with formerly domestic dogs... these critters ai n't scared
of folks , and can get aggressive.

on staying at and saw someone sitting there cleaning his gun. softly i backed
away , and hiked another 5 miles to get out of there . i 'll freely admit it here
i'm not afraid of guns i'm afraid of people that bring them into the backcountry.

i 'd count that as a fear of guns... somebody having the sense to keep their
weapons maintained is n't as likely to present a threat. the army taught me to
clean any weapons daily , since they usually need it , regardless of whether
they 've been used... you 'd be amazed how sweaty a holster can get , or how much
trail dust will get in it. and i guess you 'd be scared of me and my former
explorer post... seems the advisors were national guard special forces grunts ,
and considered it heresy to be out in the woods without a weapon... course ,
usually you would n't notice 'em... ) they tended to avoid public scrutiny...

of course , that may be the way to solve the solitude problem. just carry a gun
and display it prominently , and one probably wo n't see most of the other hikers
out there , who will be hiding in the woods. 1 2 )

dania
my 9mm goes in a hip holster , mixed in with magazine pouches (hold lotsa stuff
in them) , canteens , knives , compasses , and such... not so easy to notice , in
the off chance i decide to be visible... i prefer not to be , since walking
quietly away from active areas increases the number of non human type critters
i see...

james




james s. cochrane when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space
gt6511a@prism.gatech.edu circles , scream and shout. for rent


from jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
subject sign of the times...
organization ye olde bailey bbs houston , tx 713 520 1569
lines 31
reply to jim.wray@yob.sccsi.com (jim wray)
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu


article in this morning 's houston post.... negotiators send food to
rebellious inmates as humanitarian gesture ...speaking about the ohio prison
riot where they have killed at least one of the hostage guards.

i know it 's not the same group but the mindset appears to be common to
those what rule here lately....they wo n't give diddley to the bd 's in waco
but they treat criminals as deserving of humanitarian gestures .

this is but another indicator that the criminal caste seems to enjoy more
priviliges in today 's society than their victims or other law abiding
citizens. what is it that makes the criminal so precious to the leaders of
the system \?

could it be that the criminal is one of the tools the authorities are
using to excuse some of the rights negation they are trying to foist upon
the law abiding citizen in the name of crime control....do n't solve the crime
problem because then the citizen could n't be held hostage to our help .

if the crime problem were solved in favor of the citizen victim at the
expense of the criminal none of the crap such as rico and gun banning could
be used as excuses to work the agenda of those who would control our every
move and thought.

. olx 2.2 . if i have to explain , you would n't understand.



ye olde bailey bbs 713 520 1569 (v.32bis) 713 520 9566 (v.32bis)
houston , texas yob.sccsi.com home of alt.cosuard


from tomgift@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (tom gift)
subject re atf burns dividian ranch ! no survivors ! ! !
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 28

steiner@jupiter.cse.utoledo.edu (jason 'think ! ' steiner) writes


ever hear of electric ovens or microwaves \? very popular.
electric stoves outside metro areas especially.

oh , i see. electricity is a natural right our wonderful government
would never cut off the power to the people they were besieging.
are you really this dumb , or just acting like it for the sake of
argument \?

jason

no , they did n't have electrical power , but no , i do n't find the idea of
davidians calmly cooking lunch with gas masks on as the fbi knocks the
buildings down very credible , either.

it 's not like this whole discussion is relevant. it started when some
one made the wholly unsubstantiated allegation that the wood stove ig
nited napalm the fbi shot into the buildings.

i'm not a groveling apoligist for the feds , far from it. but wild ac
cusations like this are ridiculous and obfuscate legitimate criticism of
their conduct in this whole affair.

tom gift
tomgift@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu


from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 63

in article c4tr3m.eqw@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
on the other hand , we can draw lessons from neighbors who are more
culturally similar , namely the canadians...

i do n't think such a canada is any more culturally similar to
the united states than england. in terms of laws regarding individual
rights , restrictions on police searches , etc... (all closely
related to crime) canadian laws parallel england 's and differ
greatly from those of the united states.

...in fact , an exhaustive ,
seven year study has already been done of the respective crime rates
of vancouver , british columbia and seattle , washington... cities
with roughly the same population , urban economy , geography
and crime but with decidedly different approaches to gun control.

actually , they do not have roughly the same... urban economy ,
and extremely different ethnic composition.

over the seven year study , 388 homicides occurred in seattle
(11.3 per 100 , 000) vs. 204 homicides in vancouver (6.9 per 100 , 000).
after adjustment for differences in age and sex among the populations ,
the relative risk of being a victim of homicide in seattle , as
compared to vancouver , was found to be 1.63.

however , if you account for economic and ethnic differences ,
the difference disappears completely seattle 's minorities are
predominatly poor , while vancouver 's are middle or upper class.
the rates for whites in both cities were found to be identicle ,
while the rate for poor , seattle minorities was almost three
times as great as for the well to do minorities of vancouver.
the pattern seems to be one of poverty and race relations , not
one of gun control.

the authors of the report also investigated legally justifiable
homicides (self defense). only 32 such homicides occurred during
the seven year study , 11 of which were committed by police. only
21 cases of civilians acting in self defense occurrred...

that is a gross distortion self defense does not mean killing
the attacker. there were 21 cases of civilians killing their
attacker in self defence. but such cases represent less that
0.5 of the crimes prevented by armed self defence for every
case you cite , there were over 200 other cases of self defence
where the crime was prevented but the attacker was not killed.
(0.5 , by the way , is the most conservative possible figure ,
based on the national crime survey 's estimate of 80 , 000
crimes prevented by armed self defence each year. most other
studies on the subject put the figure at 500 , 000 to 600 , 000.
those figures would imply less than 0.08 of sucessful self defences
involve killing the attacker.)

so , more correctly , there over 4000 (possibly as many as 25 , 000)
cases of civilians acting in self defence , only 21 of which resulted
in the death of the attacker. this is a significant factor , in
comparison to the 592 homicides. if memory serves , homicides
make up approximately 1 of the violent crimes the study
considered , so the fair comparison would be 40 250 homicides
prevented and 592 homicides. clearly , the study can not be
close to accurate , since it ignored these cases of self defence.

frank crary
cu boulder

from cwwhite@vax2.concordia.ca (stephen white)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ...
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
nntp posting host vax2.concordia.ca
organization concordia university
lines 25

in article c5l2bc.c2x.1@cs.cmu.edu , rubinoff @cs.cmu.edu (robert rubinoff) writes...
in article 93105.230230u23590@uicvm.uic.edu u23590@uicvm.uic.edu writes
note that bo gritz was on the populist party ticket with david
duke (for veep) in 1988 until he found out that duke was leading
he ticket , when he withdrew his candidacy. so gritz gave up his
chance to be vice president of the us just to aviod supporting
duke.

i 'd hardly call that giving up his chance to be vice president of the us
the chance of the populist party ticket winning is essentially nil. still ,
it does imply that he does n't want to be associated with duke.

robert

exactly , after all he was in the same party , probably just did n't want the
bad press that being directly associated with duke would bring. conversely ,
is his disdain for david duke supposed to make us ideolize him \? i mean
a stand against neo nazism ... whoa ! now that 's progressive ! come on.

i certainly know that i would refuse and openly denounce my vice presidency
if it meant putting him in control.

stephen white

live simply that others may simply live mohandas k. gandhi

from fcrary@ucsu.colorado.edu (frank crary)
subject re gun control (was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news)
nntp posting host ucsu.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
distribution na
lines 31

in article c4tm1h.ecf@magpie.linknet.com manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes
you are betraying your lack of understanding about rate versus total
number. rates are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population.
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the
rate would be 10 100 , 000. a place that had 50 deaths and a population
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000. the former has a higher
rate , the latter a higher total. you are less likely to die in the
latter. simple enuff \?

for chrissakes , take out your calculator and work out the numbers.
here... i 've preformatted them for you to make it easier

handgun homicides population

switzerland 24 6 , 350 , 000
uk 8 55 , 670 , 000

... and then tell me again how switzerland is safer with a more
liberal handgun law than the uk is without...by rate or total number.
your choice.

because there are about 40 homicides total (i.e. using guns , knives ,
tire irons , baseball bats , bare hands , etc...) in switzerland
each year and 850 homicides , total , in england. that 's three
times worse per capita in england than in switzerland. since
dead is dead , it really does n't matter that 60 of the switz
murders involved a gun or that only 0.9 of the english murderers
do.

frank crary
cu boulder

from tms@cs.umd.edu (tom swiss (not swift , not suiss , swiss ! ))
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
organization the reality liberation front (pixels to the people ! )
lines 17

slp9k@cc.usu.edu writes

i just want to point out that while i am fully in support of privacy ,
it will be possible soon to have a completely secure id card , useable in bank
transactions , medical , etc etc.

there is no such thing as completely secure , especially when dealing
with high technology. it 's all a question of cost what cost are you
willing to bear to protect your information vs. what rewards the bad guys
are going to get if they break it. the rewards of breaking such a single id
system would be high indeed.


tom swiss tms@cs.umd.edu born to die keep your laws off my brain !
what 's so funny 'bout peace , love and understanding \? nick lowe
this .sig contains no animal products and was not tested on animals.
time is just nature 's way of keeping everything from happening at once.

from cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
subject re ban all firearms !
reply to cmort@ncoast.org (christopher morton)
organization north coast public access nix , cleveland , oh
distribution usa
lines 24

as quoted from 1993apr17.025258.7013@microsoft.com by anthonyf@microsoft.com (anthony francisco)

cmort
if anybody wanted proof of the nonsense of the you ca n't build guns claim ,
they need look no farther than the philippines. amateur gunsmiths there
regularly produce everything from .45 automatics to full auto shotguns. now
if this guy wants to claim that the philippines is either technologically
superior to the us or that their transportation is better than ours , all i
can say is that he 's living in a fantasy world.

unfortunately a few of those .45s blow up in your hands.

that 's life. first you marry imelda marcos , then you die ! )

on the other hand , my compatriots built an excellent copy of a beretta that
i enjoyed using when i lived in the philippines. hmmmm.

and that 's the hard stuff to copy !



you 're like a bunch of over educated , new york jewish aclu lawyers
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in
arkansas holly silva

from hadcrjam@admin.uh.edu (miller , jimmy a.)
subject re my gun is like my american express card
organization university of houston administrative computing
lines 20
distribution world
nntp posting host uhad2.admin.uh.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24
in reply to arc@cco.caltech.edu 's message of 21 apr 1993 12 25 23 gmt

in 1r3efjinn3jj@gap.caltech.edu arc@cco.caltech.edu writes

thomas parsli thomasp@ifi.uio.no writes
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal 'gun laws' in usa......

in texas , you cannot carry a handgun. period. either concealed or open.

currently , there is a bill before the texas legislature that would make it
legal for some ordinary folks to carry concealed weapons. i do n't have the
details , sorry.

semper fi ,

jammer jim miller
texas a m university '89 and '91

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help.
become one with the student billing system. be the student billing system.
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man.
rik emmet , gil moore , mike levine triumph

from cdt@sw.stratus.com (c. d. tavares)
subject re batf fbi murders almost everyone in waco today ! 4 19
organization stratus computer , inc.
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host rocket.sw.stratus.com

in article kevin.93apr20085431@axon.usa , kevin@axon.usa (kevin vanhorn) writes
in article c5rpoj.ijv@news.udel.edu roby@chopin.udel.edu (scott w roby) writes

two of the nine who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set
by cult members.

correction the fbi says that two of the nine who escaped said the fire
was deliberately set by cult members. since the press was kept miles away ,
we have absolutely no independent verification of any of the government 's
claims in this matter.

moreover , the batf has admitted having agents in the compound , and as
far as i have been able to ascertain , those agents were still in the
compound when the first shots were fired. for all we know , these two
people may be the agents , who would certainly be unlikely to stay around
and cook with the faithful...

assuming the two people in question were even in the compound at all.

maybe i sound paranoid , but i watched janet reno last night harping on
how much david koresh was a big , bad child abuser , and i kept wondering
why she much less batf wanted us to infer that she had any
jurisdiction over such accusations in the first place.

i'm positive that the sealed warrant is not for child abuse. what was
it for \? peobably weapons violations. janet reno did n't say word one
last night about weapons violations. why \? because she knows that such
a case is no longer believable \?


cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com if you believe that i speak for my company ,
or cdt@vos.stratus.com write today for my special investors' packet...


from f gautjw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu
subject re the truth starts to come out
distribution usa
organization stephen f. austin state university
lines 28

in article c5ua7r.dad@da vinci.it.uswc.uswest.com , pprun@august.it.uswc.uswest.com writes


i have just one thing to say about this write your congressperson !
the fbi and batf storm troopers must not be allowed to get away with
this. demand a full investigation of the waco survivor 's story of
the lantern being knocked over by the tank. we ca n't bring anybody
back from the dead , but we may be able to send a few of them to
political hell.

i heard over npr yesterday morning that arlan specter , senator from
pennsylvania , has already called for a congressional investigation.
the problem is that specter was one of the key government attorneys several
years ago who did what he could to coverup facts in the assassinations
of jfk and others. that is to say , the chief fox wants to check out
the hen house. writing your representatives is a great idea. when
you do ask that they keep specter and his cronies far away from
any investigation.

would someone please post the generic addresses for congress and
senate so that we can all write letters \?


joe gaut in the super state , it really does not
f gautjw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu matter at all what actually happened.
red neck and proud of it. truth is what the government chooses to
tell you. justice is what it wants to happen.
jim garrison , new orleans , la.

from dlb@fanny.wash.inmet.com (david barton)
subject re proper gun control \? what is proper gun control \? (was re my gun is like my american express card)
in reply to bressler@iftccu.ca.boeing.com 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 17 16 21 gmt
nntp posting host fanny.wash
organization intermetrics inc. , washington division , usa
lines 15

iftccu talk.politics.guns hays@ssd.intel.com (kirk hays)
3 31 pm apr 13 , 1993

some of the pro gun posters in this group own no guns. the dread
terminator , aka the rifleman , owned no firearms for several
years while posting in this group , as an example. there are
others.

for what it is worth , i own no firearms of any sort. as long time
readers of this group know , i am dedicated to the rkba.

this is not about toys. it is about freedom.

dave barton
dlb@hudson.wash.inmet.com

from cathy@lance.colostate.edu (cathy smith)
subject weird science by l. neil smith
distribution usa
nntp posting host blanca.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state university , fort collins , co 80523
lines 116

posted by cathy smith for l. neil smith

weird science

everyone knows how to tell when a politician is lying his lips
move. what may not be equally obvious is that there are
politicians and then there are politicians and that the phrase
political science is subject to more than one interpretation.

years ago , we heard how scientists were worried that a new ice
age might be coming , and later on that nuclear winter smoke
and dust thrown into the atmosphere by full scale international
unpleasantness was a possibility. something like that may even
have killed the dinosaurs.

what we did n't hear was that no actual data supported any of this ,
that real world events (the burning of kuwaiti oil fields) tended
to discredit it , that mostly it was propaganda meant to weaken
values that made america the most successful culture in history ,
and that the dinosaurs probably died of something like the plague
when continents drifted together , exposing them to new germs.

we miss a lot like this , unless we listen closely. prince william
sound , site of the famous oil spill , and mount st. helen 's were n't
supposed to recover from their respective disasters for at least
100 years. that turned out not to be true , although you 'd never
know it from watching network nightly news or cnn. it does n't fit
their agenda to inform us that the earth is vast and resilient , and
that nature is rougher on herself than we could ever be.

but for once , the media are n't entirely to blame. as ignorant of
science as they are of everything , they trust scientists to
unscrew the inscrutable. the trouble is that today 's scientists
have agendas of their own.

nobody in government , that wellspring of scientific wherewithal , is
going to offer grants to an investigator who states truthfully that
there is no respectable evidence for global warming . the money
and power for bureaucrats and politicians lie in mass transit , and
they hate the automobile blamed as a major cause of the mythical
crisis as a source of privacy and freedom they find intolerable.

the same appears true of acid rain , a deliberate hoax cooked up
by the environmental protection agency (which hates private
industrial capitalism almost as much as it does your car) and
foisted on real scientists through trickery which has depended on
specialists in different fields not talking to each other much.

the list goes on , always with a common , disreputable thread.
ozone depletion , for which evidence is even more suspect and
contradictory than for acid rain or global warming , is no more than
a last , desperate attempt to indict private capitalism in an era
when state central planning and the command economy have failed and
can only find this final , withered leg to teeter on.

decades of anti nuclear alarmism , resting on foundations of myth
and panic mongering , have failed to erase the fact that nuclear
power is the safest , cleanest , most efficient source of energy
known to mankind and more to the point , that the greater amount
of energy there is available to any individual in society , the
freer that individual and his society become.

honest studies on the effects of individual gun ownership and
self defense on crime conducted by investigators who began as
ideological opponents to those concepts , but which show massive
reductions in the latter to be the result of the former have
been suppressed , most recently by the california state government.

and what the media did n't say about recent epa discoveries on the
effect of secondhand smoking is that , although some harm to non
smokers may have been detected , it was less (by an order or two of
magnitude) than that associated with frying bacon a couple times a
week or keeping a pet bird. it 's enough to make you wonder whether
there was ever anything to the claim that smoking causes cancer.

that , of course , is the real threat represented by politically
correct science. the world is a dangerous place. it would be nice
to know the hazards. i 've never believed smoking to be a healthy
practice , but , given a lack of credibility on the part of today 's
science , how am i to decide what to do about it \? nicotine is
highly addictive , to that much i can attest from experience. yet
the stress of quitting may be riskier than to continue. there
is n't any way to tell , thanks to the corrupting influence of
government money on the scientific establishment.

two centuries ago , the founding fathers spared us certain agonies
to which every other nation in the world has been subject at one
time or another , by creating a legal barrier between politics and
religion. each time some short sighted individual or group has
tried to lower the barrier (most recently over the issue of
abortion) , blood real human blood , hot and smoking in the street
has wound up being shed.

real human blood is being shed over scientific issues , as people 's
lives are ruined through the loss , to agencies like the epa , of
livelihood , or property it may have taken a lifetime to accumulate ,
to diseases caused by toxins associated with burning fossil fuels
for electrical power , or thanks to bans on things like cyclamates ,
when they die from the effects of obesity.

what we need now , if we hope to survive as a civilization for two
more centuries , is another barrier , a constitutional separation of
state and science including medicine. knowledge is valuable
real science wo n't languish for lack of funding. the money will
simply come from contributors unwilling to pay for lies , and
everyone will benefit.

l. neil smith
author the probability broach , the crystal empire , henry martyn ,
and (forthcoming) pallas
lever action bbs (303) 493 6674 , fidonet 1 306 31.4
libertarian second amendment caucus
nra life member

my opinions are , of course , my own.


from hambidge@bms.com
subject re i believe in gun control.
reply to hambidge@bms.com
organization bristol myers squibb
lines 17

in article c4vg3f.kx3@apollo.hp.com , nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes
cj195@cleveland.freenet.edu (john w. redelfs) writes
i believe in gun control. how about you \?

i believe in gun control , too . . . assuming by gun control
you mean always being able to hit your target.


peter

or , how about the clint eastwood line in pink cadillac
i believe in gun control. if there 's a gun around , i wanna be
the one controlling it.

al
standard disclaimer


from rubinoff @cs.cmu.edu (robert rubinoff)
subject re gritz jbs liberty lobby larouche christic insitute libertarian ...
nntp posting host spino.soar.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 15

in article 93105.230230u23590@uicvm.uic.edu u23590@uicvm.uic.edu writes
note that bo gritz was on the populist party ticket with david
duke (for veep) in 1988 until he found out that duke was leading
he ticket , when he withdrew his candidacy. so gritz gave up his
chance to be vice president of the us just to aviod supporting
duke.

i 'd hardly call that giving up his chance to be vice president of the us
the chance of the populist party ticket winning is essentially nil. still ,
it does imply that he does n't want to be associated with duke.

robert




from mjp@watson.ibm.com (michael phelps)
subject re need senate bill numbers and house resolution numbers
originator mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com
reply to mjp@vnet.ibm.com (michael j. phelps)
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host bwa.kgn.ibm.com
organization ibm kingston ny
lines 1835


try the firearms archive. larry cipriani 's instructions follow. by
the way , thanks for the archive larry..

this year is the 103rd congress directory.


from
watson ! yktnews.watson.ibm.com ! newsgate.watson.ibm.com ! news.ans.net ! howland.r
reston.ans.net ! bogus.sura.net ! darwin.sura.net ! dtix.dt.navy.mil ! mimsy ! cbvox1.
.att.com ! lvc thu apr 8 19 41 01 1993
article 40039 of talk.politics.guns
path
watson ! yktnews.watson.ibm.com ! newsgate.watson.ibm.com ! news.ans.net ! howland.r
reston.ans.net ! bogus.sura.net ! darwin.sura.net ! dtix.dt.navy.mil ! mimsy ! cbvox1.
.att.com ! lvc
from lvc@cbvox1.att.com
newsgroups talk.politics.guns
subject information about the anonymous ftp rkba archive
message id 1993apr8.182924.7274@cbnews.cb.att.com
date 8 apr 93 22 50 09 gmt
sender magnum@mimsy.umd.edu
organization ideology busters , inc.
lines 1795

this is the index file for the anonymous ftp rkba archive.
the archive site has been moved and is now at

godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu

in the directory

usr0 anon pub firearms politics rkba

this archive is accessible only via anonymous ftp instructions for
anonymous ftp are at the end of this file.

an email server is available at another site , and as a result is
not completely in sync with this archive. to get the index for
the rkba email server send

get rkba index

as the body of a message to listserv@mainstream.com

for help send

help

if you have any additions or suggestions for improvement to the
rkba archive please let me know.

larry cipriani , att ! cbvox1 ! lvc or l.v.cipriani@att.com


file rkba82

report of the subcommittee on the constitution of the committee on
the judiciary , united states senate , ninety seventh congress , second
session , february , 1982

file congress 102nd hcr11

house concurrent resolution 11 by mr. crane , january 3 , 1991

expressing the sense of the congress with respect to the right of all
americans to keep and bear arms in defense of life or liberty and in
pursuit of all other legitimate endeavors.

file congress 102nd hjr438

house joint resolution 438 by mr. major owens , march 11 , 1992

proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states
repealing the second amendment to the constitution includes comments
by owens entered into the congressional record.

file congress 102nd hr1133

house bill 1133 by mr. goodling , february 27 , 1991

to amend title 18 , united states code , to prohibit transfer of firearm to ,
or possession of a firearm by , a person convicted of a drug crime , and to
provide enhanced penalties for possession of a firearm during a drug crime.

file congress 102nd hr1354

house bill 1354 by mr. scheuer , march 7 , 1991

to end the use of steel jaw leghold traps on animals in the united states.

file congress 102nd hr1412

house bill 1412 by mr. staggers , march 13 , 1991

to amend title 18 , united states code , to provide for the establishment
of a national hotline which a federal firearms licensee may contact to
learn if receipt of a handgun by a prospective transferee is prohibited ,
and to require such a licensee to contact the hotline before the transfer
of a handgun to a nonlicensee.

file congress 102nd hr1559

house bill 1559 by mr. gibbons , march 21 , 1991

to prohibit the importation of semiautomatic assault weapons , large
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and certain accessories.

file congress 102nd hr1770

house bill 1770 by mr. smith of florida , april 15 , 1991

to amend title 18 , united states code , to prohibit certain handguns
which are unsuitable for lawful sporting purposes.

file congress 102nd hr19

house bill 19 by mr. hughes january 3 , 1991

to prohibit the possession , transfer , and certain exports of restricted
weapons , the manufacture of firearms capable of accepting a silencer or
bayonet without alteration , and the possession and transfer of large
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and for other purposes.

file congress 102nd hr282

house bill 282 by mrs. collins , january 3 , 1991

to provide for the mandatory registration of handguns.

file congress 102nd hr2922

house bill 2922 by mr. cardin , july 17 , 1991

to amend the public health service act to establish an entitlement of
states
and certain political subdivisions of states to receive grants for the
abatement of health hazards associated with lead based paint , and to amend
the internal revenue code of 1986 to impose an excise tax and establish a
trust fund to satisfy the federal obligations arising from such
entitlement.

this bill would impose upto a 0.75 pound tax on all new lead , and
0.37 pound tax on recycled lead.

file congress 102nd hr318

house bill 318 by mr. dornan , january 3 , 1991

to amend the animal welfare act to prohibit dog racing and dog training
involving the use of live animals as visual lure and to make such act
applicable to facilities that are used for dog racing or dog race training.

file congress 102nd hr3371

house bill 3371

the violent crime prevention act of 1991

file congress 102nd hr371

house bill 371 by mr. marlenee , january 3 , 1991

to protect persons engaged in a lawful hunt within a national forest
establishing an administrative civil remedy against individuals or groups
intentionally obstructing , impeding , or interfering with the conduct of a
lawful hunt and for other purposes.

file congress 101st hr4079

house bill 4079 by mr. gingrich , february 22 , 1990

to provide swift and certain punishment for criminals in order
to deter violent crime and rid america of illegal drug use.

file congress 102nd hr436

house bill 436 by mr. weiss , january 3 , 1991

to prohibit the manufacture , transfer , or importation of .25 caliber
and .32 caliber ammunition.

file congress 102nd hr465

house bill 465 by mr. rangel , january 7 , 1991

to prohibit certain exports of fully automatic or semiautomatic
assault weapons.

file congress 102nd hr4897

house bill 4897 by mr. cunningham , april 9 , 1992

to amend title i of the omnibus crime control and safe streets act of 1968
to deny grant funds to states unless law enforcement officers are permitted
to carry concealed firearms.

file congress 102nd hr5633

house bill 5633 by mr. schumer , july 21 , 1992

to amend title 18 , united states code , to expand the scope of the multiple
firearms sales reporting requirement , and to require that persons comply
with state and local firearms licensing laws before receiving a federal
license to deal in firearms.

file congress 102nd hr5807

house bill 5807 by mr. schumer , august 10 , 1992

to impose criminal penalties upon the failure of a federal firearms
licensee to report to appropriate authorities the loss or theft of a
firearm from the inventory or collection of the licensee.

file congress 102nd hr7

house bill 7 by mr. feighan

to require a waiting period before the purchase of a handgun
also known as the brady bill

file congress 102nd hr750

house bill 750 by mr. russo , january 30 , 1991

to amend the internal revenue code of 1954 to provide that the excise tax
on handguns will be transferred to a trust fund to be used for purposes of
providing compensation to victims of crime , and for other purposes.

file congress 102nd s214

senate bill 214 by mr. hatch , january 15 , 1991

to provide procedures for calling federal constitutional
conventions under article v for the purpose of proposing
amendments to the united states constitution.

file congress 102nd s2304

senate bill 2304 by mr. lautenberg , march 3 , 1992

to amend title 18 , united states code , to permanently prohibit the
possession of firearms by persons who have been convicted of a violent
felony , and for other purposes.

file congress 102nd s257

senate bill 257

to require a waiting period before the purchase of a handgun.

file congress 102nd s2813

senate bill 2813 by mr. gore , june 4 , 1992

to establish in the government printing office an electronic
gateway to provide public access to a wide range of federal
databases containing public information stored electronically.

file congress 102nd s2913

senate bill 2913 by mr. chafee , june 30 1992

to prohibit the manufacture , importation , exportation , sale ,
purchase , transfer , receipt , possession , or transportation of
handguns and ammunition , with certain exceptions.

file congress 102nd s3282

senate bill 3282 by mr. mitchell , september 28 1992

to amend title 18 , united states code , to require a waiting period
before the purchase of a handgun.

file congress 101st s386

senate bill 386 by mr. metzenbaum , february 8 , 1989

to control the sale and use of assault weapons.

file congress 102nd s51

senate bill 51 by mr. moynihan , january 14 , 1991

to prohibit the manufacture , transfer , or importation of .25 caliber
and .32 caliber and 9 millimeter ammunition.

file congress 102nd s634

senate bill 634 by mr. symms , march 13 , 1991

to amend chapter 44 , title 18 , united states code , to provide clarification
of limitations on controls of firearms , and to prohibit the use of federal
funds to political subdivisions which implement certain gun control ordi
nances.

file congress 101st s747

senate bill 747 by mr. deconcini ,

to amend chapter 44 of title 18 , united states code , regarding
assault weapons.

file congress 102nd s789

senate bill 789 , by mr. moynihan , april 9 , 1991

to prohibit the importation of semiautomatic assault weapons , large
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and certain accessories.

file congress 102nd s892

senate bill 892 , by mr. metzenbaum , april 23 , 1991

to amend title 15 , united states code , to authorize the consumer product
safety commission to regulate the risk of injury associated with firearms.

file congress 102nd s918

senate bill 918 , by mr. packwood , april 24 , 1991

the amend the internal revenue code of 1986 to exempt small manufacturers ,
producers , and importers from the firearms excise tax.

file congress 103rd hcr3

house concurrent resolution 3 , by mr. crane , january 5 , 1993
expressing the sense of the congress with respect to the right of all
americans to keep and bear arms in defense of life or liberty and in the
pursuit of all other legitimate endeavors.

file congress 103rd hjr81

house joint resolution , by mr. owens , january 27 , 1993
proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states
repealing the second amendment to the constitution.

file congress 103rd hr277

house bill 277 , by mr. mazolli , january 5 , 1993

to amend title 18 , united states code , to require a waiting period
before the purchase of a handgun.

file congress 103rd hr544

house bill 544 , by mr. torricelli , january 21 , 1993

to amend title 18 , united states code , to prohibit the transfer of 2 or
more handguns to an individual in any 30 day period.

file congress 103rd hr661

house bill 661 , by mrs. collins , january 27 , 1993

to provide for the manufacturer , importer , or dealer of a handgun or an
assault weapon to be held strictly liable for damages that result from the
use of the handgun or assault weapon.

file congress 103rd hr737

house bill 737 , by mr. reynolds , february 2 , 1993

to provide for the manufacturer or importer of a handgun or an assault
weapon to be held strictly liable for damages that result from the use
of the handgun or assault weapon , and to amend the internal revenue
code of 1986 to increase the excise tax on firearms and use a portion
of the revenues from such tax to assist hospitals in urban areas to
provide medical care to gunshot victims who are not covered under any
health
plan.

file congress 103rd hr1025

house bill 1025 , by mr. schumer , february 22 , 1993

to provide for a waiting period before the purchase of a hadgun ,
and for the establishment of a national instant criminal
background check system to be contacted by firearms dealers
before the transfer of any firearm.

file congress 103rd s108

senate bill 108 , by mr. moynihan , january 21 , 1993

to prohibit the importation of semiautomatic assault weapons , large
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and certain accessories.

file congress 103rd s109

senate bill 109 , by mr. moynihan , january 21 , 1993

to amend section 923 of title 18 , united states code , to require the
keeping
of records with respect to dispositions of ammunition , and to require a
study
of the use and possible regulation of sales of ammunition.

file congress 103rd s178

senate bill 178 , by mr. moynihan , january 21 , 1993

to amend chapter 44 of title 18 , united states code , to prohibit the
manufacture , transfer , or importation of .25 caliber and .32 caliber
and 9 millimeter ammunition.

file congress 103rd s179

senate bill 179 , by mr. moynihan , january 21 , 1993

to tax 9 millimeter , .25 caliber , and .32 caliber bullets.

file congress 103rd s376

senate bill 376 , by mr. lautenberg , february 16 , 1993

to prohibit the transfer of 2 or more handguns to an individual in any
30 day period.

file congress 103rd s414

senate bill 414 , by mr. metzenbaum , february 24 , 1993

to amend title 18 , united states code , to require a waiting period
before the purchase of a handgun.

file gun free zones

text of the gun free school zones act of 1990 from public law 101 647
nov. 29 , 1990

file aclu

a collection of articles on the aclu 's position on gun control.
included is aclu policy statement 47 which gives the aclu interpretation
of the second amendment.

file dcm info

a collection of articles explaining the civilian marksmanship program.
in other words , why does the united states department of defense sell
battle rifles to civilians \?

file dial911

dial 911 and die ! by aaron zelman and jay simkin of jews for the
preservation of firearms ownership (jpfo)

file fija info

the fully informed jury amendment , and what it means to gun owners
and the right to keep and bear arms.

file whitemanslaw

white man 's law by william r. tonso , from the december 1985
reason magazine

file jefferson

the first inaugural address of thomas jefferson , 2nd president of the
united states.

file jewishistory

jewish history rufutes gun control activists , by elliot rothenberg
from the february 1988 american rifleman .

file law abiding

the law abiding gun owner as domestic and acquaintance murderer
from guns , murders , and the constitution a realistic assessment of
gun control , by don b. kates , february , 1990 , pp.45 49.

file second ideology

the second amendment and the ideology of self protection by
don b. kates , jr. reprinted from constitutional commentary ,
vol. 9. no. 1. winter 1992 , (c) 1992 by constitutional commentary ,

kates puts the second amendment and philosophies of self protection
into a historical perspective

file new understa

toward a new understanding of the second amendment , by david t. hardy

file to bear arms

to bear arms for self defense our second amendment heritage by
stephen p. halbrook.

file no treason

no treason , the constitution of no authority by lysander spooner

file resistance

excerpts from the study crime control through the use of armed force ,
by associate professor dr. gary kleck , florida state university school
of criminology , published in the february 1988 issue of social problems.

file waitper qna

waiting period questions and answers by handgun control , inc. (hci)
and citizens for safe government (csg)

file warsaw

the warsaw ghetto 10 handguns against tyranny ,
by dr. david i caplan from february , 1988 american rifleman.

file wethepeople

supreme court interpretations of the second amendment.

file sc ftp

how to retreive supreme court decisions via anonymous ftp.

file alternative policy

alternative policy futures by franklin e. zimring
from the annals of the american academy of political and social science.
volume 455 , may 1981 published by the american academy of political
and social science 1981.

file embarassing.2nd.amendment

the embarassing second amendment by sanford levinson , yale law journal
volume 99 , pp 637 659 (1989)

file nra800

phone numbers for the nra , many are toll free 800 numbers

file nradrugs

a collection of articles on the nra 's position on the war on drugs.

file fl aw part1

florida a.w. commission exec summary part 1 ,

file fl aw part2

florida a.w. commission exec summary part 2 ,
stockton the facts by martin l. fackler , md

file iwba

information about the international wound ballistics association ,
martin fackler , president

file gunshyjudges

gun shy judges by jacob sullum , from the may 1991 issue of reason magazine

file heatofmoment

in the heat of the moment , by james d. wright

file racist soil

article gun control sprouts from racist soil. by roy innis ,
from the wall street journal 11 21 91

file core policy

bearing arms for self defense a human and civil right by
roy innis , national chairman , congress of racial equality (core)

file righttobear

the right to bear arms by sanford levinson from the
daily news , ft walton beach , fl. (1991)

file rock island

united states of america v. rock island armory , us district court for
the central district of il the court ruled that making a post '86
machine gun is not illegal believe it or not.

file dalton

united states of america v. john william dalton , us court of appeals ,
tenth circuit , 91 1149 the court ruled that owning or transferring
a post '86 machine gun is not punishable under the nfa believe it
or not.

file waitdanger

why gun waiting periods threaten public safety by david b. kopel ,
march 25 , 1991

file aw qna

assault weapon questions answers
by handgun control , inc. and citizens for safe government (csg)

file ccw survey

a state by state survey of carrying concealed weapons laws.

file us vs miller

united states vs. miller et al. , appeal from the district court of the
united states for the western district of arkansas.

argued march 30 , 1939 decided may 15 , 1939

file presser

the history of presser v illinois is a fascinating exercise of how
politically based decisions on our constitutional rights have come back
to haunt us.

file cia ncbh

a column by neal knox presenting evidence that former cia agent
edwin o. welles played a major role in founding hci and ncbh.

file conphone

a list of voice and fax phone number for representatives and senators.

file billofrights

the first 10 articles of amendment to the united states constitution.

file constitution

the constitution of the united states of america

file decl of indp

the declaration of independence

file dont wait

criminals do n't wait why should you \? from the nra. exposes the
fraudulent arguments made for waiting periods.

file external

positive externalities of gun ownership , by john kell , from
the freeman ideas on liberty , october 1991

file english hist

firearms legislation in great britain , by jan a. stevenson

file simkin

control criminals , not guns by jay edward simkin found in the
march , 25 1991 or '92 \? wall street journal

file unabridged

the unabridged second amendment , by j. neil schulman

an interview with roy copperud , retired professor of journalism at
usc and author of american usage and style the consensus . copperud
offers his professional opinion on the meaning of the second amendment.

file uzitruth

a letter from j. harper wilson , director fbi uniform crime reporting
program to paul h. blackman , research coordinator of the nra stating
that only one police officer , of puerto rico , was shot and killed with
a semi automatic 9mm model a uzi.

file maketheirday

how to make their day by don b. kates jr. and patricia terrell harris
in the national review , october 21 , 1991

kates and harris debunk several myths about firearms , criminals , and
violence.

file two myths

two myths of gun control from point blank guns and violence in
america by gary kleck.

file aw not problem

assault weapons are n't the problem , by gary kleck , published in
the new york times tuesday , september 1 , 1992

file oregon study

1990 oregon study of retail firearm sales and chl licensing

file children

fighting for children 's hearts and minds by robert pew , american
rifleman april 1992

discusses how hci and it 's center to prevent handgun violence
have set out to use public schools as forums for their anti gun
propaganda.

file gunssputter

guns and sputter by james d. wright , from july 1989 issue of reason.
wright exposes the flaws in the new england journal of medicine study
comparing the homicide rates of seattle and vancouver.

file nejm info

a collection of articles and information on the new england journal of
medicine vancouver seattle handgun crime comparison study.

see also the file gunssputter , authored by james wright.

file dcstudy.1

the new england journal of medicine. 1991 dec 5. 325 (23).
pp 1647 1650.
editorials firearms and the killing threshold.
kassirer jerome p.

file dcstudy.2

the new england journal of medicine. 1991 dec 5. 325 (23).
pp 1615 1620.
special article effects of restrictive licensing of
handguns on homicide and suicide in the district of columbia.
loftin colin. mcdowall david. wiersema brian. cottey talbert j.

file nejm editorial

the new england journal of medicine. 1988 nov 10. 319 (19).
pp 1283 1285.
editorial firearm injuries a call for science.
mercy james a. houk vernon n.

file nejm letters

the new england journal of medicine. 1989 may 4. 320 (18).
pp 1214 1217.
correspondence handgun regulations , crime , assaults , and
homicide a tale of two cities.
blackman paul h. hagen tim. morris david c.
stolinsky david c. tirer samuel. gryder john w.
kuziak john d. sloan john h. kellerman arthur l kellermann.
rivara fred p. koepsell thomas. reay donald t.
logerfo james p. rice charles. ferris james a. gray laurel
a. mercy james a. houk vernon n.

file suicide.1

the new england journal of medicine. 1990 feb 8. 322 (6).
pp 369 373.
special article firearm regulations and rates of suicide
a comparison of two metropolitan areas.
sloan john henry. rivara frederick p. reay donald t.
ferris james a j. kellermann arthur l.

file suicide.2

the new england journal of medicine. 1990 jul 12. 323 (2).
p 137.
correspondence firearm regulations and rates of suicide.
blackman paul h. sloan john henry. rivara frederick p.
kellermann arthur.

file totc

the new england journal of medicine. 1988 nov 10. 319 (19).
pp 1256 1262.
special article handgun regulations , crime , assaults , and
homicide a tale of two cities.
sloan john henry. kellermann arthur l. reay donald t.
ferris james a. koepsell thomas. rivara frederick p.
rice charles. gray laurel. logerfo james.

file nra.cdc

an open letter from paul h. blackman , of nra to the director , office
of scientific integrity review , u.s. public health service , detailing
why they should evaluate the integrity and competency of firearms research
conducted by and for the centers for disease control (cdc).

file rkba.000

what the rkba.nnn files are all about.

the rkba.nnn series are set of small (60 100 lines typically) postings
that address common questions and myths about all aspects of firearms.

file rkba.001

accidental deaths by firearms and by other means.

file rkba.002

declining trend of accidental deaths by firearms

file rkba.003

homicide per capita in the us

file rkba.004

children and firearms

file rkba.008

annual firearm manufacture in the united states

file rkba.010

declaration of independence

file rkba.013

trend in weapons use for robberies (1974 86)

file rkba.014

reasons for homicide and non negligent manslaughter

file rkba.015

are firearms a leading cause of death of children \?

file rkba.016

is the united states the most violent nation \?

file rkba.999

complete list of all sources used for the rkba.nnn series.

file cox study

analysis of the cox atlanta journal constitution , 21 may 1989 article
on assault weapons , by james j. baker of nra ila , before the select
committee on narcotics abuse and control , u.s. house of representatives.

file feder11.txt

the federalist papers , as transcribed by project gutenberg 1.1

file great quotes

thomas jefferson quotes and more ...

file civilian

civilian possession of military firearms , by richard a. i. munday ,
from the january february 1988 issue of the uk handgunner.

file good go bad

when good , law abiding citizens go bad , from uk handgunner no. 46
jan feb 1989. discusses how the rate of compliance of gun control
laws is always very low , even among otherwise law abiding citizens.


file tory national socialism


tory national socialism , by richard a.i. munday , uk handgunner ,
jul aug 86. discusses the gun control leanings of socialists of
the right.

file the big lie

gun grabbers vs. assault rifles the big lie by neal knox ,

semi auto military styled assault rifles are not now nor have they
ever been a threat to society. these facts have been determined by
the government but never released to the public !

file ff 47

the founding fathers and the ak 47 , by sue wimmershoff caplan
discuss the question if the founding fathers would have approved of
the ak 47 for civilian ownership.

file hcikkk

handgun control , inc. , the kkk by david kopel , from the oct 91
issue of gun world magazine. discusses the parallels in the hate
campaigns of the ku klux klan and handgun control , inc.

file rkba orgs

a list of organizations devoted to the preservation of the second
amendment.

file victoria

the gun law handbook for the state of victoria , australia (oct 1988).

file nra purposes

a summary of the nra 's purposes and objectives , and positions on some
gun control issues.

file ktw

a collection of articles relating to teflon coated , armor piercing
bullets.

file thompsoncenter

the supreme court decision in the case

united states of america v. thompson center arms co.

file dmn gratia ccp

concealed weapons can prevent tragedies like killeen 's by
dr. suzanna gratia in the dallas morning news , sunday april
29th , 1992

file knox aw lies

neal knox on how military style semi auto 's are not a threat
to public safety , how they are not fundamentally different
than ordinary hunting weapons , and how the gun grabbers are
exploiting the bad image this class of weapons has to enact
further gun control.

file wsj crimestrik

the nra mounts a militant campaign taking aim at criminal justice
system by alix m. freedman staff reporter of the wall street journal.

file med media

gun prohibition in the medical literature telling the truth \? by
edgar a. suter , md discusses anti gun bias in medical journals.

file toy guns

court psychologist says toy guns are good for children from gun week ,
1989.

glen david skoler , court psychologist for the arlington county , va ,
claims toys of violence including toy guns are , in fact , good
for children.

file awca89 appeal

text of the 9th circuit court of appeals in the fresno rifle and pistol
club challenge to california 's roberti roos assault weapon control act
of 1989.

file lp92 rkba

the right to keep and bear arms plank of the 1992 national platform of
the libertarian party.

and a reproduction of the libertarian party brochure
responsible gun ownership equal rights for america 's gun owners

the entire 1992 national platform of the lp is available via anonymous
ftp on think.com in the file pub libernet lp libertarian platform 1992

file let july91

an article from the july august 1991 issue of law enforcement technology
with a survey of police officers on their views of gun control.

file nacp poll

a study conducted by the national association of the chiefs of
police (nacp) through its american law enforcement survey for 1989 ,
in which 16 , 259 chiefs of police , sheriffs and law enforcement command
personnel were polled with a list of 30 questions , it was determined
the overwhelming majority of officers support the right of private
arms ownership , and agreed that gun bans had little effect on crime.

file hci advert

a example of the propaganda used by hci in soliciting contributions.

file hci transcript

a transcription of the hci video tape america needs a national
handgun control policy

file gartner

michael gartner , president of nbc news , calls for a ban on handguns
in this usa today thursday january 16th 1992 editorial.

file nra lp

a resolution passed by the voting membership of the nra at its national
convention in anaheim , ca stating the nra will support third party
candidates.

file cooley

thomas m. cooley , ll.d. , general principles of constitutional law in
the united states of america , 298 299 (3rd ed. 1898) , a leading
constitutional commentator discussed the rights protected by the second
amendment

file kilpatrick

gun law might curb rising murder rate by james kilpatrick , st. louis
post dispatch tuesday june 23 , 1992. kilpatrick expresses support for
a national firearms law as proposed by c. everett koop , that is , a
requirement that gun owners pass a competency test , among other things.

file vanity fair

a summary of the 10 page article on jim and sarah brady which appeared
in the january '91 issue of vanity fair magazine.

question was it true you wanted to get a gun to protect
yourself against hinckley \?

answer jim brady i had a gun

file goldwin

gun control is constitutional , by robert a. goldwin from the
wall street journal edtorial page , thrusday , december 12 , 1991

file anniston

two articles on a murder averted in anniston , alabama by a man
with a ccw permit. the importance of this event is that it closely
followed the murders by hennard in texas , but the media did not
cover anniston.

file staggers brady

a survey of public support for the staggers instant background
check and the brady waiting period. the basic finding is that
once the public understands the advantages of the instant background
check vs. the problems with the brady waiting period support for
the brady waiting period diminishes greatly.

file brady vote

how congress voted on the staggers instant background check and
the brady waiting period.

file vs vote

how congress voted on the volkmer sensenbrenner amendment to
strike the new gun control sections from the administration
crime bill.

file dc vote

how the u.s. senate voted on s. 2113 , the repeal of the district
of columbia 's anti gun strict liability law.

file covey

gun control trying the facts , weighing the values a monograph based
on crime , inequality , guns , equity by preston k. covey , ph.d. ,
director center for the advancement of applied ethics , carnegie mellon
university.

addresses the desirability of gun bans ethical aspects , equity issues ,
and other values at stake in the management of mortal risks , deadly
force and its instruments.

file assays of bias

assays of bias on the second amendment the media elite by
preston k. covey , director center for the advancement of applied
ethics excerpts from a longer monograph

file cleveland

a critique of

accidental firearm fatalities in a metropolitan county (1958 1973)
rushforth , hirsch , ford , and adelson
american journal of epidemiology 100 , 1974 , pp. 499 505.


this is the study that lies at the heart of the gun control
claim that owning a firearm for self defense is too dangerous.
the claims that a defensive gun is x ( 6 in this study)
times more likely to be used against an innocent person than
in lawful self defense originated with this report in 1974.

by robert i. kesten

file tiananmen lessons

lessons from tiananmen square by neal knox reprinted from
guns ammo , september 1989

why the second amendment is so important , even in todays more
progressive era. included is a description of the 1932
bonus march in washington , dc in which gen. douglas macarthur
opposed unemployed wwi veterans lobbying for the government to
immediately pay their promised veteran 's bonus.

file forward trace

california ffl dealer defies forward trace by neal talbot in
the new gun week , march 1 , 1991.

details how the batf bullies ffl holders into giving batf copies
of 4473 's in violation of federal law.

file justice stats

handgun crime victims , by michael r. rand , bureau of justice statistics
statistician , u.s. department of justice.

this bureau of justice statistics special report describes the key findings
from an analysis of handgun crimes reported in the national crime survey
for 1979 87. it describes the victims of hand gun sic crime , how the
handgun was used during the crime , and the nature and extent of handgun
crime injury. it also provides information on handgun offenders , the
location of handgun crimes , and whether the crime was reported to the
police.

file chafee

included are

1) transcript of press conference with senator john chafee , and former
supreme court justice warren burger on s. 2913 , chafee 's , handgun ban.
also speaking was vernon jordan , former member of the jimmy carter
white house mayor sharon pratt kelly michael beard of national
coalition to stop gun violence michael casserly (executive director ,
council of the great city schools) dr. carden johnston representing
the american academy of pediatrics

2) an article by neal knox in which he describes how sarah brady kicked
out hci president charles orasin because of a disagreement on chafee 's
handgun ban.

3) an article on burger 's support for s. 2913.


file alarmist view

gun registration an 'alarmist' view by jon vanwormer reprinted
from the december 1985 guns ammo. how an rkba moderate became a
radical.

file fackler papers

a list of articles by col. martin l. fackler , m.d. , f.a.c.s.
wound ballistics lab , and where to write for copies of them.

file gun war

the great american gun war by barry bruce briggs ,
the public interest no. 45 , fall 1976 , pp 37 62

file george will

repeal second amendment and save lives , by george will

file reeves

drastic steps to end the war at home by richard reeves , no date
nor publication available placed in rkba archive 9 2 92

studies prove gun control works by richard reeves , from the
kansas city star , 9 28 92.

file canada ban list

a reproduction of a brochure from the canadian department of justice
listing newly prohibited and restricted firearms (as of june 1992).

also included is the point system used to determine if a firearm
should be reviewed for possible banning.

file copkiller

lyrics to the rock song cop killer by ice t on the album body count.

file cva.1

a letter from the california voters alliance , asking for support in
their effort to defeat anti gun california assemblyman terry friedman ,
co author of california 's waiting period law for rifles and shotguns.

file astrology

criminology's astrology the cdc approach to public health research
on firearms and violence by paul h. blackman , ph.d. , institute for
legislative action , national rifle association , 1990

a paper presented at the annual meetings of the american society of
criminology , baltimore , maryland , november 7 10

file aw panic

the assault weapon panic political correctness takes aim ,
at the constitution , by eric morgan and david kopel

published by the independence institute , october 10 , 1991

file state rkba

a collection of rkba provisions from state constitutions.

file too late

chapter 13 but then it was too late of they thought they were
free the germans , 1933 1945 , by milton mayer , university of
chicago press

file militia code

the legal definition of the militia of the united states of america
taken from

united stated code (usc) , title 10 , section 311 and section 312.

file legal mg crime

report no. 32 of the firearms coalition of silver spring , md. 11 29 89
by neal knox. knox reports that a legally registered machine gun was
used in a drug hit. subsequent reports said charges were dropped for
lack of evidence.

file hci cash

hci donation records to us senators and congressmen.

file paulreverenet

information about the paul revere net , a network of 2nd amendment
bulletin boards

the paul revere network (prn) is a coast to coast network of
committed grass roots gun rights activists who rely upon computer
bulletin board systems for their primary mode of communication.
leroy pyle (nra director and 27 year san jose police veteran)
is founder and director of the prn. based in san jose , ca ,
pyle 's bbs (1 143 223) currently hubs all network message
traffic.

file gun talk

information about the nra ila bulletin board gun talk

file congressgrades

a grading of congressmen based their votes on 1) the brady bill
(hr7) , 2) staggers (hr1412) and 3) the volkmer sensenbrenner amendment
to strike the anti gun provisions from the house crime bill (hr3371).

file lawmaster

feds trash law abiding gun owner's home , nra official journal march
1992 , by richard e. gardiner. details how the batf raided the home of
johnny lawmaster in search of a non existent unregistered m 16 auto sear.

file point blank

the concluding chapter to point blank by gary kleck.

file purdy rapsheet

patrick purdy 's criminal record.

file progundocs

statement of purpose and contact information for doctors for integrity
in research public policy

file orlando

a summary of the effects of the highly publicized orlando training
program in which over 6000 women were trained in basic pistol
marksmanship and the law of self defense.

file form4signoff

a letter from wayne miller , chief national firearms act branch of
batf stating that local law enforcement signoff on the atf form 4 ,
application for taxpaid transfer and registration of firearm i.e. ,
machine gun , is completely discretionary.

file badlands.txt

new zealand firearms control by robert badlands.

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at melbourne
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was
sponsored by the sporting shooters' association of australia.

file danto.txt

issues regarding gun control in america by bruce l. danto

a paper was presented at a conference on gun control held at melbourne
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was
sponsored by the sporting shooters' association of australia.

file fine.txt

impediments to the purposeful reform of (australian) firearms laws by j. d.
fine

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at melbourne
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was
sponsored by the sporting shooters' association of australia.

file greenwd.txt

untitled paper by colin greenwood

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at melbourne
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was
sponsored by the sporting shooters' association of australia.

file kates.txt

gun control recent research on the american experience by don b. kates ,
jr.

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at melbourne
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was
sponsored by the sporting shooters' association of australia.

file marsden.txt

gun control a banker 's perspective , by \? \? \? marsden

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at melbourne
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was
sponsored by the sporting shooters' association of australia.

note , this paper is almost impossible to read currently as the original
would not scan well. a more readable copy will be supplied later.

file backdoor

back door gun control by peter alan kasler from the january 1993
issue of american survival guide magazine.

kasler discusses four examples of innocent people whose firearms
are confiscated , and or charged with a crime when none was committed ,
as examples of how gun control is implemented in the real world.

file armed citizen

the armed citizen feature from the american rifleman and the
american hunter these stories show how firearms are indeed useful
for self defense.

file botsford

the case against gun control by david botsford

file academia bias

fighting anti gun bias in academia an article downloaded from the
nra ila bbs gun talk

file story of gun

the story of a gun by erik larson , from the atlantic , january 1993.

file hcr

reports to the firearms coalition , by neal knox.

all these files are named hcr then two numbers , e.g. , hcr51 for
report no. 51 to the firearms coalition

file whose.txt

whose side are they on \?

freedom from war the united states program for general and complete
disarmament in a peaceful world. an official publication of the united
states of america government.

file nccfa

contact information for the national collegiate coalition for firearms
awareness

file canada

some facts about canadian gun control laws , gun ownership and violent
crime.

file time letter

time magazine 's form letter response to criticism of their
death by gun issue.

file gun in school

health objectives for the nation weapon carrying among high school
students united states , 1990 edited by david dodell , d.m.d.

proposes ways to reduce carrying of firearms by high school students.

file congress cover

congress covers itself but not public by paul craig roberts , printed
in the cleveland plain dealer october 2nd , 1992.

file hamper

restrictions hamper law abiding folks , not criminals. by
david b. kopel , printed in the columbus oh dispatch , january 16th.

points out how waiting periods can cause a great deal of harm.

file schumer gripe

a washington post letter to the editor by congessman charles e. schumer
discussing his bill , h.r. 5633 , which requires law enforcement sign off
on ffl applications.

file sof

a upi article on a lawsuit against soldier of fortune which forced
them out of business.

this article is copyright by upi , and archived with permission please
respect the re distribution prohibition.

file fl stats

a summary of ccw permit statistics for the state of florida , e.g. ,
the number of permits issued , number revoked , number denied , etc.
this proves that people obtaining ccw permits are law abiding
citizens and are not wreckless with their firearms.

file knox on ruger

knox replies to comment from ruger counsel 's from
the new gun week , december 1 , 1989.

neal knox discusses how sturm , ruger inc. are willing to sacrifice the
rkba for the benefit of their business.

file american blacks

gun control and american blacks by raymond g. kessler (pp. 476 478)

in the united states , the experience of blacks from slavery
through the 1960 's was one of the clearest and best documented
examples of the political functions of gun control.

file nraction

the nra ilas little known newsletter nraction names will have the
month and year at the end , e.g. , nraction0291.

file americamilitia

america 's militia by david b. kopel , appeared in gun world magazine
december 1992.

file hci93agenda

the action agenda for a national gun policy by hci.

file hci newsletter

the handgun control semi annual progress report for december 1992.

file hattoripetition

a petition written by the host family of japanese exchange student
yoshihiro hattori , who was killed when he went to the wrong home for
a halloween party

to protest the easy availability of firearms in the united states

which will be presented to president clinton.

file hci election

what the election means for our gun control movement by sarah brady.

file centerwall

university of washington pyschiatrist dr. brandon centerwall writing
in the april 1989 american journal of epidemiology says that television
exposure is related to half of the homicides in the united states.

file va outrage

an outrage in virginia by neal knox. describes how batf used a
virginia gun dealer to general strawman sales and then later traced
those guns back to va so they could claim 40 of guns they traced
came from va. when the dealer stopped cooperating they were convicted
of conducting strawman sales , one of the owners committed suicide.

file factcard93

the 1993 firearms fact card published by the nra ila

file nejm43

a letter to the editor of the wall street journal by preston covey
on the factoid you are 43 times more likely to kill someone you know
with a gun than a criminal.

file gifford

an op ed piece by dan gifford which appeared in the march 8 1993 issue
of the cleveland plain dealer it discusses the issue of police abuses
and citizen self defense against such abuses.

file reynolds

an editorial gun makers must pay the price by mel reynolds (d il) ,
member us house of representatives , which appeared in the 02 15 93
issue of the chicago tribune.

file pozner

gun control with vladamir pozner (yes , the commie) and phil donahue
from a feb. 25 1993 broadcast on cnbc.

file trustpeople

cato institute policy analysis no. 109 , july 11 , 1988
trust the people the case against gun control , by david b. kopel

file bitterprice

the british shooter pays a bitter price , by keith g. n. nicholson
from the american rifleman , march 1993.

file batman

cartoon campaign for gun control from the march 8th 1993 issue
of new american

file batfss

waco shootout evokes memory of warsaw '43 from the wall street
journal , monday , march 15 , 1993

file academics

contact information for academics for the second amendment

file propaganda

anti gun ownership propaganda , by doan boal in the march , '92 issue
of survival guide.

file media fairness

media fairness action plan is continuing , by james h. warner , nra ass't
general counsel , from american rifleman , march 1993 , page 54.

this describes the fcc 's personal attack rule and how the nra may
take advantage of this rule against broadcasters who attack the nra.

file artconf

articles of confederation , proposed by congress november 15 , 1777 ,
ratified and effective march 1 , 1781

file pending bills

a list of the currently pending gun control bills in the us seante and
house of representatives.

file noduty

self reliance for self defense police protection is n't enough !
by peter kasler

file leftout

the second amendment a right left out , by doctor linda karen miller
appearing in the american rifleman , february 1993 , p. 33.

file copsnguns

what cops should know about the gun issue ! by leroy pyle ,
from the may 1992 issue of guns ammo.

file crossfire

a transcript of the wednesday , march 3 1993 edition of the cnn
show crossfire. the participants are michael kinsley , john sununu ,
rep. charles schumer (d ny) criminal justice subcmte. ,
and j.f. rep. jack fields (r tx)

file naziconnection

the war on gun ownership still goes on ! gun control's nazi connection !
by craig peterson from the may 1993 issue of guns ammo.

file armedcriminal

the armed criminal in america , by james wright , 1986. a research in
brief published by the national institute of justice.

file bigotry

bigotry , symbolism and ideology in the battle over gun control by
don kates , from the 1992 public interest law review

file flmurd.ps
file gamurd.ps
file idmurd.ps
file mtmurd.ps
file nodiscr.ps
file ormurd.ps
file pamurd.ps
file philmurd.ps
file utmurd.ps
file vamurd.ps
file wamurd.ps
file wvmurd.ps

ccw laws and murder rates in several states , by clayton cramer. these
are all postscript files and require the use of postscript printer to
print.

file hammer

marion hammer on the failure of gun control , downloaded from gun talk.

file threechiefs

the views of police chiefs daryl gates (la) , lee brown (nyc) , leroy martin
(chicago) on gun control and other civil rights.


rkba archive general information and anonymous ftp instructions.

the moderator of the firearms politics mailing list , karl kleinpaste ,
has agreed to set up an anonymous ftp archive directory for rkba
related information. this directory can be used for things like
articles by kates , wright , tonso , levinson , supreme court decisions ,
the ria vs us decision , copies of legislation , and so on. it 's not
meant to be for the discussions that normally appear here.

so , in the future if you 're looking for something check there first
and then ask here.

instructions

short version for techies

the site is godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu. place contributions into the
directory usr0 anon pub firearms politics rkba. the ftp commands
get , put , mget , or mput should work. give the command type binary
to be sure files are transferred correctly. your files will be moved
to the rkba directory. to get a file use the commands get or mget.

i will maintain an index which you should get first to check if
the file you want to read or write already is archived.

long version for non techies

in order for you to use this archive your computer must be on
the internet. to connect to the archive site run the command

ftp godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu

if that does n't work you cannot use this archive. if the ftp
command is successful you 'll get this prompt asking you for a
login
name (godiva.nectar.cs.cmu.edu lvc)

instead of lvc your initials will appear. answer this prompt with

ftp

next you 'll get this prompt asking your for your e mail address

guest login ok , send e mail address as password

i would enter

l.v.cipriani@att.com

you 'll enter your own e mail address. you 'll get these lines
or similar as output

remote system is unix.
using binary mode to transfer files.

next , the command prompt is printed

ftp

if you do not get the line using binary mode to transfer files.
run the command

type binary

now you 're logged in to the archive machine. there are many
directories on this machine but the two you are concerned with are

usr0 anon pub firearms politics rkba
and
usr0 anon pub firearms politics incoming

there are subdirectories to the rkba directory , those are discussed below.

when you login to the system your directory is usr0 anon. to retreive
files change your current directory to the rkba directory with the command

cd usr0 anon pub firearms politics rkba
or
cd pub firearms politics rkba

to submit files change your directory to the incoming directory with
the command

cd usr0 anon pub firearms politics incoming
or
cd pub firearms politics incoming

once you do this you 'll get another ftp prompt asking you to enter
another command.

to find the names of the existing files in the directory you are
in run the command

ls l

this will produce something like

total 6021
r r r 1 karl 6932 jun 16 1992 dmn gratia ccp
r r r 1 karl 69149 apr 5 19 20 index
r r r 1 karl 18965 jun 16 1992 knox aw lies
r r r 1 karl 10930 apr 30 1992 s361
r r r 1 karl 8958 jun 16 1992 wsj crimestrike
r r r 1 karl 2649 jan 13 18 33 academia bias
r r r 1 karl 935 mar 22 22 38 academics
r r r 1 karl 36079 aug 4 1992 aclu
... and so on ...

each line corresponds to one file. reading right to left , the fields
are the file name , the last modification date of the file , the size of
the file in bytes , and some permission fields which you do not need
to be concerned with.

to get a file run the command get followed by the name of the file
you want , for example

get index
or
get noduty

after the file is transfered to your machine a message like this

transfer complete.
19580 bytes received in 5 seconds (4 kbytes s)

you can repeat the get command for every file you want to retreive.
you can use the mget command to retreive multiple files. if the
file you want is in a subdirectory , for example , congress 103rd hr1025
you should change your directory to the appropriate subdirectory first
and then retrieve it

cd congress 103rd
get hr1025

once you 're finished you can log off with the command

quit

if you have a file you want to contribute the procedure is a little
different. first of all you should find out if the file already
exists , so get a copy of the index file with the procedure above
and look it over to make sure you would n't repeat an entry. the
index will have a description of each of the files in the rkba
directory. for example


file whitemanslaw

white man 's law by william r. tonso , from the december 1985
reason magazine


once you 've determined you wo n't be duplicating an entry , login
and change to the incoming directory command (see above). once
you are in the incoming directory use the command

put file name

in this case

put whitemanslaw

again there 'll be a transfer complete , so many bytes transfered
in so many seconds message. now your file is on the archive
machine.

another thing to watch out for is duplicate file names . be sure
there is n't a file in the incoming directory that is called the same
as the file you want to write. if you use the same name you 'll
overwrite the previous file or you 'll get an error message .

your file may have to be renamed if there is a conflict with a
file by the same name in the rkba directory.

once your file is in the incoming directory send me an entry for
the index file and i will add it to the file.

if you cannot use anonymous ftp and would still like to contribute
a file email the file to me and i 'll take care of the rest.

if you submit a file and do not notify me it may be removed , so
be sure to let me know first.

if you have any questions feel free to ask me.


larry cipriani l.v.cipriani@att.com






michael phelps , (external) mjp@vnet.ibm.com ..
(internal) mjp@bwa.kgn.ibm.com .. mjp at kgnvmy
(and last but not least a disclaimer) these opinions are mine..

from keith@orion.ic.cmc.ca (keith de solla)
subject cdn gun laws
organization canadian microelectronics corporation
lines 37

moderator nice summary , keith , thanks.

i talked to the federal dept. of justice (doj , ottawa) to try and
clarify a bunch of things regarding changes to canadian gun laws.
i am posting here for informational purposes questions to email ,
followup to t.p.g.

1. it is still technically feasible (but almost impossible) to get
a concealed carry permit in canada. this is contrary to what i
was told by a police officer.
2. it is still legal to use lethal force (such as a firearm) to
protect life , also contrary to what the officer told me. guns
must be stored locked up and unloaded , however.
3. regarding hi capacity magazines , it is still not clear who will
be exempt or how this will be managed. this is up to each province.
the general idea is that exempt persons will receive a letter form
authorizing them to possess the high capacity magazines.
apparently , the authorization is to specify how many of these
'prohibited weapons' you will be allowed to possess. dealers will
be allowed to order high capacity mags for those allowed to possess
them , but will not be allowed to stock them.
4. high capacity magazines converted to comply with the new limits will
not be considered prohibited weapons. amendments to the regulations
specify some possible methods to alter the magazines. some
manufacturers (beretta) will be marketing reduced capacity magazines.
(god knows how much they 'll charge for these)

this covers most of what we discussed. i have typed this from memory ,
do not take it as gospel. i am not a lawyer and i refuse to play one on tv.




keith p. de solla , p.eng ipsc ontario , oha , nfa , sfc , ofah
keith@orion.ic.cmc.ca frontenac rifle and pistol club



from slack@boi.hp.com (david slack)
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal passport
organization hewlett packard boise , idaho
x newsreader tin version 1.1.4 pl6
lines 24


the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , do
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it
only going to be required to be presented when trying to ge medical aid \?

btw , anybody planning on shaving hillary 's head to look for 666 \? 8 )

later dave ,
days


goverment logic or just the clintons \?




david h. slack
boise surface mount center
email slack@hpdmd48.boi.hp.com
telnet 323 4019
phone (208) 323 4019

hewlett packard , 11213 chinden blvd. , boise idaho 83714 1023 , m s 625


from lwb@cs.utexas.edu (lance w. bledsoe)
subject re threatening gun owners
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 47
nntp posting host im4u.cs.utexas.edu

in article 7178@blue.cis.pitt.edu gswst@cislabs.pitt.edu (gary s. wachs) writes

hello ,

i'm writing a story on the future of gun control. there are a
few points i would welcome your opinion on. it 's wonderful having a
resource like this newsgroup to take advantage of and i thank you in advance
for your feedback !

1. what do you believe are the most serious threats to gun owners in the
future \?
the government
liberals
batf , fbi , dea , etc. (see 1)

2. are you concerned that the 2nd ammendment could be reinterpreted to
apply to the armed forces only , barring civilians from owning arms of
any kind \?
well...
contributions taxes
abortion elimination of fetal tissue
clinton president
faggot spouse
it could happen...

3. if you did have control over what types of arms people would be allowed
to buy , which types would you feel compelled to restrict to military
uses only (ie. bazooka , m16 , grenade , atomic bomb , etc.)
hydrogen bomb , perhaps.

4. would you describe hci and all other gun control activists as being
determined to make it illegal for a civilian to own or use a firearm \?
yep.

5. have you personally read the brady bill in its entirety \?
yep.

thank again ,

gary




lance w. bledsoe lwb@im4u.cs.utexas.edu (512) 258 0112
ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free.

