from smortaz@handel.sun.com (shahrokh mortazavi)
subject re news briefs from kh 1025
organization central
lines 18

in article 1qg1gdinnge7@anaconda.cis.ohio state.edu karbasi@cis.ohio state.edu writes


1 nehzat e aazaadee 's member have many times been arrested
and tortured and as we speak some of them are still in prison.

2 the above item confirms the long standing suspicion that
the only reason this regime has not destroyed nehzat e
aazaadee completely is just to show off and brag about the
freedom of expression in iran in its propaganda paper.

get serious ! if this regime had its way , there would be
absolutely no freedom of expression anywhere , not even in sci.


there really isnt , as seen by the heavy usage of anonymous posting.
if iri sympathizers didnt roam around in sci , anon poster would
get used only occasionally (as in the good old days).

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re was go hezbollah !
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 92

in article 1993apr17.153728.12152@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu
(brad hernlem) writes

in article 2bcf287a.25524@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu
(tim clock) writes

assuming \? also come on , brad. if we are going to get anywhere in
this (or any) discussion , it does n't help to bring up elements i never
addressed , nor commented on in any way . i made no comment on who is
right or who is wrong , only that civilians are being used as cover
and that , having been placed in between the israelis and the guerillas ,
they will be injured as both parties continue their fight.

pardon me tim , but i do not see how it can be possible for the idf to fail
to detect the presence of those responsible for planting the bomb which
killed the three idf troops and then later know the exact number and
whereabouts of all of them. several villages were shelled. how could the idf
possibly have known that there were guerrillas in each of the targetted
villages \? you see , it was an arbitrary act of retaliation .

i will again repeat my statement 1) i do not condone these
indiscriminate israeli acts (nor have i ever , 2) if the villagers do not know who these guerillas are (which you stated earlier) , how do you expect the
israelis to know \? it is very difficult to identify who they are (this
is why the guerillas prefer to lose themselves in the general population
by dressing the same , acting the same , etc.).

the host arab state did little nothing to try and stop these attacks
from its side of the border with israel

the problem , tim , is that the original reason for the invasion was palestinian
attacks on israel , not lebanese attacks.

i agree but , because lebanon was either unwilling or unable to stop these
attacks from its territory should israel simply sit quietly and accept its
situation \? israel asked the lebanese government over and over to control
this third party state within lebanese territory and the attacks kept
occuring. at what point does israel (or any state) have the right to do
something itself to stop such attacks \? never \?

while the major armaments (those allowing people to wage civil wars )
have been removed , the weapons needed to cross border attacks still
remain to some extent. rocket attacks still continue , and commando
raids only require a few easily concealed weapons and a refined disregard
for human life (yours of that of others). such attacks also continue.

yes , i am afraid that what you say is true but that still does not justify
occupying your neighbor 's land. israel must resolve its disputes with the
native palestinians if it wants peace from such attacks.

it is also the responsibility of any state to not allow any outside
party to use its territory for attacks on a neighboring state. if 1) angola
had the power , and 2) south africa refused (or could n't) stop anti angolan
guerillas based on sa soil from attacking angola , and 3) south africa
refused to have un troops stationed on its territory between it and angola ,
would angola be justified in entering sa \? if not , are you saying that
angola had to accept the situation , do nothing and absorb the attacks \?

bat guano. the situation you call for existed in the 1970s and attacks
were commonplace.

not true. lebanese were not attacking israel in the 1970s. with a strong
lebanese government (free from syrian and israeli interference) i believe
that the border could be adequately patrolled. the palestinian heavy
weapons have been siezed in past years and i do not see as significant a
threat as once existed.

i refered above at all times to the palestinian attacks on israel from
lebanese soil , not to lebanese attacks on israel.

one hopes that a lebanese government will be strong enough to patrol its
border but there is no reason to believe it will be any stronger. what has
changed is that the plo was largely driven out of lebanon (not by the
lebanese , not by syria) and that is by far the most important making it
easier to control future palestinian attacks from lebanese soil. that
change was brought about by israeli action the plo would never
have been ejected by lebanese , arab state or un actions.

please , tim , do n't fall into the trap of treating lebanese and palestinians
as all part of the same group. there are too many who think all arabs or all
muslims are the same. too many times i have seen people support the bombing
of palestinian camps in retaliation for an idf death at the hands of the
lebanese resistance or the shelling of lebanese villages in retaliation for
a palestinian attack.

i fully recognize that the lebanese do not want to be used by either side ,
and have been (and continue to be). but the most fundamental issue is that
if a state cannot control its borders and make real efforts to do so , it
should expect others to do it for them. hopefully that other will be
the un but it is (as we see in its cowardice regarding bosnia) weak.

tim


from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 56

in article c50wjj.j4r@newsflash.concordia.ca ilyess@ece.concordia.ca (ilyess bdira) writes
in article 4805@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes

what are the borders the islamic world dreams about \? \?

the islamic world dreams of being the whole planet , but not by kicking
the current inhabitant out , we rather deam of the day everybody converts.
if jews had the same dream , i would not feel threatened a bit.

there certainly are muslims who do not believe that their dream of
a global islamic community should be achieved through force. there are ,
however , others (and , they are often far more visible vocal than the
former) who do accept the establishment of global islam through force.
i would not feel threatened by those only accepting or pursuing
islamicization through peaceful means , nor by jews advocating the same
approach. those advocating force as a means of expanding their side 's
power are certainly a threat.

to palestinians , israel is doing just that maintaining its dominance
of those outside its own group . if i am told that i am not one of
you but you then impose your control on me , damn right you are a threat.
if i am a member of a non muslim minority inside the islamic
world and actively did not accept my minority status , i would also
certainly see islam 's domination as having been acheived , and maintained ,
through the powerful coercive force all majorities wield over minorities
within their ranks.

islamic readers , i am waiting to your honest answer.

i want also a honest answer from zionists for the following questions

i am not a zionist , but do feel that both jewish and palestinian
nationalist desires need , at this juncture , to be accepted in some way.

1)why do jews who do n't even believe in god (as is the case with many
of the founders of secular zionism) have a right in palestine more
than the inhabitants of palestine , just because god gave you the land \?

for the same reason that some muslims believe it is proper and righteous
for islam to be spread by force upon those who do not want that.

2)why do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of
the inhabitants are not jews and do not want to be part of israel \?

i refer to the most you also refer to
because they are scared , and feel very threatened , as well feeling that
this area is to some degree part of their belief religion heritage
identity etc.

i too strongly object to those that justify israeli rule
of those who do not want that. the occupied territories are not
israel 's to control , to keep , or to dominate.

tim



from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re nazi eugenic theories circulated by cpr (unconventional peace)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 20
nntp posting host slc8.ins.cwru.edu


first this man promotes the dissolution of the jews through an
intermarriage process , and then says that it will be just a bunch
of 'fundamentalist' jews who will object. this clown even called
for 'buying' the dissolution of the jewish people.

does this idiot mean to suggest that any jew who objects to an
imibicilic notion like this is fundamentalist \? or does he simply
mean to insult the orthodox by using the word 'fundamentalist \? '

i am not orthodox. i am not fundamentalist. i would desire a
genuine peace in the region more than this pinhead davidsson can
ever understand. but when he shows his willingness to dismiss an
entire culture , he proves that the only thing more brain boggling
than his stupidity is his willingness to display his stupidity in
this newsgroup.

please take your hatred for the essence of judaism and shove it
up your ass. remember to pull your head out first.


from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject dir yassin
in reply to aurag@ere.umontreal.ca 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 18 48 15 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 34



from myths and facts , by leonard j. davis , near east research inc. ,
1989

pp. 108 109

unlike the plo 's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets , the
100 troups from the irgun and stern group that struck at deir yassin
on april 10 , 1948 , targeted the village for its military importance.
deir yassin was on the road to jerusalem , which the arabs had
blockaded , and it housed iraqi troups and palestinian irregulars.
snipers based in deir yassin were a constant threat to jewish citizens
in jerusalem.

arab civilians were killed at deir yassin , but that attack does
not conform to the propaganda picture that the arabs have tried to
paint. the number of arabs killed was generally reported to be about
250. in 1983 , however , eric silver of the guardian (britain)
interviewed a survivor , mophammed sammour , who testified that 116 out
of a population of 800 1000 were killed. 'about three days after the
massacre , ' sammour explained , 'representatives of each of the five
clans in deir yassin met at the moslem offices in jerusalem and made a
list of the people who had not been found (alive). we went through the
names. nothing has happend since 1948 to make me think this figure
was wrong.'

unlike the plo 's deliberate attacks on civilians , the killing of
civilians at deir yassin was not premeditated. the attackers left open
an escape corridor from the village and more than 200 residents left
unharmed. after the remaining arabs feigned surrender and then fired
on the jewish troops , some of the attackers killed arab soldiers and
civilians indiscriminately. independent observers told the guardian
that among the bodies they found arab men disguised as women.

from goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring)
subject re unconventional peace proposal
nntp posting host dzoo.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard company , chelmsford , ma
lines 33

in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject unconventional peace proposal


a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson


having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal.

1. a fund should be established which would disburse grants
for each child born to a couple where one partner is israeli jew
and the other palestinian arab.
...
5. the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
marriages in israel palestine , all of whom would have relatives on
'both sides' of the divide , would make the conflict lose its
ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
truly civil society. the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
people would also help the integration of israeli society into the

sounds just like a racial theory that hitler outlined in mein kampf.

elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik , iceland




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's.


from cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran)
subject re israeli terrorism
reply to cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 18
nntp posting host slc4.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) says

in article 2bdad779.24910@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article amoss.93apr25163327@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il amoss@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il (amos shapira) writes
cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

eh \? \? \? \? could you please give me details about an event where a neutral
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli soldier \?


there are many cases , but i do not remeber names. the isralis shot and killed
a un observer in gaza in the first half of intifada.

i believe that most of the world has seen pictures of israeli soldiers who
were breaking the cameras of the reporters , kicking reporters out , confiscating
cassettes , and showing reporters militery orders preventing them from going
to hot areas to pick pictures and make reports.

from cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research)
subject re investment in yehuda and shomron
lines 16
nf id r horenc5lduz.5se@netcom.com 1074830076 cdp 1483500346 000 733
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 16 17 02 00 1993


aryans who do not base their reasoning on nazi ideology are racists...

thus spoke an american citizen in the name of judaism. if this is judaism ,
i think judaism should be combatted as any extremist and dangerous
philosophy.

i suspect however that martin buber , albert einstein and other jewish
scholars would have rather converted to christianity than stay jews , if
they would have perceived judaism as such a perverted philosophy.

those who wish to learn something about the perversion of judaism ,
should consult the masterly work by yehoshua harkabi , who was many
years the head of israeli intelligence and an opponent of the plo. his
latest book was published in english and includes a very detailed analysis
of judeo nazism.

from bill paxton@fourd.com
subject ajerk
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 7
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

you a good case for rights to abortion.


system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry



from sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child)
subject re news you will miss , apr 15
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 46
nntp posting host aludra.usc.edu

arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

in article 1qun1ainnik5@aludra.usc.edu sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child) writes
arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes



yigal et al , sue adl


why do you title this news you will miss \?

there have been at least three front page stories on it in the l.a. times.

i would n't exactly call that a media cover up.

this may come as a surprise to you but there are a few americans who do not
read the la times.

is this the same monolithic , centrally controlled media that you 're always
talking about \? do you mean to tell me that the la times is the only major
paper to buck the media spiking division 's activities \?


the defamation league has done a first class job of damage control..in what
little is left of the world outside of la.


assumption when one major newspaper prints three or more articles on the front
page regarding subject matter that is not strictly local , this is likely
to be considered an open story , and not a coverup.

let 's hear a roll call here. anyone outside of the la area seen articles on
this \?

js

samuel
mossad special agent id314159
media spiking mind control division
los angeles offices (therefore , evidently , incompetent)

pratice safe .signature ! prevent dangerous signature virii !
guildenstern our names shouted in a certain dawn ... a message ... a
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning ,
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it.

from ohayon@jcpltyo.jcpl.co.jp (tsiel ohayon)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan
lines 31

in article 1rd7eo 1a4@usenet.ins.cwru.edu anas omran writes

anas there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report
anas on the situation in the o.t. but , as most people used to see on tv , the
anas israelis do not allow them to go deep there in the o.t. the israelis
anas used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters.
anas so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in palestine.
anas they do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in
anas palestine.

bring me one case where israeli soldiers deliberately killed a neutral
reporter . this is another one of your wet dreams.

unlike many countries , israel does allow reporters in and out of the o.t.
that is what the problem is. if israel were a country like china , then
nothing would transpire from what is happening in the o.t. but there
seems to be a proliferation of journalists in israel always trying to show
how evil the israeli monster is. arab countries do n't allow journalists
anywhere , we have yet to hear about the massacres of kurds , the destruction
and annihilation of hama , the killings of moslem fundamentalists in mosques
in egypt and algeria etc... why is it we only get state reports \? how accurate
are they \?
anas , go give a lesson of freedom of speech to your arab bretheren before
telling us what to do.

tsiel

8 8
tsiel ohayon@jcpl.co.jp if you do not receive this e mail , please let me
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible.
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing.

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re go hezbollah ! !
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 17

in article c5hiyr.327@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes

brad , you 're a very sick son of a bitch. wishing for someone 's death , even if
they are your enemy , is very deranged. i really have pity for you and those
like you. did you acquire this philosophy from islam \?

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)
ed.

this is an interesting question to ponder. did brad ali 's sickness
make ayatollah style islam attractive to him or did this new religion
that brad ali has formally adopted give him this sickness \?


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject gaza and separation from israel
nf id n cdp 1483500357 000 3740
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 24 07 06 00 1993
lines 73


from center for policy research cpr
subject gaza and separation from israel


gaza and the idea of separation

the israeli left 's inability to cope with the challenges it is
presented with by reality becomes obvious at those moments when
the reality does not line up with the expectations of the left. we
were able to see this clearly during the gulf war. because of the
palestinian 's popular solidarity with iraq , yossi sarid
currently minister of the environment made his infamous
statement you look for me ! , i.e. , i'am not making any more
efforts to speak with you. from yossi sarid 's point of view ,
palestinian reality during the gulf war was not the lengthy curfew
or the danger of hunger it brought with it , but whether or not the
palestinians accepted what was acceptable to the party. similarly
meretz , mk deddi tzuker , recently faced with criticism from
residents of the west bank town of beit sahour over his
government 's and his party 's lack of action for human rights and
peace , responded by asking those present at the discussion whether
they would rather have a likud government. from the leftists'
perspective this is the best government because it is their
government , regardless of what it does.

these members of the israeli left have already decided how the
future of the occupied territories will look , and they want to
dictate to the palestinians how to get there. an essential step
towards this future is their participation in yitzhak rabin 's
government , and from their point of view the expulsions were a
marginal byproduct of this government of peace , which need not
disturb the routine course of events. likewise the rabinic
policies in gaza the blowing up of houses with anti tank rockets
and the significant increases in the number of persons injured in
the suppression of demonstrations need not disturb it.

but the fact that reality is not as they would have it forces
itself upon them when a mob in gaza falls upon a settler who has
lost his way , when a settler is stabbed by his palestinian
workers , or when a palestinian knifes people in the streets of tel
aviv. then all hell breaks loose and the israeli left has nothing
to propose except separation let 's cut ourselves off from the
palestinians , let 's build a fence so high that they wo n't be able
to harm us this is the cry of the israeli left. let us erect a
fence between us and the reality whith is the occupation.

meron benvenisti writes about this in ha'aretz (4 3 93) ...the
liberal left. which does not differentiate between physical
separation and 'the future of the territories' , must come to
understand that the regime of magnetic cards , exclusion of arab
workers , closure , and curfew are instruments of enforcement
designed for the suppression of a population in revolt , and that
their ideological support for separation only provides
'humanitarian' arguments for the legitimization of the status
quo .

enforced separation is carried out only to meet the need of the
ruling community , but it is only the ruled population which bears
its burden. ..... .

whoover thinks that 'out of gaza first' is a liberal ,
humanitarian idea had best contemplate the question of whether
this position is also moral. it is very easy to shake off
responsibility for this concentration of human suffering , and to
thus also disregard responsibility for it 's creation. it is very
easy to erect a fence between jewish and arab neighborhoods in
jerusalem , when this fence has a gate the keys to which are at
the disposal of one hand which opens to allow the jews to pursue
all their interests , but is barred to the arabs... .

from the other front , jerusalem , 10 march 1993


wiscon.weizmann.ac.il ! jhsegal
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 yr old child \?
from jhsegal@wiscon.weizmann.ac.il (livian segal)
organization weizmann institute of science , computation center
lines 130

well , i tried not to get involved in this never ending talk , but , man , i really got
hot about this bullshit.

in article 1993apr13.164305.701@bernina.ethz.ch nadeem@p.igp.ethz.ch writes
hakim abu ahmed (cu304@cleveland.freenet.edu) wrote

in reply to hm@cs.brown.edu 's message
zbib@bnr.ca (sam zbib) writes

steel@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (nick steel) writes
q how many occupying israeli soldiers (terrorists) does it
take to kill a 5 year old native child \?

a four

two fasten his arms , one shoots in the face ,
and one writes up a false report.


making stupid and idiot jokes about soliders will not bring anything (not
mentioning peace or agreement). i also know several tens of jokes about arabs
(palestinians) but i do not post them to usenet (anyway , not to this newsgroup) ,
since i do n't think i will achieve any target but making other parts furious , and
this is not my target.
if this is your target...well...that tells a lot about you.


can nick steel provide documentation for this alleged incident \?

did you really think he is talking about something realistic \?


harry.

you must be kidding , this is not a single incident
now. this has become a daily life practice in gazza
if you mean the killing of children by armed soldiers.

yeah , well , sometimes , when cowards put their children and wives in the front line ,
so their enemy cannot do anything , well , maybe in those cases , you have no better
thing to do (to save your life) than shooting. and if parents want their
children alive , i think it would be better that before they get out to throw
stones molotov botlles , or when they come to kill soliders , to keep their children
in the houses.


if you are objecting the number of occupying israeli
soldiers (terrorists) or the way they do it , then

look in the dictionary at the word terrorism ! it
says (nu) the use of threats of violence , and violence
esp for political purposes.
it sounds more like your guys...

i caan assure you that they do worse than that. just as

yeah \? well , i guess you were in there , and you know it all...

example 11 children were killed this month of ramadhan
two of them by military vehicules. an other similar
incident by vehicule was the one of 25 feb (4 ramadhan)
where thee military truck on purpose hit a passenger

where from do you know that it was on purpose \?
personally , i did n't hear about this case , although
i do n't deny it.but how can anybody , besides the
person itself , can say it was on purpose \?

car where the victims were a 5 year girl safa sail
bisharat
and saamud riyad a 2 weeks old babygirl.( the 23
oldd raajij rouhy)

yeah , sure.the truck driver looked in the car with his zionist equipment of
detecting palestinian children , and then he thought to himself hey there is a
5 year and 2 weeks girls in the car.why wo n't i make an accident and kill
the enemy \? maximum i will die too in the crash...but what do i care \? ...


hakim.

actually , if can remember correctly , was it not reported and even on camera
some time during the israeli invasion of lebanon , or when the itifada began ,
that cnn caught regular uniformed israeli soldiers breaking the arms of
some arab youngsters in a very professional and brutal manner , (someone
please give full details if they can remember). this is one of the few

well , it was about 3 years ago , in the intifada (the fact that you ca n't
remember the time prooves how much do you care about it). i do not think
that what the soliders did was correct. but i will not agree that they were
breaking their arms .i saw that film , and , unlike in the usa , it was broadcasted
entirely not long ago (in a talk show) and at the end the arm broken guys got
up and walked and used their arms very good. they guy who did it was interviewed
and he said he did it because the terrorist or whatever he was refused to take
his orders , and spitted in his face. what ammount of truth exist in this
statement i cannot tell you , because i was n't there. but the guy who did it was
in prison , if it makes you any good.

occassions on which such a scene has been transmitted to the west and
in the usa ... it caused uproar and was one of the factors that has significantly
changed the preception of the israeli army 's role in the mid east.

no , it did n't. the israeli army is still the most important army in the midlle
east.it is still the only human army(as much as an army can be human).to any
american who will claim the opposite , i can only remember the cnn broadcasting
of the american solider who beat a somalian boy. it was very cruel to see.but
i wo n't say because of this that the american army is cruel.


so there is proof for you ! it is obvious that is a systematic policy of the
israelis which must be occurring on a massive scale behind the scenes.

some kind of proof ! obvious \? where from \? if you say it is behind the scenes ,
how do you know about it \?


nadeem



i just wanted to show how much garbadge one can say , without knowing anything
about what he says , and living a life far away from the place he talks about.

livian segal


o


vm cms jhsegall@weizmann.weizmann.ac.il unix jhsegal@wiscon.weizmann.ac.il

from hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
organization ncsu chem eng
lines 31


in article 1993apr19.214300.17989@unocal.com , stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes

(brad hernlem writes


well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli
patrol inside lebanese territory while i was condemning the retaliatory
shelling of lebanese villages by israeli and israeli backed forces. my team ,
you see , was playing fair while the opposing team was rearranging the
faces of the spectators in my team 's viewing stands , so to speak.

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on
in lebanon and try to see through the propaganda. there are no a priori
black and white hats but one sure wonders how the idf can bombard villages in
retaliation to pin point attacks on its soldiers in lebanon and then call the
lebanese terrorists.

if the attack was justified or not is at least debatable. but this is not the
issue. the issue is that you were cheering death. ...

dorin

dorin , of all the criticism of my post expressed on t.p.m. , this one i accept.
i regret that aspect of my post. it is my hope that the occupation will end (and
the accompanying loss of life) but i believe that stiff resistance can help to
achieve that end. despite what some have said on t.p.m. , i think that there is
a point when losses are unacceptable. the strategy drove u.s. troops out of
lebanon , at least.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 014
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 120

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 014
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh



i asked , what 's going on \? he says , what 's the matter ,
ca n't you see , they 've overturned a car and they 're
killing armenians !



deposition of zaven armenakovich badasian

born 1942
employed
sumgait bulk yarn plant

resident at building 34 , apartment 33
microdistrict no. 12
sumgait azerbaijan


on february 27 my wife and i went to baku to go shopping and returned to
sumgait at around five in the evening. we ran into one of my relatives at the
bus station and got to talking. a lot of people had gathered not far away ,
near the store. well at first we did n't know what was happening , and then a
fellow i know comes up to me , an azerbaijani guy , and says , what are you
standing here for \? go home immediately ! i asked , what 's going on \? he says ,
what 's the matter , ca n't you see , they 've overturned a car and they 're
killing armenians ! he helped me catch a cab and we got home safely.

we sat at home for two days. during that time a gang of bandits came into our
courtyard. but the neighbors would n't let them in the building. there were
about 80 of them. they had sticks and pieces of armatures in their hands. they
were shouting something , but you could n't understand it. it was n't one voice
or two , all of them were shouting in a chorus. they turned toward building 35.
they went up to the third floor , and we see that they 're breaking glass and
throwing things out the window. after a while they come out the entryway one
has a pair of jeans in his hands , another has a tape recorder , and a third a
guitar. they went on toward the auto parts store.

we had to save ourselves. after midnight on march 1 we went to hide at school
no. 33 , which is in microdistrict 13. there were two other armenian families
there with us. there were 13 of us altogether. out of all of them i had only
known ernest before , he had moved to sumgait from kirovabad. the azerbaijani
guard at the school let us in. at first he did n't want to , but there was
nowhere else for us to go. we had to plead with him and talk him into it. we
were told that on that day , the 1st , there would be an attack on our
microdistrict.

we went upstairs to a classroom on the second floor.

on the city radio station they announced three telephone numbers that could be
used to summon assistance or communicate anything important. i called one of
them and the first secretary of the sumgait city party committee answered. i
asked him for assistance. i say , we 're in school no. 33 , we need to be
evacuated. well he says , got it , wait there , i'm sending out help now.

i know his voice. the first secretary had been to our plant , i had spoken with
him personally. when i called he said , muslimzade here.

about two hours after the call we heard shouts near the school. we looked out
the window and about 100 to 120 people were outside saying , armenians , come
out , we 're here to get you. they have clubs , axes , and armature shafts in
their hands. the guard sat there with us , and asked , where should i go \? i
say , if your life is of any value to you you 'll go down there and say that
the armenians were here and that they left. that 's what he did. he went down
there and said , the armenians were here , he said , i let them out the back
door , they went that way. and pointed with his hand. and with shouts and
noise the mob set off in the direction he had pointed.

so the assistance we had been promised did come. they sent us help , all right !
instead of sending real soldiers he had sent his own. i am positive that
muslimzade did that. no one had seen us entering the school , no one knew that
we were there. in any case , we stayed at the school until seven in the
morning , and no soldiers of any sort came to our aid.

in the morning we went to my relative 's in microdistrict 1 , and the soldiers
took us to the sk club from there. the club was jammed with people , and there
were lots of people ahead of us there was no space available. one small boy ,
about three months old , died right in my arms. there was n't a single doctor ,
nothing. the boy was uninjured , there were no wounds or bruises on him. he was
just very ill. they gave him mouth to mouth resuscitation , they did everything
they could under the circumstances , but were unable to save him. and his
mother and father , a young armenian couple , were right there , on the floor ...

i searched for a spot for us in the sk , we have a small child of our own , i
wanted to find a room or something to put my family in. i went up to the third
floor , there were a lot of soldiers up there , bandaged , with canes , limping ,
with their heads broken open. they were a terrible sight. young guys , all of
them.

there were a lot of bandaged armenians , too. everyone had been beaten ,
everyone was crying , wailing , and calling for help. i think that the city
party committee ignored us completely. true , there was a snack bar a sausage
was 30 kopeks or 40 kopeks , a package of cookies that cost 26 kopeks was being
sold for 50 , a bottled soft drink cost a ruble . . . but there was no way to
get the things any cheaper.

i met my old uncle , aram mikhailovich , there. he saw me and tears welled up in
his eyes. my whole life he had told me that we were friendly peoples , that we
worked together , he always had azerbaijanis over at his house. and now he saw
me and there was nothing he could say , he just cried. you can understand his
feelings , of course.

april 8 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 185 186



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org armenia has not learned a lesson in
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the
p.o. box 382761 punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president turgut ozal

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject their eyes gouged out by fascist armenians armenian barbarism.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 31

atrocity reports horrify azerbaijan

azeri officials who returned from the seen to this town about nine miles
away brought back three dead children , the backs of their heads blown off...
'women and children had been scalped , ' said assad faradzev , an aide to
karabagh 's azeri governor. azeri television showed pictures of one
truckload of bodies brought to the azeri town of agdam , some with their
faces apparently scratched with knives or their eyes gouged out.
brian killen (reuters)
the washington times , 3 3 92


killings rife in nagorno karabagh , moldova

journalists in the area reported seeing dozens of corpses , including some
of the civilians , and azerbaijani officials said armenians began shooting
at them when they sought to recover the bodies.
fred hiatt
the washington post , 3 3 92


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject poem by erich fried
nf id n cdp 1483500363 000 1387
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 25 05 29 00 1993
lines 46


from center for policy research cpr
subject poem by erich fried


poem by german jewish poet erich fried (holocaust survivor)

ein jude an die zionistischen kaempfer 1988

von erich fried

was wollt ihr eigentlich \? wollt ihr wirklich die uebertreffen
die euch niedergetreten haben vor einem menschenalter in euer
eigenes blut und in euren eigenen kot \?



wollt ihr die alten foltern jetzt an andere weitergeben mit allen
blutigen dreckigen einzelheiten mit allem brutalen genuss die
folterknechte wie unsere vaeter sie damals erlitten haben \?



wollt jetzt wirklich ihr die neue gestapo sein die neue wehrmacht
die neue sa and ss und aus den palaestinensern die neuen juden
machen \?



aber dann will auch ich weil ich damals vor fuenfzig jahren selbst
als ein judenkind gepeinigt wurde von euren peinigern ein neuer
jude sein mit diesen neuen juden zu denen ihr die palaestinenser
macht



und ich will sie zurueckfuehren helfen als freie menschen in ihr
eigenes land palaestina aus dem ihr sie vertrieben habt oder in
dem ihr sie quaelt ihr hakenkreuzlehrlinge ihr narren und
wechselbaelge der weltgeschichte denen der davidstern auf euren
fahnen sich immer schneller verwandelt in das verfluchte zeichen
mit den vier fuessen das ihr nun nicht sehen wollt aber dessen weg
ihr heut geht !




from 2120788@hydra.maths.unsw.edu.au ()
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
nntp posting host hydra.maths.unsw.edu.au
organization school of mathematics unsw
lines 101

in article 1993apr16.085717@iastate.edu tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan) writes
in article 1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu , mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau
napoleon) writes
from article 1993apr15.092101@iastate.edu , by tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t
atan)
well , panos , mr. tamamidis \? , the way you put it it is only the turks
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
believe for somebody trying to be objective.
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides.
what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway \?
do you think it was your right to be there \?

i 've heard many turks say this and it surpises me that they do n't read about
it.remember the treaty of sevres as a consequence of being in the axis powers
in wwi.the turks under international law were supposed to look after their
minorities ie. greeks , armenians , kurds(i must say turk kurd relations are
improving slightly with time) and not pose a threat to turkey 's neighbours.
the turks blatantly rejected this treaty(the germans grudgingly accepted
versailles which was a million times worse for the health and pride of the
german people).the greeks who had an army there , were there with british
and french backing to enforce sevres.
in possibly the first example of appeasement the young turk government
managed screwed the treaty of laussane out of the weak allies , this was after
the greek forces were were destroyed at smyrna.when this occurred incidently ,
french warships were in the harbour and many greeks trying escape swam to the
french warships and climbed aboard only to get their arms cut off by the french
as they clawed they 're way up the sides of the ships.
libertae , egalitae , fraternatae.

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor until 1923.
someone had to protect them. if not us who \? \?

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

compromise on what , the invasion of cyprus , the involment of turkey in
greek politics , the refusal of turkey to accept 12 miles of territorial
waters as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of
konstantinople , the ownership of the islands in the greek lake , sorry , aegean.

there are some things on which there can not be a compromise.


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are educated
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person
because i am from turkey. politics is not my business , and it is
not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals
why the hatred \?

any person who supports the policies of the turkish goverment directly or
indirecly is a bad person.
it is not your nationality that makes you bad , it is your support of the
actions of your goverment that make you bad .
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish goverment and
as a such you must pay the price.

so that makes me think that there is some kind of
brainwashing going on in greece. after all why would an educated person
treat every person from a nation the same way \? can you tell me about your
history books and things you learn about greek turkish
encounters during your schooling.
take it easy !


tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks. just talk to
greeks , arabs , slavs , kurds and all other people who had the luck to be under
turkish occupation.
they will talk to you about murders , rapes , distruction.

you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about them from
people who experienced first hand turkish friendliness.

napoleon


well , napoleon. it is your kind of people who are preventing peace
on the world. first of all , you did n't answer the question i asked
at the end of my posting. and then you told me some bullshit
throughout your posting which had no positive point about the issue ,
filled with hatred , and filled with emotions. why am i doing this \?
forget it , i do n't think you are worth it to discuss the issue.



tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !



from maler@vercors.imag.fr (oded maler)
subject re unconventional peace proposal
nntp posting host pelvoux
organization imag , university of grenoble , france
lines 43

in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject unconventional peace proposal


a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson


1. a fund should be established which would disburse grants
for each child born to a couple where one partner is israeli jew
and the other palestinian arab.

2. to be entitled for a grant , a couple will have to prove
that one of the partners possesses or is entitled to israeli
citizenship under the law of return and the other partner ,
although born in areas under current isreali control , is not
entitled to such citizenship under the law of return.

3. for the first child , the grant will amount to 18.000. for
the second the third child , 12.000 for each child. for each
subsequent child , the grant will amount to 6.000 for each child.
...

i would be thankful for critical comments to the above proposal as
well for any dissemination of this proposal for meaningful
discussion and enrichment.

elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik , iceland

maybe i'm a bit old fashioned , but have you heard about something
called love \? it used to play some role in people 's considerations
for getting married. of course i know some people who married
fictitiously in order to get a green card , but making a common
child for 18 , 000 \? the power of aa is limited. your proposal is
indeed unconventional.


oded maler , lgi imag , bat d , b.p. 53x , 38041 grenoble , france
phone 76635846 fax 76446675 e mail maler@imag.fr


from mucit@cs.rochester.edu (bulent murtezaoglu)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
in reply to henrik@quayle.kpc.com 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 16 45 17 gmt
nntp posting host vein.cs.rochester.edu
organization computer science department , university of rochester
1993apr17.185118.10792@ee.rochester.edu
1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com
1993apr20.000413.25123@ee.rochester.edu
1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com

in article 1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
stuff deleted

country. turks and azeris consistantly want to drag armenia into the
karabakh conflict with azerbaijan.

gimme a break. capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. it
seems to me that short sighted armenians are escalating the hostilities
while hoping that turkey will stay out. stop and think for a moment ,
will you \? armenia does n't need anyone to drag her into the conflict , it
is a part of it.

the karabakhi armenians who have lived
in their homeland for 3000 years (cut off from armenia and given to azeris
by stalin) are the ones directly involved in the conflict. they are defending
themselves against azeri aggression.

huh \? you did n't expect azeri 's to be friendly to forces fighting with them
within their borders \?

...
at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the karabakh
crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will never occur again.

you 're not playing with a full deck , are you \? where would turkey invade \?
are you throwing the cyprus buzzword around with s.c.g. in the header
in hopes that the greek netters will jump the gun \? yes indeed turkey
has the military prowess to intervene , what she wishes she had , however , is
the diplomatic power to stop the hostilities and bring the parties to the
negotiating table. that 's hard to do when armenians are attacking azeri
towns. armenian leaders are lacking the statesmanship to recognize the
futility of armed conflict and convince their nation that a compromise that
leads to stability is much better than a military faits accomplis that 's
going to cause incessant skirmishes. think of 10 or 20 years down the
line both of the newly independent countries need to develop economically
and neither one is going to wipe the other out. these people will be
neighbors , would it not be better to keep the bad blood between them minimal \?

if you belong to the armenian diaspora , keep in mind that what strikes
your fancy on the map is costing the local armenians dearly in terms of their
blood and future. it 's easy to be comfortable abroad and propagandize
craziness to have your feelings about turks tickled. the armenians
in armenia and n k will be there , with the same people you seem to hate
as their neighbors , for maybe 3000 years more. the sooner there 's peace in
the region the better it is for them and everyone else. i 'd push for
compromise if i were you instead of hitting the caps lock and spreading
inflammatory half truths.

cheers ,

bm

from aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
reply to aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 71


in a previous article , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) says

6. your answer to the question concerning rights to return
conflicts with what i was told , namely that hundreds of thousands
of non jews who left for some reason or other the area under
israel control during the war of 1947 8 , were prevented from
returning for the sole reason they were not jews. jews who also
left , for example to europe , to avoid the clashes , were allowed to
return. how can you justify such discrimination , if this is true \?
is the mere fact of a person leaving area of combat to seek refuge
somewhere else a reason for stripping him of his right to live in
his homeland \?

you are conveniently ommitting the fact that the arab governments told the
arab citizens of israel to leave israel , join with the arab armies so that
after what they felt like an assured victory occured , these arabs could
return to their former homes , reclaim them as well as anything else they
wanted that belonged to jews. when the arabs lost , israel was left with
a bunch of people who has just tried to kill them who now wanted back
into the country as citizens. what would you have done \? let them in so
they could kill jews \? israel sees those arabs who stayed as citizens
because they were loyal to israel during the war and did n't leave. of
course some arabs could have left to avoid the fighting but distinguishing
between the two is impossible. therefore a decision was made based on
secuturity of the country.

8. you maintain that there are some israeli arabs living in
israeli kibbutzim. i wonder how many and where. there is very
little evidence available about that. as much as i know , many
arabs are working for kibbutzim , even for many years , but are
not accepted as members. could it be that kibbutzim do not want
arabs \?

no kibbutz that i have ever visited has any employees unless they had to
hire some people for the restaurants , hotels etc if there were n't enough
people on the kibbutz to do them. in such cases , they are paid properly.
if a kibbutz turns away an arab , 9i have never seen or heard of this) but it
reflects only on the membership comittee of that kibbutz , not the whole
kibbutz movement.

to keep it what way'. i am certain that if only religious
communities in the u.s. would be asked , they would gladly abolish
civil marriage so that people would depend upon rabbis and priests
to officiate marriages. but israel has always been ruled by a
secular majority. your answer is not satisfactory.

this just shows how ignorant you are of israeli politics. although the
major parties in israel are n't religious (however not totally secular) ,
due to the format of the government (coalition) the religious parties have
always had a lot of pull since they were needed to form a majority coalition.
in fact , from what i heard the present government is the least influenced
by the religious parties in the existance of israel. israel cannot be
called a secular state. for instace , haifa is the only city in the country
(except for maybe some arab cities) where buses run on the jewish sabbath.
there are many other examples of religion in israel. marriages in israel
are not contolled by the state , but by rabbis and priests. obviously your
disbelief of this fact sheds some light of your ignorance of the country
you claim to know so much about.

steve


internet aa229@freenet.carleton.ca fidonet 1 163 109.18
mossad@qube.ocunix.on.ca
my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head.

from perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman)
subject re who should be spied on...
keywords hypocritical pig
nntp posting host qso.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 49

in article c5vzdv.mxw.1@cs.cmu.edu anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed) writes
in article c5sdck.38n@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes
anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed) writes

in article 4815@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents
of those files.
so it will be nice if yigal will tell us
1. why do american authorities consider yigal arens to be dangerous \?

adl authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including
the millions of americans of arab ancestry. perhaps you can answer
the question as to why the adl maintained files and spied on adc members
in california (and elsewhere \? \? ) \? friendly rivalry perhaps \?

come on ! most if not all arabs are sympathetic to the palestinian war
against israel. that is why the adl monitors arab organizations. that is
the same reason the us monitored communist organizations and soviet nationals
only a few years ago.


the adc is an organization of arab americans .

let me see...you 're saying that most if not all arab americans should be
spied on \? you 're also saying that most if not all arab americans
should be views as a national security threat to israel (and the us ,
as you gratuitously imply in your reference to the wtc bombing , in
which no arab americans were involved) \? by inference , can we assume
that you think that anyone of arab lineage anywhere in the world poses
a threat to israel and , therefore , should be spied on \?

like it or not , edward , anwar has a very good , valid point. obviously ,
in presenting it , he (quite legitimately and deliberately) takes a point
of view to an extreme which might not have been what you intended , but
that is one of the best ways to demonstrate a slippery slope type of
argument , which i believe was his aim.

i very frankly believe that the adl will be proved innocent in this
case. i doubt there 's enough evidence to weigh against them even in a
civil court , where preponderance of the evidence , not evidence beyond
any reasonable doubt , is the standard for winning such a case. that ,
however , does not prevent me from seeing the merit in anwar 's point.

rest deleted.

how sad to see a model of decorum and tranquillity become like any other sport
a battleground for rival ideologies to slug it out with glee. tim rice , chess
eric s. perlman perlman@qso.colorado.edu
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder

from farzin@apollo3.ntt.jp (farzin mokhtarian)
subject news briefs from kh 1026
originator sehari@vincent1.iastate.edu
organization ntt corp. japan
lines 31


from kayhan havai 1026



o dr. namaki , deputy minister of health stated that infant
mortality (under one year old) in iran went down from 120
per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at
the end of 1371 (last month).

o dr namaki also stated that before the revolution only
254f children received vaccinations to protect them
from various deseases but this figure reached 93at
the end of 1371.

o dr. malekzadeh , the minister of health mentioned that
the population growth rate in iran at the end of 1371
went below 2.7

o during the visit of mahathir mohammad , the prime minister
of malaysia , to iran , agreements for cooperation in the
areas of industry , trade , education and tourism were
signed. according to one agreement , iran will be in
charge of building malaysia 's natural gas network.



farzin mokhtarian




from bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan)
subject re basil , opinions \? (re water on the brain)
reply to bh437292@lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host parry.lance.colostate.edu
organization engineering college , colorado state university
lines 65

in article 1qmdtlinnkrc@early bird.think.com , shaig@think.com (shai guday) writes
in article 1993apr15.204930.9517@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

in article 1993apr15.055341.6075@nysernet.org , astein@nysernet.org (alan stein) writes
i guess hasan finally revealed the source of his claim that israel
diverted water from lebanon his imagination.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org
mr. water head ,
i never said that israel diverted lebanese rivers , in fact i said that
israel went into southern lebanon to make sure that no
water is being used on the lebanese
side , so that all water would run into jordan river where there
israel will use it ! head.

of course posting some hard evidence or facts is much more
difficult. you have not bothered to substantiate this in
any way. basil , do you know of any evidence that would support
this \?

i agree with shai , there are many references to israeli
plans on the litani river but i have yet to find hard
evidence. i had mentioned before that there is a report
commissioned by the un to study the litani river , it is
still in draft form. the israeli gov't also commissioned
a study on the river that was done by dr. ben wolfe.
the litani starts in the bekaa valley in lebanon ,
flows southward , then west across south lebanon and
discharges into the mediterranean near the city of tyre.
there are other rivers such as the hasbani and the wazzani
that start in lebanese territory than join the jordan river.
the most mentioned plan was one that would divert water
from the litani into these , then the water would flow
naturally into the lac de houle. but there is no evidence
of any diversion structure (which would need to be at least
3 km long). the area is mountainous , inaccessible and
occupied by israel so i have not seen any independent
reports of the existence of any diversion structure there.
another often mentioned diversion is through deep wells.
it is also rumored that israe has 600 m wells
tapping into deep aquifers and drawing water on the
israeli side of the border. if such wells are indeed
under use they would be costly to operate
(high energy costs) and the lebanese and israeli gov't should
agree on the distribution of water from shared aquifers
as part of an overall peace plan and the bilateral
negociations on regional issues . the fact that we have
been at war all this time has led to the current state
of affairs where withdrawals from such aquifers is
completely unregulated.


basil





hasan


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization university of virginia
lines 29

waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu writes
ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

first of all i never said the holocaust. i said before the
holocaust. i'm not ignorant of the holocaust and know more
about nazi germany than most people (maybe including you).

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's
qualifications in an area. if you know something about nazi germany ,
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that.

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii
justifies the crimes commited by the israeli government. any
attempt to call civil liberterians like myself anti semetic is
not appreciated.

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were
tortured. we all suffered. second , the name calling was directed against
you , not civil libertarians in general. your name dropping of a fancy
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite qualifications
in order to obfuscate your glaring unpreparedness for this argument. go
back to the minors , junior.
all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many
others suffered physically. it is sad that people like you are
so blinded by emotions that they ca n't see the facts. thanks
for calling me names , it only assures me of what kind of
ignorant people i am dealing with. i included your letter since
i thought it demonstrated my point more than anything i could
write.

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject from israeli press. madness.
nf id n cdp 1483500342 000 6673
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 16 16 49 00 1993
lines 130


from center for policy research cpr
subject from israeli press. madness.

written 4 34 pm apr 16 , 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc mideast.forum
from israeli press. madness.
from the israeli press.

paper zman tel aviv (tel aviv 's time). friday local tel aviv 's
paper , affiliated with maariv.

date 19 february 1993

journalist guy ehrlich

subject interview with soldiers who served in the duvdevan
(cherry) units , which disguise themselves as arabs and operate
within the occupied territories.

excerpts from the article

a lot has been written about the units who disguise themselves as
arabs , things good and bad , some of the falsehoods. but the most
important problem of those units has been hardly dealt with. it is
that everyone who serves in the cherry , after a time goes in one
way or another insane .

a man who said this , who will here be called danny (his full name
is known to the editors) served in the cherry. after his discharge
from the army he works as delivery boy. his pal , who will here be
called dudu was also serving in the cherry , and is now about to
depart for a round the world tour. they both look no different
from average israeli youngsters freshly discharged from conscript
service. but in their souls , one can notice something completely
different....it was not easy for them to come out with disclosures
about what happened to them. and they think that to most of their
fellows from the cherry it wound n't be easy either. yet after they
began to talk , it was nearly impossible to make them stop talking.
the following article will contain all the horror stories
recounted with an appalling openness.

(...) a short time ago i was in command of a veteran team , in
which some of the fellows applied for release from the cherry. we
called such soldiers h.i. 'hit by the intifada'. under my command
was a soldier who talked to himself non stop , which is a common
phenomenon in the cherry. i sent him to a psychiatrist. but why i
should talk about others when i myself feel quite insane \? on
fridays , when i come home , my parents know i cannot be talked to
until i go to the beach , surf a little , calm down and return. the
keys of my father 's car must be ready for in advance , so that i
can go there. i they dare talk to me before , or whenever i do n't
want them to talk to me , i just grab a chair and smash it
instantly. i know it is my nerve smashing chairs all the time
and then running away from home , to the car and to the beach. only
there i become normal.(...)

(...) another friday i was eating a lunch prepared by my mother.
it was an omelette of sorts. she took the risk of sitting next to
me and talking to me. i then told my mother about an event which
was still fresh in my mind. i told her how i shot an arab , and how
exactly his wound looked like when i went to inspect it. she began
to laugh hysterically. i wanted her to cry , and she dared laugh
straight in my face instead ! so i told her how my pal had made a
mincemeat of the two arabs who were preparing the molotov
cocktails. he shot them down , hitting them beautifully , exactly as
they deserved. one bullet had set a molotov cocktail on fire , with
the effect that the arab was burning all over , just beautifully. i
was delighted to see it. my pal fired three bullets , two at the
arab with the molotov cocktail , and the third at his chum. it hit
him straight in his ass. we both felt that we 'd pulled off
something.

next i told my mother how another pal of mine split open the guts
in the belly of another arab and how all of us ran toward that
spot to take a look. i reached the spot first. and then that arab ,
blood gushing forth from his body , spits at me. i yelled 'shut
up' and he dared talk back to me in hebrew ! so i just laughed
straight in his face. i am usually laughing when i stare at
something convulsing right before my eyes. then i told him 'all
right , wait a moment'. i left him in order to take a look at
another wounded arab. i asked a soldier if that arab could be
saved , if the bleeding from his artery could be stopped with the
help of a stone of something else like that. i keep telling all
this to my mother , with details , and she keeps laughing straight
into my face. this infuriated me. i got very angry , because i felt
i was becoming mad. so i stopped eating , seized the plate with he
omelette and some trimmings still on , and at once threw it over
her head. only then she stopped laughing. at first she did n't know
what to say.

(...) but i must tell you of a still other madness which falls
upon us frequently. i went with a friend to practice shooting on a
field. a gull appeared right in the middle of the field. my friend
shot it at once. then we noticed four deer standing high up on the
hill above us. my friend at once aimed at one of them and shot it.
we enjoyed the sight of it falling down the rock. we shot down two
deer more and went to take a look. when we climbed the rocks we
saw a young deer , badly wounded by our bullet , but still trying to
such some milk from its already dead mother. we carefully
inspected two paths , covered by blood and chunks of torn flesh of
the two deer we had hit. we were just delighted by that sight. we
had hit'em so good ! then we decided to kill the young deer too ,
so as spare it further suffering. i approached , took out my
revolver and shot him in the head several times from a very short
distance. when you shoot straight at the head you actually see the
bullets sinking in. but my fifth bullet made its brains fall
outside onto the ground , with the effect of splattering lots of
blood straight on us. this made us feel cured of the spurt of our
madness. standing there soaked with blood , we felt we were like
beasts of prey. we could n't explain what had happened to us. we
were almost in tears while walking down from that hill , and we
felt the whole day very badly.

(...) we always go back to places we carried out assignments in.
this is why we can see them. when you see a guy you disabled , may
be for the rest of his life , you feel you got power. you feel
godlike of sorts.

(...) both danny and dudu contemplate at least at this moment
studying the acting. dudu is not willing to work in any
security linked occupation. danny feels the exact opposite. 'why
should n't i take advantage of the skills i have mastered so well \?
why should n't i earn 3.000 for each chopped head i would deliver
while being a mercenary in south africa \? this kind of job suits
me perfectly. i have no human emotions any more. if i get a
reasonable salary i will have no problem to board a plane to
bosnia in order to fight there.

transl. by israel shahak.


from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re investment in yehuda and shomron
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 30
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article horenc5lduz.5se@netcom.com , horen@netcom.com (jonathan b. horen) writes

while i applaud investing of money in yehuda , shomron , v'chevel azza ,
in order to create jobs for their residents , i find it deplorable that
this has never been an active policy of any israeli administration
since 1967 , with regard to their jewish residents . past governments
found funds to subsidize cheap (read affordable) housing and the
requisite infrastructure , but where was the investment for creating
industry (which would have generated income and jobs) \?

the investment was there in the form of huge tax breaks , and employer
benfits. you are overlooking the difference that these could have
made to any company. part of the problem was that few industries
were interested in political settling , as much as profit.

after 26 years , yehuda and shomron remain barren , bereft of even
middle sized industries , and the jewish settlements are sterile
bedroom communities , havens for (in the main) israelis (both
secular and religious) who work in tel aviv or jerusalem but
cannot afford to live in either city or their surrounding suburbs.

true , which leads to the obvious question , should any investment have
been made there at the taxpayer 's expense. obviously , the answer was
and still is a resounding no.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to bh437292@lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host parry.lance.colostate.edu
organization engineering college , colorado state university
lines 95

in article 1993apr15.224353.24945@das.harvard.edu , adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes

tell me , do these young men also attack syrian troops \?

in the south lebanon area , only israeli (and sla) and lebanese troops
are present.
syrian troops are deployed north of the awali river. between the
awali river and the security zone only lebanese troops are stationed.


with the blood of its soldiers. if israel is interested in peace ,
than it should withdraw from our land.

there must be a guarantee of peace before this happens. it
seems that many of these lebanese youth are unable to restrain
themselves from violence , and unable to to realize that their actions
prolong israels stay in south lebanon.

that is your opinion and the opinion of the israeli government.
i agree peace guarantees would be better for all , but i am addressing
the problem as it stands now. hopefully a comprehensive peace settlement
will be concluded soon , and will include security guarantees for
both sides. my proposal was aimed at decreasing the casualties
in the interim period. in my opinion , if israel withdraws
unilaterally it would still be better off than staying.
the israeli gov't obviously agrees with you and is not willing
to do such a move. i hope to be be able to change your opinion
and theirs , that 's why i post to tpm.

if the lebanese army was able to maintain the peace , then
israel would not have to be there. until it is , israel prefers that
its soldiers die rather than its children.

as i explained , i contend that if israel does withdraw unilaterally
i believe no attacks would ensue against northern israel. i also
explained why i believe that to be the case. my suggestion
is aimed at reducing the level of tension and casualties on all sides.
it is unfortunate that israel does not agree with my opinion.



if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would withdraw
unilaterally from the so called security zone before the conclusion
of the peace talks. such a move would save israeli lives ,
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's
public image abroad and give it an edge in the peace negociations
since israel can rightly claim that it is genuinely interested in
peace and has already offered some important concessions.

israel should withdraw from lebanon when a peace treaty is
signed. not a day before. withdraw because of casualties would tell
the lebanese people that all they need to do to push israel around is
kill a few soldiers. its not gonna happen.


that is too bad.

along with such a withdrawal israel could demand that hizbollah
be disarmed by the lebanese government and warn that it will not
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a
shelling occurs than it will consider re taking the buffer zone
and will hold the lebanese and syrian government responsible for it.


why should israel not demand this while holding the buffer
zone \? it seems to me that the better bargaining position is while
holding your neighbors land.

because israel is not occupying the security zone free of charge.
it is paying the price for that. once israel withdraws it may have
lost a bargaining chip at the negociating table but it would save
some soldiers' lives , that is my contention.

if lebanon were willing to agree to
those conditions , israel would quite probably have left already.
unfortunately , it does n't seem that the lebanese can disarm the
hizbolah , and maintain the peace.

that is completely untrue. hizbollah is now a minor force in lebanese
politics. the real heavy weights are syria 's allies. the gov't is
supported by syria. the lebanese army is over 30 , 000 troops and
unified like never before. hizbollah can have no moral justification
in attacking israel proper , especially after israeli withdrawal.
that would draw the ire of the lebanese the syrian and the
israeli gov'ts. if israel does withdraw and such an act
(hizbolllah attacking israel) would be akin to political and moral
suicide.

basil

adam
adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from ucer@ee.rochester.edu (kamil b. ucer)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
organization university of rochester department of electrical engineering

in article 1993apr16.142935.535@cs.yale.edu karage@scus1.ctstateu.edu (angelos karageorgiou greek and macedon the only combination) writes

ok. my aykut. , what about the busload of greek turists that was
torched , and all the the people in the buis died. happened oh , about 5
years ago in instanbul.
what about the greeks in the islands of imbros and tenedos , they
are not allowed to have churches any more , instead momama turkey has
turned the church into a warehouse , i got a picture too.
what about the pontian greeks of trapezounta and sampsounta ,
what you now call trabzon and sampson , they spoke a 2 thousand year alod
language , are there any left that still speek or were they islamicised \?
before we start another flamefest , and before you start quoting
argic all over again , or was it somebody else \? , please think. i know it
is a hard thing to do for somebody not equipped , but try nevertheless.
if turks in greece were so badly mistreated how come they
elected two , m not one but two , representatives in the greek government \?
how come they have free(absolutely free) hospitalization and education \?
do the turks in turkey have so much \? if they do then you have every right
to shout , untill then you can also move to greece and enjoy those
privileges. but i forget , for you do study in a foreign university ,
some poor shod is tiling the earth with his own sweat.
btw is aziz nessin still writing poetry \? i 'd like to read some
of his new stuff. also who was the guy that wrote on the mountains of
tayros. \? please respond kindly to the last two questions , i am
interested in finding more books from these two people.



yeian kai eytyxeian the opinions expressed above are nobody else 's but
angelos karageorgiou mine , mine , miiinne , miiinneeee , aaaarrgghhhh..( ((
live long prosper no carrier

any and all mail sent to me , can and will be used in any manner
whatsoever. i may repost or publicise parts of messages or whole
messages. if you disagree , please exercise your freedom of speech
and do n't send me anything.

dear mr. karageorgiou ,
i would like to clarify several misunderstandings in your posting. first the bus incident which i believe was in canakkale three years ago , was done by a mentally ill person who killed himself afterwards. the pontus greeks were ex changedwith turks in greece in 1923. i have to logout now since my greek friend
yiorgos here wants to use the computer. well , i 'll be back.asta la vista baby.


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject lezgians astir in azerbaijan and daghestan
summary asking not to fight against armenians in karabakh for unification
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 106


04 19 1993 0000 lezghis astir

by nejla sammakia
associated press writer

gussar , azerbaijan (ap) the 600 , 000 lezghis of azerbaijan and russia have
begun clamoring for their own state , threatening turmoil in a tranquil corner
of the caucasus.

the region has escaped the ethnic warfare of neighboring nagorno karabakh ,
abkhazia and ossetia , but lezhgis could become the next minority in the former
soviet union to fight for independence.

lezghis , who are muslim descendents of nomadic shepherds , are angry about the
conscription of their young men to fight in azerbaijan 's 5 year old undeclared
war with armenia.

they also want to unite the lezghi regions of azerbaijan and russia , which
were effectively one until the breakup of the soviet union created national
borders that had been only lines on a map.

a rally of more than 3 , 000 lezghis in march to protest conscription and
demand a separate lezghistan alarmed the azerbaijani government.

officials in baku , the capital , deny rumors that police shot six
demonstrators to death. but the government announced strict security measures
and began cooperating with russian authorities to control the movement of
lezhgis living across the border in the dagestan region of russia.

visitors to gussar , the center of lezhgi life , found the town quiet soon
after the protest. children played outdoors in the crisp mountain air.

at the sunday bazaar , men in heavy coats and dark fur hats gathered to
discuss grievances ranging from high customs duties at the russian border to a
war they say is not theirs.

i have been drafted , but i wo n't go , said shamil kadimov , gold teeth
glinting in the sun. why must i fight a war for the azerbaijanis \? i have
nothing to do with armenia.

more than 3 , 000 people have died in the war , which centers on the disputed
territory of nagorno karabakh , about 150 miles to the southeast.

malik kerimov , an official in the mayor 's office , said only 11 of 300 locals
drafted in 1992 had served.

the police do n't force people to go , he said. they are afraid of an
uprising that could be backed by lezghis in dagestan.

all the men agreed that police had not fired at the demonstrators , but
disagreed on how the protest came about.

some said it occurred spontaneously when rumors spread that azerbaijan was
about to draft 1 , 500 men from the gussar region , where 75 , 000 lezghis live.

others said the rally was ordered by gen. muhieddin kahramanov , leader of the
lezhgi underground separatist movement , sadval , based in dagestan.

we organized the demonstration when families came to us distraught about
draft orders , said kerim babayev , a mathematics teacher who belongs to sadval.

we hope to reunite peacefully , by approaching everyone the azerbaijanis ,
the russians.

in the early 18th century , the lezhgis formed two khanates , or sovereignties ,
in what are now azerbaijan and dagestan. they roamed freely with their sheep
over the green hills and mountains between the two khanates.

by 1812 , the lezghi areas were joined to czarist russia. after 1917 , they
came under soviet rule. with the disintegration of the soviet union , the
600 , 000 lezghis were faced for the first time with strict borders.

about half remained in dagestan and half in newly independent azerbaijan.

we have to pay customs on all this , on cars , on wine , complained mais
talibov , a small trader. his goods , laid out on the ground at the bazaar ,
included brandy , stomach medication and plastic shoes from dagestan.

we want our own country , he said. we want to be able to move about easily.
but baku wo n't listen to us.

physically , it is hard for outsiders to distinguish lezhgis from other
azerbaijanis. in many villages , they live side by side , working at the same
jobs and intermarrying to some degree.

but the lezhgis have a distinctive language , a mixture of arabic , turkish and
persian with strong guttural vowels.

azerbaijan officially supports the cultural preservation of its 10 largest
ethnic minorities. the lezghis have weekly newspapers and some elementary
school classes in their language.

autonomy is a different question. if the lezghis succeeded in separating from
azerbaijan , they would set a precedent for other minorities , such as the
talish in the south , the tats in the nearby mountains and the avars of eastern
azerbaijan.





david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from backon@vms.huji.ac.il
subject re israeli terrorism
distribution world
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem
lines 45

in article 1rd7eo 1a4@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

in a previous article , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) says

in article 1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or
palestinian news outlets , where do we go to understand , to learn \?
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another \?

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report
on the situation in the o.t. but , as most people used to see on tv , the
israelis do not allow them to go deep there in the o.t. the israelis
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters.


anas , of course ! the yahud needed blood for the matza. after all , passover
was last month )

why do n't you give us your national geographic travelogue of your recent trip
to palestine \? or are you too disappointed by what you saw \? )

josh
backon@vms.huji.ac.il







so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in palestine.
they do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in palestine.

to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political
agenda , whether it is on or against our side .

tim

anas omran


from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re israeli expansion lust
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 24

in article 1993apr14.225500.15812@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes

now , if actions of the lebanese resistance help send the
isrealis packing , i'm all for it. if you are really
concerned about bloodshed , a little self criticism could do
you a great favor.

one of these days you 'll learn that the way to stop israel
from fighting back is to stop attacking. if there were no attacks in
the security zone for a year because the lebanese army could maintain
the peace , then lebanon would be in much better shape.

tell me something , though. why do syrian troops not get
attacked \? are n't they occupying lebanon \?

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave on two
conditions. one is a demonstration that the lebanese army can keep
the peace. the second is that the syrians pull out as well.

adam
adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject as today marks the 78th anniversary of the turkish genocide...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 65

in article 48299@sdcc12.ucsd.edu ma170saj@sdcc14.ucsd.edu (system operator) writes

or , as we have painfully witnessed in azerbaijan , would like to see
it happen again...

is this the joke of the month \?

1. your fascist grandparents exterminated 2.5 million muslim people
between 1914 and 1920.

2. your nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the
european jewry during wwii.

3. your criminal cousins have been slaughtering muslim women , children
and elderly people in fascist x soviet armenia and karabag for the last
four years.

the entire population of x soviet armenia now , as a result of the
genocide of 2.5 million muslim people , are armenians.

for nearly one thousand years , the turkish and kurdish people
lived on their homeland the last one hundred under the
oppressive soviet and armenian occupation. the persecutions
culminated in 1914 the armenian government planned and carried
out a genocide against its muslim subjects. 2.5 million turks
and kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their
homeland. after one thousand years , turkish and kurdish lands
were empty of turks and kurds.

the survivors found a safe heaven in turkiye.

today , x soviet armenian government rejects the right of turks and
kurds to return to their muslim lands occupied by x soviet armenia.

today , x soviet armenian government covers up the genocide perpetrated
by its predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against
humanity.

x soviet armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide
against the muslims by admitting to the crime and making reparations
to the turks and kurds.

turks and kurds demand the right to return to their lands , to determine
their own future as a nation in their own homeland.

during the 78th anniversary , we come once again reiterate the
unity of the muslim people , the timelessness of the turkish
and kurdish demands and the desire to pursue the struggle
for that restitution a struggle that unites all turks and kurds.

today , we appeal to all turkish and kurdish people in the united
states and canada to participate en masse in the commemorative
events , be they cultural , political or religious.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from oz@ursa.sis.yorku.ca (ozan s. yigit)
subject re public service translation no.2
in reply to dbd@urartu.sdpa.org 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 04 57 08 gmt
organization york u. student information systems project
lines 54

david posts a good translation of a post by suat kinikliouglu

most of the original post elided

kk vatan sevgisi ruhlari kirden kurtaran en kuvvetli ruzgardir

in translation , as a public service

most of the translation elided

the love of the fatherland is the strongest of all winds cleansing
filth off souls

i think this part of the translation is questionable. although i
think the original quote is plain silly , you made it sound as if
it is coming from a neo nazi youth. for example , turks talk of a
motherland not a germanic fatherland . why filth instead of
dirt \? the indeterminacy of translation is a well known problem
1 so one may have to fudge , but with some care of course. is
the following an equally valid translation \?

the love of one 's country is the strongest wind to cleanse one 's
soul.

see my point \?

nevertheless , i think you translate well.

oz

1 willard van orman quine
word and object
mit press , cambridge , mass
1960





















from mark@fenris.albany.edu (mark steinberger)
subject re more on adl spying case
organization state university of new york at albany
lines 6

i do n't think yigal and his friends have had as much fun for years ,
if ever , as they 're getting over this adl business.

the publicity is likely to generate some speaker 's fees , too.

mark

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization university of virginia
lines 7

i understand how israel captured the teritory and feels that it
is its right to annex it. i ca n't fully understand why it has
to deal with palestinians much the same way jews were treated
before the holocaust (the final solution) by hitler. what i
totally do n't get is why the u.s. has to subsidize the
existance of such a thorough abuser of human rights.
just wondering

from spinoza@next06wor.wam.umd.edu (yon bonnie laird of cairn robbing)
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
nntp posting host next03wor.wam.umd.edu
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park
lines 37

in article c50wjj.j4r@newsflash.concordia.ca ilyess@ece.concordia.ca
(ilyess bdira) writes
1)why do jews who do n't even believe in god (as is the case with many
of the founders of secular zionism) have a right in palestine more
than the inhabitants of palestine , just because god gave you the land \?
g d has nothing to do with it. some of the land was in fact given to the
jews by the united nations , quite a bit of it was purchased from arab
absentee landlords. present claims are based on prior ownership (purchase
from aforementioned absentee landlords) award by the united nations in the
partition of the palestine mandate territory , and as the result of
defensive wars fought against the egyptians , syrians , jordanians , et al.


2)why do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of
the inhabitants are not jews and do not want to be part of israel \?
first , i should point out that many jews do not in fact agree with the
idea that the west bank is theirs. since , however , i agree with those who
claim the west bank , i think i can answer your question thusly the west
bank was what is called the spoils of war. hussein ordered the arab legion
to attack israel , which was a poor move , seeing as how the israelis
promptly kicked his butt. the territory is therefore forefeit. retaining
possession of all of the west bank is not desirable , but it beats
national suicide for the israelis. put another way , one could ask why it
is that so many palestinians seem to think that tel aviv belongs to them
and the future state of palestine. as long as this state of affairs
continues , it seems that to give the palestinians a place from which they
can launch attacks on jews is a real poor idea. giving up the entire west
bank would be idiotic froma security standpoint. in addition , there is
the small matter of jerusalem , which is considered to be part of the west
bank. the chances of the israelis giving up jerusalem are nil. even
leftists who think yasser is a really cool dude , like yossi sarid , are n't
going to propose giving up jerusalem. if he did , he 'd get run out of town
on a rail.


chag sameach !
jeff

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject entire muslim population was subjected to genocide by armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 76

in article 48090@sdcc12.ucsd.edu hminassi@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (hm) writes

azeri president abulfaz elchibey said azerbaijan had recovered
the bodies of some 500 terrorists including blacks , mongols and
fighters recently brought to (the armenian capital) yerevan from lebanon.

you can dream whatever you wish. we have demands from the armenians.
with the government of x soviet armenia , we would sit down , go over
all our outstanding issues , whether it 's land or reparations or
recognition , whatever it is. we 'd like to sit down and ask for it.
by all means , lands and properties were taken away from us and they
should be returned to the rightful owners , the turkish and kurdish
people , who were there 3 , 000 years , long before the armenians ever
showed up in that area. entire population of the region was subjected
to genocide beyond belief genocide which was planned to exterminate
the whole turkish people of the region to the last man , woman and child.
armenians tortured and massacred millions of defenseless civilians. to
assemble innocent civilians in the mosques and burn them in the buildings
was one of their methods. even today the traveler in that region is seldom
free from the evidence of these armenian crimes.

if you have the stomach , i would strongly recommend the following
references on the armenian genocide of the muslims. many more of them
are also available in the 'erzurum and van turkish genocide museums.'

1. neside kerem demir , bir sehid anasina tarihin soyledikleri
turkiye'nin ermeni meselesi , hulbe basim ve yayin t.a.s. ,
ankara , 1982.

2. veysel eroglu , ermeni mezalimi , sebil yayinevi , istanbul , 1978.

3. a. alper gazigiray , osmanlilardan gunumuze kadar vesikalarla ermeni
teroru'nun kaynaklari , gozen kitabevi , istanbul , 1982.

4. dr. kirzioglu m. fahrettin , kars ili ve cevresinde ermeni mezalimi ,
kardes matbaasi , ankara , 1970.

but more than that.

a final goodbye in azerbaijan

photo by associated press at a cemetery in agdam , azerbaijan , family
members and friends grieved during the burial of victims killed in the
fighting in nagorno karabagh. chingiz iskandarov , right , hugged the
coffin containing the remains of his brother , one of the victims. a copy
of koran lay atop the coffin.
the new york times , 3 6 92

final embrace

photo by associated press chingiz iskenderov , right , weeps over
coffin holding the remains of his brother as other relatives grieve
at an azarbaijani cemetery yesterday amid burial of victims killed
in fighting in nagorno karabagh.
the washington post , 3 6 92

nagorno karabagh victims buried in azerbaijani town

refugees claim hundreds died in armenian attack...of seven bodies seen
here today , two were children and three were women , one shot through
the chest at what appeared to be close range. another 120 refugees
being treated at agdam 's hospital include many with multiple stab
wounds.
thomas goltz
the washington post , 2 28 92

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject turkish government agents on usenet lie through their teeth !
article i.d. urartu.1993apr15.204512.11971
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 63

in revision of history 9304131827@zuma.uucp as posted by turkish government
agents under the guise of sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic) lie in response to
article 1993apr13.033213.4148@urartu.sdpa.org hla@urartu.sdpa.org and
scribed

( orhan gunduz is blown up. gunduz receives an ultimatum either
( he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . he
( refuses. responsibility is claimed by jcag and sdpa.

( may 4 , 1982 cambridge , massachusetts
( orhan gunduz , the turkish honorary consul in boston , would not bow
( to the armenian terrorist ultimatum that he give up his title of
( honorary consul . now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood.
( president reagan orders an all out manhunt to no avail. an eye
( witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. he
( survives... but falls silent. one of the most revolting triumphs in
( the senseless , mindless history of armenian terrorism. such a murder
( brings absolutely nothing except an ego boost for the murderer
( within the armenian terrorist underworld , which is already wallowing
( in self satisfaction.
(
( were you involved in the murder of sarik ariyak \?

( december 17 , 1980 sydney
( two nazi armenians massacre sarik ariyak and his bodyguard , engin
( sever. jcag and sdpa claim responsibility.

mr. turkish governmental agent prove that the sdpa even existed in 1980 or
1982 ! go ahead , provide us the newspaper accounts of the assassinations and
show us the letters sdpa ! the turkish government is good at excising text from
their references , let 's see how good thay are at adding text to verifiable
newspaper accounts !

the turkish government ca n't support any of their anti armenian claims as
typified in the above scribed garbage ! that government continues to make
false and libelous charges for they have no recourse left after having made
fools out of through their attempt at a systematic campaign at denying and
covering up the turkish genocide of the armenians.

just like a dog barking at a moving bus , it barks , jumps , yells , until the
bus stops , at which point it just walks away ! such will be with this posting !
turkish agents level the most ridiculous charges , and when brought to answer ,
they are silent , like the dog after the bus stops !

the turkish government feels it can funnel a heightened state of ultra
nationalism existing in turkey today onto usenet and convince people via its
revisionist , myopic , and incidental view of themselves and their place in the
world.

the resulting inability to address armenian and greek refutations of turkey`s
re write of history is to refer to me as a terrorist , and worse , claim
as part of the record i took responsibility for the murder of 2 people !

what a pack of raging fools , blinded by anti armenian fascism. it 's too bad
the socialization policies of the republic of turkey requires it to always
find non turks to de humanize ! such will be their downfall !



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re xsoviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 52

in article 1993apr17.172014.663@hellgate.utah.edu tolman asylum.cs.utah.edu@cs.utah.edu (kenneth tolman) writes

i sure hope so. because , the unspeakable crimes of the armenians must
be righted. armenian invaders burned and sacked the fatherland of

no ! no ! no no no no no. it is not justifiable to right wrongs of
previous years. my ancestors tortured , enslaved , and killed blacks. i
do not want to take responsibility for them. i may not have any direct
relatives who did such things , but how am i to know \?
there is enough current torture , enslavement and genocide to go around.
lets correct that. lets forget and forgive , each and every one of us has
a historical reason to kill , torture or take back things from those around
us. pray let us not be infantile arbiters for past injustice.

are you suggesting that we should forget the cold blooded genocide of
2.5 million muslim people by the armenians between 1914 and 1920 \? but
most people are n't aware that in 1939 hitler said that he would pattern
his elimination of the jews based upon what the armenians did to turkish
people in 1914.


'after all , who remembers today the extermination of the tartars \? '
(adolf hitler , august 22 , 1939 ruth w. rosenbaum (durusoy) ,
the turkish holocaust turk soykirimi , p. 213.)


i refer to the turks and kurds as history 's forgotten people. it does
not serve our society well when most people are totally unaware of
what happened in 1914 where a vicious society , run by fascist armenians ,
decided to simply use the phoniest of pretexts as an excuse , for wiping
out a peace loving , industrious , and very intelligent and productive
ethnic group. what we have is a demand from the fascist government of
x soviet armenia to redress the wrongs that were done against our
people. and the only way we can do that is if we can catch hold of and
not lose sight of the historical precedence in this very century. we
cannot reverse the events of the past , but we can and we must strive to
keep the memory of this tragedy alive on this side of the atlantic , so as
to help prevent a recurrence of the extermination of a people because
of their religion or their race. which means that i support the claims
of the turks and kurds to return to their lands in x soviet armenia ,
to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
subject israeli media (was re israeli terrorism)
reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
organization ncsu chem eng
lines 33


in article 2bd9c01d.11546@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

in article 1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or
palestinian news outlets , where do we go to understand , to learn \?
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another \? the only way
to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political
agenda , whether it is on or against our side .

tim

to andi ,

i have to disagree with you about the value of israeli news sources. if you
want to know about events in palestine it makes more sense to get the news
directly from the source. every news source is inherently biased to some
extent and for various reasons , both intentional and otherwise. however ,
the more sources relied upon the easier it is to see the truth and to discern
the bias.

go read or listen to some israeli media. you will learn more news and more
opinion about israel and palestine by doing so. then you can form your own
opinions and hopefully they will be more informed even if your views do n't
change.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)
jake can call me doctor mohandes brad ali hernlem (as of last wednesday)

from khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan)
subject re fundamentalism again.
organization gmi engineering management institute , flint , mi
lines 10

ok , someone is fundamentalist , someone else is not.
what defines a fundamentalist (not who ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ).
that is an essential question which nobody has agreed upon an answer ,
at least to what literature discussion news i 've seen..


mohammad r. khan khan0095@nova.gmi.edu
after july '93 , please send mail to mkhan@nyx.cs.du.edu



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject they were completely and systematically exterminated by armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 96

in article c4xcu3.401@polaris.async.vt.edu jfurr@polaris.async.vt.edu (joel furr) writes

do it. depew has shown himself to be unrepentant (though embarrassed) and
still possessed of the same fucked up hubris laden self righteousness that

the theory is that the hollering kills the spirit of the criminal nazi
armenians of the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle.
now , try dealing with the rest of what i wrote.

what is more , the activities of the armenian government seem to have been
efforts aimed at eradicating a race (the turks) or aimed at carrying out a
one sided feud , instead of being a struggle for liberation. from the outset ,
the efforts of the armenian revolutionaries within the ottoman borders took
the form of terrorist and destructive actions aimed at mass murder , cruelty
and genocide , so that no other interpretation of them is possible. armenian
activities started during the reign of abdulhamid ii as individual acts of
terror , and then developed into assassinations and surprise attacks. the element
of brute force in these activities increased steadily , culminating in mass
rebellions and widespread fighting during the first world war. furthermore ,
when the ottoman army withdrew from eastern anatolia after the 1915 sarikamis
defeat , armenian revolutionaries initiated a series of cruelties in this area.
although the russians occupied eastern anatolia as an enemy , nevertheless they
were constrained by the rules of war. however , when they returned to their
country in 1917 after the revolution , armenian revolutionaries were unchecked
in this area for about a year until the ottoman forces returned to erzurum
in 1918. during this period , armenian revolutionaries executed massacres on
the local people which is recorded in historical documents. 1

for example , let us look at a report dated 21 march 1918 which the commander
of the third army submitted when he entered erzurum and erzincan

they were completely and systematically destroyed and burned down
by armenians , even the trees were cut down , and they are like a
building entirely consumed by fire in every sense of the word.

as for the people who had been living in erzurum and erzincan

those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning
with the excuse of forced labor in road construction , they were taken
in the direction of sarikamis and annihilated. when the russian army
withdrew , a part of the remaining people was destroyed in armenian
massacres and cruelties they were thrown into wells , they were locked
in houses and burned down , they were killed with bayonets and swords , in places
selected as butchering spots , their bellies were torn open , their lungs
were pulled out , and girls and women were hanged by their hair after
being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. a very small part
of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the
cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering
from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived
in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to.
including women and children , such persons discovered so far do not
exceed one thousand five hundred in erzincan and thirty thousand in
erzurum. all the fields in erzincan and erzurum are untilled , everything
that the people had has been taken away from them , and we found them
in a destitute situation. at the present time , the people are subsisting
on some food they obtained , impelled by starvation , from russian storages
left behind after their occupation of this area. 2

foreign observers who witnessed the events , including russian officers
who did not desert their lines , submitted detailed reports proving the
genocide to ottoman commanders who received them as prisoners of war.
what is most important is that they stated in their reports 'the
massacres did not happen by chance but were planned.' 3

at the end of the war , the german author dr. weiss , his austrian colleague
dr. stein and his turkish colleague mr. ahmet vefik visited trabzon , kars ,
erzurum and batum between april 17th and may 20th 1918 to record the
cruelties. their writings not only show the scope of armenian activities ,
but also reveal their goal and true nature. 4

1 (the ottoman state , the ministry of war) , islam ahalinin ducar olduklari
mezalim hakkinda vesaike mustenid malumat , (istanbul , 1918). the french
version documents relatifs aux atrocites commises par les armeniens sur
la population musulmane , (istanbul , 1919). in the latin script h. k.
turkozu , ed. , osmanli ve sovyet belgeleriyle ermeni mezalimi , (ankara ,
1982). in addition z. basar , ed. , ermenilerden gorduklerimiz , (ankara ,
1974) and , edited by the same author , ermeniler hakkinda makaleler
derlemeler , (ankara , 1978). askeri tarih belgeleri ... , vol. 32 , 83
(december 1983) , document numbered 1881.
2 askeri tarih belgeleri .... , vol. 31 , 81 (december 1982) , document
numbered 1869.
3 from twerdo khlebof 's report dated 29 april 1918 quoted in ermeniler ... ,
vol. 2 , p. 275.
4 a. r. (altinay) , iki komite iki kital , (istanbul , 1919) , and , kafkas
yollarinda hatiralar ve tahassusler (istanbul , 1919).


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian way of slaughtering a twelve year old muslim girl.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 41

source world alive , a personal story by robert dunn. crown publishers ,
inc. , new york (1952).
(memoirs of an american officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)

p. 360.

at length all shooting petered out. i got on my horse and rode down toward
djul. it burned still but little flame showed now. the way was steep and
tough , through dense scrub. finally on flatter ground i came out suddenly ,
through alders , on smoldering houses. across trampled wheat my brothers in
arms were leading off animals , several calves and a lamb.

p. 361 (fourth paragraph).

corpses came next , the first a pretty child with straight black hair ,
large eyes. she looked about twelve years old. she lay in some stubble
where meal lay scattered from the sack she 'd been toting. the bayonet
had gone through her back , i judged , for blood around was scant. between
the breasts one clot , too small for a bullet wound , crusted her homespun
dress.

the next was a boy of ten or less , in rawhide jacket and knee pants. he
lay face down in the path by several huts. one arm reached out to the
pewter bowl he 'd carried , now upset upon its dough. steel had jabbed
just below his neck , into the spine.

there were grownups , too , i saw as i led the sorrel around. djul was
empty of the living till i looked up to see beside me dro 's german speaking
colonel. he said all tartars who had not escaped were dead.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re about this 'center for policy resea
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 85

in article 1483500350@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

it seems to me that many readers of this conference are interested
who is behind the center for polict research. i will oblige.

trumpets , please.

my name is elias davidsson , icelandic citizen , born in palestine. my
mother was thrown from germany because she belonged to the 'undesirables'
(at that times this group was defined as 'jews'). she was forced to go
to palestine due to many cynical factors.

forced to go to palestine. how dreadful. unlike other
undesirables jews , she was n't forced to go into a gas chamber , forced
under a bulldozer , thrown into a river , forced into a medical
experiment like a rat , forced to march until she dropped dead , burned
to nothingness in a crematorium. your mother was forced to go to
palestine. you have our deepest sympathies.

i have meanwhile settled in iceland (30 years ago)

we are pleased to hear of your escape. at least you wo n't have to
suffer the same fate that your mother did.

and met many people who were thrown out from
my homeland , palestine ,

your homeland , palestine \?

because of the same reason (they belonged to
the 'indesirables').

should we assume that you are refering here to jews who were kicked
out of their homes in jerusalem during the jordanian occupation of
east jerusalem \? these are the same people who are now being called
thieves for re claiming houses that they once owned and lived in and
never sold to anyone \?

these people include my neighbors in jerusalem
with the children of whom i played as child. their crime theyare
not jews.

i have never heard of not being a jew as a crime. certainly in
israel , there is no such crime. in some times and places being a jew
is a crime , but not being a jew \? \? ! !

my conscience does not accept such injustice , period.

our brains do not accept your logic , yet , either.

my
work for justice is done in the name of my principled opposition to racism
and racial discrimination. those who protest against such practices
in arab countries have my support as long as their protest is based
on a principled position , but not as a tactic to deflect criticism
from israel.

the way you 've written this , you seem to accept criticism in the arab
world unless it deflects criticism from israel , in which case , we have
to presume , you no longer support criticism of the arab world.

the struggle against discrimination and racism is universal.

look who 's taling about discrimination now !

the center for policy research is a name i gave to those activities
undertaken under my guidance in different domains , and which command
the support of many volunteers in iceland. it is however not a formal
institution and works with minimal funds.

be careful. you are starting to sound like barfling.

professionally i am music teacher and composer. i have published
several pieces and my piano music is taught widely in europe.

i would hope that discussion about israel palestine be conducted in
a more civilized manner. calling names is not helpful.

good. do n't call yourself arf or the center for policy research ,
either.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from mtaghavi@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (amir taghavi)
subject u.s. wants iran to end terrorism links
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 27

washington (upi) a senior state department official on tuesday
ruled out any softening of u.s. attitudes toward iraq but said relations
with iran 's islamic regime could improve substantially if that
government disassociates itself from international terrorism.
``despite the name calling and the harsh rhetoric from across the
gulf , despite all this , we do not take a position of permanent hostility
towards the islamic republic of iran , '' david mack , deputy assistant
secretary for near eastern affairs , said.
the primary u.s. objection is ``iran 's international behaviour''
which includes ``extending support of violence'' to disrupt the arab
israeli peace process and its rapid build up of dangerous weapons.
mack said ``iran could contribute to regional stability and peace but
first it is to end the behaviour which threatens this area.''
mack spoke at the u.s. gcc business conference aimed at promoting
gulf american trade. he said the ``middle east will be an item very high
on the agenda of the u.s. administration.''
the importance of the gulf is underlined by secretary of state warren
christoper 's visit last year to saudi arabia and kuwait before anywhere
else in the world , mack said. he added that the u.s. has no long term
plan to station troops in the gulf.
mack also insisted that the clinton administration will continue to
pressure iraq to ``comply with all the u.n. security resolutions.''
``as long as iraq is ruled by saddam hussein we do not expect
compliance , '' mack told delegates.


copyright 1993 by upi newsbytes

from terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science
lines 21

in article 1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

esin terzioglu your ignorance is obvious from your posting.
esin terzioglu 1) cyprus was an independent country with turkish greek
inhabitants (not a greek island like your ignorant
posting claims)
esin terzioglu 2) the name should be cyprus (in english)
esin terzioglu next time read and learn before you post.



aside from spelling , why is that you turks do not want to admit your
past mistakes \? you know turkish invasion of cyprus was a mistake and too
bad that u.n. did not do anything about it. you may ask mistake \?
yes , i would say. why is that the greeks did not invade cyprus \?


the greeks did try to invade cyprus just before the turkish intervention they
failed. just for your info.

esin.

from anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed)
subject re remember those names come election time.
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government
nntp posting host gs135.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 39

in article c5u4qi.mz4@apollo.hp.com nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes

btw , with bosnia 's large moslem population , why have nations like
turkey , saudi arabia , syria , egypt , and others with either money
or strong military forces not spoken out more forcibly or offered
to help out bosnia \?

obviously , you really do n't know.

they have spoken out (cf sec'y of state christopher 's recent trip to the me) ,
they have provided millions in aid , and they have participated in the airlifts
to sarajevo. they would supply military aid , if the un would lift the embargo
on arms sales.

the turkish ambassador has ocassionally said
a thing or two , but that 's all i see no great enthusism from any
of those places to get their hands dirty. why does the us always
get stuck with this stuff \?


see above. (kuwait has directly participated in the airlift of food to
sarajevo.)

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , liberia , angola , or
(it appears with the khmer rouge 's new campaign) cambodia. non whites
do n't count \?

hmm...some might say kuwaitis are non white. ooops , i forgot , kuwaitis are
oil rich , loaded with petro dollars , etc so they do n't count.



peter






from gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu (gt1091a gt1091a kaan , timucin)
subject re public service translation no.2
keywords effective greek armenian postings
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 21

who the hell is this guy david davidian. i think he talks too much..


yo , david you would better shut the f... up.. o.k \? \? i do n't like

your attitute. you are full of lies and shit. did n't you hear the

saying don't mess with a turc ! ! ...

see ya in hell..

timucin.





kaan , timucin
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332
uucp ... ! decvax , hplabs , ncar , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! gt1091a
internet gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re symbiotics zionism antisemitism
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 21

in article 1483500355@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

the first point to note regarding the appropriation of the history
of the holocaust by zionist propaganda is that zionism without
anti semitism is impossible. zionism agrees with the basic tenet
of anti semitism , namely that jews cannot live with non jews.

that 's why the zionists decided that zion must be gentile rein.
what \? ! they did n't \? ! you mean to tell me that the early zionists
actually granted citizenship in the jewish state to christian and
muslim people , too \?

it seems , elias , that your first point to note is wrong , so the rest
of your posting is n't worth much , either.

ta ta...


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 20

cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah) writes

would you tell me which arab country is prohipiting the jews from
migrating to palestine \?

the last arab country was syria. but not all of them
migrated due to the jewish state economical and
securital dilemma !

as usual , when salah is not totally racist , she manages to get
virtually all the facts wrong.

assad pledged to allow jews to leave syria , but not to go to israel.

unfortunately , not all of them have escaped yet , but not because they
do n't want to leave rather , assad went back on his word and stopped
issuing travel permits. he claimed bureaucratic snags , but everyone
knows it was a tactic to pressure israel.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 64

in article 1483500349@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes
ten questions about arab countries


i would be thankful if any of you who live in arab countries could
help to provide accurate answers to the following specific questions.
these are indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and
again by people around me.

1. is it true that many arab countries do n't recognize
israeli nationality \? that people with israeli stamps on their
passports ca n't enter arabic countries \?

2. is it true that arabic countries such as jordan and syria
have undefined borders and that arab governments from 1948 until today
have refused to state where the ultimate borders of their states
should be \?

3. is it true that arab countires refused to sign the chemical
weapon convention treaty in paris in 1993 \?

4. is it true that in arab prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?

4a. is it true that some arab countries , like syria , harbor nazi
war criminals , and refuse to extradite them \?

4b. is it true that some arab countries , like saudi arabia ,
prohibit women from driving cars \?

5. is it true that jews who reside in the muslim
countries are subject to different laws than muslims \?

6. is it true that arab countries confiscated the property of
entire jewish communites forced to flee by anti jewish riots \?

7. is it true that israel 's prime minister , y. rabin , signed
a chemical weapons treaty that no arab nation was willing to sign \?

8. is it true that syrian jews are required to leave a 10 , 000
deposit before leaving the country , and are no longer allowed to
emmigrate , despite promises made by hafez assad to george bush \?

9. is it true that jews in muslim lands are required to pay a
special tax , for being jews \?

10. is it true that intercontinental hotel in jerusalem was built
on a jewish cemetary , with roads being paved over grave sites , and
gravestones being used in jordanian latrines \?

11. is it really cheesy and inappropriate to post lists of biased
leading questions \?

11a. is it less appropriate if information implied in mr.
davidsson 's questions is highly misleading \?

adam

adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 52

in article 1993apr20.110021.5746@kth.se , hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren) writes


henrik the armenians in nagarno karabagh are simply defending their
henrik rights to keep their homeland and it is the azeris that are
henrik invading their homeland.


he homeland \? first nagarno karabagh was armenians homeland today
he fizuli , lacin and several villages (in azerbadjan)
he are their homeland. ca n't you see the
he the great armenia dream in this \? with facist methods like
he killing , raping and bombing villages. the last move was the
he blast of a truck with 60 kurdish refugees , trying to
he escape the from lacin , a city that was given to the kurds
he by the armenians.

nagorno karabakh is in azerbaijan not armenia. armenians have lived in nagorno
karabakh ever since there were armenians. armenians used to live in the areas
between armenia and nagorno karabakh and this area is being used to invade
nagorno karabakh. armenians are defending themselves. if azeris are dying
because of a policy of attacking armenians , then something is wrong with this
policy.

if i recall correctly , it was stalin who caused all this problem with land
in the first place , not the armenians.

henrik however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
henrik to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one
henrik that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
henrik (carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.

he do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 u.s. cargo planes
he were heading to armenia. when the turkish authorities
he announced that they were going to search these cargo
he planes 3 of these planes returned to it 's base in germany.
he 5 of these planes were searched in turkey. the content of
he of the other 3 planes \? not hard to guess , is it \? it was sure not
he humanitarian aid.....

what story are you talking about \? planes from the u.s. have been sending
aid into armenian for two years. i would not like to guess about what were in
the 3 planes in your story , i would like to find out.


he search turkish planes \? you do n't know what you are talking about.
he turkey 's government has announced that it 's giving weapons
he to azerbadjan since armenia started to attack azerbadjan
he it self , not the karabag province. so why search a plane for weapons
he since it 's content is announced to be weapons \?

it 's too bad you would want turkey to start a war with armenia.

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization university of virginia
lines 23

bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu writes

the comparison of the palestinian situation with the holocaust
is insulting and completely false. any person making such a rude
and false comparison is either ignorant of the holocaust , or also
ignorant of the situation in the mideast , or is an anti semite.

to compare a complicated political situation with the genocide
of 6 , 000 , 000 jews is racist in and of itself.

first of all i never said the holocaust. i said before the
holocaust. i'm not ignorant of the holocaust and know more
about nazi germany than most people (maybe including you).
what i resent is ignorant statements that call people
names when they disagree with your position. opposing the
atrocities commited by the israeli governement hardly qualifies
as anti semitism. if you think name calling is a valid form of
argument in intellectual circles , you need to get out more
often.
i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii
justifies the crimes commited by the israeli government. any
attempt to call civil liberterians like myself anti semetic is
not appreciated.

from jar2e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (virginia 's gentleman)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization university of virginia
lines 4

we really should try to be as understanding as we can for brad , because it
appears killing is all he knows.

jesse

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of virginia
lines 15

well i'm not sure about the story nad it did seem biased. what
i disagree with is your statement that the u.s. media is out to
ruin israels reputation. that is rediculous. the u.s. media is
the most pro israeli media in the world. having lived in europe
i realize that incidences such as the one described in the
letter have occured. the u.s. media as a whole seem to try to
ignore them. the u.s. is subsidizing israels existance and the
europeans are not (at least not to the same degree). so i think
that might be a reason they report more clearly on the
atrocities.
what is a shame is that in austria , daily reports of
the inhuman acts commited by israeli soldiers and the blessing
received from the government makes some of the holocaust guilt
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races
when they got power. it is unfortunate.

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject from israeli press nazi methods.
nf id n cdp 1483500343 000 3194
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 16 16 50 00 1993
lines 66


from center for policy research cpr
subject from israeli press nazi methods.

written 4 38 pm apr 16 , 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc mideast.forum
from israeli press nazi methods.
from the israeli press

newspaper ha'aretz date 14 february1993 author gideon levi

subject nazi methods in gaza

title in the neighborhood of hope , among the rubble

(excerpts)

mahmoud jowara'r stared at me long and sadly i worked my entire
life in order to built that house and this is what is left . only
tv could transmit the full sadness of his face. you say that we
teach our children to hate you , but what do you expect to happen
to a child who sees this \? and once again he wraps himself in a
lengthy silence , his face crumbling into weeping. mahmoud stood in
the field of rubble that was once his home. the term
'dispossession' has an absolute meaning here. nothing is left of
what he accumulated during his entire life , only the rubble of a
house and shreds of belongings.

once again khan yunis. once again demolished homes. last thursday
there was a search for wanted people here. once again the idf
forces employed the new method , fired and bombed and shot missiles
and placed explosives. already three times during the past weeks i
have gone out to see the destruction and each time i was more
horrifying scenes. this time they hit the largest number of
houses , 17 according to the idf estimate , ten of them completely
demolished. but not only that the method has also become more
brutal. three weeks ago , in tufah neighborhood in gaza , the
residents were still told to remove their valuables from their
homes. this time the army skipped that part three weeks ago the
handcuffed men , inhabitants of the demolished homes , were supplied
with some water and one apple during the 12 hours they had to
stand. this time there was only water. three weeks ago they were
even allowed to go out to the toilet. this time the soldier just
gold them piss and shit in your pants. and thus , last thursday ,
some 45 men stood for about 12 hours , their hands bound behind
their backs , their eyes blindfolded , without food , with wet pants
on their legs and a terrible feeling of humiliation in their
hearts , listening to the sounds of the explosions destroying their
homes , one after the other.

(...)

dr. juma'a fuad said al rubi. the brother from saudi arabia ,
emerges from among the ruins. ten days ago he arrived for a family
visit , mainly in order to celebrate the housewarming with his
father and brothers. on thursday he was handcuffed like everyone
else for 12 hours , and later went with everyone to view the
destrucion. he tried to explain that he was a visitor and that he
is a physician , but only got a shove. like all the rest he also
urinated in his pants , while standing with his hands bound and his
eyes blindfolded for the entire day. juma'a al rubi studied
medicine at cairo university , and for ten years he has been
treating wealthy saudis in medina. his wife and four children
remained there. now his documents have been lost and he does not
know how he will return to them. there is no humanity , stated
the physician from saudi arabia.


from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re basil , opinions \? (re water on the brain)
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 21
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1993apr16.141204.21479@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes


btw , does the litani river not flow west and not south \? i think that its waters
stay entirely within lebanese territory and so what hasan says about the jordan
river makes no sense , in any case. the hasbani river , on the other hand , flows
into the jordan , if i am not mistaken.

the litani river flows in a west southwestern direction and indeed does
not run through the buffer zone. the hasbani does flow into the jordan
but contrary to what our imaginative poster might write , there has been
no increase in the inflow from this river that is not proportional to
climatic changes in rainfall.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re how many mutlus can dance on the head of a pin \?
article i.d. news.2bc0d53b.20378
organization university of california , irvine
lines 28
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu

in article 1993apr5.211146.3662@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu jfurr@nyx.cs.du.edu (joel furr) writes
in article 3456@israel.nysernet.org warren@nysernet.org writes
in c4xkbx.53f@polaris.async.vt.edu jfurr@polaris.async.vt.edu (joel furr) writes
how many mutlus can dance on the head of a pin \?

that reminds me of the armenian massacre of the turks.

joel , i took out sct , are we sure we want to invoke the name of he who
greps for mason kibo 's last name lest he include afu in his daily
rounds \?

i dunno , warren. just the other day i heard a rumor that serdar argic
(aka hasan mutlu and ahmed cosar and zumabot) is not really a turk at all ,
but in fact is an armenian who is attempting to make any discussion of the
massacres in armenia of turks so noise laden as to make serious discussion
impossible , thereby cloaking the historical record with a tremendous cloud
of confusion.


dis it possible to track down zuma and determine who what where seradr is \?
if not , why not \? i assu me his her its identity is not shielded by policies
similar to those in place at anonymous services.

tim
d
d
d
very simpl

from hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
originator hasan@haley.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host haley.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 51


in article 1993apr5.202800.27705@wam.umd.edu , spinoza@next06wor.wam.umd.edu (yon bonnie laird of cairn robbing) writes
in article c50wjj.j4r@newsflash.concordia.ca ilyess@ece.concordia.ca
(ilyess bdira) writes
1)why do jews who do n't even believe in god (as is the case with many
of the founders of secular zionism) have a right in palestine more
than the inhabitants of palestine , just because god gave you the land \?
g d has nothing to do with it. some of the land was in fact given to the
jews by the united nations , quite a bit of it was purchased from arab
absentee landlords. present claims are based on prior ownership (purchase
from aforementioned absentee landlords) award by the united nations in the
partition of the palestine mandate territory , and as the result of
defensive wars fought against the egyptians , syrians , jordanians , et al.


2)why do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of
the inhabitants are not jews and do not want to be part of israel \?
first , i should point out that many jews do not in fact agree with the
idea that the west bank is theirs. since , however , i agree with those who
claim the west bank , i think i can answer your question thusly the west
bank was what is called the spoils of war. hussein ordered the arab legion


this is very funny.
anyway , suppose that in fact israel didnot attack jordan till jordan attacked
israel. now , how do you explain the attack on syria in 1967 , syria didnot
enter the war with israel till the 4th day .

by the way it is funny that you are implying that the reason behind 1967
by israel was only to capture sinai , egypt !


to attack israel , which was a poor move , seeing as how the israelis
promptly kicked his butt. the territory is therefore forefeit. retaining
possession of all of the west bank is not desirable , but it beats
national suicide for the israelis. put another way , one could ask why it
is that so many palestinians seem to think that tel aviv belongs to them
and the future state of palestine. as long as this state of affairs
continues , it seems that to give the palestinians a place from which they
can launch attacks on jews is a real poor idea. giving up the entire west
bank would be idiotic froma security standpoint. in addition , there is
the small matter of jerusalem , which is considered to be part of the west
bank. the chances of the israelis giving up jerusalem are nil. even
leftists who think yasser is a really cool dude , like yossi sarid , are n't
going to propose giving up jerusalem. if he did , he 'd get run out of town
on a rail.


chag sameach !
jeff

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 010
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 170

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 010
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh



on the way the driver says , in fact there are n't any
armenians left. 'they burned them all , beat them all ,
and stabbed them.



deposition of vanya bagratovich bazian

born 1940
foreman
baku spetsmontazh administration (umsmr 1)

resident at building 36 7 , apartment 9
block 14
sumgait azerbaijan


during the first days of the events , the 27th and the 28th of february , i
was away on a business trip. on the 10th i had got my crew , done the paper
work , and left for the zhdanov district. that 's in azerbaijan , near the
nagorno karabagh region.

after the 14th , rumors started to the effect that in karabagh , specifically
in stepanakert , an uprising had taken place. they said uprising in
azerbaijani , but i do n't think it was really an uprising , just a
demonstration. after that the unrest started. several armenians living in the
zhdanov district were injured. how were they injured \? they were beaten , even
women it was said that they were at the demonstrations , but they live here ,
and went from here to karabagh to demonstrate. after that i felt uneasy. there
were some conversations about armenians among the local population the
armenians had done this , the armenians had done that. right there at the site.
i was attacked a couple of times by kids. well true , the guys from my crew
would n't let them come at me with cables and knives. after that i felt really
bad. i did n't know where to go. i up and called home. and my children tell me ,
there 's unrest everywhere , be careful. well i had a project going on. i told
the second secretary of the district party committee what had been going on
and said i wanted to take my crew off the site. they would n't allow it , they
said , nothing 's going to happen to you , we 've entrusted the matter to the
police , we 've warned everyone in the district , nothing will happen to you.
well , in fact they did especially detail us a policeman to look after me , he
knows all the local people and would protect me if something happened. this
man did n't leave me alone for five minutes he was at work the whole time and
afterward he spent the night with us , too.

i sense some disquiet and call home my wife also tells me , the situation is
very tense , be careful.

we finished the job at the site , and i left for sumgait first thing on the
morning of the 29th. when we left the guys warned me , they told me that i
should n't tell anyone on the way that i was an armenian. i took someone else 's
business travel documents , in the name of zardali , and hid my own. i hid it
and my passport in my socks. we set out for baku. our guys were on the bus ,
they sat behind , and i sat up front. in baku they had come to me and said that
they had to collect all of our travel documents just in case. as it turns out
they knew what was happening in sumgait.

i arrive at the bus station and there they tell me that the city of sumgait is
closed , there is no way to get there. that the city is closed off and the
buses are n't running. buses normally leave baku for sumgait almost every two
minutes. and suddenly no buses. well , we tried to get there via private
drivers. one man , an azerbaijani , said , let 's go find some other way to get
there. they found a light transport vehicle and arranged for the driver to
take us to sumgait.

he took us there. but the others had said , i would n't go if you gave me a
thousand rubles. why \? because they 're burning the city and killing the
armenians. there is n't an armenian left. well i got hold of myself so i could
still stand up. so we squared it away , the four of us got in the car , and we
set off for sumgait. on the way the driver says , in fact there are n't any
armenians left. 'they burned them all , beat them all , and stabbed them. well
i was silent. the whole way 20 odd miles i was silent. the driver asks me ,
how old are you , old man \? he wants to know if i'm being that quiet , not
saying anything , maybe it means i'm an armenian. how old are you \? he asks
me. i say , i'm 47. i'm 47 too , but i call you 'old man'. i say , it
depends on god , each person 's life in this world is different. i look much
older than my years , that 's why he called me old man. well after that he was
silent , too.

we 're approaching the city , i look and see tanks all around , and a cordon.
before we get to the kavkaz store the driver starts to wave his hand. well , he
was waving his hand , we all start waving our hands. i'm sitting there with
them , i start waving my hand , too. i realized that this was a sign that meant
there were no armenians with us.

i look at the city there is a crowd of people walking down the middle of the
street , you know , and there 's no traffic. well probably i was scared. they
stopped our car. people were standing on the sidewalks. they have armature
shafts , and stones . . . and they stopped us . . .

along the way the driver tells us how they know who 's an armenian and who 's
not. the armenians usually . . . for example , i'm an armenian , but i speak
their language very well. well armenians usually pronounce the azeri word for
nut , or little nut , as pundukh , but fundukh is actually correct. the
pronunciations are different. anyone who says pundukh , even if they 're not
armenian , they immediately take out and start to slash. another one says ,
there was a car there , with five people inside it , he says. they started
hitting the side of it with an axe and lit it on fire. and they did n't let the
people out , he says , they would n't let them get out of the car. i only saw
the car , but the driver says that he saw everything. well he often drives from
baku to sumgait and back . . .

when they stop us we all get out of the car. i look and there 's a short guy ,
his eyes are gleaming , he has an armature shaft in one hand and a stone in
the other and asks the guys what nationality they are one by one. we 're
azerbaijani , ' they tell him , 'no armenians here. he did come up to me when
we were pulling our things out and says , maybe you 're an armenian , old man \?
but in azerbaijani i say , you should be ashamed of yourself ! and . . . he
left. turned and left. that was all that happened. what was i to do \? i had
to . . . the city was on fire , but i had to steal my children out of my own
home.

they stopped us at the entrance to mir street , that 's where the kavkaz store
and three large , 12 story buildings are. that 's the beginning of down town. i
saw that burned automobile there , completely burned , only metal remained. i
could n't figure out if it was a zhiguli or a zaporozhets. later i was told it
was a zhiguli. and the people in there were completely incinerated. nothing
remained of them , not even any traces. that driver had told me about it , and i
saw the car myself. the car was there. the skeleton , a metallic carcass. about
30 to 40 yards from the kavkaz store.

i see a military transport , an armored personnel carrier. the hatches are
closed. and people are throwing armature shafts and pieces of iron at it , the
crowd is. and i hear shots , not automatic fire , it 's true , but pistol shots.
several shots. there were azerbaijanis crowded around that personnel carrier.
someone in the crowd was shooting. apparently they either wanted to kill the
soldiers or get a machine gun or something. at that point there was only one
armored personnel carrier. and all the tanks were outside the city , cordoning
off sumgait.

i walked on. i see two azerbaijanis going home from the plant. i can tell by
their gait that they 're not bandits , they 're just people , walking home. i
joined them so in case something happened , in case someone came up to us
and asked questions , either of us would be in a position to answer , you see.
but i avoided the large groups because i'm a local and might be quickly
recognized. i tried to keep at a distance , and walked where there were fewer
people. well so i walked into microdistrict 2 , which is across from our block.
i ca n't get into our block , but i walked where there were fewer people , so as
to get around. well there i see a tall guy and 25 to 30 people are walking
behind him. and he 's shouting into a megaphone comrades , the armenian
azerbaijani war has begun !

the police have megaphones like that. so they 're talking and walking around
the second microdistrict. i see that they 're coming my way , and turn off
behind a building. i noticed that they walked around the outside buildings ,
and inside the microdistricts there were about 5 or 6 people standing on every
corner , and at the middles of the buildings , and at the edges. what they were
doing i ca n't say , because i could n't get up close to them , i was afraid. but
the most important thing was to get away from there , to get home , and at least
find out if my children were alive or not . . .

april 20 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 158 160



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 60

in c5i7j7.f7a@eis.calstate.edu mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi) writes

stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes
even the most extemist , one sided (jewish israeli) postings (with which i
certainly disagree) , did not openly back plain murder. you do.

the 'lebanese resistance' you are talking about is a bunch of lebanese
farmers who detonate bombs after work , or is an organized entity of not
only lebanese well trained mercenaries \? i do not know , just curious.

i guess you also back the killings of hundreds of marines in beirut , right \?

what kind of 'resistance' movement killed jewish attlets in munich 1972 \?

you liked it , did n't you \?


you posted some other garbage before , so at least you seem to be consistent.

dorin

dorin ,
let 's not forget that the soldiers were killed not murdered. the
distinction is not trivial. murder happens to innocent people , not people
whose line of work is to kill or be killed. it just so happened that these
soldiers , in the line of duty , were killed by the opposition. and
resistance is different from terrorism. certainly the athletes in munich
were victims of terrorists (though some might call them freedom fighters).

and some of us call them murderous bastards , but what 's in a name.

their deaths cannot be compared to those of soldiers who are killed by
resistance fighters. do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the
nazi occupying forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the
hostile occupiers in wwii. diplomacy has not worked with israel and the

just a damn minute ! what history books did you read \? i seem to recall
that there were a few british , canadian , american , and commonwealth
soldiers in france about that time. perhaps you believe they were taking
a vacation trip \?

lebanese people are tired of being occupied ! they are now turning to the
only option they see as viable. (do n't forget that it worked in driving
out the us)

sure , the lebanese want to get all foreigners out of the country so they
can go back to killing each other off.


marc

reb




some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with
both eyes.
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions.


from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re hamza salah , the humanist
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 8
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


mr. salah , why are you such a homicidal racist \? do you feel this
same hatred towards christans , or is it only jews \? are you from
a family of racists \? did you learn this racism in your home \? or
are you a self made bigot \? how does one become such a racist \? i
wonder what you think your racism will accomplish. are you under
the impression that your racism will help bring peace in the mid
east \? i would like to know your thoughts on this.

from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re water on the brain (was re israeli expansion lust)
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 4

i guess hasan finally revealed the source of his claim that israel
diverted water from lebanon his imagination.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject desertification of the negev
nf id n cdp 1483500361 000 5123
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 25 05 25 00 1993
lines 104


from center for policy research cpr
subject desertification of the negev


the desertification of the arid negev
by moise saltiel , i p march
1990

i. the negev bedouin before and after 1948 ii. jewish
agricultural settlement in the negev iii. development of the
negev 's rural population iv. economic situation of jewish
settlements in 1990 v. failure in settling the arava valley
vi. failure in settling the central mountains vii. failure in
making the negev bedouinenrein (cleansing the negev of bedouins)
viii. transforming bedouin into low paid workers ix.. failure
in settling the development towns x. jordan water to the
negev a strategic asset xi. the negev becomes a dumping
ground xii. the dimona nuclear plant xiii. the negev as a
military base xiv. the negev in the year 2000

just after the creation of the state of israel , the phrase the
jewish pioneers will make the desert bloom was trumpeted
throughout the western world. after the six day war in 1967 , david
ben gurion declared in a letter to charles de gaulle it 's by our
pioneering creation that we have transformed a poor and arid land
into a fertile land , created built up areas , towns and villages in
abandoned desert areas .

contrary to ben gurion 's assertion , it must be affirmed that
during the 26 years of the british mandate over palestine and for
centuries previous , a productive human presence was to be found in
all parts of the negev desert in the very arid hills and valleys
of the southern negev as well as in the more fertile north. these
were the bedouin arabs.

the real desertification of the negev , mainly in the southern
part , occurred after israel 's dispossession of the bedouin 's
cultivated lands and pastures. nowadays , the majority of the
12 , 800 square kilometer negev , which represents 62 percent of the
state of israel (pre 1967 borders) , has been desertified beyond
recognition. the main new occupiers of the formerly bedouin negev
are the israeli army the nature reserves authority , whose chief
role is to prevent bedouin from roaming their former pasture
lands and vast industrial zones , including nuclear reactors and
dumping grounds for chemical , nuclear and other wastes. israeli
jews in the negev today cultivate less than half the surface area
cultivated by the bedouin before 1948 , and there is no jewish
pastoral activity.

i. agricultural and pastoral activities of the negev bedouin
before and after 1948
in 1942 ,
according to british mandatory statistics , the beersheba
sub district (which corresponds more or less to israel 's negev , or
southern , district) had 52 , 000 inhabitants , almost all bedouin
arabs , who held 11 , 500 camels , 6 , 000 cows and oxen , 42 , 000 sheep
and 22 , 000 goats.

the majority of the bedouin lived a more or less sedentary life in
the north , where precipitation ranged between 200 and 350 mm per
year. in 1944 they cultivated about 200 , 000 hectares of the
beersheba district i.e. 16 percent of its total area and more
than double the area cultivated by the negev 's jewish settlers
after 40 years of making the desert bloom

the bedouin had a very low crop yield 350 to 400 kilograms of
barley per hectare during rainy years and their farming
techniques were primitive , but production was based solely on
animal and human labor. it must also be underscored that animal
production , although low , was based entirely on pasturing.
production increased considerably during the rainy years and
diminished significantly during drought years. all bedouin pasture
animals goats , camels and sheep had the ability to gain weight
quickly over the relatively rainy winters and to withstand many
waterless days during the hot summers. these animals were the
result of a centuries old process of natural selection in harsh
local conditions.

after the creation of the state of israel , 80 percent of the negev
bedouin were expelled to the sinai or to southern jordan. the
10 , 000 who were allowed to remain were confined to a territory of
40 , 000 hectares in a region were annual mean precipiation was 150
mm a quantity low enough to ensure a crop failure two years out
of three. the rare water wells in the south and central negev ,
spring of life in the desert , were cemented to prevent bedouin
shepherds from roaming.

a few bedouin shepherds were allowed to stay in the central negev.
but after 1982 , when the sinai was returned to egypt , these
bedouin were also eliminated. at the same time , strong pressure
was applied on the bedouin to abandon cultivation of their fields
in order that the land could be transferred to the army.

no reliable statistics exist concerning the amount of land held
today by negev bedouin. it is a known fact that a large part of
the 40 , 000 hectares they cultivated in the 1950s has been seized
by the israeli authorities. indeed , most of the bedouin are now
confined to seven development towns , or sowetos , established
for them.

(the rest of the article is available from elias davidsson , email
elias@ismennt.is)


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re why does us consider yigal arens to be a dangerous to humanity
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 31

in article c5sdck.38n@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes

come on ! most if not all arabs are sympathetic to the palestinian war
against israel.

i would n't bet on it.

arab governments generally do n't care much about the palestineans and
their struggle but find it useful for political purposes back home.
they are happy to leave the palestineans largely under israeli control
because that leaves the job of controlling them to the israelis. the
israelis do n't like this job any more than king hussein of jordan
liked it and he managed to kill them off at the rate of thousands
per month when they started an intifada in jordan. the governments of
syria , lebanon and egypt all feel similarly. however , proclaiming
public support for the palestinean war against israel deflects
criticism from deep problems at home and lends an air of legitimacy to
even the most brutal arab tyrants.

arab people probably are n't much more sympathetic. palestineans
have shown a willingness to destabilize and plunder in jordan ,
lebanon and kuwait and are viewed with suspicion elsewhere.

you might still be right in sympathy to the war against israel , but i
suspect that many arabs , far removed from the immediate border with
israel (e.g. in kuwait or morroco) , could n't care less.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from ddsokol@unix.amherst.edu (d. daniel sokol)
subject re enough freeman bashing ! was no free man propaganda machine freemanwith blood greetings from israel
nntp posting host amhux3.amherst.edu
organization amherst college
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7
lines 47

marc a afifi (mafifi@eis.calstate.edu) wrote
pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman) writes


peter ,

i believe this is your most succinct post to date. since you have nothing
to say , you say nothing ! it 's brilliant. did you think of this all by
yourself \?

marc


some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with
both eyes.
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions.


an open letter to marc afifi


dear marc ,
i believe that you are wrong about mr. freeman. he has written in
a style that raises the level of posts on this board. if you just do n't seem
to get it , i believe that it is more of a reflection of you and your abilities
than of him. his posts contain substance and and he defends his positions
well.
having said this , i would like to ask in general for people on this
board to realize that if they do n't agree with the substance of posts , then they should respond to the substance (or lack of) of the posts rather than attack
the author of the posts. when one has to resort to attacking a poster rather than what he she has written , one can see that that person does not have the
ability to make a coherent argument concerning the post.

peace ,


danny












from aurag@ere.umontreal.ca (aurag hassan)
subject re deir yassin
organization universite de montreal
lines 25

are you trying to say that there were no massacres in deir yassin
or in sabra and shatila \? if so then let me tell you some good jokes

there is not and was not any such thing like jewish killing in wwii

palestinians just did what davidians did for fourty years and more.

in fact no one was killed in any war at any time or any place.

people die that is all. no one gets killed.

maybe also vietamiese did n't die in vietnam war killed by american
napalm they were just pyromaniacs and that 's all.

maybe jews just liked gas chambers and no one forced them to get in there.they
may be thought it was like snifing cocaine. no \?

what do you think of this \? is n't it stupid to say so \?
well it is as stupid as what you said .next time you want to lie do it
intelligently.

sincerely yours.

hassan


from casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe)
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization european organization for nuclear research , cern
lines 50

in article c5vbtk.f3@blaze.cs.jhu.edu , arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes...
in article 22apr199300513566@vxcrna.cern.ch casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe) writes
are you aware that there is an arms embargo on all of what is was
yugoslavia , including bosnia , which guarantees massive military
superiority of serbian forces and does not allow the bosnians to
try to defend themselves \?
should we sell weapons to all sides , or just the losing one , then \?

ending an embargo does not we must sell anything at all.

right. we 'll probably end up giving them weapons.

if the europeans want to sell weapons to one or both sides , they are welcome
as far as i'm concerned.

you seem to oppose ending the embargo. you know , it is difficult for europeans
to sell weapons when there is an embargo in place.

during wwii , the british managed to supply arms to the yugoslavs despite
german occupation. if the europeans had the will to do anything besides
sponsoring peace conferences , they would have no problem putting any kind of
weapon they wanted into bosnia.

i guess i would favor ending the embargo if the congress would pass a law
forbidding export of us military supplies to yugoslavia , including via third
parties. until then the risks of the us being drawn into a more active
role would be too great. i do not see the arms embargo as a major factor in
the outcome of the war.

i do not automatically accept the argument that bosnia is any worse than
other recent civil wars , say vietnam for instance. the difference is it is
happening to white people inside europe , with lots of tv coverage.

but if this was the reason , and if furthermore both sides are equal , would n't
all us racist americans be favoring the good christians (serbs) instead
of the non christians we really seem to favor \?

both sides are certainly not equal in the eyes of the press. and that 's
about all we have to go on , is n't it \?

and i wish you 'd quit hurling words like racist around. there are many levels
at which people react to what they see. at the most fundamental level , you
do not have to consciously recognize the racial element you simply tend to
empathize more with people who are like yourself. as far preferring
christian over moslem , i am an atheist myself , and i think you 'll agree that
in the us , the majority of people do not typically discriminate on the basis of
religion , nor give it a particularly important place in their world view.


dave

from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject re from israeli press. madness.
in reply to jar2e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 18 16 47 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 12

in article c5n43z.dq2@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu jar2e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (virginia 's gentleman) writes

this post has all the earmarks of a form program , where the user types in
a nationality or ethnicity and it fills it in in certain places in the story.
if this is true , i condemn it. if it 's a fabrication , then the posters have
horrible morals and should be despised by everyone on tpm who values truth.

jesse

agreed.

harry.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re minority abuses in greece.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 201

in article c60b63.g2m@panix.com mpoly@panix.com (michael s. polymenakos) writes

well , zumabot claims just the opposite that greeks are not allowing
turks to exit the country. now , explain this the number of turks in
thrace has steadily risen from 50 , 000 in 23 to 80 , 000 , while the greeks of

dr. goebels thought that a lie repeated enough times could finally
be believed. i have been observing that 'poly' has been practicing
goebels' rule quite loyally. 'poly 's audience is mostly made of greeks
who are not allowed to listen to turkish news. however , in today 's
informed world greek propagandists can only fool themselves. for
instance , those who lived in 1974 will remember the tv news they
watched and the newspapers they read and the younger generation can
read the american newspapers of july and august 1974 to find out what
really happened.

there are in turkiye the greek hospital , the greek girls' lycee
alumni association , the principo islands greek benevolent society ,
the greek medical foundation , the principo greek orphanage foundation ,
the yovakimion greek girls' lycee foundation , and the fener greek
men 's lycee foundation.

as for greece , the longstanding use of the adjective 'turkish'
in titles and on signboards is prohibited. the greek courts
have ordered the closure of the turkish teachers' association ,
the komotini turkish youth association and the ksanti
turkish association on grounds that there are no turks
in western thrace. such community associations had been
active until 1984. but they were first told to remove
the word 'turkish' on their buildings and on their official
papers and then eventually close down. this is also the
final verdict (november 4 , 1987) of the greek high court.

in the city of komotini , a former greek parliamentarian of turkish
parentage , was sentenced recently to 18 months of imprisonment
with no right to appeal , just for saying outloud that he was
of turkish descent. this duly elected ethnic turkish official
was also deprived of his political rights for a period of three
years. each one of these barbaric acts seems to be none other than
a vehicle , used by the greek governments , to cover up their inferiority
complex they display , vis a vis , the people of turkiye.

the agreement on the exchange of minorities uses the term 'turks , '
which demonstrates what is actually meant by the previous reference
to 'muslims.' the fact that the greek governments also mention the
existence of a few thousand non turkish muslims does not change the
essential reality that there lives in western thrace a much bigger
turkish minority. the 'pomaks' are also a muslim people , whom all the
three nations (bulgarians , turks , and greeks) consider as part of
themselves. do you know how the muslim turkish minority was organized
according to the agreements \? poor 'poly.'

it also proves that the turkish people are trapped in greece
and the greek people are free to settle anywhere in the world.
the greek authorities deny even the existence of a turkish
minority. they pursue the same denial in connection with
the macedonians of greece. talk about oppression. in addition ,
in 1980 the 'democratic' greek parliament passed law no. 1091 ,
virtually taking over the administration of the vakiflar and
other charitable trusts. they have ceased to be self supporting
religious and cultural entities. talk about fascism. the greek
governments are attempting to appoint the muftus , irrespective
of the will of the turkish minority , as state official. although
the orthodox church has full authority in similar matters in
greece , the muslim turkish minority will have no say in electing
its religious leaders. talk about democracy.

the government of greece has recently destroyed an islamic
convention in komotini. such destruction , which reflects an
attitude against the muslim turkish cultural heritage , is a
violation of the lausanne convention as well as the 'so called'
greek constitution , which is supposed to guarantee the protection
of historical monuments.

the government of greece , on the other hand , is building new
churches in remote villages as a complementary step toward
hellenizing the region.

and you pondered. sidiropoulos , the president of the macedonian human
rights committee , became the latest victim of a tactic long used by
the greeks to silence critics of policies of forced assimilation
of the macedonian minority. a forestry official by occupation ,
sidiropoulos has been sent to 'internal exile' on the island of
kefalonia , hundreds of kilometers away from his native florina.
his employer , the florina city council , asked him to depart in
24 hours. the greek authorities are trying to punish him for his
involvement in copenhagen. he returned to florina by his own choice
and remains without a job.

helsinki watch , a well known human rights group , had been investigating
the plight of the turkish minority in greece. in august 1990 , their
findings were published in a report titled

'destroying ethnic identity turks of greece.'

the report confirmed gross violations of the human rights of the
turkish minority by the greek authorities. it says for instance ,
the greek government recently destroyed an islamic convent in
komotini. such destruction , which reflects an attitude against
the muslim turkish cultural heritage , is a violation of the
lausanne convention.

the turkish cemeteries in the village of vafeika and in pinarlik
were attacked , and tombstones were broken. the cemetery in
karotas was razed by bulldozers.

shall i go on \? why not \? the people of turkiye are not going
to take human rights lessons from the greek government. the
discussion of human rights violations in greece does not
stop at the greek frontier. in several following articles
i shall dwell on and expose the greek treatment of turks
in western thrace and the aegean macedonians.

it has been reported that the greek cypriot administration
has an intense desire for arms and that greece has made
plans to supply it with the tanks and armored vehicles it
has to destroy in accordance with the agreement reached on
conventional arms reductions in europe. meanwhile , greek
and greek cypriot officials are reported to have planned
to take ostentatious measures aimed at camouflaging the
transfer of these tanks and armored vehicles to southern
cyprus , a process that will conflict with the spirit of
the agreement on conventional arms reduction in europe.

an acceptable method may certainly be found when there
is a will. but we know of various kinds of violent
behaviors ranging from physical attacks to the burning
of buildings. the rugs at the amfia village mosque were
dragged out to the front of the building and burnt there.
shots were fired on the mosque in the village of aryana.

now wait , there is more.

'greek atrocities in the vilayet of smyrna (may to july 1919) , inedited
documents and evidence of english and french officers , ' published by
the permanent bureau of the turkish congress at lausanne , lausanne ,
imprimerie petter , giesser held , caroline , 5 (1919).

pages 82 83

1. the train going from denizli to smyrna was stopped at ephesus
and the 90 turkish travellers , men and women who were in it ordered
to descend. and there in the open street , under the eyes of their
husbands , fathers and brothers , the women without distinction of age
were violated , and then all the travellers were massacred. amongst
the latter the lieutenant salih effendi , a native of tripoli , and a
captain whose name is not known , and to whom the hellenic authorities
had given safe conduct , were killed with specially atrocious tortures.

2. before the battle , the wife of the lawyer enver bey coming from
her garden was maltreated by greek soldiers , she was even stript
of her garments and her servant assie was violated.

3. the two tax gatherers mustapha and ali effendi were killed in the
following manner their arms were bound behind their backs with wire
and their heads were battered and burst open with blows from the butt
end of a gun.

4. during the firing of the town , eleven children , six little girls
and five boys , fleeing from the flames , were stopped by greek soldiers
in the ramazan pacha quarter , and thrown into a burning jewish house
near bridge , where they were burnt alive. this fact is confirmed on oath
by the retired commandant hussein hussni effendi who saw it.

5. the clock maker ahmed effendi and his son sadi were arrested and
dragged out of their shop. the son had his eyes put out and was then
killed in the court of the greek church , but ahmed effendi has been
no more heard of.

6. at the market , during the fire , two unknown people were wounded
by bayonets , then bound together , thrown into the fire and burnt alive.

the greeks killed also many jews. these are the names of some

moussa malki , shoemaker killed
bohor levy , tailor killed
bohor israel , cobbler killed
isaac calvo , shoemaker killed
david aroguete killed
moussa lerosse killed
gioia katan killed
meryem malki killed
soultan gharib killed
isaac sabah wounded
moche fahmi wounded
david sabah wounded
moise bensignor killed
sarah bendi killed
jacob jaffe wounded
aslan halegna wounded....

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from hap@scubed.com (hap freiberg)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
nntp posting host s3saturn
organization s cubed , a division of maxwell labs san diego ca
lines 26

in article smith.93apr21183049@minerva.harvard.edu smith@minerva.harvard.edu (steven smith) writes
dgannon@techbook.techbook.com (dan gannon) writes
the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake

by theodore j. o'keefe
holocaust revisionism

theodore j. o'keefe is an editor with the institute for historical
review. educated at harvard university . . .

according to the 1990 harvard alumni directory , mr. o'keefe failed to
graduate. you may decide for yourselves if he was indeed educated
anywhere.

steven smith

is any education a prerequisite for employment at ihr \?
is it true that ihr really stands for institution of hysterical reviews \?
curious minds would like to know...

hap



omnia extares


from adams@bellini.berkeley.edu (adam l. schwartz)
subject danny rubenstein talk
nntp posting host bellini.berkeley.edu
organization u.c. berkeley erl
lines 9

danny rubenstein , an israeli journalist , will be speaking tonight
(wednesday , 7 30 pm) on the messy subject of politics in israel.
he is speaking at hillel on the u.c. berkeley campus. the talk is
sponsored by the berkeley israel action committee (iac).

adam schwartz
adams@robotics.berkeley.edu



from visser@convex.com (lance visser)
subject re israel 's expansion
nntp posting host dhostwo.convex.com
organization engineering , convex computer corp. , richardson , tx. , usa
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at convex computer
corp. the opinions expressed are those of the user and
not necessarily those of convex.
lines 22

in 1993apr19.024949.27846@nysernet.org astein@nysernet.org (alan stein) writes


the golan heights is a serious security problem , and israel obviously
will have to keep part of it and give up part of it. (one should
remember that the golan heights had been part of the area that was to
be in britain 's palestine mandate , slated to become part of the jewish
state , until britain traded it to france for other considerations. in
other words , it is an historical accident that it was ever part of
syria.)

the palestine mandate had no borders before
the borders were negotiated and drawn. the most the golan may have been
is on the list of what territories britian would have liked to
see in the palestine mandate.
until the mandates came into existance , there were no defined
boundaries between any of the various territories in the region.

if you have a source for any of these claims , then please
present it.



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject x soviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 61

in article c5lxew.9p0@panix.com mpoly@panix.com (michael s. polymenakos) writes

maybe with the availability of anon servers some people are beginning to
speak out \?

i sure hope so. because , the unspeakable crimes of the armenians must
be righted. armenian invaders burned and sacked the fatherland of
urartus , massacred and exterminated its population and presented to
the world all those left from the urartus , as the armenian civilization.

all reliable western historians describe how armenians ruthlessly
exterminated 2.5 million muslim women , children and elderly people of
eastern anatolia and how they collaborated with the enemies of the
ottoman empire between 1914 1920.

it is unfortunately a truth that armenians are known as collaborators
of the nazis during world war ii and that , even today , criminal nazi
members of the asala sdpa arf terrorism triangle preach and instigate
racism , hatred , violence and terrorism among peoples.

and x soviet armenia continues its anti turkish policy in the following
ways

1. x soviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide
in order to shift international public opinion away from its political
responsibility.

2. x soviet armenia , employing asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism
triangle and criminal nazi armenians , attempts to call into question the
veracity of the turkish genocide.

3. x soviet armenia has also implemented state sponsored terrorism through
the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle in an attempt to
silence the turkish people 's vehement demands and protests.

4. using all its human , financial , and governmental resources , x soviet
armenia and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through
terrorism , bribery and other subversive methods , non turkish supporters
of the turkish cause , be they political , governmental and humanitarian.

using all the aforementioned methods , the x soviet armenian government
is attempting to neutralize the international diplomatic community from
making the turkish case a contemporary issue.

yet despite the efforts of the x soviet armenian government and its terrorist
and revisionist organizations , in the last decades , thanks to the struggle
of those whose closest ones were systematically exterminated by the armenians ,
the international wall of silence on this issue has begun to collapse , and
consequently a number of governments and organizations have become
supportive of the recognition of the turkish genocide.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 32

in article 1r3n8d 4m5@techbook.techbook.com dgannon@techbook.techbook.com (dan gannon) writes

the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake

by theodore j. o'keefe

hard by the washington monument , within clear view of the jefferson
memorial , an easy stroll down the mall to the majestic lincoln memorial ,
has arisen , on some of the most hallowed territory of the united states of
america , a costly and dangerous mistake. on ground where no monument yet
marks countless sacrifices and unheralded achievements of americans of all
races and creeds in the building and defense of this nation , sits today a
massive and costly edifice , devoted above all to a contentious and false
version of the ordeal in europe during world war ii , of non american
members of a minority , sectarian group. now , in the deceptive guise of
tolerance , the united states holocaust memorial museum begins a propaganda
campaign , financed through the unwitting largess of the american taxpayer ,
in the interests of israel and its adherents in america.

after reading the first paragraph , a quick scan confirmed my first
impression this is a bunch of revisionist and anti semitic hogwash.

the ny times reported on april 18 , 1993 that the museum was built
through private contributions on federal land . your hate mongering
article is devoid of current and historical fact , intellectual content
and social value. down the toilet it goes.....



jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
reply to oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin)
organization iowa state university
lines 69

in article 1993apr19.234534.18368@kpc.com , henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article c5qu5h.1if@news.iastate.edu , oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin)
writes

.. cancellum ...




onur yalcin secondly , the island of which the name is more correctly spelled
onur yalcin as cyprus has never been greek , but rather , it has been home to
onur yalcin a bi communal society formed of greeks and turks. it seems that

onur yalcin you know as little about the history and the demography of the
onur yalcin island , as you know about the essence of turkey 's
onur yalcin military intervention to it under international agreements.

bi communal society \? then why did not greece invade cyprus \?

henrik ( \? ) ,

your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. i'm not
going to spend time to review with you the recent history of cyprus. if you are
really interested , i can provide you with a number of references on the issue.
just send me email for that.


onur yalcin be that as it may , an analogy between an act of occupation in
onur yalcin history and what is going on today on azerbaijani land , can only
onur yalcin be drawn with the expansionist policy that armenia is now
pursuing.

buch of crap and you know it. nagarno karabagh has always been part
of armenia and it was stalin who gave it to the azeris. go back and
review the history.

the armenians in nagarno karabagh are simply defending their rights
to keep their homeland and it is the azeris that are invading their
teritory.

onur yalcin but , i could agree that it is not for us to issue diagnoses to
onur yalcin the political conduct of countries , and promulgate them in such
onur yalcin terminology as itchy bitchy ...

i was not the one that stated it.


relax ! you 're swinging fists into open air... i was agreeing with you ,
assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state ! you may
not be very much used to it , to be agreed with that is , but take it more
easily. ! )

however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one

no , henrik , believe me you do n't hope that.

that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
(carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.


was that after or before one french plane changed its route to avoid
inspection \? \? \?


onur yalcin
oyalcin@iastate.edu

un punto in piu`

from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject happy birthday israel !
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 2

israel happy 45th birthday !


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 66

in article arens.93apr20192345@grl.isi.edu arens@isi.edu (yigal arens) writes

at issue was not a trial behind closed doors , but arrest , trial and
imprisonment in complete secrecy. this was appraently attempted in the
case of vanunu and failed. it has happened before , and there is reason
to believe it still goes on.

the lengthy article you quote does n't imply this. it only states that
it is somehow possible , not that it is in any way likely. this is akin
to an article saying that it is possible that the usaf has several
captured ufos , without supporting the liklihood of such an assertion.

read this
from ma'ariv , february 18 (possibly 28) , 1992
publication ban

by baruch me'iri

all those involved in this matter politely refused my request , one way
or another look , the subject is too delicate. if i comment on it , i
will be implicitly admitting that it is true if i mention a specific
case , even hint at it , i might be guilty of making public something
which may legally not be published .

in other words , they were telling a pesky reporter to keep guessing.

israel maintains this same attitude about nuclear weapons it may or
may not have. the us maintains the same attitude about the presence
of nuclear weapons on specific naval craft. by refusing to
acknowledge the existence of such weapons on specific ships , us
warships have , i believe , become unwelcome in new zealand , which has
declared itself a nuclear free zone.

the state of israel has never officially admitted that for many years
there have been in its prisons israeli citizens who were sentenced to
long prison terms without either the fact of their arrest or the
crimes of which they were accused ever being made public. more
precisely a court ordered publication ban was placed on the fact of
their arrest , and later on their imprisonment.

the usaf has never officially admitted to having any ufos , either.

in israel of 1993 , citizens are imprisoned without us , the citizens of
this country , knowing anything about it. not knowing anything about
the fact that one person or another were tried and thrown in prison ,
for security offenses , in complete secrecy.

this is stated as a fact without supporting evidence. it would 've
been more convincing if your reporter had come up with just one name
of someone who is sitting in jail , lost to the world , as he suggests.
maybe elvis , or jfk , somebody.

let 's put it this way if israel has put people away without
publicizing their arrests or the legal proceedings against them , how
has their disappearance been explained \? people have relatives ,
friends and colleagues , you know. israel is not known as a place
where people are made to vanish. would you care to give us a list of
people whose whereabouts are unknown \? people who are presumed to be
imprisoned \? this whole conspiracy story is n't something that we 've
come to associate with yigal arens before. perhaps from now on , we
should.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from arens@isi.edu (yigal arens)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization usc information sciences institute
lines 184
distribution world
nntp posting host grl.isi.edu
in reply to backon@vms.huji.ac.il 's message of 20 apr 93 21 38 19 gmt

in article 1993apr20.213819.664@vms.huji.ac.il backon@vms.huji.ac.il writes

in article 1483500349@igc.apc.org , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

4. is it true that in israeli prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?


apart from mordechai vanunu who had a trial behind closed doors , there
was one other espionage case (the nutty professor at the nes ziona
biological institute who was a k.g.b. mole) who was tried in camera .
i would n't exactly call it a state secret. the trial was simply tried
behind closed doors. i hate to disappoint you but the united states
has tried a number of espionage cases in camera.

at issue was not a trial behind closed doors , but arrest , trial and
imprisonment in complete secrecy. this was appraently attempted in the
case of vanunu and failed. it has happened before , and there is reason
to believe it still goes on.

read this

from ma'ariv , february 18 (possibly 28) , 1992

publication ban

the state of israel has never officially admitted that for many
years there have been in its prisons israeli citizens who were
sentenced to long prison terms without either the fact of
their arrest or the crimes of which they were accused ever
being made public.

by baruch me'iri

all those involved in this matter politely refused my request , one way
or another look , the subject is too delicate. if i comment on it , i
will be implicitly admitting that it is true if i mention a specific
case , even hint at it , i might be guilty of making public something
which may legally not be published .

the state of israel has never officially admitted that for many years
there have been in its prisons israeli citizens who were sentenced to
long prison terms without either the fact of their arrest or the
crimes of which they were accused ever being made public. more
precisely a court ordered publication ban was placed on the fact of
their arrest , and later on their imprisonment.

in israel of 1993 , citizens are imprisoned without us , the citizens of
this country , knowing anything about it. not knowing anything about
the fact that one person or another were tried and thrown in prison ,
for security offenses , in complete secrecy.

in the distant past for example during the days of the lavon ya
affair we heard about the third man being in prison. but many
years have passed since then , and what existed then can today no
longer be found even in south american countries , or in the former
communist countries.

but it appears that this is still possible in israel of 1993.

the chair of the knesset committee on law , the constitution and
justice , mk david zucker , sent a letter on this subject early this
week to the prime minister , the minister of justice , and the cabinet
legal advisor. ma'ariv has obtained the content of the letter

during the past several years a number of israeli citizens have been
imprisoned for various periods for security offenses. in some of
these cases a legal publication ban was imposed not only on the
specifics of the crimes for which the prisoners were convicted , but
even on the mere fact of their imprisonment. in those cases , after
being legally convicted , the prisoners spend their term in prison
without public awareness either of the imprisonment or of the
prisoner , asserts mk zucker.

on the other hand zucker agrees in his letter that , there is
absolutely no question that it is possible , and in some cases it is
imperative , that a publication ban be imposed on the specifics of
security offenses and the course of trials. but even in such cases
the court must weigh carefully and deliberately the circumstances
under which a trial will not be held in public.

however , one must ask whether the imposition of a publication ban on
the mere fact of a person 's arrest , and on the name of a person
sentenced to prison , is justified and appropriate in the state of
israel. the principle of public trial and the right of the public to
know are not consistent with the disappearance of a person from public
sight and his descent into the abyss of prison.

zucker thus decided to turn to the prime minister , the minister of
justice and the cabinet legal advisor and request that they consider
the question. the state of israel is strong enough to withstand the
cost incurred by abiding by the principle of public punishment. the
state of israel cannot be allowed to have prisoners whose detention
and its cause is kept secret , wrote zucker.

the legal counsel of the civil rights union , attorney mordechai
shiffman said that , we , as the civil rights union , do not know of any
cases of security prisoners , citizens of israel , who are imprisoned ,
and whose imprisonment cannot be made public. this is a situation
which , if it actually exists , is definitely unhealthy. just like
censorship is an unhealthy matter .

the union is aware , says shiffman , of cases where notification of a
suspect 's arrest to family members and lawyers is withheld. i am
speaking only of several days. i know also of cases where a detainee
was not allowed to meet with an attorney sometimes for the whole
first month of arrest. that is done because of the great secrecy.

the suspect himself , his family , his lawyer or even a journalist
can challenge the publication ban in court. but there are cases where
the family members themselves are not interested in publicity. the
journalist knows nothing of the arrest , and so almost everyone is
happy...

attorney yossi arnon , an official of the bar , claims that given the
laws as they exist in israel today , a situation where the arrest of a
person for security offenses is kept secret is definitely possible.
nothing is easier. the court orders a publication ban , and that 's
that. someone who has committed security offenses can spend long
years in prison without us knowing anything about it.

do you find this situation acceptable \?

attorney arnon definitely not. we live in a democratic country , and
such a state of affairs is impermissible. i am well aware that
publication can be damaging from the standpoint of security but
total non publication , silence , is unacceptable. consider the trial of
mordechai vanunu at least in his case we know that he was charged
with aggravated espionage and sentenced to 18 years in prison. the
trial was held behind closed doors , nobody knew the details except for
those who were authorized to. it is somehow possible to understand ,
though not to accept , the reasons , but , as i have noted , we at least
are aware of his imprisonment.

why is the matter actually that serious \? ca n't we trust the
discretion of the court \?

attorney arnon the judges have no choice but to trust the
presentations made to them. the judges do not have the tools to
investigate. this gives the government enormous power , power which
they can misuse.

and what if there really is a security issue \?

attorney arnon i am a man of the legal system , not a security expert.
democracy stands in opposition to security. i believe it is possible
to publicize the matter of the arrest and the charges without
entering into detail. we have already seen how the laws concerning
publication bans can be misused , in the case of the rachel heller
murder. a suspect in the murder was held for many months without the
matter being made public.

attorney shiffman , on the other hand , believes that state security can
be a legitimate reason for prohibiting publication of a suspect 's
arrest , or of a convicted criminal 's imprisonment. a healthy
situation \? definitely not. but i am aware of the fact that mere
publication may be harmful to state security .

a different opinion is expressed by attorney uri shtendal , former
advisor for arab affairs to prime ministers levi eshkol and golda
meir. clearly , we are speaking of isolated special cases. such
situations contrast with the principle that a judicial proceeding must
be held in public. no doubt this contradicts the principle of freedom
of expression. definitely also to the principle of individual freedom
which is also harmed by the prohibition of publication.

nevertheless , adds shtendal , the legislator allowed for the
possibility of such a ban , to accommodate special cases where the
damage possible as a consequence of publication is greater than that
which may follow from an abridgment of the principles i 've mentioned.
the authority to decide such matters of publication does not rest with
the prime minister or the security services , but with the court , which
we may rest assured will authorize a publication ban only if it has
been convinced of its need beyond a shadow of a doubt.

nevertheless , attorney shtendal agrees as a rule , clearly such a
phenomenon is undesirable. such an extreme step must be taken only in
the most extreme circumstances.

yigal arens
usc isi tv made me do it !
arens@isi.edu

from pgf5@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject hamas methods of murder
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
organization columbia university
lines 9



if anyone gets the new york times , the edit page has a transcript
of a vhs from hams describing their methods of torture and
execution. i will post it later on.





from gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu (gt1091a gt1091a kaan , timucin)
subject re public service translation no.2
keywords effective greek armenian postings
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 19

i see that our retarded translator , david , is still writing things that
do n't make sense. hey david i can see where you are.. may be one day ,
we will have the chance to talk deeply about that freedom of speach of
yours.. and you now , killing or torture , these things are only easy
ways out.. i have different plans for you and all empty headeds like
you...

lets get serious , dave , do n't ever write bad things about turkish people
or especially cyprus.. if i hear a word from you again that i consider
to be a curse to my people i will retalliate...

muccccukkk..
timucin.


kaan , timucin
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332
uucp ... ! decvax , hplabs , ncar , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! gt1091a
internet gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violatins in azerbaijan 009
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 262

accounts of anti armenian human right violatins in azerbaijan 009
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh



there were about six burned people in there , and the small
corpse of a burned child. it was gruesome. i suffered a
tremendous shock. there were about ten people there , but the
doctor on duty said that because of the numbers they were being
taken to baku. there was a woman 's corpse there too , she had
been . . . well , there was part of a body there . . . a
hacked off part of a woman 's body. it was something terrible.



deposition of roman aleksandrovich gambarian

born 1954
senior engineer
sumgait automotive transport production association

resident at building 17 33b , apartment 40
microdistrict no. 3
sumgait azerbaijan


what happened in sumgait was a great tragedy , an awful tragedy for us , the
armenian people , and for all of mankind. a genocide of armenians took place
during peacetime.

and it was a great tragedy for me personally , because i lost my father in
those days. he was still young. born in 1926.

on that day , february 28 , we were at home. of course we had heard that there
was unrest in town , my younger brother aleksandr had told us about it. but we
did n't think . . . we thought that everything would happen outdoors , that they
would n't go into people 's apartments. about five o'clock we saw a large crowd
near the kosmos movie theater in our microdistrict. we were sitting at home
watching television. we go out on the balcony and see the crowd pour into mir
street. this is right near downtown , next to the airline ticket office , our
house is right nearby. that day there was a group of policeman with shields
there. they threw rocks at those policemen. then they moved off in the
direction of our building. they burned a motorcycle in our courtyard and
started shouting for armenians to come out of the building. we switched off
the light. as it turns out , their signal was just the opposite to turn on the
light. that meant that it was an azerbaijani home. we , of course , did n't know
and thought that if they saw lights on they would come to our apartment.

suddenly there 's pounding on the door. we go to the door , all four of us
there were four of us in the apartment. father , mother , my younger brother
aleksandr , and i. he was born in 1959. my father was a veteran of world war
ii and had fought in china and in the soviet far east he was a pilot.

we went to the door and they started pounding on it harder , breaking it down
with axes. we start to talk to them in azerbaijani , what 's going on \? what 's
happened \? they say , armenians , get out of here ! we do n't open the door , we
say , if we have to leave , we 'll leave , we 'll leave tomorrow. they say , no ,
leave now , get out of here , armenian dogs , get out of here ! by now they 've
broken the door both on the lock and the hinge sides. we hold them off as best
we can , my father and i on one side , and my mother and brother on the other.
we had prepared ourselves we had several hammers and an axe in the apartment ,
and grabbed what we could find to defend ourselves. they broke in the door and
when the door gave way , we held it for another half hour. no neighbors , no
police and no one from the city government came to our aid the whole time. we
held the door. they started to smash the door on the lock side , first with an
axe , and then with a crowbar.

when the door gave way they tore it off its hinges sasha hit one of them
with the axe. the axe flew out of his hands. they also had axes , crowbars ,
pipes , and special rods made from armature shafts. one of them hit my father
in the head. the pressure from the mob was immense. when we retreated into the
room , one of them hit my mother , too , in the left part of her face. my brother
sasha and i fought back , of course. sasha is quite strong and hot tempered , he
was the judo champion of sumgait. we had hammers in our hands , and we injured
several of the bandits in the heads and in the eyes , all that went on. but
they , the injured ones , fell back , and others came to take their places , there
were many of them.

the door fell down at an angle. the mob tried to remove the door , so as to go
into the second room and to continue . . . to finish us off. father brought
skewers and gave them to sasha and me we flew at them when we saw father
bleeding his face was covered with blood , he had been wounded in the head ,
and his whole face was bloody. we just threw ourselves on them when we saw
that. we threw ourselves at the mob and drove back the ones in the hall , drove
them down to the third floor. we came out on the landing , but a group of the
bandits remained in one of the rooms they were smashing all the furniture in
there , having closed the door behind them. we started tearing the door off to
chase away the remaining ones or finish them. then a man , an imposing man of
about 40 , an azerbaijani , came in. when he was coming in , father fell down and
mother flew to him , and started to cry out. i jumped out onto the balcony and
started calling an ambulance , but then the mob started throwing stones through
the windows of our veranda and kitchen. we live on the fourth floor. and no
one came. i went into the room. it seemed to me that this man was the leader
of the group. he was respectably dressed in a hat and a trench coat with a
fur collar. and he addressed my mother in azerbaijani what 's with you ,
woman , why are you shouting \? what happened \? why are you shouting like that \?
she says , what do you mean , what happened \? you killed somebody ! my father
was a musician , he played the clarinet , he played at many weddings , armenian
and azerbaijani , he played for many years. everyone knew him. mother says ,
the person who you killed played at thousands of azerbaijani weddings , he
brought so much joy to people , and you killed that person. he says , you
do n't need to shout , stop shouting. and when they heard the voice of this
man , the 15 to 18 people who were in the other room opened the door and
started running out. we chased after them , but they ran away. that man left ,
too. as we were later told , downstairs one of them told the others , i do n't
know if it was from fright or what , told them that we had firearms , even
though we only fought with hammers and an axe. we raced to father and started
to massage his heart , but it was already too late. we asked the neighbors to
call an ambulance. the ambulance never came , although we waited for it all
evening and all through the night.

somewhere around midnight about 15 policemen came. they informed us they were
from khachmas. they said , we heard that a group was here at your place , you
have our condolences. they told us not to touch anything and left. father lay
in the room.

so we stayed home. each of us took a hammer and a knife. we sat at home. well ,
we say , if they descend on us again we 'll defend ourselves. somewhere around
one o'clock in the morning two people came from the sumgait procuracy ,
investigators. they say , leave everything just how it is , we 're coming back
here soon and will bring an expert who will record and photograph everything.
then people came from the republic procuracy too , but no one helped us take
father away. the morning came and the neighbors arrived. we wanted to take
father away somehow. we called the procuracy and the police a couple of times ,
but no one came. we called an ambulance , and nobody came. then one of the
neighbors said that the bandits were coming to our place again and we should
hide. we secured the door somehow or other. we left father in the room and
went up to the neighbor 's.

the excesses began again in the morning. the bandits came in several vehicles ,
zil panel trucks , and threw themselves out of the vehicles like . . . a
landing force near the center of town. our building was located right there. a
crowd formed. then they started fighting with the soldiers. then , in buildings
19 and 20 , that 's next to the airline ticket office , they started breaking
into armenian apartments , destroying property , and stealing. the armenians
were n't at home , they had managed to flee and hide somewhere. and again they
poured in the direction of our building. they were shouting that there were
some armenians left on the fourth floor , meaning us. they 're up there , still ,
up there. let 's go kill them ! they broke up all the furniture remaining in
the two rooms , threw it outside , and burned it in large fires. we were hiding
one floor up. something heavy fell. sasha threw himself toward the door
shouting that it was probably father , they had thrown father , were defiling
the corpse , probably throwing it in the fire , going to burn it. i heard it ,
and the sound was kind of hollow , and i said , no , that 's from some of the
furniture. mother and i pounced on sasha and stopped him somehow , and calmed
him down.

the mob left somewhere around eight o'clock. they smashed open the door and
went into the apartment of the neighbors across from us. they were also
armenians , they had left for another city.

the father of the neighbor who was concealing us came and said , are you
crazy \? why are you hiding armenians \? do n't you now they 're checking all the
apartments \? they could kill you and them ! and to us . . . come on , leave
this apartment ! we went down to the third floor , to some other neighbors'. at
first the man did n't want to let us in , but then one of his sons asked him and
he relented. we stayed there until eleven o'clock at night. we heard the sound
of motors. the neighbors said that it was armored personnel carriers. we went
downstairs. there was a light on in the room where we left father. in the
other rooms , as we found out later , all the chandeliers had been torn down.
they left only one bulb. the bulb was burning , which probably was a signal
they had agreed on because there was a light burning in every apartment in our
microdistrict 3 where there had been a pogrom.

with the help of the soldiers we made it to the city party committee and were
saved. our salvation my mother 's , my brother 's , and mine , was purely
accidental , because , as we later found out from the neighbors , someone in the
crowd shouted that we had firearms up there. well , we fought , but we were only
able to save mother. we could n't save father. we inflicted many injuries on
the bandits , some of them serious. but others came to take their places. we
were also wounded , there was blood , and we were scratched all over we got our
share. it was a miracle we survived. we were saved by a miracle and the
troops. and if troops had n't come to sumgait , the slaughter would have been
even greater probably all the armenians would have been victims of the
genocide.

through an acquaintance at the city party committee i was able to contact the
leadership of the military unit that was brought into the city , and at their
orders we were assigned special people to accompany us , experts. we went to '
pick up father 's corpse. we took it to the morgue. this was about two o'clock
in the morning , it was already march 1 , it was raining very hard and it was
quite cold , and we were wearing only our suits. when my brother and i carried
father into the morgue we saw the burned and disfigured corpses. there were
about six burned people in there , and the small corpse of a burned child. it
was gruesome. i suffered a tremendous shock. there were about ten people
there , but the doctor on duty said that because of the numbers they were being
taken to baku. there was a woman 's corpse there too , she had been . . . well ,
there was part of a body there . . . a hacked off part of a woman 's body. it
was something terrible. the morgue was guarded by the landing force . . . the
child that had been killed was only ten or twelve years old. it was impossible
to tell if it was a boy or a girl because the corpse was burned. there was a
man there , too , several men. you could n't tell anything because their faces
were disfigured , they were in such awful condition...

now two and a half months have passed. every day i recall with horror what
happened in the city of sumgait. every day my father , and the death of my
father , and how we fought , and the people 's sorrow , and especially the morgue.

i still want to say that 70 years have passed since soviet power was
established , and up to the very last minute we could not conceive of what
happened in sumgait. it will go down in history.

i'm particularly surprised that the mob was n't even afraid of the troops. they
even fought the soldiers. many soldiers were wounded. the mob threw fuel
mixtures onto the armored personnel carriers , setting them on fire. they
were n't afraid. they were so sure of their impunity that they attacked our
troops. i saw the clashes on february 29 near the airline ticket office , right
across from our building. and that mob was fighting with the soldiers. the
inhabitants of some of the buildings , also azerbaijanis , threw rocks at the
soldiers from windows , balconies , even cinder blocks and glass tanks. they
were n't afraid of them. i say they were sure of their impunity. when we were
at the neighbors' and when they were robbing homes near the airline ticket
office i called the police at number 3 20 02 and said that they were robbing
armenian apartments and burning homes. and they told me that they knew that
they were being burned. during those days no one from the police department
came to anyone 's aid. no one came to help us , either , to our home , even though
perhaps they could have come and saved us.

as we later found out the mob was given free vodka and drugs , near the bus
station. rocks were distributed in all parts of town to be thrown and used in
fighting. so i think all of it was arranged in advance. they even knew in
which buildings and apartments the armenians lived , on which floors they had
lists , the bandits. you can tell that the operation was planned in advance.

thanks , of course , to our troops , to the country 's leadership , and to the
leadership of the ministry of defense for helping us , thanks to the russian
people , because the majority of the troops were russians , and the troops
suffered losses , too. i want to express this gratitude in the name of my
family and in the name of all armenians , and in the name of all sumgait
armenians. for coming in time and averting terrible things worse would
have happened if that mob had not been stopped on time.

at present an investigation is being conducted on the part of the ussr
procuracy. i want to say that those bandits should receive the severest
possible punishment , because if they do n't , the tragedy , the genocide , could
happen again. everyone should see that the most severe punishment is meted
out for such deeds.

very many bandits and hardened hooligans took part in the unrest , in the mass
disturbances. the mobs were huge. at present not all of them have been caught ,
very few of them have been , i think , judging by the newspaper reports. there
were around 80 people near our building alone , that 's how many people took
part in the pogrom of our building all in all.

they should all receive the most severe punishment so that others see that
retribution awaits those who perform such acts.

may 18 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 153 157



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re why does us consider yigal arens to be a dangerous to humanity
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 48

anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed) writes

in article 4815@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents
of those files.
so it will be nice if yigal will tell us
1. why do american authorities consider yigal arens to be dangerous \?

adl authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including
the millions of americans of arab ancestry. perhaps you can answer
the question as to why the adl maintained files and spied on adc members
in california (and elsewhere \? \? ) \? friendly rivalry perhaps \?

come on ! most if not all arabs are sympathetic to the palestinian war
against israel. that is why the adl monitors arab organizations. that is
the same reason the us monitored communist organizations and soviet nationals
only a few years ago.

perhaps yigal is a greenpeace member \? or the naacp \? or a reporter \?
or a member of any of the dozens of other political organizations ethnic
minorities occupations that the adl spied on.

all of these groups have , in the past , associated with or been a part of anti
israel activity or propoganda. the adl is simply monitoring them so that if
anything comes up , they wo n't be caught by surprise.

2. why does the adl have an interest in that person \?

paranoia \?

no , that is why world trade center bombings do n't happen in israel (aside from
the fact that there is no world trade center) and why people like zein isa (
palestinian whose american group planned to bow up the israeli embassy and
kill many jews. ) are caught. as mordechai levy of the jdl said , paranoid
jews live longer.

3. if one does trust either the us government or the adl what an
additional information should he send them \?

the names of half the posters on this forum , unless they already
have them.

they probably do.

gideon ehrlich
anwar
ed.


from friedenb@silver.egr.msu.edu (gedaliah friedenberg)
subject re zionism is racism
organization college of engineering , michigan state university
lines 26
distribution world
reply to friedenb@silver.egr.msu.edu (gedaliah friedenberg)
nntp posting host silver.egr.msu.edu

in article 20apr93.23565659.0109@vm1.mcgill.ca , b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
in re syria 's expansion , the author writes that the un thought
zionism was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct
the first time , zionism is racism and thankfully , the mcgill daily
(the student newspaper at mcgill) was proud enough to print an article
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail.

if you want info claiming that blacks were brought to earth 60 trillion
years ago by aliens from the plante shabazz , i can send you literature from
the nation of islam (farrakhan 's group) who believe this.

if you want info claiming that the holocaust never happened , i can send you
info from ihr (institute for historical review david irving 's group) , or
just read dan gannon 's posts on alt.revisionism.

i just wanted to put steve 's post in with the company that it deserves.

steve

gedaliah friedenberg
department of mechanical engineering
department of metallurgy , mechanics and materials science
michigan state university




from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject jokes and international relations
summary re israil'e sicak bakmayanlara aydinlatici bir not...
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 47

in article 1993apr19.213345.28299@freenet.carleton.ca aa624@freenet.carleton.
ca (suat kiniklioglu) a.k.a. kubilay kultigin wrote

kk bugunlerde jewish jokes muhabbetlerinden esinlenerek sunu
kk yazayim dedim.
kk
kk israel was able to divert the jewish lobby from the greeks ,
kk for example , by persuading it that supporting the armenian
kk resolution which came before the senate in february 1990
kk could help sour turco israeli relations. in addition , the
kk israeli embassy in washington was active in ensuring that the
kk resolution failed , for instance by assisting turkish jews to
kk travel to wahington to underline the affinity between israel
kk and turkey.
kk
kk there was no doubt about the debt which turkey felt it owed
kk to israel over this matter. even four months before the re
kk solution came up for consideration , as enior member of the
kk turkish foreign ministry said his country was very grateful
kk to israel , the cooperation , in his view , refelecting the
kk maturity of the bilateral relationship. the experience over
kk the armenian issue has convinced senior figures in turkey
kk that the pro israel network in washington can indeed deliver
kk the desired results.
kk
kk robins philip , turkey and the middle east 1991 chathm house
kk papers. p.
kk
kk papers p.84


kk got to go now

not so fast ! you have a rather warped sense of logic ! you are telling us that
because israel wishes to have good relations with turkey even at the expense
of armenians or armenia , makes it bad for turks to tell racist jokes against
jews. thus , we can infer , if israel had poor relations with turkey , it would
be alright to post such horrible jokes against jews !

you impress nobody.



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 227
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu




center for policy research writes...


subject final solution for gaza \?


final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

your comparison with the warsaw ghetto uprising is insulting ,
and racist beyond belief. the attempts to quiet any violence
in the gaza strip are just that. the efforts to quell murder
and mayhem in the gaza strip were the resluts of violence and
came after the violence. it was not an arbitrary racial move
like the nazi treatment of jews. jews had not committed acts
of violence and murder as have the residents of gaza. i find
your eagerness to ignore the acts of murder nothing more than
anti israel bigotry.


the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.
the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

it is not punishment , but protection from repeated attacks by
residents of gaza. you self servingly omit any references to
why israel has had to take action. apparaently the deaths of
innocent israeli civilians do not enter into your equation , a
racist ommission on your part.


while polish non jews risked their lives to save jews from the
ghetto , no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help
the gazan resistance. the only help given to gazans by israeli
jews , only dozens of people , is humanitarian assistance.

the right of the gazan population to resist occupation is
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to
rise up against its tormentors.

the right of israel to protect its citizens from murderers is
also recognized by international law. israeli civilians have
been getting stabbed to death on a daily basis. if this wave
of murder does not matter to you , then your posturing for the
basic human rights you claim matter so much to you is nothing
but an anti israel charade.


as is known , the israeli regime is considering gazans unworthy of
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are
considered worthy to do the dirty work in israeli hotels , shops
and fields.

do you know of residents of gaza who have applied for israeli
citizenship and were denied \? i have heard of no such denials
taking place. can you document this , or is this more of your
stupid and innacurate propaganda \? the truth is that if gazan
residents applied for citizenship , hamas would murder them as
collaborators.


many gazans are born in towns and villages located in
israel. they may not live there , for these areas are reserved for
the master race.

how dare you use such a disgusting phrase. how very easy you
attack a people , when you omit facts which fly in the face of
your pure racism. perhaps you are judging a people to be the
racists that you are. do you believe that all jews must have
the same bigoted makeup as you \?

here 's another little fly in your ointment , about the 'master
race , ' for you to avoid...

two months ago a plane with 86 bosnian muslims left bosnia to
seek asylum in the middle east. four arab nations refused to
grant them asylum. then when israli arabs agreed to take the
responsibility for them , they were allowed into israel. yes ,
israel. but when the plane landed , the israeli arabs who had
previously agreed to take care of them refused to be involved
with the rescue project , because they felt that it would make
israel look good. it was more important to avoid any good pr
for israel than to take care of fellow muslims. israel moved
them to a kibbutz , where they are safe and secure. the truth
is that time after time the islamic world has turned its back
on muslims in need more than israel has. even in the case of
the 400 deportees , lebanon was willing to let their so called
arab brothers freeze to death rather than give them sanctuary
in lebanon.

nearly twice as many palestinians have been murdered by other
palestinians than in confrontations with israel. hundreds of
thousands of palestinians had been deported from kuwait , just
because they were palestinian. the truth is that your phoney
concern for the welfare of the palestinians is nothing but an
excuse to attack israel. you are part of the ignorant effort
to confine all concern for the welfare of the palestinians to
attacking israel. but the truth is there are greater reasons
than israel for the plight of the palestinians. to disregard
jordan or kuwait or saudi arabia or any of the other oil rich
nations who do nothing for these people , is to use the plight
of these poor people as a vehicle for your hatred of jews , or
your hatred of israel. anti semitism and anti zionism is not
the same as pro palestinian and anyone who insists that it is
the same really does not give two hoots for their welfare.


the nazi regime accorded to the residents of the warsaw ghetto the
right to self administration. they selected jews to pacify the
occupied population and preventing any form of resistance. some
jewish collaborators were killed. israel also wishes to rule over
gaza through arab collaborators.

your pathetic analogy is so absent of relevant fact that your
racism cannot be disguised. jews had never declared war on a
polish people. jews had never attacked poles with knives , or
had used the ghetto as a staging ground for attacks. to take
something like the warsaw ghetto(the creation of which you do
not even bother to discuss ! )and the uprising that followed is
to degrade the dead , and to show that intelligent debate on a
difficult situation is beyond your intellectual purview. you
clearly have never even read a single word of the covenant of
the islamic resistance movement. here is arguably the single
most anti semitic genocidal document since mein kampf , yet it
is totally disregarded in your rantings. your racism is most
evident in your eagerness to avoid such documentation. if it
were considered , you might actually have to deal with mideast
problems in a balanced manner , rather than in an anti semitic
manner.


as israel denies gazans the only two options which are compatible
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish
society does not consider gazans full human beings.

and just how was gaza obtained \? do you forget that israel is
not in the habit of grabbing land for the hell of it , but had
taken gaza in a war that it did not start \? did you know land
israel captures in wars , wars which other nations have always
started , are n't the same as israel , and they are subject to a
completely different set of international laws \? since you do
continuously refer to international law , would you please say
what specific international laws israel is violating \?


this attitude
is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews.

i can cite 6 , 000 , 000 reasons why it is not.


the
current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are
consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime mininister
yitzhak rabin that 'gaza sink into the sea'.

where is this quote \? i have never heard rabin assert that he
wished such a thing. since you are in general a liar , you 'll
have to provide the entire quote , with source , or this effort
will be regarded as just another one of your fabrications.


one is led to ask
oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more sinister
goals towards the gazans \? whether they have some final solution
up their sleeve \?

only you are led to ask such a loaded , racist , intellectually
dishonest question. you inability to come to terms with what
you are has turned you into a racist of the highest order.


i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever
they can to help the gazans regain their full human , civil and
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings.

why do you not feel the same compassion for the jews of iran ,
or iraq , or yemen , or saudi arabia , or syria \? do you have an
inkling of what they have endured over the past decades \? or ,
what about the plight of the palestinians in kuwait \? or what
about the treatment of the bosnian muslims \? do you think the
residents of gaza are being subjected to what all the muslims
in bosnia are enduring \? why are you indifferent to the death
and suffering of people \? why do you not care that these folk
are being exterminated \? why do you not care that only israel
has given any of these people safe haven \? could it be due to
the fact that it is not israel who is doing the killing \? the
people in gaza are not being exterminated. they are n't being
killed. they are n't being raped. they are n't being starved.
they are n't being driven from their lands. they are not kept
from receiving food or other supplies. but the bosnians are.
and the only country which has provided some sanctuary to the
bosnian muslims is the same nation that you have devoted your
life to attacking , in the guise of compassion.

your rantings are so unfettered by the burden of intellectual
honesty that you ought to take a deep breath and ask yourself
what your real motives are. do not flatter yourself into the
belief that truth or compassion are what drives you. in your
case , it is clear that hate beats out love every time. maybe
you are burdened with some kind of guilt for having been born
a jew. it is obvious that your hatred of your own judaism is
being dumped on all other jews. why else would you suggest a
racist idea like breeding jews out of existence \? maybe these
fits of anti semitism are a result of being cut off from your
own people for an extended period. whatever the case may be ,
it is clear that you are not what you have labored so hard to
appear to be. when you realize that you ca n't care for other
people while you hate yourself you might actually begin to do
some good.

but for now , you are a fruad.




from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 9
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


the comparison of the palestinian situation with the holocaust
is insulting and completely false. any person making such a rude
and false comparison is either ignorant of the holocaust , or also
ignorant of the situation in the mideast , or is an anti semite.

to compare a complicated political situation with the genocide
of 6 , 000 , 000 jews is racist in and of itself.


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 39

in article 1993apr14.210636.4253@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

hezbollah and other lebanese resistance fighters are skilled at precision
bombing of sla and israeli targets.

it 's hard to beat a car bomb with a suicidal driver in getting
right up to the target before blowing up. even booby traps and
radio controlled bombs under cars are pretty efficient killers.
you have a point.

i find such methods to be far more
restrained and responsible

is this part of your islamic value system \?

than the israeli method of shelling and bombing
villages with the hope that a hezbollah member will be killed along with
the civilians murdered.

had israeli methods been anything like this , then iraq wouldn 've been
nuked long ago , entire arab towns deported and executions performed by
the tens of thousands. the fact is , though , that israeli methods
are n't even 1 10 , 000th as evil as those which are common and everyday
in arab states.

soldiers are trained to die for their country. three idf soldiers
did their duty the other day. these men need not have died if their government
had kept them on israeli soil.

israeli soil \? \? \? \? brad ali ! just wait until the ayatollah 's
thought police get wind of this. it 's all holy muslim soil (tm) .
have you forgotten \? may allah have mercy on you now.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject 2.5 million muslims perished of butchery at the hands of armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 92

in article 1993apr25.015551.23259@husc3.harvard.edu verbit@brauer.harvard.edu (mikhail s. verbitsky) writes

actually , jarmo is a permanent resident of my killfile

anyone care to speculate on this \? i 'll let the rest of the net judge
this on its own merits. between 1914 and 1920 , 2.5 million turks perished
of butchery at the hands of armenians. the genocide involved not only
the killing of innocents but their forcible deportation from the russian
armenia. they were persecuted , banished , and slaughtered while much of
ottoman army was engaged in world war i. the genocide treaty defines
genocide as acting with a

'specific intent to destroy , in whole or in substantial part , a
national , ethnic , racial or religious group.'

history shows that the x soviet armenian government intended to eradicate
the muslim population. 2.5 million turks and kurds were exterminated by the
armenians. international diplomats in ottoman empire at the time including
u.s. ambassador bristol denounced the x soviet armenian government 's policy
as a massacre of the kurds , turks , and tartars. the blood thirsty leaders of
the x soviet armenian government at the time personally involved in the
extermination of the muslims. the turkish genocide museums in turkiye honor
those who died during the turkish massacres perpetrated by the armenians.

the eyewitness accounts and the historical documents established ,
beyond any doubt , that the massacres against the muslim people
during the war were planned and premeditated. the aim of the policy
was clearly the extermination of all turks in x soviet armenian
territories.

the muslims of van , bitlis , mus , erzurum and erzincan districts and
their wives and children have been taken to the mountains and killed.
the massacres in trabzon , tercan , yozgat and adana were organized and
perpetrated by the blood thirsty leaders of the x soviet armenian
government.

the principal organizers of the slaughter of innocent muslims were
dro , antranik , armen garo , hamarosp , daro pastirmadjian , keri ,
karakin , haig pajise liantz and silikian.

source bristol papers , general correspondence container 32 bristol
to bradley letter of september 14 , 1920.

i have it from absolute first hand information that the armenians in
the caucasus attacked tartar (turkish) villages that are utterly
defenseless and bombarded these villages with artillery and they murder
the inhabitants , pillage the village and often burn the village.


sources (the ottoman state , the ministry of war) , islam ahalinin
ducar olduklari mezalim hakkinda vesaike mustenid malumat , (istanbul , 1918).
the french version documents relatifs aux atrocites commises par les armeniens
sur la population musulmane , (istanbul , 1919). in the latin script h. k.
turkozu , ed. , osmanli ve sovyet belgeleriyle ermeni mezalimi , (ankara ,
1982). in addition z. basar , ed. , ermenilerden gorduklerimiz , (ankara ,
1974) and , edited by the same author , ermeniler hakkinda makaleler
derlemeler , (ankara , 1978). askeri tarih belgeleri ... , vol. 32 , 83
(december 1983) , document numbered 1881.
askeri tarih belgeleri .... , vol. 31 , 81 (december 1982) , document
numbered 1869.

those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning
with the excuse of forced labor in road construction , they were taken
in the direction of sarikamis and annihilated. when the russian army
withdrew , a part of the remaining people was destroyed in armenian
massacres and cruelties they were thrown into wells , they were locked
in houses and burned down , they were killed with bayonets and swords , in places
selected as butchering spots , their bellies were torn open , their lungs
were pulled out , and girls and women were hanged by their hair after
being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. a very small part
of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the
cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering
from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived
in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to.
including women and children , such persons discovered so far do not
exceed one thousand five hundred in erzincan and thirty thousand in
erzurum. all the fields in erzincan and erzurum are untilled , everything
that the people had has been taken away from them , and we found them
in a destitute situation. at the present time , the people are subsisting
on some food they obtained , impelled by starvation , from russian storages
left behind after their occupation of this area.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from horen@netcom.com (jonathan b. horen)
subject investment in yehuda and shomron
lines 40

in today 's israeline posting , at the end (an afterthought \? ) , i read

more money allocated to building infrastructure in territories to
create jobs for palestinians

kol yisrael reports that public works geared at building
infrastructure costing 140 million new israeli shekels (about 50
million dollars) will begin sunday in the territories. this was
announced last night by prime minister yitzhak rabin and finance
minister avraham shohat in an effort to create more jobs for
palestinian residents of the territories. this infusion of money
will bring allocations given to developing infrastructure in the
territories this year to 450 million nis , up from last year 's
figure of 120 million nis.

while i applaud investing of money in yehuda , shomron , v'chevel azza ,
in order to create jobs for their residents , i find it deplorable that
this has never been an active policy of any israeli administration
since 1967 , with regard to their jewish residents . past governments
found funds to subsidize cheap (read affordable) housing and the
requisite infrastructure , but where was the investment for creating
industry (which would have generated income and jobs) \?

after 26 years , yehuda and shomron remain barren , bereft of even
middle sized industries , and the jewish settlements are sterile
bedroom communities , havens for (in the main) israelis (both
secular and religious) who work in tel aviv or jerusalem but
cannot afford to live in either city or their surrounding suburbs.

there 's an old saying bli giboosh , ayn kivoosh just living there
was n't enough , we had to really settle it. but instead , we settled
for potemkin villages , and now we are paying the price (and doing
for others what we should have done for ourselves).



yonatan b. horen jews who do not base their advocacy of jewish positions and
(408) 736 3923 interests on judaism are essentially racists... the only
horen@netcom.com morally defensible grounds for the preservation of jews as a
separate people rest on their religious identity as jews.

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 008 b
summary part b
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 912

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 008 part b
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh

(part b of 008)



oh , yes , i just remembered. while they were raping me they
repeated quite frequently , let the armenian women have babies
for us , muslim babies , let them bear azerbaijanis for the
struggle against the armenians. then they said , those
muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes ! they repeated
it very often.



...continued from part a

the six of them left. they left and i had an attack. i realized that the dan
ger was past , and stopped controlling myself. i relaxed for a moment and the
physical pain immediately made itself felt. my heart and kidneys hurt. i had
an awful kidney attack. i rolled back and forth on top of those christmas
ornaments , howling and howling. i did n't know where i was or how long this
went on. when we figured out the time , later it turned out that i howled and
was in pain for around an hour. then all my strength was gone and i burst into
tears , i started feeling sorry for myself , and so on and so forth . . .

then someone came into the room. i think i hear someone calling my name. i
want to respond and restrain myself , i think that i'm hallucinating. i am
silent , and then it continues it seems that first a man 's voice is calling
me , then a woman 's. later i found out that mamma had sent our neighbor , the
one whose apartment she was hiding in , uncle sabir kasumov , to our place ,
telling him , i know that they 've killed lyuda. go there and at least bring
her corpse to me so they do n't violate her corpse. he went and returned empty
handed , but mamma thought he just did n't want to carry the corpse into his
apartment. she sent him another time , and then sent his wife , and they were
walking through the rooms looking for me , but i did n't answer their calls.
there was no light , they had smashed the chandeliers and lamps.

they started the pogrom in our apartment around five o'clock , and at 9 30 i
went down to the kasumovs'. i went down the stairs myself. i walked out of the
apartment how long can you wait for your own death , how long can you be
cowardly , afraid \? come what will. i walked out and started knocking on the
doors one after the next. no one , not on the fifth floor , not on the fourth ,
opened the door. on the third floor , on the landing of the stairway , uncle
sabir 's son started to shout , aunt roza , do n't cry , lyuda 's alive ! he
knocked on his own door and out came aunt tanya , igor , and after them , mamma.
aunt tanya , uncle sabir 's wife , is an urdmurt. all of us were in their
apartment. i did n't see karina , but she was in their home , too , lying
delirious , she had a fever. marina was there too , and my father and mother.
all of my family had gathered there.

at the door i lost consciousness. igor and aunt tanya carried me into the
apartment.

later i found out what they had done to our karina. mamma said , lyuda ,
karina 's in really serious condition , she 's probably dying. if she recognizes
you , do n't cry , do n't tell her that her face looks so awful. it was as though
her whole face was paralyzed , you know , everything was pushed over to one
side , her eye was all swollen , and everything flowed together , her lips , her
cheeks . . . it was as though they had dragged her right side around the whole
microdistrict , that 's how disfigured her face was. i said , fine. mamma was
afraid to go into the room , because she went in and hugged karina and started
to cry. i went in. as soon as i saw her my legs gave way. i fell down near the
bed , hugged her legs and started kissing them and crying. she opened the eye
that was intact , looked at me , and said , who is it \? but i could barely talk ,
my whole face was so badly beaten. i did n't say , but rather muttered something
tender , something incomprehensible , but tender , my karochka , my karina , my
little golden one . . . she understood me.

then igor brought me some water , i drank it down and moistened karina 's lips.
she started to groan. she was saying something to me , but i could n't
understand it. then i made out , it hurts , i hurt all over. her hair was
glued down with blood. i stroked her forehead , her head , she had grit on her
forehead , and on her lips . . . she was groaning again , and i do n't know how
to help her. she calls me over with her hand , come closer. i go to her. she 's
saying something to me , but i ca n't understand her. igor brings her a pencil
and paper and says , write it down. she shakes her head as if to say , no , i
ca n't write. i ca n't understand what she 's saying. she wanted to tell me
something , but she could n't. i say , karina , just lie there a little while ,
then maybe you 'll feel better and you can tell me then. and then she says ,
maybe it 'll be too late. and i completely . . . just broke down , i could n't
control myself.

then i moistened my hand in the water and wiped her forehead and eye. i dipped
a handkerchief into the water and squeezed a little water onto her lips. she
says , lyuda , we 're not saved yet , we have to go somewhere else. out of this
damned house. they want to kill us , i know. they 'll find us here , too. we need
to call urshan. she repeated this to me for almost a whole hour , until i
understood her every word. i ask , what 's his number \? urshan feyruzovich ,
that 's the head of the administration where she works. we have to call him.
but i did n't know his home number. i say , karina , what 's his number \? she
says , i ca n't remember. i say , who knows his number \? who can i call \? she
says , i do n't know anything , leave me alone.

i went out of the room. igor stayed to watch over her and sat there , he was
crying , too. i say , mamma , karina says that we have to call urshan. how can
we call him \? who knows his telephone number \? i tell marina , think , think ,
who can we call to find out \? she started calling several people did n't
answer. she called a girlfriend , her girlfriend called another girlfriend and
found out the number and called us back. the boss 's wife answered and said he
was at the dacha. my voice keeps cracking , i ca n't talk normally. she says ,
lyuda , do n't panic , get a hold of yourself , go out to those hooligans and
tell them that they just ca n't do that. she still did n't know what was really
going on. i said , it 's easy for you to say that , you do n't understand what 's
happening. they are killing people here. i do n't think there is a single
armenian left in the building , they 've cut them all up. i'm even surprised
that we managed to save ourselves. she says , well , ok , if it 's that serious
. . . and all the same she 's thinking that my emotions are all churned up
and that i'm fearing for my life , that in fact it 's not all that bad. ok ,
fine , fine , she says , if you 're afraid , ok , as soon as urshan comes back
i 'll send him over.

we called again because they had just started robbing the apartment directly
under aunt tanya 's , on the second floor , asya dallakian 's apartment. she
was n't home , she was staying with her daughter in karabagh. they destroyed
everything there . . . we realized that they still might come back. we kept on
trying to get through to aunt tanya urshan 's wife is named tanya too and
finally we get through. she says , yes , he 's come home , he 's leaving for your
place now. he came. of course he did n't know what was happening , either ,
because he brought two of his daughters with him. he came over in his jeep
with his two daughters , like he was going on an outing. he came and saw what
shape we were in and what was going on in town and got frightened. he has
grown up daughters , they 're almost my age.

the three of us carried out karina , tossed a coat on her and a warm scarf , and
went down to his car. he took karina and me to the maternity home. . . no ,
first they took us to the po ice precinct. they had stretchers ready. as
soon as we got out of the car they put karina and me on stretchers and said
that we were in serious condition and that we must n't move , we might have
fractures. from the stretcher i saw about 30 soldiers sitting and lying on the
first floor , bandaged , on the concrete floor , groaning . . . this was around
eleven o'clock at night. we had left the house somewhere around 1 30. when i
saw those soldiers i realized that a war was going on soldiers , enemies
. . . everything just like a war.

they carried me into some office on the stretcher. the emergency medical
people from baku were there. the medical attendant there was an older
armenian. urshan told him what they had done to karina because she 's so proud
she would never have told. and this aging armenian . . . his name was uncle
arkady , i think , because someone said arkady , get an injection ready , he
started to fill a syringe , and turned around so as to give karina a shot. but
when he looked at her face he became ill. and he was an old man , in his
sixties , his hair was all grey , and his moustache , too. he hugged karina and
started to cry what have they done to you \? ! he was speaking armenian. what
have they done to you \? ! karina did n't say anything. mamma came in then , and
she started to cry , too. the man tried to calm her. i 'll give you a shot.
mamma tells him , i do n't need any shot. where is the government \? just what
are they doing \? look what they 've done to my children ! they 're killing people ,
and you 're just sitting here ! some teacups were standing on the table in
there. you 're sitting here drinking tea ! look what they 've done to my
daughters ! look what they 've turned them into ! they gave her something to
drink , some heart medicine , i think. they gave karina an injection and the
doctor said that she had to be taken to the maternity home immediately. papa
and urshan , i think , even though papa was in bad shape , helped carry karina
out. when they put her on the stretcher , none of the medics got near her. i
do n't know , maybe there were n't any orderlies. then they came to me what 's
the matter with you \? their tone was so official that i wrapped myself tighter
in the half length coat. i had a blanket on , too , an orange one , aunt tanya 's.
i said , i'm fine. uncle arkady came over and was soothing me , and then told
the doctor , you leave , let a woman examine her. a woman came , an
azerbaijani , i believe , and said , what 's wrong with you \? i was wearing my
sister lyuda 's nightshirt , the sister who at this time was in yerevan. when
she was nursing her infant she had cut out a big hole in it so that it would
be easier to breast feed the baby. i tore the night shirt some more and showed
her. i took it off my shoulders and turned my back to her. there was a huge
wound , about the size of a hand , on my back , from the indian vase. she said
something to them and they gave me two shots. she said that it should be
dressed with something , but that they 'd do that in the hospital.

they put me on a stretcher , too. they started looking for people to carry me.
i raised up my head a little and wanted to sit up , and this woman , i do n't
know if she was a doctor or a nurse , said , lie still , you must n't move. when
i was lying back down i saw two policemen leading a man. his profile seemed
very familiar to me. i shouted , stop ! one of the policemen turned and says ,
what do you want \? i say , bring him to me , i want to look at him. they
brought him over and i said , that person was just in our apartment and he
just raped me and my sister. i recognize him , note it down. they said ,
fine , but did n't write it down and led him on. i do n't know where they were
taking him.

then they put my stretcher near where the injured and beaten soldiers were
sitting. they went to look for the ambulance driver so he would bring the car
up closer. one of the soldiers started talking to me , sister . . . i do n't
remember the conversation exactly , but he asked me were we lived and what they
did to us. i asked him , where are you from \? he said that he was from ufa.
apparently they were the first that were brought in. the ufa police. later i
learned that they suffered most of all. he says , ok , you 're armenians , they
did n't get along with you , but i'm a russian , he says , what are they trying
to kill me for \? oh , i remembered something else. when i went out onto the
balcony with kuliyev for a hammer and nails i looked out the window and saw
two azerbaijanis beating a soldier near the kindergarten. he was pressed
against the fence and he covered his head with his arms , they were beating him
with his own club. the way he cried mamma made my skin crawl. i do n't know
what they did to him , if he 's still alive or not. and something else. before
he attack on our house we saw sheets , clothes , and some dishes flying from the
third or fourth floor of the neighboring building , but i did n't think it was
azerbaijanis attacking armenians. i thought that something was on fire or they
were throwing something they did n't need out , or someone was fighting with
someone. it was only later , when they were burning a passenger car in the
yard , when the neighbors said that they were doing that to the armenians , that
i realized that this was serious , that it was anti armenian.

they took karina and me to the sumgait maternity home. mamma went to them too
and said , i 've been beaten too , help me. but they just ignored her. my
father went to them and said in a guilty voice , as though it was his fault
that he 'd been beaten , and says , my ribs hurt so much , those creeps have
probably broken my ribs. please look at them. the doctor says , that 's not my
job. urshan said , fine , i 'll take you to my place and if we need a doctor ,
i 'll find you one. i 'll bring one and have him look at you. and he drove them
to his apartment.

marina and i stayed there. they examined us. i was more struck by what the
doctor said than by what those azerbaijanis in our apartment did to us. i
was n't surprised when they beat us they wanted to beat us , but i was very
surprised that in a soviet medical facility a woman who had taken the
hippocratic oath could talk to victims like that. by happy or unhappy
coincidence we were seen by the doctor that had delivered our karina. and she ,
having examined karina , said , no problem , you got off pretty good. not like
they did in kafan , when you armenians were killing and raping our women.
karina was in such terrible condition that she could n't say anything she
would certainly have had something to say ! then they examined me. the same
story. they put us in a separate ward. no shots , no medicinal powders , no
drugs. absolutely none ! they did n't even give us tea. all the women there soon
found out that in ward such and such were armenians who had been raped. and
they started coming and peering through the keyhole , the way people look at
zoo animals. karina did n't see this , she was lying there , and i kept her from
seeing it.

they put ira b. in our ward. she had also been raped. true , she did n't have
any serious bodily injuries , but when she told me what had happened at their
place , i felt worse for them than i did for us. because when they raped ira
her daughter was in the room , she was under the bed on which it happened. and
ira was holding her daughter 's hand , the one who was hiding under the bed.
when they were beating ira or taking her earrings off , gold , when she
involuntarily let go of her daughter 's hand , her daughter took her hand again.
her daughter is in the fourth grade , she 's 11 years old. i felt really awful
when i heard that. ira asked them not to harm her daughter , she said , do what
you want with me , just leave my daughter alone. well , they did what they
wanted. they threatened to kill her daughter if she got in their way. now i
would be surprised if the criminals had behaved any other way that night. it
was simply bartholomew 's night , i say , they did what they would love to do
every day steal , kill , rape . . .

many are surprised that those animals did n't harm the children. the beasts
explained it like this this would be repeated in 15 to 20 years , and those
children would be grown , and then , as they put it , we 'll come take the
pleasure out of their lives , those children. this was about the girls that
would be young women in 15 years. they were thinking about their tomorrow
because they were sure that there would be no trial and no investigation , just
as there was no trial or investigation in 1915 , and that those girls could be
of some use in 15 years. this i heard from the investigators one of the
victims testified to it. that 's how they described their own natures , that
they would still be bloodthirsty in 15 to 20 years , and in 100 years they
themselves said that.

and this , too. everyone is surprised that they did n't harm our marina. many
people say that they either were drunk or had smoked too much. i do n't know
why their eyes were red. maybe because they had n't slept the night before ,
maybe for some other reason , i do n't know. but they had n't been smoking and
they were n't drunk , i'm positive , because someone who has smoked will stop at
nothing he has the urge to do. and they spoke in a cultured fashion with
marina little sister , do n't be afraid , we wo n't harm you , do n't look over
there where i was , you might be frightened. you 're a muslim , a muslim woman
should n't see such things. so they were really quite sober . . .

so we came out of that story alive. each every day we have lived since it all
happened bears the mark of that day. it was n't even a day , of those several
hours. father still ca n't look us in the eyes. he still feels guilty for what
happened to karina , mother , and me. because of his nerves he 's started talk
ing to himself , i 've heard him argue with himself several times when he
thought no one is listening listen , he 'll say , what could i do \? what could
i do alone , how could i protect them \? i do n't know where to find the words ,
it 's not that i'm happy , but i am glad that he did n't see it all happen.
that 's the only thing they spared us . . . or maybe it happened by chance. of
course he knows it all , but there 's no way you could imagine every last detail
of what happened. and there were so many conversations karina and i spoke
together in private , and we talked with mamma , too. but father was never
present at those conversations. we spare him that , if you can say that. and
when the investigator comes to the house , we do n't speak with father present.

on february 29 , the next clay , karina and i were discharged from the hospital.
first they released me , but since martial law had been declared in the city ,
the soldiers took me to the police precinct in an armored personnel carrier.
there were many people there , armenian victims. i met the tovmasian family
there. from them i learned that rafik and their uncle grant had died. they
were sure that both had died. they were talking to me and raya , rafik 's wife
and grant 's daughter , and her mother , were both crying.

then they took us all out of the office on the first floor into the yard.
there 's a little one room house outside there , a recreation and reading area.
they took us in there. the women were afraid to go because they thought
that they were shooing us out of the police precinct because it had become
so dangerous that even the people working at the precinct wanted to hide.
the women were shouting. they explained to them we want to hide you
better because it 's possible there will be an attack on the police precinct.

we went into the little house. there were no chairs or tables in there. we
had children with us and they were hungry we even had infants who needed to
have their diapers changed. no one had anything with them. it was just awful.
they kept us there for 24 hours. from the window of the one room house you
could see that there were azerbaijanis standing on the fences around the
police precinct , as though they were spying on us. the police precinct is
surrounded by a wall , like a fence , and it 's electrified , but if they were
standing on the wall , it means the electricity was shut off. this brought
great psychological pressure to bear on us , particularly on those who had n't
just walked out of their apartments , but who had n't slept for 24 hours , or 48 ,
or those who had suffered physically and spiritually , the ones who had lost
family members. for us it was another ordeal. we were especially frightened
when all the precinct employees suddenly disappeared. we could n't see a single
person , not in the courtyard and not in the windows. we thought that they must
have already been hiding under the building , that they must have some secret
room down there. people were panicking they started throwing themselves at
one another . . . that 's the way it is on a sinking ship. we heard those
people , mainly young people , whistling and whopping on the walls. we felt that
the end was approaching. i was completely terrified i had left karina in the
hospital and did n't know where my parents were. i was sort of calm about my
parents , i was thinking only about karina , if , heaven forbid , they should
attack the hospital , they would immediately tell them that there was an
armenian in there , and something terrible would happen to karina again , and
she would n't be able to take it.

then soldiers with dogs appeared. when they saw the dogs some of the people
climbed down off the fence. then they brought in about another 30 soldiers.
they all had machine guns in readiness , their fingers on the triggers. we
calmed down a little. they brought us chairs and brought the children some
little cots and showed us where we could wash our hands , and took the children
to the toilet. but we all sat there hungry , but to be honest , it would never
have occurred to any of us that we had n't eaten for two days and that people
do eat.

then , closer to nightfall , they brought a group of detained criminals. they
were being watched by soldiers with guard dogs. one of the men came back from
the courtyard and told us about it. raya tovmasian . . . it was like a
different woman had been substituted. earlier she had been crying , wailing ,
and calling out oh , rafik ! , but when she heard about this such a rage came
over her ! she jumped up , she had a coat on , and she started to roll up her
sleeves like she was getting ready to beat someone. and suddenly there were
soldiers , and dogs , and lots of people. she ran over to them. the bandits were
standing there with their hands above their heads facing the wall. she went up
to one of them and grabbed him by the collar and started to shake and thrash
him ! then , on to a second , and a third. everyone was rooted to the spot. not
one of the soldiers moved , no one went up to help or made her stop her from
doing it. and the bandits fell down and covered their heads with their hands ,
muttering something. she came back and sat down , and something akin to a smile
appeared on her face. she became so quiet no tears , no cries. then that round
was over and she went back to beat them again. she was walking and cursing
terribly take that , and that , they killed my husband , the bastards , the
creeps , and so on. then she came back again and sat down. she probably did
this the whole night through , well , it was n't really night , no one slept. she
went five or six times and beat them and returned. and she told the women ,
what are you sitting there for \? they killed your husbands and children , they
raped , and you 're just sitting there. you 're sitting and talking as though
nothing had happened. are n't you armenians \? she appealed to everyone , but no
one got up. i was just numb , i did n't have the strength to beat anyone , i
could barely hold myself up , all the more so since i had been standing for so
many hours i was released at eleven o'clock in the morning and it was already
after ten at night because there were n't enough chairs , really it was the
elderly and women with children who sat. i was on my feet the whole time.
there was nothing to breathe , the door was closed , and the men were smoking.
the situation was deplorable.

at eleven o'clock at night policemen came for us , local policemen ,
azerbaijanis. they said , get up. they 've brought mattresses , you can wash up
and put the children to bed. now the women did n't want to leave this place ,
either. the place had become like home , it was safe , there were soldiers with
dogs. if anyone went outside , the soldiers would say , oh , it 's our little
family , and things like that. the soldiers felt this love , and probably , for
the first time in their lives perceived themselves as defenders. everyone
spoke from the heart , cried , and hugged them and they , with their loaded
machine guns in their hands , said , grandmother , you must n't approach me ,
i'm on guard. our people would say , oh , that 's all right. they hugged
them , one woman even kissed one of the machine guns. this was all terribly
moving for me. and the small children kept wanting to pet the dogs.

they took us up to the second floor and said , you can undress and sleep in
here. do n't be afraid , the precinct is on guard , and it 's quiet in the city.
this was the 29th , when the killing was going on in block 41a and in other
places. then we were told that all the armenians were being gathered at the
sk club and at the city party committee. they took us there. on the way i
asked them to stop at the maternity home i wanted to take karina with me.
i did n't know what was happening there. they told me , do n't worry , the
maternity home is full of soldiers , more than mothers to be. so you can rest
assured. i say , well , i wo n't rest assured regardless , because the staff in
there is capable of anything.

when i arrived at the city party committee it turned out that karina had
already been brought there. they had seen fit to release her from the hospi
tal , deciding that she felt fine and was no longer in need of any care. once
we were in the city party committee we gave free reign to our tears. we met
acquaintances , but everyone was somehow divided into two groups , those who
had n't been injured , who were clothed , who had brought a pot of food with
them , and so on , and those , like me , like raya , who were wearing whatever had
come their way. there were even people who were all made up , dolled up like
they had come from a wedding. there were people without shoes , naked people ,
hungry people , those who were crying , and those who had lost someone. and of
course the stories and the talk were flying oh , i heard that they killed
him ! what do you mean they killed him ! he stayed at work ! do you know
what 's happening at this and such a plant \? talk like that.

and then i met aleksandr mikhailovich gukasian , the teacher. i know him very
well and respect him highly. i 've known him for a long time. they had a small
room , well really it was more like a study room. we spent a whole night
talking in that study once. on march 1 we heard that bagirov first secretary
of the communist party of azerbaijan ssr had arrived. everyone ran to see
bagirov , what news he had brought with him and how this was all being viewed
from outside. he arrived and everyone went up to him to talk to him and ask
him things. everyone was in a tremendous rage. but he was protected by
soldiers , and he went up to the second floor and did n't deign to speak with
the people. apparently he had more important things to do.

several hours passed. gukasian called me and says , lyudochka , find another
two or three. we 're going to make up lists , they asked for them upstairs ,
lists of the dead , those whose whereabouts are unknown , and lists of people
who had pogroms of their apartments and of those whose cars were burned. i
had about 50 people in my list when they called me and said , lyuda , your
mamma has arrived , she 's looking for you , she does n't believe that you are
alive and well and that you 're here. i gave the lists to someone and asked
them to continue what i was doing and went off.

the list was imprecise , of course. it included grant adamian , raya tovmasian 's
father , who was alive , but at the time they thought him dead. there was engels
grigorian 's father and aunt , cherkez and maria. the list also included the
name of my girlfriend and neighbor , zhanna agabekian. one of the guys said
that he had been told that they chopped her head off in the courtyard in front
of the kosmos movie theater. we put her on the list too , and cried , but later
it turned out that that was just a rumor , that in fact an hour earlier she had
somehow left sumgait for the marina and from there had set sail for
krasnovodsk , where , thank god , she was alive and well. i should also say that
in addition to those who died that list contained people who were rumored
missing or who were so badly wounded that they were given up for dead. 3

all the lists were taken to bagirov. i do n't remember how many dead were
contained in the list , but it 's a fact that when gukasian came in a couple
of minutes later he was cursing and was terribly irate. i asked , what 's
going on \? he said , lyuda , can you imagine what animals , what scoundrels
they are ! they say that they lost the list of the dead. piotr demichev
member of the politburo of the central committee of the communist party
of the ussr has just arrived , and we were supposed to submit the list to
him , so that he 'd see the scope of the slaughter , of the tragedy , whether it
was one or fifty. they told him that the list had disappeared and they
should ask everyone who had n't left for the khimik boarding house all over
again. there were 26 people on our second list. i think that the number 26
was the one that got into the press and onto television and the radio , because
that 's the list that demichev got. i remember exactly that there were 26
people on the list , i had even told aleksandr mikhailovich that that was only
a half of those that were on the first list. he said , lyuda , please , try to
remember at least one more. but i could n't remember anyone else. but there
were more than 30 dead. of that i am certain. the government and the procuracy
do n't count the people who died of fright , like sick people and old people
whose lives are threatened by any shock. they were n't registered as victims of
the sumgait tragedy. and then there may be people we did n't know. so many
people left sumgait between march 1 and 8 ! most of them left for smaller towns
in russia , and especially to the northern caucasus , to stavropol , and the
krasnodarsk territory. we do n't have any information on them. i know that
there are people who set out for parts around moscow. in the periodical
krestyanka woman farmer there was a call for people who know how to milk
cows , and for mechanics , and drivers , and i know a whole group of people went
to help out. also clearly not on our list are those people who died entering
the city , who were burned in their cars. no one knows about them , except the
azerbaijanis , who are hardly likely to say anything about it. and there 's
more. a great many of the people who were raped were not included in the list
drawn up at the procuracy. i know of three instances for sure , and i of course
do n't know them all. i'm thinking of three women whose parents chose not to
publicize what had happened , that is , they did n't take the matter to court ,
they simply left. but in so doing they did n't cease being victims. one of them
is the first cousin of my classmate kocharian. she lived in microdistrict no.
8 , on the fifth floor. i ca n't tell you the building number and i do n't know
her name. then comes the neighbor of one of my relatives , she lived in
microdistrict 1 near the gift shop. i do n't know her name , she lives on the
same landing as the sumgait procurator. they beat her father , he was holding
the door while his daughter hid , but he could n't hold the door forever , and
when she climbed over the balcony to the neighbors' they seized her by her
braid. like the azerbaijanis were saying , it was a very cultured mob , because
they did n't kill anyone , they only raped them and left. and the third one
. . . i do n't remember who the third one was anymore.

they transferred us on march 1. karina still was n't herself. yes , we lived for
days in the sk , in the cultural facility , and at the khimik. they lived there
and i lived at the city party committee because i could n't stay with karina
it was too difficult for me , but i was at peace she had survived. i could
already walk , but really it was honest words that held me up. thanks to the
social work i did there , i managed to persevere. aleksandr mikhailovich said ,
if it were n't for the work i would go insane. he and i put ourselves in gear
and took everything upon ourselves someone had an infant and needed diapers
and free food , and we went to get them. the first days we bought everything ,
although we should have received it for free. they were supposed to have been
dispensed free of charge , and they sold it to us. then , when we found out it
was free , we went to krayev. at the time , fortunately , you could still drop by
to see him like a neighbor , all the more so since everything was still clearly
visible on our faces. krayev sent a captain down and he resolved the issue.

on march 2 they sent two investigators to see us andrei shirokov and vladimir
fedorovich bibishev. the way it worked out , in our family they had considered
only karina and me victims , maybe because she and i wound up in the hospital.
mother and father are considered witnesses , but not victims.

shirokov was involved with karina 's case , and bibishev , with mine. after i
told him everything , he and i planned to sit down with the identikit and
record everyone i could remember while everything was still fresh in my mind.
we did n't work with the identikit until the very last day because the
conditions were n't there. the investigative group worked slowly and did poor
quality work solely because the situation was n't conducive to working there
were n't enough automobiles , especially during the time when there was a
curfew , and there were no typewriters for typing transcripts , and no still or
video cameras. i think that this was done on purpose. we 're not so poor that
we ca n't supply our investigators with all that stuff. it was done especially
to draw out the investigation , all the more so since the local authorities saw
that the armenians were leaving at the speed of light , never to return to
sumgait. and the armenians had a lot to say i came to an agreement with
bibishev , i told him myself , do n't you worry , if it takes us a month or two
months , i 'll be here. i'm not afraid , i looked death in the eyes five times in
those two days , i 'll help you conduct the investigation.

he and i worked together a great deal , and i used this to shelter karina , i
gave them so much to do that for a while they did n't have the time to get to
her , so that she would at least have a week or two to get back to being her
self. she was having difficulty breathing so we looked for a doctor to take x
rays. she could n't eat or drink for nine days , she was nauseous. i did n't eat
and drank virtually nothing for five days. then , on the fifth day , when we
were in baku already , the investigator told me , how long can you go on like
this \? well fine , so you do n't want to eat , you do n't love yourself , you 're
not taking care of yourself , but you gave your word that you would see this
investigation through. we need you. then i started eating , because in fact i
was exhausted. it was n't enough that i kept seeing those faces in our apart
ment in my mind , every day i went to the investigative solitary confinement
cells and prisons. i do n't know . . . we were just everywhere ! probably in
every prison in the city of baku and in all the solitary confinement cells of
sumgait. at that time they had even turned the drunk tank into solitary
confinement.

thus far i have identified 31 of the people who were in our apartment. mamma
identified three , and karina , two. the total is 36. marina did n't identify
anyone , she remembers the faces of two or three , but they were n't among the
photographs of those detained. i told of the neighbor i recognized. the one
who went after the axe. he still has n't been detained , he 's still on the
loose. he 's gone , and it 's not clear if he will be found or not. i do n't know
his first or last name. i know which building he lived in and i know his
sisters' faces. but he 's not in the city. the investigators informed me that
even if the investigation is closed and even if the trial is over they will
continue looking for him.

the 31 people i identified are largely blue collar workers from various
plants , without education , and of the very lowest level in every respect.
mostly their ages range from 20 to 30 years there was one who was 48. only
one of them was a student. he was attending the azerbaijan petroleum and
chemical institute in sumgait , his mother kept trying to bribe the investiga
tor. once , thinking that i was an employee and not a victim , she said in front
of me i 'll set you up a restaurant worth 500 rubles and give you 600 in cash
simply for keeping him out of armenia , that is , to keep him from landing in
a prison on armenian soil. they 're all terribly afraid of that , because if the
investigator is talking with a criminal and the criminal does n't confess even
though we identified him , they tell him in order to apply psychological
pressure they say , fine , do n't confess , just keep silent. when you 're in an
armenian prison , when they find out who you are , they 'll take care of you
in short order. that somehow gets to them. many give in and start to talk.

the investigators and i were in our apartment and videotaped the entire
pogrom of our apartment , as an investigative experiment. it was only then
that i saw the way they had left our apartment. even without knowing who was
in our apartment , you could guess. they stole , for example , all the money and
all the valuables , but did n't take a single book. they tore them up , burned
them , poured water on them , and hacked them with axes. only the materials
from the 27th congress of the communist party of the soviet union and james
fenimore cooper 's last of the mohigans. oh yes , lunch was ready , we were
boiling a chicken , and there were lemons for tea on the table. after they had
been in our apartment , both the chicken and the lemons were gone. that 's
enough to tell you what kind of people were in our apartment , people who do n't
even know anything about books. they did n't take a single book , but they did
take worn clothing , food , and even the cheapest of the cheap , worn out
slippers.

of those whom i identified , four were kafan azerbaijanis living in sumgait.
basically , the group that went seeking revenge let 's use their word for
it was joined by people seeking easy gain and thrill seekers. i talked with
one of them. he had gray eyes , and somehow against the back drop of all that
black i remembered him specifically because of his of his eyes. besides taking
part in the pogrom of our apartment , he was also involved in the murder of
tamara mekhtiyeva from building 16. she was an older armenian who had recently
arrived from georgia , she lived alone and did not have anyone in sumgait. i
do n't know why she had a last name like that , maybe she was married to an
azerbaijani. i had laid eyes on this woman only once or twice , and know
nothing about her. i do know that they murdered her in her apartment with an
axe. murdering her was n't enough for them. they hacked her into pieces and
threw them into the tub with water.

i remember another guy really well too , he was also rather fair skinned. you
know , all the people who were in our apartment were darker than dark , both
their hair and their skin. and in contrast with them , in addition to the grey
eyed one , i remember this one fellow , the one l took to be a lezgin. i
identified him. as it turned out he was eduard robertovich grigorian , born
in the city of sumgait , and he had been convicted twice. one of our own. how
did i remember him \? the name rita was tattooed on his left or right hand. i
kept thinking , is that rita or puma , which it would be if you read the word
as latin characters instead of cyrillic , because the cyrillic t was the one
that looks like a latin m. when they led him in he sat with his hands behind
his back. this was at the confrontation. he swore on every holy book , tried to
put in an armenian word here and there to try and spark my compassion , and
told me that i was making a mistake , and called me dear sister. he said ,
you 're wrong , how could i , an armenian , raise my hand against my own , an
armenian , and so on. he spoke so convincingly that even the investigator
asked me , lyuda , are you sure it was he \? i told him , i 'll tell you one more
identifying mark. if i'm wrong i shall apologize and say i was mistaken. the
name rita is tattooed on his left or right hand. he went rigid and became
pale. they told him , put your hands on the table. he put his hands on the
table with the palms up. i said , now turn your hands over , but he did n't
turn his hands over. now this infuriated me. if he had from the very start
acknowledged his guilt and said that he had n't wanted to do it , that they
forced him or something else , i would have treated him somewhat differently.
but he insolently stuck to his story , no , i did not do anything , it was n't
me. when they turned his hands over the name rita was in fact tattooed on his
hand. his face distorted and he whispered something wicked. i immediately flew
into a rage. there was an ashtray on the table , a really heavy one , made out
of granite or something , very large , and it had ashes and butts in it.
catching myself quite by surprise , i hurled that ashtray at him. but he ducked
and the ashtray hit the wall , and ashes and butts rained down on his head and
back. and he smiled. when he smiled it provoked me further. i do n't know how ,
but i jumped over the table between us and started either pounding him or
strangling him i no longer remember which. when i jumped i caught the
microphone cord. the investigator was there , tolya . . .i no longer recall his
last name , and he says , lyudochka , it 's a japanese microphone ! please . . .
and shut off all the equipment on the spot , it was all being video taped.
they took him away. i stayed , and they talked to me a little to calm me down ,
because we needed to go on working , i only remember tolya telling me , you 're
some actress ! what a performance ! i said , tolya , honestly . . . beforehand
they would always tell me , lyuda , more emotion. you speak as calmly as if
nothing had happened to you. i say , i do n't have any more strength or
emotion. all my emotions are behind me now , i no longer have the strength
. . . i do n't have the strength to do anything. and he says , lyuda , how were
you able to do that \? and when i returned to normal , drinking tea and watching
the tape , i said , can i really have jumped over that table \? i never jumped
that high in gym class.

so you could say the gang that took over our apartment was international. of
the 36 we identified there was an armenian , a russian , vadim vorobyev , who
beat mamma , and 34 azerbaijanis.

at the second meeting with grigorian , when he had completely confessed his
guilt , he told of how on february 27 the azerbaijanis had come knocking. among
them were guys if you can call them guys he knew from prison. they said ,
tomorrow we 're going after the armenians. meet us at the bus station at three
o'clock. he said , no , i'm not coming. they told him , if you do n't come
we 'll kill you. he said , alright , i 'll come. and he went.

they also went to visit my classmate from our microdistrict , kamo pogosian. he
had also been in prison i think that together they had either stolen a
motorcycle or dismantled one to get some parts they needed. they called him
out of his apartment and told him the same thing tomorrow we 're going to get
the armenians. be there. he said , no. they pulled a knife on him. he said ,
i'm not going all the same. and in the courtyard on the 27th they stabbed
him several times , in the stomach. he was taken to the hospital. i know he was
in the hospital in baku , in the republic hospital. if we had known about that
we would have had some idea of what was to come on the 28th.

i 'll return to grigorian , what he did in our apartment. i remember that he
beat me along with all the rest. he spoke azerbaijani extremely well. but he
was very fair skinned , maybe that led me to think that they had it out for
him , too. but later it was proved that he took part in the beating and burning
of shagen sargisian. i do n't know if he participated in the rapes in our
apartment i did n't see , i do n't remember. but the people who were in our
apartment who did n't yet know that he was an armenian said that he did. i
do n't know if he confessed or not , and i myself do n't recall because i blacked
out very often. but i think that he did n't participate in the rape of karina
because he was in the apartment the whole time. when they carried her into the
courtyard , he remained in the apartment.

at one point i was talking with an acquaintance about edik grigorian. from her
i learned that his wife was a dressmaker , his mother is russian , he does n't
have a father , and that he 's been convicted twice. well this will be his third
and , i hope , last sentence. he beat his wife , she was eternally coming to work
with bruises. his wife was an armenian by the name of rita.

the others who were detained . . . well they 're little beasts. you really ca n't
call them beasts , they 're just little beasts. they were robots carrying out
someone else 's will , because at the investigation they all said , i do n't
understand how i could have done that , i was out of my head. but we know that
they were won around to it and prepared for it , that 's why they did it. in the
name of allah , in the name of the koran , in the name of propagating islam
that 's holy to them that 's why they did everything they were commanded to do.
because i saw they did n't have minds of their own , i'm not talking about their
level of cultural sophistication or any higher values. no education , they
work , have a slew of children without the means to raise them properly , they
crowd them in , like at the temporary housing , and apparently , they were
promised that if they slaughtered the armenians they would receive apartments.
so off they went. many of them explained their participation saying , they
promised us apartments.

among them was one who genuinely repented. i am sure that he repented from the
heart and that he just despised himself after the incident. he worked at a
children 's home , an azerbaijani , he has two children , and his wife works at
the children 's home too. everything that they acquired , everything that they
have they earned by their own labor , and was n't inherited from parents or
grandparents. and he said , i did n't need anything i just do n't know . . . how
i ended up in that it was like some hand was guiding me. i had no will of my
own , i had no strength , no masculine dignity , nothing. and the whole time i
kept repeating , now you imagine that someone did the same to your young wife
right before your own eyes. he sat there and just wailed.

but that leader in the eskimo dogskin coat was not detained. he performed a
marvelous disappearing act , but i think that they 'll get onto him , they just
have to work a little , because that vadim , that boy , according to his
grandfather , is in touch with the young person who taught him what to do , how
to cover his tracks. he was constantly exchanging jackets with other boys he
knew and those he did n't , either , and other things as well , and changed
himself like a chameleon so they would n't get onto him , but he was detained.

that one in the eskimo dogskin coat was at the gambarians' after aleksandr
gambarian was murdered. he came in and said , let 's go , enough , you 've spilled
enough blood here.

maybe karina does n't know this but the reason they did n't finish her off was
that they were hoping to take her home with them. i heard this from aunt tanya
and her sons , the kasumovs , who were in the courtyard near the entryway. they
liked her very much , and they had decided to take her to home with them. when
karina came to at one point she does n't remember this yet , this the neighbors
old me and she saw that there was no one around her , she started crawling to
the entryway. they saw that she was still alive and came back , they were
already at the third entryway , on their way to the gambarians'. they came back
and started beating her to finish her. if she had not come to she would have
sustained lesser bodily injuries , they would have beat her less. an older
woman from our building , aunt nazan , an azerbaijani , all but lay on top of
karina , crying and pleading that they leave her alone , but they flung her off.
the woman 's grown sons were right nearby they picked her up in their hands
and led her home. she howled and cried out loudly and swore god is on earth ,
he sees everything , and he wo n't forgive this.

there was another woman , too , aunt fatima , a sick , aging woman from the first
floor , she 's already retired. mountain dwellers , and azerbaijanis , too , have a
custom if men are fighting , they throw a scarf under their feet to stop them.
but they trampled her scarf and sent her home. to trample a scarf is
tantamount to trampling a woman 's honor.

now that the investigation is going on , now that a lot is behind us and we
have gotten back to being ourselves a little , i think about how could these
events that are now called the sumgait tragedy happen \? how did they come
about \? how did it start \? could it have been avoided \? well , it 's clear that
without a signal , without permission from the top leadership , it would not
have happened. all the same , i'm not afraid to say this , the azerbaijanis ,
let other worthy people take no offense , the better representatives of their
nations , let them take no offense , but the azerbaijanis in their majority are
a people who are kept in line only by fear of the law , fear of retribution for
what they have done. and when the law said that they could do all that , like
unleashed dogs who were afraid they would n't have time to do everything , they
threw themselves from one thing to the next so as to be able to get more done ,
to snatch a bit more. the smell of the danger was already in the air on
february 27. you could tell that something was going to happen. and everyone
who had figured it out took steps to avoid running into those gangs. many left
for their dachas , got plane tickets for the other end of the country , just got
as far away as their legs would carry them.

february 27 was a saturday. i was teaching my third class. the director came
into my classroom and said that i should let the children out , that there had
been a call from the city party committee asking that all teachers gather for
a meeting at lenin square. well , i excused the children , and there were few
teachers left at school , altogether three women , the director , and six or
seven men. the rest had already gone home. we got to lenin square and there
were a great many people there. this was around five thirty or six in the
evening , no later. they were saying all kinds of rubbish up on the podium and
the crowd below was supporting them stormily , roaring. they spoke over the
microphone about what had happened in kafan a few days earlier and that the
driver of a bus going to some district had recently thrown a small azerbaijani
child off the bus. the speaker affirmed that he was an eyewitness , that he had
seen it himself..the crowd started to rage death to the armenians ! they must
be killed ! then a woman went up on stage. i did n't see the woman because
people were clinging to the podium like flies. i could only hear her. the
woman introduced herself as coming from kafan , and said that the armenians
cut her daughters' breasts off , and called , sons , avenge my daughters ! that
was enough. a portion of the people on the square took off running in the
direction of the factories , toward the beginning of lenin street.

we stood there about an hour. then the director of school 25 spoke , he gave a
very nationalist speech. he said , brother muslims , kill the armenians ! this
he repeated every other sentence. when he said this the crowd supported him
stormily , whistling and shouting karabagh ! he said , karabagh has been our
territory my whole life long , karabagh is my soul. how can you tear out my
heart \? as though an azerbaijani would die without karabagh. it 's our
territory , the armenians will never see it. the armenians must be eliminated.
from time immemorial muslims have cleansed the land of infidel armenians , from
time immemorial , that 's the way nature created it , that every 20 to 30 years
the azerbaijanis should cleanse the land of filth. by filth he meant
armenians.

i heard this. before that i had n't been listening to the speeches closely.
many people spoke and i stood with my back to the podium , talking shop with
the other teachers , and somehow it all went right by , it did n't penetrate ,
that in fact something serious was taking place. then , when one of our
teachers said , listen to what he 's saying , listen to what idiocy he 's
spouting , we listened. that was the speech of that director. before that we
listened to the woman 's speech.

right then in our group there were nine of us the mood changed , and the
subject of conversation and all school matters were forgotten. our director of
studies , for whom i had great respect , he 's an azerbaijani . . . before that i
had considered him an upstanding and worthy person , if there was a need to
obtain leave we had asked him , he seemed like a good person. so he tells me ,
lyuda , you know that besides you there are no armenians on the square \? if
they find out that you 're an armenian they 'll tear you to pieces. should i
tell them you 're an armenian \? should i tell them you 're an armenian \? when he
said it the first time i pretended not to hear it , and then he asked me a
second time. i turned to the director , khudurova , and said that it was already
after eight , i was expected at home , and i should be leaving. she answered ,
no , they said that women should stay here until ten o'clock , .and men , until
twelve. stay here. there was a young teacher with us , her children were in
kindergarten and her husband worked shifts. she asked to leave i left my
children at the kindergarten. the director excused her. when she let her go i
turned around , said , good bye , and left with the young teacher , the
azerbaijani. i did n't see them after that.

when we were walking the buses were n't running , and a crowd from the rally ran
nearby us. they had apparently gotten all fired up. it must have become too
much for them , and they wanted to seek vengeance immediately , so they rushed
off. i was n't afraid this time because i was sure that the other teacher
would n't say that i was an armenian.

to make it short , we reached home. then karina told of how they had been at
the movies and what had happened there. i started telling of my experience and
again my parents did n't understand that we were in danger. we watched
television as usual , and did n't even imagine that tomorrow would be our last
day. that 's how it all was.

at the city party committee i met an acquaintance , we went to school together ,
zhanna , i do n't remember her last name , she lives above the housewares store
on narimanov street. she was there with her father , for some reason she
does n't have a mother. the two of them were at home alone. while her father
held the door she jumped from the third floor , and she was lucky that the
ground was wet and that there was n't anyone behind the building when she went
out on the balcony , there was no one there , they were all standing near the
entryway. that building was also a lucky one in that there were no murders
there. she jumped. she jumped and did n't feel any pain in the heat of the
moment. a few days later i found out that she could n't stand up , she had been
injured somehow. that 's how people in sumgait saved their lives , their honor ,
and their children any way they could.

where it was possible , the armenians fought back. my father 's first cousin ,
armen m. , lives in block 30. they found out by phone from one of the victims
what was going on in town. the armenians in that building all called one
another immediately and all of them armed themselves with axes , knives , even
with muskets and went up to the roof. they took their infants with them , and
their old women who had been in bed for god knows how many months , they got
them right out of their beds and took everyone upstairs. they hooked
electricity up to the trap door to the roof and waited , ready to fight. then
they took the daughter of the school board director hostage , she 's an
azerbaijani who lived in their building. they called the school board director
and told her that if she did n't help them , the 17 armenians on the roof , to
escape alive and unharmed , she 'd never see her daughter again. i'm sure , of
course , that armenians would never lay a hand on a woman , it was just the only
thing that could have saved them at the time. she called the police. the
armenians made a deal with the local police to go into town. two armored
personnel carriers and soldiers were summoned they surrounded the entryway and
led everyone down from the roof , and off to the side from the armored
personnel carriers was a crowd that was on its way to the building at that
very moment , into block 30. that 's how they defended themselves.

i heard that our neighbors , roman and sasha gambarian , resisted. they 're big ,
strong guys. their father was killed. and i heard that the brothers put up a
strong defense and lost their father , but were able to save their mother.

one of the neighbors told me that after it happened , when they were looking
for the criminals on march 1 to 2 and detaining everyone they suspected ,
people hid people in our entryway , maybe people who were injured or perhaps
dead. the neighbors themselves were afraid to go there , and when they went
with the soldiers into our basement they are supposed to have found
azerbaijani corpses. i do n't know how many. even if they had been wounded and
put down there , after two days they would have died from loss of blood or
infection that basement was filled with water. i heard this from the
neighbors. and later when i was talking with the investigators the subject
came up and they confirmed it. i know , too , that for several hours the
basement was used to store objects stolen from our apartment. and our neighbor
carried out our carpet , along with the rest he stole it for himself , posing
as one of the criminals. everyone was taking his own share , and the neighbor
took his , too , and carried it home. and when we came back , when everything
seemed to have calmed down , he returned it , saying that it was the only thing
of ours he had managed to save.

raya 's husband and father defended themselves. the trdatovs defended
themselves , and so did other armenian families. to be sure there were
azerbaijani victims , although we 'll never hear anything about them. for some
reason our government does n't want to say that the armenians were not just
victims , but that they defended the honor of their sisters and mothers , too.
in the tv show pozitsiya viewpoint a military man , an officer , said that
the armenians did virtually nothing to defend themselves. but that 's not
important , the truth will come out regardless.

so that 's the price we paid those three days. for three days our courage , our
bravery , and our humanity was tested. it was those three days , and not the
years and dozens of years we had lived before them , that showed what we 've
become , what we grew up to be. those three days showed who was who.

on that i will conclude my narrative on the sumgait tragedy. it should be said
that it 's not over yet , the trials are still ahead of us , and the punishments
received by those who so violated us , who wanted to make us into nonhumans
will depend on our position and on the work of the investigators , the
procuracy , and literally of every person who lent his hand to the investiga
tion. that 's the price we paid to live in armenia , to not fear going out on
the street at night , to not be afraid to say we 're armenians , and to not fear
speaking our native tongue.

october 15 , 1988
yerevan

reference for 008

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 118 145



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re the israeli press
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 48
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article benali.735836579@alcor , benali@alcor.concordia.ca ( ilyess b. bdira ) writes

of course you never read arab media ,

i do n't , though when i was in israel i did make a point of listening
to jtv news , as well as monte carlo radio. in the united states ,
i generally read the nyt , and occasionally , a mainstream israeli
newpaper.

i read arab , israeli (jer. post , and this network is more than enough)
and western (american , french , and british) reports and i can say
that if we give israel 10 and arabs 10 on the bias scale (of course
you can switch the polarities) israeli newspapers will get either
a 9 or 10 , american leading newspapers and tv news range from 6
to 10 (yes there are some that are more israelis than israelis)
the montreal suburban (a local free newspaper) probably is closer
to kahane 's views than some israeli right wing newspapers , british
range from 0 (neutral) to 10 , french (that iknow of , of course) range
from 2 (afro french magazines) to 10 , arab official media range from
0 to 5 (egyptian) to 9 in sa. why no 10 \? because they do not want to
overdo it and stir people against israel and therefore against them since
they are doing nothing.

what you may not be taking into account is that the jp is no longer
representative of the mainstream in israel. it was purchased a few
years ago and in the battle for control , most of the liberal and
left wing reporters walked out. the new owner stated in the past ,
more than once , that the jp 's task should be geared towards explaining
and promoting israel 's position , more than attacking the gov't (likud
at the time). the paper that i would recommend reading , being middle
stream and factual is ha aretz or at least this was the case two
years ago.

the average bias of what you read would be probably around 9 ,
while that of the average american would be the same if they do
not read or read the new york times and similar news makers , and
8 if they read some other relatively less biased newspapers.

and what about the nat'l enquirer \? 8 )
but seriously , if one were to read some of the leftist newspapers
one could arrive at other conclusions. the information you received
was highly selective and extrapolating from it is a bad move.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninja of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re unconventional peace proposal
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 22

in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

1. the idea of providing financial incentives to selected
forms of partnership and marriage , is not conventional. however ,
it is based on the concept of affirmative action , which is
recognized as a legitimate form of public policy to reverse the
perverse effects of segregation and discrimination.

other people have already shown this to be a rediculous
proposal. however , i wanted to point out that there are many people
who do not think that affirmative action is a either intelligent or
productive. it is demeaning to those who it supposedly helps and it
is discriminatory.

any proposal based on it is likely bunk as well.

adam

adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 80
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article apr16.190846.63631@yuma.acns.colostate.edu , bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan) writes
in article shaig.93apr15220200@composer.think.com , shaig@composer.think.com (shai guday) writes

that is what is so hard of south lebanon , israel is
not fighting an army with well drawn battle lines , but a guerilla
tyoe resistance which by definition and necessity blends with
the local populace. not because they are evil cowards that
use women and children as shields , but because that is the only
way one can fight a more powerful better equipped occupying army.

while that is currently true from their perspective , it is also
worthwhile to note that in such cases the populace often does suffer
from attempts to control the guerillas. furthermore , there were
cases in the past of palestinian gun emplacements being situated
within villages. the argument that can be made for small arms
fire can not be made for field pieces.

hizbollah and amal are now the main two militias. though
hizbollah people tend to be more committed to resistrance
operation and better motivated by religious conviction.

as i recall , amal was primarily nationalistically lebanon for
the lebanese motivated. i think that the difference between them
was also a matter of funding and support. one question does
come to mind however ,

given that you claim the hizbollah to be more committed etc... and
that their stated position is
1. no peace talks.
2. no peace talks.
.
.
.
.
n 1. no peace talks.
n. no israel

if we assume that lebanon and syria are sincere in their desire for
peace , why has n't the hizbollah been disarmed \?

i hope you are right on israeli willingness to withdraw , but i still
contend that withdrawal would be the better course for israel 's
security , since it would reduce its military losses , and i claim
that the lebanese and syrian gov'ts would be able to prevent any
further attacks on northern israel.

bearing in mind the above and that military losses are more palatable
than civilian ones , i am sure you can understand why israel is slow
to act in that manner.

no , the syrian gov't is more than happy to have israel sink into another
lebanese morass. i could elaborate if necessary.

hmm... here we disagree on what serves syria interests better.
i think syria wants to have lebanon all to itself. it would
be willing to guarantee northern israel 's security in return for
israeli withdrawal. i do n't think syria wants israel to be
involved in its protectorate of lebanon. syria is sitting at the
negotiating table because it has come to accept that and wants
to get a political resolution. a renewal of hostilities
along the lebanese front could put the whole me peace negotiations
back in question.

i agree that syria wants lebanon to be part of its greater syria.
i do n't necessarily see that the syrians would be unhappy to see
israel up to its neck in another lebanese morass afterwhich syria
could continue on its merry schedule when israeli public opinion
would lead to a second pullout.

i agree that the loss of any human life is deplorable and regrettable.

sigh

why ca n't some gov'ts negotiate as easily as some people \?


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject hebrew labor racist connotations
nf id n cdp 1483500356 000 1777
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 23 15 18 00 1993
lines 37


from center for policy research cpr
subject hebrew labor racist connotations


avoda ivrit hebrew labor


hebrew labor is a concept which has served the zionist movement
for a long time. it has a double barreled message 1) the new jew
must learn to do physical labor , i.e. working the land 2) the
land in this country must pass into jewish hands , i.e. to the same
new jew who has learned to work it. both aspects of the
two pronged concept of hebrew labor have racist connotations. on
the one hand , the diaspora jew 's lack of training in physical
labor is a myth shared by zionists and antisemites. on the other
hand , its meaning in practice has been the displacement of the
arab farmer from the source of his livelihood.

the occupation and the cheap palestinian labor which streamed from
the occupied territories to the factories , orchards , and
hot houses of israel relegated the myth of hebrew labor to the
history books and nostalgic memories of the zionist movement. it
has blossomed forth anew , however , as the government 's answer to
problems caused by the closure of the territories. today too this
concept has two functions 1) to give a progressive look to the
closing of the palestinian population. or in the words of
environment minister yossi sarid , i have no tears for those who
get rich off of cheap labor . 2) to furnish an answer to the
unemployed israeli who complains of being obliged to work for
wages that are lower than the unemployment insurance he receives.

the israeli government is considering plans to import labor from
the far east to replace native people , palestinians , who work in
their own country , thus creating conflicting interests between two
ethnical communities and ruling over them.


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re unconventional peace proposal
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 85

in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr

a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson

of all the stupid postings you 've brought here recently , it is
illuminating that you chose to put your own name on perhaps the
stupidest of them.

the following proposal is based on the following assumptions

1. fundamental human rights , such as the right to life , to
education , to establish a family and have children , to human
dignity , the right to free movement , to free expression , etc. are
more important to human existence that the rights of states.

does this mean that you are calling for the dismantling of the arab
states \?

2. in the event of a conflict between basic human rights and
rights of collectivities , basic human rights should prevail.

apparently , your answer is yes.

6. attempts to solve the israeli arab conflict by traditional
political means have failed.

attempts to solve these problem by traditional military means and
non traditional terrorist means has also failed. but that wo n't stop
them from trying again. after all , it is a holy war , you know....

7. as long as the conflict is perceived as that between two
distinct ethnical religious communities peoples which claim the
land , there is no just nor peaceful solution possible.

no just solution possible. how very encouraging.

having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal.

you mean that it gets even funnier \?

1. a fund should be established which would disburse grants
for each child born to a couple where one partner is israeli jew
and the other palestinian arab.
...
3. for the first child , the grant will amount to 18.000. for
the second the third child , 12.000 for each child. for each
subsequent child , the grant will amount to 6.000 for each child.

4. the fund would be financed by a variety of sources which
have shown interest in promoting a peaceful solution to the
israeli arab conflict ,

no , the fund should be financed by the center for policy research. it
is a major organization , is n't it \? is n't it \?

5. the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
marriages in israel palestine , all of whom would have relatives on
'both sides' of the divide , would make the conflict lose its
ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
truly civil society.

yeah , just like marriages among arabs has strengthened their
societies.

the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
people would also help the integration of israeli society into the
middle east in a graceful manner.

the world could do with a bit less middle eastern grace .

objections to this proposal will certainly be voiced. i will
attempt to identify some of these

boy , you 're a one man band. listen , if you 'd like to followup on your
own postings and debate with yourself , just tell us and we 'll leave
you alone.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 41

in article 1993apr20.131336@iastate.edu , oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin) writes
in article 1993apr19.234534.18368@kpc.com , henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article c5qu5h.1if@news.iastate.edu , oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin)

oy henrik ( \? ) ,
oy your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. i'm not
oy going to spend time to review with you the recent history of cyprus.

good ! ! go back to your references and read it over and over ...

oy if you are really interested , i can provide you with a number of references
oy on the issue. just send me email for that.

you think i am that stupid to ask you for references ! not !
i have many greek friends that i could ask for the info if i
needed. i have already read many articles and do not need
your help. boy , how generous ! !

oy relax ! you 're swinging fists into open air... i was agreeing with you ,
oy assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state ! you may
oy not be very much used to it , to be agreed with that is , but take it more
oy easily. ! )

believe me , i am so relaxed ...

henrik however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
henrik to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one

oy no , henrik , believe me you do n't hope that.

if armenia is goint to do that , then so be it.

henrik that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
henrik (carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.

oy was that after or before one french plane changed its route to avoid
oy inspection \? \? \?

all i am saying is that the plane that was searched was an
american and why turkey did not trust the u.s. that it was
mainly humanitarian aid cargo.

from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 23

backon@vms.huji.ac.il writes

in article 1483500349@igc.apc.org , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes



4. is it true that in israeli prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?


apart from mordechai vanunu who had a trial behind closed doors , there was one
other espionage case (the nutty professor at the nes ziona biological
institute who was a k.g.b. mole) who was tried in camera . i would n't exactly
call it a state secret. the trial was simply tried behind closed doors. i hate
to disappoint you but the united states has tried a number of espionage cases
in camera.

one of those us cases was john pollard.

ed.


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject forged posting forged posting forged posting
summary usually generated by those who ca n't live with themselves !
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 37


the following posting was forged in my name ! please ignore such postings !

forged newsgroups soc.culture.turkish , talk.politics.mideast , talk.politics.
forged soviet , soc.culture.greek
forged from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
forged news software vax vms vnews 1.41
forged organization university of tennessee computing center
forged date fri , 16 apr 1993 21 36 00 gmt
forged lines 293
forged
forged dear friends ,
forged
forged i am a graduate student in education at the university of tennessee.
forged
.
.
.
forged
forged
forged questionnaire
forged teaching music for deaf children.
forged
forged name
forged address e mail
forged employing institution
forged years of experience grade level(s)
forged educational background bachelor masters doctorate
forged professional field special educ. music educ. other

the above posting was forged in my name ! please ignore such postings !


david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren)
subject suicide bomber attack in the territories
organization brown university department of computer science
lines 22

attention israel line recipients

friday , april 16 , 1993


two arabs killed and eight idf soldiers wounded in west bank car
bomb explosion

israel defense forces radio , galei zahal , reports today that a car
bomb explosion in the west bank today killed two palestinians and
wounded eight idf soldiers. the blast is believed to be the work of
a suicide bomber. radio reports said a car packed with butane gas
exploded between two parked buses , one belonging to the idf and the
other civilian. both busses went up in flames. the blast killed an
arab man who worked at a nearby snack bar in the mehola settlement.
an israel radio report stated that the other man who was killed may
have been the one who set off the bomb. according to officials at
the haemek hospital in afula , the eight idf soldiers injured in the
blast suffered light to moderate injuries.


danny keren

from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 15

tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

i too strongly object to those that justify israeli rule
of those who do not want that. the occupied territories are not
israel 's to control , to keep , or to dominate.

they certainly are until the arabs make peace. only the most leftist arabist
lunatics call upon israel to withdraw now. most moderates realize that an
israeli withdrawl will be based on the camp david 242 338 madrid formulas
which make full peace a prerequisite to territorial concessions.

tim

ed


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the religious persecution , cultural oppression and economical...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 161

in article 1993apr21.202728.29375@news.uiowa.edu mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon) writes

you may not be afraid of anything but you act as if you are.

i always like your kind of odds. the greek governments must be held
to account for the sub human conditions of the turkish minority living
in the western thrace under the brutal greek domination. the religious
persecution , cultural oppression and economical ex communication applied
to the turkish population in that area are the dimensions of the human
rights abuse widespread in greece.

greece 's housing policies worry western thrace turks

...newly built houses belonging to members of the minority
community in dedeagac province , had , he said , been destroyed
by evros province public works department on dec. 4.

sungar added that they had received harsh treatment by the
security forces during the demolition.

this is not the first demolition in dedeagac province more
than 40 houses were destroyed there between 1979 1984 and
members of that minority community were made homeless , he
continued.

greece government rail roads two turkish ethnic deputies

while world human rights organizations scream , greeks
persistently work on removing the parliamentary immunity
of dr. sadik ahmet and mr. ahmet faikoglu.

in his 65 page confession , salman demirok , a former chief of pkk
operations in hakkari confessed that high level relations between
pkk , greece and greek cypriot administration existed.

according to demirok , greek cypriot administration not only
gives shelter to pkk guerillas but also supplies them with
food and weapons at the temporary camps set up in its territory.
demirok disclosed that pkk has three safe houses in south cyprus ,
used by terrorists such as ferhat. in the camps , he added ,
terrorists were trained to use various weapons including rpg 's
and anti aircraft guns which had been purchased directly from
the greek government. greek cypriot government has gone to the
extent of issuing special identification cards to pkk members so
that they can travel from one region to another without being
confronted by legal obstacles. demirok 's account was confirmed
by another pkk defector , fatih tan , who gave himself over to
police in hakkari after spending four years with pkk. tan explained
that the terrorists went through a training in camps in south cyprus ,
sometimes for a period of 12 weeks or more.

torture in greece hidden reality

case 1 kostas andreadis and dimitris voglis.

...andreadis' head was covered with a hood and he was tortured
by falanga (beating on the soles of the feet) , electric shocks ,
and was threatened with being thrown out of the window. an
official medical report clearly documented this torture....

case 2 horst bosniatzki , a west german citizen.

...at midnight he was taken to the beach , chains were put to his
feet and he was threatened to be thrown to the sea. he was dragged
along the beach for about a 1.5 km while being punched on the
head and kidneys...back on the police station , he was beaten
on the finger tips with a thin stick until one of the fingertips
split open....

case 3 torture of dimitris voglis.

case 4 brothers vangelis (16) and christos arabatzis (12) ,
vasilis papadopoulos (13) , and kostas kiriazis (13).

case 5 torture of eight students at thessaloniki police
headquarters.

source the british broadcasting corporation , summary of
world broadcasting july 6 , 1987 part 4 a the
middle east , me 8612 a 1.

abu nidal 's advisers reportedly training
pkk asala militants in cyprus

nicosia , ankara , tel aviv. the israeli secret service ,
mossad , is reported to have acquired significant
information in connection with the camps set up in the
troodos mountains in cyprus for the training of
militants of the pkk and asala armenian secret army for
the liberation of armenia . according to sources close
to mossad , about 700 kurdish , greek cypriot and armenian
militants are undergoing training in the troodos
mountains in southern cyprus. the same sources stated
that abu nidal 's special advisers are giving military
training to the pkk and asala militants in the camps.
they added that the militants leave southern cyprus for
libya , lebanon , syria , greece and iran after completing
their training. mossad has established that due to the
clashes which were taking place among the terrorist
groups based in syria , the pkk and asala organisations
moved to the greek cypriot part of cyprus , where they
would be more comfortable. they also transferred a
number of their camps in northern syria to the troodos
mountains.

mossad revealed that the armenian national movement ,
which is known as the mna , has opened liaison offices in
nicosia , athens and tripoli in order to meet the needs
of the camps. the offices are used to provide material
support for the armenian camps. meanwhile , the leader
of the popular front for the liberation of palestine ,
george habash , is reported to have ordered his men
not to participate in the operations carried out
by the pkk asala , which he described as extreme
racist , extreme nationalist and fascist. reliable
sources have said that habash believed that the recent
operations carried out by the pkk militants show that
organisation to be a band of irregulars engaged in
extreme nationalist operations. they added that he
instructed his militants to sever their links with the
pkk and avoid clashing with it. it has been established
that george habash expelled asala militants from his
camp after asala 's connections with drug trafficking
were exposed.

source alan cowell , 'u.s. greece in dispute on terror , ' the new
york times , june 27 , 1987 , p. 4.

special to the new york times

athens , june 26 a dispute developed today between athens and
washington over united states intelligence reports saying that
athens , for several months , conducted negotiations with the
terrorist known as abu nidal...

they said the contacts were verified in what were termed hard
intelligence reports.

abu nidal leads the palestinian splinter group al fatah
revolutionary council , implicated in the 1985 airport
bombings at rome and vienna that contributed to the reagan
administration 's decision to bomb tripoli , libya , last year.

in washington , state department officials said that when
administration officials learned about the contacts , the
state department drafted a strongly worded demarche. the
officials also expressed unhappiness with greece 's dealings
with asala , the armenian liberation army , which has carried
out terrorist acts against turks....


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject to be exact , 2.5 million muslims were exterminated by the armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 287

in article lt88p0inn2ql@appserv.eng.sun.com linden@positive.eng.sun.com (peter van der linden) writes

1. so , did the turks kill the armenians \?

so , did the jews kill the germans \?
you even make armenians laugh.

an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the
systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of
the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at
least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic. the
memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and
eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in
1926 with the title 'men are like that.' other references abound.
(rachel a. bortnick the jewish times june 21 , 1990)

2. or was it the armenians who massacred the turks \?

yes. to be exact , armenians slaughtered 2.5 million muslim people between
1914 and 1920.


source 1 mccarthy , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman
anatolia and the end of the empire , new york university press ,
new york , 1983 , pp. 133 144.

source 2 hovannisian , richard g. , armenia on the road to independence ,
1918. university of california press (berkeley and los angeles) ,
1967 , p. 13.

source hovannisian , richard g. armenia on the road to independence , 1918.
university of california press (berkeley and los angeles) , 1967 , p. 13.

the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the
area of transcaucasia to over 130 , 000 square miles. the estimated population
of the entire region in 1886 was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom 940 , 000 (20 percent) were
armenian , 1 , 200 , 000 (25 percent) georgian , and 2 , 220 , 000 (45 percent) moslem.
of the latter group , 1 , 140 , 000 were tatars. paradoxically , barely one third
of transcaucasia 's armenians lived in the erevan guberniia , where the
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds. erevan
uezd , the administrative center of the province , had only 44 , 000 armenians
as compared to 68 , 000 moslems. by the time of the russian census of 1897 ,
however , the armenians had established a scant majority , 53 percent , in the
guberniia it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent , or 670 , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000
inhabitants. this impressive change in the province 's ethnic character
notwithstanding , there was , on the eve of the creation of the armenian
republic , a solid block of 370 , 000 tartars who continued to dominate the
southern districts , from the outskirts of ereven to the border of persia.
(see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of
transcaucasia).

in 1920 , '0' percent turk.

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work
of extermination. our troops surrounded village after village.
little resistance was offered. our artillery knocked the huts
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border
into turkey. the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole
length of the borderland of russian armenia from nakhitchevan to
akhalkalaki from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of
tartar villages. they are quiet now , those villages , except for
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the
scattered bones of the dead.

ohanus appressian
men are like that
p. 202.


some of the references from eminent authors in the field of middle eastern
history and eyewitnesses of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslims

1. the armenian revolutionary movement by louise nalbandian ,
university of california press , berkeley , los angeles , 1975

2. diplomacy of imperialism 1890 1902 by william i. lenger , professor
of history , harward university , boston , alfred a. knopt , new york , 1951

3. turkey in europe by sir charles elliot ,
edward arnold , london , 1900

4. the chatnam house version and other middle eastern studies by
elie kedouri , praeger publishers , new york , washington , 1972

5. the rising crescent by ernest jackh ,
farrar reinhart , inc. , new york toronto , 1944

6. spiritual and political evolutions in islam by felix valyi ,
mogan , paul , trench truebner co. , london , 1925

7. the struggle for power in moslem asia by e. alexander powell ,
the century co. , new york , london , 1924

8. struggle for transcaucasia by feruz kazemzadeh ,
yale university press , new haven , conn. , 1951

9. history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (2 volumes) by
stanford j. shaw , cambridge university press , cambridge , new york ,
melbourne , 1977

10. the western question in greece and turkey by arnold j. toynbee ,
constable co. , ltd. , london , bombay sydney , 1922

11. the caliph 's last heritage by sir mark sykes ,
macmillan co. , london , 1915

12. men are like that by leonard a. hartill ,
bobbs co. , indianapolis , 1928

13. adventures in the near east , 1918 22 by a. rawlinson ,
dodd , meade co. , 1925

14. world alive , a personal story by robert dunn ,
crown publishers , inc. , new york , 1952

15. from sardarapat to serves and lousanne by avetis aharonian ,
the armenian review magazine , volume 15 (fall 1962) through 17
(spring 1964)

16. armenia on the road to independence by richard g. hovanessian ,
university of california press , berkeley , california , 1967

17. the rebirth of turkey by clair price ,
thomas seltzer , new york , 1923

18. caucasian battlefields by w. b. allen paul muratoff ,
cambridge , 1953

19. partition of turkey by harry n. howard ,
h. fertig , new york , 1966

20. the king crane commission by harry n. howard ,
beirut , 1963

21. united states policy and partition of turkey by laurence evans ,
john hopkins university press , baltimore , 1965

22. british documents related to turkish war of independence by gothard
jaeschke

1. neside kerem demir , bir sehid anasina tarihin soyledikleri
turkiye'nin ermeni meselesi , hulbe basim ve yayin t.a.s. ,
ankara , 1982. (ingilizce birinci baski 1980 , the armenian
question in turkey )

2. veysel eroglu , ermeni mezalimi , sebil yayinevi , istanbul , 1978.

3. a. alper gazigiray , osmanlilardan gunumuze kadar vesikalarla ermeni
teroru'nun kaynaklari , gozen kitabevi , istanbul , 1982.

4. dr. kirzioglu m. fahrettin , kars ili ve cevresinde ermeni mezalimi ,
kardes matbaasi , ankara , 1970.

t.c. basbakanlik osmanli arsivi , babiali , istanbul

a) yildiz esas evraki
b) yildiz perakende
c) irade defterleri
d) cemaat i gayr i muslime defterleri
e) meclisi vukela mazbatalari
f) dahiliye nezareti , kalem i mahsus dosyalari
g) dahiliye nezareti , sifre defterleri
h) babiali evrak odasi siyasi kartonlar
i) babiali evrak odasi muhimme kartonlari

t.c. disisleri bakanligi , hazine i evrak , defterdarlik

a) harb i umumi
b) muteferrik kartonlar

british archives

a) parliamentary papers (hansard) commons lords
b) foreign office confidential print various collections
c) foreign office 424 239 253 turkey correspondence annual reports
d) foreign office 608
e) foreign office 371 , political intelligence general correspondence
f) foreign office 800 240 , ryan papers
g) foreign office 800 151 , curzon papers
h) foreign office 839 the eastern conference lausanne. 53 files

india office records and library , blackfriars road , london.

a) l political and security 10 851 855 (five boxes) , turkey treaty of
peace 1918 1923
b) l p s 10 1031 , near east turkey and greece lausanne conference ,
1921 1923
c) l p s 11 154
d) l p s 11 1031

french archives

archives du ministere des affaires entrangeres , quai d'orsay , paris.

a) documents diplomatiques affaires armeniens 1895 1914 collections
b) guerre 1914 1918 turquie legion d'orient.
c) levant , 1918 1929 armenie.


official publications , published documents , diplomatic correspondence ,
agreements , minutes and others

a. turkey (the ottoman empire and the republic of turkey)

akarli , e. (ed.) belgelerle tanzimat , (istanbul , 1978).
(gn. kur. , atase) askeri tarih belgeleri dergisi , v. xxxi (81) ,
(dec. 1982).
askeri tarih belgeleri dergisi , v. xxxii (83) ,
(dec. 1983).
hocaoglu , m. (ed.) ittihad i anasir i osmaniye heyeti nizamnamesi ,
(istanbul , 1912).
meray , s. l. (trans. ed.) lozan baris konferansi tutanaklar belgeler ,
(ankara , 1978) , 2 vols.
meray , s. l. o. olcay (ed.) osmanli imparatorlugu'nun cokus belgeleri
mondros birakismasi , sevr andlasmasi , ilgili belgeler , (ankara , 1977).
(osmanli devleti , dahiliye nezareti) aspirations et agissements
revolutionnaires des comites armeniens avant et apres la proclamation
de la constitution ottomane , (istanbul , 1917).
ermeni komitelerinin amal ve hareket i ihtilaliyesi ilan i
mesrutiyetten evvel ve sonra , (istanbul , 1916).
idare i umumiye ve vilayet kanunu , (istanbul , 1913).
muharrerat i umumiye mecmuasi , v. i (istanbul , 1914).
muharrerat i umumiye mecmuasi , v. ii (istanbul , 1915).
muharrerat i umumiye mecmuasi , v. iii (istanbul , 1916).
muharrerat i umumiye mecmuasi , v. iv (istanbul , 1917).
(osmanli devleti , hariciye nezareti) imtiyazat i ecnebiyye'nin
lagvindan dolayi memurine teblig olunacak talimatname , (istanbul , 1915).
(osmanli devleti , harbiye nezareti) islam ahalinin ducar olduklari
mezalim hakkinda vesaike mustenid malumat , (istanbul , 1919).
(iv. ordu) aliye divan i harbi orfisinde tedkik olunan mesele yi
siyasiye hakkinda izahat , (istanbul , 1916).
turkozu , h. k. (ed.) osmanli ve sovyet belgeleriyle ermeni mezalimi ,
(ankara , 1982).
turkiye buyuk millet meclisi gizli celse zabitlari , (ankara , 1985) ,
4 vols.

russia

adamof , e. e. (ed.) sovyet devlet arsivi belgeleriyle anadolu'nun
taksimi plani , (tran. h. rahmi , ed. h. mutlucag) , (istanbul , 1972).

altinay , a. r. iki komite iki kital , (istanbul , 1919).
kafkas yollarinda hatiralar ve tahassusler , (istanbul , 1919).
turkiye 'de katolik propagandasi , turk tarihi encumeni mecmuasi ,
v. xiv 82 5 (sept. 1924).
asaf muammer harb ve mesulleri , (istanbul , 1918).
akboy , c. birinci dunya harbinde turk harbi , v. i osmanli imparatorlugu'nun
siyasi ve askeri hazirliklari ve harbe girisi , (gn. kur. , ankara , 1970).
akgun , s. general harbord'un anadolu gezisi ve (ermeni meselesi'ne dair)
raporu kurtulus savasi baslangicinda , (istanbul , 1981).
akin , i. turk devrim tarihi , (istanbul , 1983).
aksin , s. jon turkler ve ittihad ve terakki , (istanbul , 1976).
basar , z. (ed.) ermenilerden gorduklerimiz , (ankara , 1974).
ermeniler hakkinda makaleler derlemeler , (ankara , 1978).
belen , f. birinci dunya harbinde turk harbi , (ankara , 1964).
deliorman , a. turklere karsi ermeni komitecileri , (istanbul , 1980).
ege , n. n. (ed.) prens sabahaddin hayati ve ilmi mudafaalari ,
(istanbul , 1977).
ercikan , a. ermenilerin bizans ve osmanli imparatorluklarindaki rolleri ,
(ankara , 1949).
gurun , k. 'ermeni sorunu yahut bir sorun nasil yaratilir \? ' , turk tarihinde
ermeniler sempozyumu , (izmir , 1983).
hocaoglu , m. arsiv vesikalariyla tarihte ermeni mezalimi ve ermeniler ,
(istanbul , 1976).
karal , e. s. osmanli tarihi , v. v (1983 , 4th ed.) v. vi (1976 , 2nd ed.)
v. vii (1977 , 2nd ed.) v. viii (1983 , 2nd ed.) ankara.
kurat , y. t. osmanli imparatorlugu'nun paylasilmasi , (ankara , 1976).
orel , s. s. yuca ermenilerce talat pasa'ya atfedilen telgraflarin
icyuzu , (ankara , 1983). also in english translation.
ahmad , f. the young turks the committee of union and progress in
turkish politics , (oxford , 1969).

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re while armenians are massacring innocent azeri women and children...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 180

in article iacovou.734063606@gurney iacovou@gurney.cs.umn.edu (neophytos iacovou) writes

historically even the most uncivilized of peoples have exhibited
signs of compassion by allowing humanitarian aid to reach civilian
populations. even the nazis did this much.

is the world community really so powerless \? where are all those human
rights advocates \? where are all the decent people \? are we going to
let this human tragedy go on and do nothing about it \? the number
of azeris murdered by the terrorist armenian army and its savage
gangs is increasing.

news reporters make their living by providing stories , and there is
so way in hell that they are going to confuse the public with
what is happening in armenia (a country that few know of) , and
risk detracting people 's interest from what is happening in serbia.

then you must be living in an alternate universe. where were they \?

an appeal to mankind

during the last three years azerbaijan and its multinational
population are vainly fighting for justice within the limits of
the soviet union. all humanitarian , constitutional human rights
guaranteed by the un charter , universal declaration of human
rights , helsinki agreements , human problems international forums ,
documents signed by the soviet union all of them are violated.

the ussr 's president , government bodies do not defend azerbaijan
though they are all empowered to take necessary measures to
guarantee life and peace.

the 140 , 000 strong army of armenian terrorists with moscow 's
tacit consent wages an undeclared war of annihilation against
azerbaijan. as a result , a part of azerbaijan has been occupied
and annexed , hundreds of people killed , thousands wounded.

some 200 , 000 azerbaijanis have been brutally and inhumanly
deported from the armenian ssr , their historical homeland.
together with them 64 , 000 russians and 22 , 000 kurds have also
been driven out , a part of them now settled in azerbaijan.
some 40 , 000 turkish meskhetians , lezghins and representatives
of other caucasian nationalities who escaped from the central
asia where the president and government bodies did not guarantee
them the life and peace also suffered from these deportations.

one of the scandalous vandalisms directed not only against
azerbaijan science but the world civilization as well is the
armenian extremists' destruction of the karabakh scientific
experimental base of the institute of genetics and selection
of the academy of sciences of the azerbaijan ssr.

we beg you for humanitarian help and political assistance ,
for the honour and dignity of 7 million azerbaijanis are
violated , its territory , culture and history are trampled ,
its people are shot. there is persistent negative image of
azerbaijanians abroad , and this defamation is spread over
the whole world by soviet mass media , armenian lobby in the
ussr and the united states.

one of the myths is that all events allegedly involves and
generated by interethnic collisions and religious intolerance
while the truth is that all these shootings and recent
events stem from the territorial claims of armenia on
azerbaijan.

it is a well documented fact that before the conflict there
were no frictions between armenians and azerbaijanis on the
issue of karabakh. hundreds and thousands armenians placidly
and calmly lived and worked in azerbaijan land , had their
representatives in all government bodies of the azerbaijan
ssr.

we are for a united , indivisible , sovereign azerbaijan , we
are for a common caucasian home proclaimed in 1918 by one
of the founding fathers of the azerbaijan democratic
republic muhammed emin rasulzade.

but all these goals and expectations are trampled upon the
soviet leadership in favour of the armenian expansionists
encouraged by moscow and intended to create a new '1 , 000
year reich' the 'great armenia' by annexing the
neighboring lands.

the world public opinion shed tears to save the whales ,
suffers for penguins dying out in the antarctic continent.

but what about the lives of seven million human beings \?
if these people are muslims , does it mean that they are
less valuable \? can people be discriminated by their
colour of skin or religion , by their residence or other
attributes \?

all people are brothers , and we appeal to our brothers
for help and understanding. this is not the first appeal
of azerbaijan to the world public opinion. our previous
appeals were unheard. however , we still carry the hope
that the truth beyond the russian and armenian propaganda
will one day reveal the extent of our suffering and
stimulate at least as much help and compassion for
azerbaijan as tendered to whales and penguins.

the committee for people's help to
karabakh (of the) academy of sciences
of the azerbaijan ssr

everyone knows this , even the turks know this , you know this. give
us a time period when the world is currently boring , and what is
happening in armenia would make front page headlines. think i'm lying \?
take a look at what happened in somalia. when did the press report
it to the world \?

but perhaps turkiye should intervene in the affairs of the caucasus
in the name of peace and democracy. the armenians are christians , the
azerbaijanis are moslems , and islam is a religion especially unloved
by the democrat westernizers. besides , at the root of this conflict
lie the territorial claims on azerbaijan , a consequence of which
were the blood and suffering of innocent azeri people , hundreds of
thousands of refugees , and gross violations of human rights.

recently armenians attacked the azeri town of khojaly and massacred
thousands of azeris. the paris based 'association for democracy and
human rights in azerbaijan' puts the number of khojali victims
at 3 , 145. some of the dead were scalped and mutilated. this whole
thing has now gone entirely too far.

want to know what will bring the story in armenia to the front
page \? if the russians move into the area with a shit load of tanks
then your human rights advocates will show up defending the armenians.
of course we can also be sure that the russians wo n't show up with
any tanks , not with the problems they are having at home.

they already did. the scenario and genocide staged by the armenians
78 years ago in the ottoman empire is being reenacted again this
time in azerbaijan. there are remarkable similarities between the
plots , the perpetrators , and the underdogs.

report taken from the new york times , tuesday , march 3 , 1992

massacre by armenians being reported

agdam , azerbaijan , march 2 (reuters) fresh evidence emerged today
of a massacre of civilians by armenian militants in nagorno karabakh ,
a predominantly armenian enclave of azerbaijan.
the republic of armenia reiterated denials that its militants had killed
1 , 000 people in the azerbaijani populated town of khojaly last week and
massacred men , women and children fleeing the carnage across snow covered
mountain passes.
but dozen of bodies scattered over the area lent credence to azerbaijani
reports of a massacre.

scalping reported
azerbaijani officials and journalists who flew briefly to the region
by helicopter brought back three dead children with the back of their
heads blown off. they said shooting by armenians has prevented them
from retrieving more bodies.
women and children have been scalped , said assad faradshev , an aide
to nagorno karabakh 's azerbaijani governor. when we began to pick up bodies ,
they began firing at us.
the azerbaijani militia chief in agdam , rashid mamedov , said the bodies
are lying there like flocks of sheep. even the fascists did nothing like this.

truckloads of bodies
near agdam on the outskirts of nagorno karabakh , a reuters photographer ,
frederique lengaigne , said she had seen two trucks filled with azerbaijani
bodies.
in the first one i counted 35 , and it looked as though there were as
many in the second , she said. some had their head cut off , and many had
been burned. they were all men , and a few had been wearing khaki uniforms.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re was go hezbollah !
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 159

in article 1993apr16.130037.18830@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu
(brad hernlem) writes

in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu
(tim clock) writes

are you suggesting that , when guerillas use the population for cover ,
israel should totally back down \? so...the easiest way to get away with
attacking another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the
other respects innocent lives \?

tell me tim , what are these guerillas doing wrong \? assuming that they are
using civilians for cover ,

assuming \? also come on , brad. if we are going to get anywhere in
this (or any) discussion , it does n't help to bring up elements i never
addressed , nor commented on in any way . i made no comment on who is
right or who is wrong , only that civilians are being used as cover
and that , having been placed in between the israelis and the guerillas ,
they will be injured as both parties continue their fight.

the purpose of an army 's use of military uniforms
is to set its members apart from the civilians so that
civilians will not be thought of by the other side as
combatants . so , what do you think is the meaning behind ,
the intention and the effect when an army purposely
does not were uniforms but goes out of its way to look
like civilians' \? they are judging that the benefit they will
receive from this cover is more important that the harm
that will come to civilians.

this is a comment on the israeli experience and is saying
that the guerillas do have some responsibility in putting civilians
in the middle of this fight. by putting on uniforms and living apart
from civilians (barracks , etc.) , the guerillas would significantly lower
the risk to civilians.

but if the guerillas do this are n't they putting themselves
at greater risk \? absolutely , they ask themselves why set
ourselves apart (by wearing uniforms) when there is a ready made
cover for us (civilians) \? that makes sense from their point of
view , but when this cover is used , the guerillas should accept
some of the responsibility for subsequent harm to civilians.

if the buffer zone is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working \? why
is it further neccessary for israeli guns to pound lebanese villages \? why
not just kill those who try to infiltrate the buffer zone \? you see , there
is more to the shelling of the villages.... it is called retaliation...
getting back ... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the
villages. the least it shows is a reckless disregard by the israeli
government for the lives of civilians.

i agree with you here. i have always thought that israel 's bombing
sortees and bombing policy is stupid , thoughtless , inhumane and
ineffective. but , there is no reason that israel should passive wait
until attackers chose to act there is every reason to believe that
taking the fight to the enemy will do more to stop attacks.

as i said previously , israel spent several decades sitting passively
on its side of a border and only acting to stop these attacks after
the attackers had entered israeli territory. it did n't work very well.
the host arab state did little nothing to try and stop these attacks
from its side of the border with israel so the number of attacks
were considerably higher , as was their physical and psychological impact
on the civilians caught in their path.

what \? so the whole bit about attacks on israel from neighboring arab states
can start all over again \? while i also hope for this to happen , it will
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the
responsibility and the duty to stop guerilla attacks on israel from their
soil. they have to prove it (or provide some guaratees ) , there is no way
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of
tolerance towards anti israel guerillas in residence .

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has
no business wasting others' time coming to the peace talks.

this is just another selectively applied statement.

the reason for this drawn out impasse between ababs palestinians and israelis
is that neither side is willing to accept the word of the other. by your
criteria everyone should stay away from the negotiations.

that is precisely why the palestinians (in their recent pisga proposal for
the interim period after negotiations and leading up to full autonomy) are
demanding conditions that essentially define autonomy already. they do
not trust that israel will follow through the entire process and allow
palestinians to reach full autonomy.

do you understand and accept this viewpoint by the palestinians \?
if you do , then why should israel 's view of arabs palestinians
be any different \? why should they trust the arab palestinians' words \?
since they do n't , they are very reluctant to give up tangible assets
(land , control of areas) in exchange for words . for this reason ,
they are also concerned about the sorts of guarantees they will have
that the arabs will follow through on their part of any agreement reached.

but do n't you see that the same statement can be made both ways \?
if lebanon was interested in peace then it should accept the word
of israel that the attacks were the cause for war and disarming the
hizbollah will remove the cause for its continued occupancy.

absolutely , so are the arabs palestinians asking first for the
israelis word in relation to any agreement \? no , what is being
demanded first is land. when the issue is land , and one party
finally gets hold of this land , what the other party does
is totally irrelevent. if i now have possession of this land ,
your words have absolutely no power whether israel chooses to
keeps its word does not get the land back.

afterall , israel has already staged two parts of the withdrawal from
areas it occupied in lebanon during slg.

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in lebanon have been
disarmed. hezbollah remains the only independent militia. hezbollah does
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the idf burned up
sheikh mosavi , his wife , and young son.

while the major armaments (those allowing people to wage civil wars )
have been removed , the weapons needed to cross border attacks still
remain to some extent. rocket attacks still continue , and commando
raids only require a few easily concealed weapons and a refined disregard
for human life (yours of that of others). such attacks also continue.

of course , if israel would withdraw from lebanon
and stop assassinating people and shelling villages they would n't
make the lebanese so mad as to do that.

bat guano. the situation you call for existed in the 1970s and attacks
were commonplace.

furthermore , with hezbollah subsequently disarmed , it would not be possible.

there is no way these groups can be effectively disarmed unless the state
is as authoritarian is syria 's. the only other way is for lebanon to take
it upon itself to constantly patrol the entire border with israel , essentially
mirroring israel 's border secirity on its side. it has to prove to isreal that
it is this committed to protecting israel from attack from lebanese territory.

once syria leaves who is to say that lebanon will be able to retain
control \? if syria stays thay may be even more dangerous for israel.

tim , when is the last time that you recall any trouble on the syrian border \?
not lately , eh \?

that 's what i said , ok \? but , does n't that mean that syria has to take over
lebanon \? i do n't think israel or lebanon would like that.

what both sides need is to receive something tangible . the arabs
palestinians are looking for land and demanding that they receive it
prior to giving anything to israel. israel has two problems 1) if it
gives up real land it is exposing itself to a changed geostrategic
situation (and that change does n't help israel 's position) , and 2) when
it gives up this land it needs to receive something in return to
compensate for the increased risks

tim



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian slaughter of defenseless muslim children and pregnant women.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 81

in article 1993apr20.232449.22318@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

bm gimme a break. capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense.
bm it seems to me that short sighted armenians are escalating the hostilities


again , armenians in karabakh are simply defending themselves. what do

the winding down of winter puts you in a heavy 'arromdian' mood \? i 'll
see if i can get our dear mehmetcik to write you a letter giving
you and your criminal handlers at the asala sdpa arf terrorism and
revisionism triangle some military pointers , like how to shoot armed
adult males instead of small muslim children and pregnant women.


source 'the times , ' 3 march 1992

massacre uncovered....

by anatol lieven ,

more than sixty bodies , including those of women and children , have
been spotted on hillsides in nagorno karabakh , confirming claims
that armenian troops massacred azeri refugees. hundreds are missing.

scattered amid the withered grass and bushes along a small valley
and across the hillside beyond are the bodies of last wednesday 's
massacre by armenian forces of azerbaijani refugees.

from that hill can be seen both the armenian controlled town of
askeran and the outskirts of the azerbaijani military headquarters
of agdam. those who died very nearly made it to the safety of their
own lines.

we landed at this spot by helicopter yesterday afternoon as the last
troops of the commonwealth of independent states began pulling out.
they left unhindered by the warring factions as general boris gromov ,
who oversaw the soviet withdrawal from afghanistan , flew to stepanakert
to ease their departure.

a local truce was enforced to allow the azerbaijaines to collect their
dead and any refugees still hiding in the hills and forest. all the
same , two attack helicopters circled continuously the nearby armenian
positions.

in all , 31 bodies could be counted at the scene. at least another
31 have been taken into agdam over the past five days. these figures
do not include civilians reported killed when the armenians stormed
the azerbaijani town of khodjaly on tuesday night. the figures also
do not include other as yet undiscovered bodies

zahid jabarov , a survivor of the massacre , said he saw up to 200
people shot down at the point we visited , and refugees who came
by different routes have also told of being shot at repeatedly and
of leaving a trail of bodies along their path. around the bodies
we saw were scattered possessions , clothing and personnel documents.
the bodies themselves have been preserved by the bitter cold which
killed others as they hid in the hills and forest after the massacre.
all are the bodies of ordinary people , dressed in the poor , ugly
clothing of workers.

of the 31 we saw , only one policeman and two apparent national
volunteers were wearing uniform. all the rest were civilians ,
including eight women and three small children. two groups ,
apparently families , had fallen together , the children cradled
in the women's arms.

several of them , including one small girl , had terrible head
injuries only her face was left. survivors have told how they
saw armenians shooting them point blank as they lay on the ground.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 yr old child \?
reply to aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 27


in a previous article , steel@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (nick steel) says

q how many occupying israeli soldiers (terrorists) does it
take to kill a 5 year old native child \?

a four

two fasten his arms , one shoots in the face ,
and one writes up a false report.

this newsgroup is for intelligent discussion. i want you to either smarten
up and stop this bullshit posting or get the fuck out of my face and this
net.

steve



internet aa229@freenet.carleton.ca fidonet 1 163 109.18
mossad@qube.ocunix.on.ca
my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head.

from ohayon@jcpltyo.jcpl.co.jp (tsiel ohayon)
subject how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 yr old child \?
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan
lines 63

jle the great writes

jle q how many occupying israeli soldiers (terrorists) does it
jle take to kill a 5 year old native child \?
jle a four
jle two fasten his arms , one shoots in the face ,
jle and one writes up a false report.

a couple of months ago jle wrote a terrible c program (it would never have
passed compilation). this is one describes jle the great.

8 cut here and save to jle.c 8

include stdio.h
include signal.h

define loser 0x01
define childish 0x01
define unhumoristic 0x01
define vulgar 0x01
define mossad agent 0x01

define j l e loser childish unhumoristic vulgar mossad agent

static void
abort()

printf( even if she wanted , jle 's mother could n't abort this program )
printf( n n n n )


void
main()

signal(sigint , abort)
printf( this program does not help jewish arab relations ( n )

printf( hit c to abort n )

infinite loop , jle never comes out of his world

while(j l e)


8 cut here 8


to compile this wonderfool program on a unix machine try.
cc o jle jle.c
or
make jle

then type jle at your prompt.

i tried it , it works great ...


tsiel

8 8
tsiel ohayon@jcpl.co.jp if you do not receive this e mail , please let me
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible.
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing.

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject unconventional peace proposal
nf id n cdp 1483500348 000 5967
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 18 07 24 00 1993
lines 131


from center for policy research cpr
subject unconventional peace proposal


a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson

the following proposal is based on the following assumptions

1. fundamental human rights , such as the right to life , to
education , to establish a family and have children , to human
dignity , the right to free movement , to free expression , etc. are
more important to human existence that the rights of states.

2. in the event of a conflict between basic human rights and
rights of collectivities , basic human rights should prevail.

3. between the collectivities defining themselves as
jewish israeli and palestinian arab , however labelled , an
unresolved conflict exists.

4. this conflict has caused great sufferings for millions of
people. it moreover poisons relations between communities , peoples
and nations.

5. each year , the united states expends billions of dollars
in economic and military aid to the conflicting parties.

6. attempts to solve the israeli arab conflict by traditional
political means have failed.

7. as long as the conflict is perceived as that between two
distinct ethnical religious communities peoples which claim the
land , there is no just nor peaceful solution possible.

8. love between human beings can be capitalized for the sake
of peace and justice. when people love , they share.

having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal.

1. a fund should be established which would disburse grants
for each child born to a couple where one partner is israeli jew
and the other palestinian arab.

2. to be entitled for a grant , a couple will have to prove
that one of the partners possesses or is entitled to israeli
citizenship under the law of return and the other partner ,
although born in areas under current isreali control , is not
entitled to such citizenship under the law of return.

3. for the first child , the grant will amount to 18.000. for
the second the third child , 12.000 for each child. for each
subsequent child , the grant will amount to 6.000 for each child.


4. the fund would be financed by a variety of sources which
have shown interest in promoting a peaceful solution to the
israeli arab conflict , including the u.s. government , jewish and
christian organizations in the u.s. and a great number of
governments and international organizations.

5. the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
marriages in israel palestine , all of whom would have relatives on
'both sides' of the divide , would make the conflict lose its
ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
truly civil society. the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
people would also help the integration of israeli society into the
middle east in a graceful manner.

objections to this proposal will certainly be voiced. i will
attempt to identify some of these

1. the idea of providing financial incentives to selected
forms of partnership and marriage , is not conventional. however ,
it is based on the concept of affirmative action , which is
recognized as a legitimate form of public policy to reverse the
perverse effects of segregation and discrimination. international
law clearly permits affirmative action when it is aimed at
reducing racial discrimination and segregation.

2. it may be objected that the israeli palestinian conflict
is not primarily a religious or ethnical conflict , but that it is
a conflict between a colonialist settler society and an indigenous
colonized society that can only regain its freedom by armed
struggle. this objection is based on the assumption that the
'enemy' is not zionism as ideology and practice , but
israeli jewish society and its members which will have to be
defeated. this objection has no merit because it does not fulfill
the first two assumptions concerning the primacy of fundamental
human rights over collective rights (see above)

3. fundamentalist jews would certainly object to the use of
financial incentives to encourage 'mixed marriages'. from their
point of view , the continued existence of a specific jewish people
overrides any other consideration , be it human love , peace of
human rights. the president of the world jewish congress , edgar
bronfman , reflected this view a few years ago in an interview he
gave to der spiegel , a german magazine. he called the increasing
assimilation of jews in the world a calamity , comparable in its
effects only with the holocaust. this objection has no merit
either because it does not fulfill the first two assumptions (see
above)

4. it may objected that only a few people in
israel palestine , would request such grants and that it would thus
not serve its purpose. to this objection one might respond that
although it is not possible to determine with certainty the effect
of such a proposal , the existence of such a fund would help mixed
couples to resist the pressure of their respective societies and
encourage young couples to reject fundamentalist and racist
attitudes.

5. it may objected that such a fund would need great sums to
bring about substantial demographic changes. this objection has
merits. however , it must be remembered that huge sums , more than
3 billion , are expended each year by the united states government
and by u.s. organizations to maintain an elusive peace in the
middle east through armaments. a mere fraction of these sums would
suffice to launch the above proposal and create a more favorable
climate towards the existence of 'mixed' marriages in
israel palestine , thus encouraging the emergence of a
non segregated society in that worn torn land.

i would be thankful for critical comments to the above proposal as
well for any dissemination of this proposal for meaningful
discussion and enrichment.

elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik , iceland


from jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (john a absood)
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (john a absood)
organization columbia university
lines 25

dear mr. beyer

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom
of racism and violent deragatory.

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial
distinction.

indeed , i find the latter in absolute and complete contradiction
to the former. racial invective tends to create an atmosphere of
intimidation where certain individuals (who belong to the group
under target group) do not feel the ease and liberty to exercise
their fundamental freedom of speech.

this brand of vilification is not sanctioned under freedom of
speech.

salam ,

john absood

marlow ceased , and sat apart , indistinct and silent , in the pose of a
meditating buddha. nobody moved for a time...the offing was barred by
a black bank of clouds , and the tranquil waterway leading to the utter
most ends of the earth flowed sombre under an overcast sky seemed to

from backon@vms.huji.ac.il
subject re from israeli press. madness.
distribution world
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem
lines 165

in article 1483500342@igc.apc.org , center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject from israeli press. madness.

written 4 34 pm apr 16 , 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc mideast.forum
from israeli press. madness.
from the israeli press.

paper zman tel aviv (tel aviv 's time). friday local tel aviv 's
paper , affiliated with maariv.

date 19 february 1993

journalist guy ehrlich

subject interview with soldiers who served in the duvdevan
(cherry) units , which disguise themselves as arabs and operate
within the occupied territories.

excerpts from the article

a lot has been written about the units who disguise themselves as
arabs , things good and bad , some of the falsehoods. but the most
important problem of those units has been hardly dealt with. it is
that everyone who serves in the cherry , after a time goes in one
way or another insane .


gee , i 'd better tell this to the mental health branch of the israeli army
medical corps ! where would we be without you , davidson \?






a man who said this , who will here be called danny (his full name
is known to the editors) served in the cherry. after his discharge
from the army he works as delivery boy. his pal , who will here be
called dudu was also serving in the cherry , and is now about to
depart for a round the world tour. they both look no different
from average israeli youngsters freshly discharged from conscript
service. but in their souls , one can notice something completely
different....it was not easy for them to come out with disclosures
about what happened to them. and they think that to most of their
fellows from the cherry it wound n't be easy either. yet after they
began to talk , it was nearly impossible to make them stop talking.
the following article will contain all the horror stories
recounted with an appalling openness.

(...) a short time ago i was in command of a veteran team , in
which some of the fellows applied for release from the cherry. we
called such soldiers h.i. 'hit by the intifada'. under my command
was a soldier who talked to himself non stop , which is a common
phenomenon in the cherry. i sent him to a psychiatrist. but why i
should talk about others when i myself feel quite insane \? on
fridays , when i come home , my parents know i cannot be talked to
until i go to the beach , surf a little , calm down and return. the
keys of my father 's car must be ready for in advance , so that i
can go there. i they dare talk to me before , or whenever i do n't
want them to talk to me , i just grab a chair and smash it
instantly. i know it is my nerve smashing chairs all the time
and then running away from home , to the car and to the beach. only
there i become normal.(...)

(...) another friday i was eating a lunch prepared by my mother.
it was an omelette of sorts. she took the risk of sitting next to
me and talking to me. i then told my mother about an event which
was still fresh in my mind. i told her how i shot an arab , and how
exactly his wound looked like when i went to inspect it. she began
to laugh hysterically. i wanted her to cry , and she dared laugh
straight in my face instead ! so i told her how my pal had made a
mincemeat of the two arabs who were preparing the molotov
cocktails. he shot them down , hitting them beautifully , exactly as
they deserved. one bullet had set a molotov cocktail on fire , with
the effect that the arab was burning all over , just beautifully. i
was delighted to see it. my pal fired three bullets , two at the
arab with the molotov cocktail , and the third at his chum. it hit
him straight in his ass. we both felt that we 'd pulled off
something.

next i told my mother how another pal of mine split open the guts
in the belly of another arab and how all of us ran toward that
spot to take a look. i reached the spot first. and then that arab ,
blood gushing forth from his body , spits at me. i yelled 'shut
up' and he dared talk back to me in hebrew ! so i just laughed
straight in his face. i am usually laughing when i stare at
something convulsing right before my eyes. then i told him 'all
right , wait a moment'. i left him in order to take a look at
another wounded arab. i asked a soldier if that arab could be
saved , if the bleeding from his artery could be stopped with the
help of a stone of something else like that. i keep telling all
this to my mother , with details , and she keeps laughing straight
into my face. this infuriated me. i got very angry , because i felt
i was becoming mad. so i stopped eating , seized the plate with he
omelette and some trimmings still on , and at once threw it over
her head. only then she stopped laughing. at first she did n't know
what to say.

(...) but i must tell you of a still other madness which falls
upon us frequently. i went with a friend to practice shooting on a
field. a gull appeared right in the middle of the field. my friend
shot it at once. then we noticed four deer standing high up on the


sigh.

four (4) deer in tel aviv \? \? well , this is probably as accurate as the rest of
this fantasy.





hill above us. my friend at once aimed at one of them and shot it.
we enjoyed the sight of it falling down the rock. we shot down two
deer more and went to take a look. when we climbed the rocks we
saw a young deer , badly wounded by our bullet , but still trying to
such some milk from its already dead mother. we carefully
inspected two paths , covered by blood and chunks of torn flesh of
the two deer we had hit. we were just delighted by that sight. we
had hit'em so good ! then we decided to kill the young deer too ,
so as spare it further suffering. i approached , took out my
revolver and shot him in the head several times from a very short
distance. when you shoot straight at the head you actually see the
bullets sinking in. but my fifth bullet made its brains fall
outside onto the ground , with the effect of splattering lots of
blood straight on us. this made us feel cured of the spurt of our
madness. standing there soaked with blood , we felt we were like
beasts of prey. we could n't explain what had happened to us. we
were almost in tears while walking down from that hill , and we
felt the whole day very badly.

(...) we always go back to places we carried out assignments in.
this is why we can see them. when you see a guy you disabled , may
be for the rest of his life , you feel you got power. you feel
godlike of sorts.

(...) both danny and dudu contemplate at least at this moment
studying the acting. dudu is not willing to work in any
security linked occupation. danny feels the exact opposite. 'why
should n't i take advantage of the skills i have mastered so well \?
why should n't i earn 3.000 for each chopped head i would deliver
while being a mercenary in south africa \? this kind of job suits
me perfectly. i have no human emotions any more. if i get a
reasonable salary i will have no problem to board a plane to
bosnia in order to fight there.

transl. by israel shahak.


yisrael shahak the crackpot chemist \? figures. i often see him in the
rechavia (jerusalem) post office. a really sad figure. actually , i feel sorry
for him. he was in a concentration camp during the holocaust and it must have
affected him deeply.




josh
backon@vms.huji.ac.il




from bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan)
subject re go hizbollah ii !
reply to bh437292@lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host traver.lance.colostate.edu
organization engineering college , colorado state university
lines 15

in article 1993apr24.202201.1@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu , ifaz706@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu (noam tractinsky) writes
paraphrasing a bit , with every rocket that
the hizbollah fires on the galilee , they justify israel 's
holding to the security zone.

noam



i only want to say that i agree with noam on this point
and i hope that all sides stop targeting civilians.

basil



from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject re bb confessions.
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 25


in article 1993apr18.022218.17318@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed) writes


but the irony is that the jewish population has no problem in electing
a leader who has confessed to having an extra marrital affair.

this is a first.

aa.

the american people did n't have any problem with it too (clinton). actually i
think that it does not make any difference as long as they have the
qualifications to become leaders. btw in my political view i hope (and should be
the arab hope too) that binyamin netanyahu will not be ellected as prime minister
of israel.

naftaly



naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from arens@isi.edu (yigal arens)
subject more on adl spying case
organization usc information sciences institute
lines 222
distribution world
nntp posting host grl.isi.edu

los angeles times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993. p. a1.

new details of extensive adl spy operation emerge

inquiry transcripts reveal nearly 40 years of espionage
by a man who infiltrated political groups

by richard c. paddock , times staff writer.

san francisco to the outside world , roy bullock was a small time
art dealer who operated from his house in the castro district. in
reality , he was an undercover spy who picked through garbage and
amassed secret files for the anti defamation league for nearly 40
years.

his code name at the prominent jewish organization was cal , and he was
so successful at infiltrating political groups that he was once chosen
to head an arab american delegation that visited rep. nancy pelosi
(d san francisco) in her washington , d.c. , office.

for a time , cal tapped into the phone message system of the white
aryan resistance to learn of hate crimes. from police sources he
obtained privileged , personal information on at least 1 , 394 people.
and he met surreptitiously with agents of the south african government
to trade his knowledge for crisp , new 100 bills.

these are among the secrets that bullock and david gurvitz , a former
los angeles based operative , divulged in extensive interviews with
police and the fbi in a growing scandal over the nation wide
intelligence network operated by the anti defamation league.

officials of the anti defamation league , while denying any improper
activity , have said they will cooperate with the investigation. they
have refused to discuss bullock and gurvitz.

transcripts of the interviews among nearly 700 pages of documents
released by san francisco prosecutors last week offer new details
of the private spy operation that authorities allege crossed the line
into illegal territory.

at times , the intelligence activities took on a cloak and dagger air
with laundered payments , shredded documents , hotel rendezvous with
foreign agents and code names like ironsides and flipper.

on one occasion , gurvitz recounts , he received a tip that a
pro palestinian activist was about to board a plane bound for haifa ,
israel. although the anti defamation league publicly denies any ties
to israel , gurvitz phoned an israeli consular official to warn him.
shortly afterward , another official called gurvitz back and debriefed
him.

the court papers also added to the mystery of tom gerard , a former cia
agent and san francisco police officer accused of providing
confidential material from police files to the anti defamation league.

gerard fled to the philippines last fall after he was interviewed by
the fbi , but left behind a briefcase in his police locker. its
contents included passports , driver 's licenses and identification
cards in 10 different names identification cards in his own name for
four american embassies in central america and a collection of blank
birth certificates , army discharge papers and official stationery from
various agencies.

also in the briefcase were extensive information on death squads , a
black hood , apparently for use in interrogations , and photos of
blindfolded and chained men.

investigators suspect that gerard and other police sources gave the
adl confidential driver 's license or vehicle registration information
on a vast number of people , including as many as 4 , 500 members of one
target group , the arab american anti discrimination committee.

each case of obtaining such data from a law enforcement officer would
constitute a felony , san francisco police inspector ron roth noted in
an affidavit for a search warrant.

the anti defamation league , a self described jewish defense and civil
rights organization , acknowledges it has long collected information on
groups that are anti semitic , extremist or racist. the adl 's
fact finding division , headed by irwinn suall in new york , enjoys a
reputation for thoroughness and has often shared its information with
police agencies and journalists.

however , evidence seized from bullock 's computer shows he kept files
on at least 950 groups of all political stripes , including the
american civil liberties union , earth island institute , the united
farm workers , jews for jesus , mother jones magazine , the center for
investigative reporting , the bo gritz for president committee , the
asian law caucus and the aids activist group act up.

the computer files also included information on several members of
congress , including pelosi , house armed services committee chairman
ron dellums (d berkeley) and former republican rep. pete mccloskey
from the bay area.

in their statements , bullock and gurvitz said the anti defamation
league has collected information on political activists in the los
angeles area for more than 30 years. they said they worked closely
with three los angeles county sheriff 's deputies who specialized in
intelligence work , a los angeles police department anti terrorism
expert and a san diego county sheriff 's department intelligence
officer.

a spokesman for the los angeles sheriff 's department said he knew
nothing of any contact between the deputies and the adl. the los
angeles police department , which earlier refused to cooperate with the
investigation , and the san diego sheriff 's department declined
comment.

bullock , 58 , is one of the most intriguing characters in the spy
drama. although he is not jewish , he began working undercover as a
volunteer for the adl and the fbi in indiana in 1954 after reading a
book about a man who infiltrated the communist party.

bullock moved to los angeles in 1960 and was given a paid position by
the adl as an intelligence operative , he told authorities. in the
mid 1970s , he moved to san francisco and continued his spy operations
up and down the west coast.

to keep his identity secret , his salary has always been funneled
through beverly hills attorney bruce i. hochman who has never
missed a payment in more than 32 years , bullock said.

i was an investigator for the adl. i investigated any and all
anti democratic movements , bullock said. . . . officially , i'm only
a contract worker with bruce hochman. that way , the league would not
be officially connected with me.

bullock said he became a master at infiltrating groups from communists
to arab american to gay radicals to skinheads , usually using his own
name but once adopting the alias elmer fink.

i'm one of a kind , he told police.

in recent years , however , his adl affiliation has increasingly become
known , and at one point he was confronted by a skinhead armed with a
shotgun who threatened to kill him.

in the mid 1980s , he helped san francisco police solve a bombing at a
synagogue by combing through the trash of extremist cory phelps and
matching handwriting with samples on a threatening letter obtained by
police. in part because of this investigation , he became close
friends with gerard , who at the time was working in the san francisco
police intelligence division.

bullock frequently searched through the garbage of target groups. an
fbi report noted how he investigated one palestinian group

bullock would write reports based on what he found in the trash , and
would share the reports with gerard. bullock also gave the trash to
gerard for gerard to examine. gerard would later return the trash to
bullock.

from a wide range of sources , bullock compiled files on 9 , 876
individuals and more than 950 political groups. gerard , whose files
contained many identical entries , kept files on 7 , 011 people.

in 1987 , bullock and gerard began selling some of their vast wealth of
information to the south african government. bullock tells of
meetings secretly with south african agents at san francisco hotels
and receiving envelopes filled with thousands of dollars in new 100
bills.

bullock insists the information he sold consisted of data he culled
only from public sources. once he rewrote an innocuous item published
by san francisco chronicle columnist herb caen about south african
bishop desmond tutu and the wife of prominent attorney melvin belli
and submitted it as his own work.

bullock said it was gerard who sold official police intelligence.
bullock said he split about 16 , 000 from the south african government
evenly with gerard , telling him at one point , i may be gay but i'm a
straight arrow.

in his interviews with the police and fbi , bullock talked freely about
engaging in certain activities that prosecutors say would appear to
violate the law.

for example , bullock admitted to receiving driver 's license records
and criminal histories from gerard on about 50 people a fraction of
the confidential police data found in his computer. and he said
gerard gave him complete san francisco police department intelligence
files on various nazi groups that were supposed to be destroyed under
department policy.

bullock said he also received a confidential fbi report on the nation
of islam that he later shredded at the anti defamation league 's san
francisco office.

bullock seemed proud of his operation eavesdrop , in which he used a
paid informant , code named scumbag , to help tap into a white aryan
resistance phone message network , listening to the messages left by
members of the right wing group. for a short time , it was
wonderful , he told police.

in los angeles , adl operative gurvitz was hired about four years ago
as a fact finder to keep intelligence files and occasionally go
undercover to the meetings of target groups.

among other things , he told san francisco authorities , the los angeles
adl office kept a record of any arab american who had anti israel
leanings or who wrote a letter to a newspaper expressing such
sentiment.

gurvitz was recently forced to resign after an incident in which he
attempted to misuse the adl intelligence network to seek revenge on a
rival who got a job gurvitz wanted at the simon wiesenthal center for
holocaust studies. gurvitz got confidential police data on the rival
and threatened to expose him as a jewish spy to a right wing hate
group.

gurvitz has since begun cooperating with police and the fbi in the
probe , providing considerable information about the adl operation.
unlike bullock , he has been assured he is not a subject of the
investigation.

gurvitz declined through his father in los angeles to be interviewed
by the times. bullock 's attorney said his client would not comment.

yigal arens
usc isi tv made me do it !
arens@isi.edu

from maler@vercors.imag.fr (oded maler)
subject re flame and a jewish home in palestine
nntp posting host pelvoux
organization imag , university of grenoble , france
lines 40

in article c5hjbc.1hc@bony1.bony.com , jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni) writes
in article 1993apr13.172422.2407@newshub.ariel.yorku.ca nabil@ariel.yorku.ca (nabil gangi) writes

according to exodus , there were 600 , 000 jews that marched out of egypt.

this is only the number of adult males. the total number of jewish
slaves leaving egypt was much larger.

the number which could have arrived to the holy lands must have been
substantially less ude to the harsh desert and the killings between the
jewish tribes on the way..

nabil

typical arabic thinking. if we are guilty of something , so is
everyone else. unfortunately for you , nabil , jewish tribes are not
nearly as susceptible to the fratricidal murdering that is still so
common among arabs in the middle east. there were no killings
between the jewish tribes on the way.

i do n't like this comment about typical thinking. you could state
your interpretation of exodus without it. as i read exodus i can see
a lot of killing there , which is painted by the author of the bible
in ideological religious colors. the history in the desert can be seen
as an ethos of any nomadic people occupying a land. that 's why i think
it is a great book with which descendants arabs , turks and mongols can
unify as well.


jake

jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.



oded maler , lgi imag , bat d , b.p. 53x , 38041 grenoble , france
phone 76635846 fax 76446675 e mail maler@imag.fr


from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 33

in article c5i7j7.f7a@eis.calstate.edu mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi) writes

resistance fighters. do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the
nazi occupying forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the
hostile occupiers in wwii.

and all this time i thought it was the us britian invading
normandy , the constant , round the clock bombing , and the fact that the
germans were fighting on two fronts. how silly of me. )

this is not to devalue the actions of the resistance
movements , but resistance movements did not defeat the nazis.

diplomacy has not worked with israel and the
lebanese people are tired of being occupied ! they are now turning to the
only option they see as viable. (do n't forget that it worked in driving
out the us)

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave when the
lebanese government shows that it can prevent attacks on israel , and
when the syrians agree to leave.

the lebanese have not tried diplomacy for very long , or maybe
they 're not capable of getting rid of the syrians and iranians who
occupy their land. if they closed down the hezbolah , and negotiated a
withdrawl of syrian forces , israel would be happy to leave.

adam

adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject argic
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 7
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

you are brain damaged. that hate of 0b1fatransfer cancelledf yours courses
through your sick body like poison. it 's just a matter of time. your fate
is sealed.

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 7
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


how many of you readers know anything about jews living in the
arab countries \? how many of you know if jews still live in these
countries \? how many of you know what the circumstances of arabic
jews leaving their homelands were \? just curious.



from anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed)
subject lawsuit against adl
nntp posting host gs135.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 142

it looks like yigal has been busy...

rtw 04 14 2155 jewish group sued for passing official information

by adrian croft
san francisco , april 14 , reuter nineteen people , including the son of
former israeli defence minister moshe arens , sued the anti defamation league
(adl) on wednesday , accusing the jewish group of disclosing confidential
official information about them.
richard hirschhaut , director of the san francisco branch of the adl , art
dealer roy bullock and former policeman tom gerard were also named as defendants
in the suit , filed in san francisco county superior court.
the 19 accuse the adl of b'nai b'rith , a group dedicated to fighting
anti semitism , and the other defendants of secretly gathering information on
them , including data from state and federal agencies.
the suit alleges they disclosed the information to others , including the
governments of israel and south africa , in what it alleges was a a massive
spying operation.
the action is a class action suit. it was filed on behalf of about 12 , 000
anti apartheid activists or opponents of israeli policies about whom the
plaintiffs believe the adl , bullock and gerard gathered information.
representatives of the adl in san francisco were not immediately available
for comment on wednesday.
the civil suit is the first legal action arising out of allegations that
gerard , a former inspector in the san francisco police intelligence unit , passed
confidential police files on california political activists to a spy ring.
the fbi and san francisco police are investigating the adl , bullock and
gerard over the affair and last week searched the adl 's offices in san francisco
and los angeles.
the suit alleges invasion of privacy under the civil code of california ,
which prohibits the publication of information obtained from official sources.
it seeks exemplary damages of at least 2 , 500 per person as well as other
unspecified damages.
lawyer pete mccloskey , a former congresmen who is representing the
plaintiffs , said the 19 plaintiffs included arab americans and jews and his
wife helen , who also had information gathered about her.
one of the plaintiffs is yigal arens , a research scientist at the
university of southern california who is a son of the former israeli defence
minister.
arens told the san francisco examiner he had seen a file the adl kept on
him in the 1980s , presumably because of his criticism of the treatment of
palestinians and his position on the israeli occupied territories.
according to court documents released last week , bullock and gerard both
kept information on thousands of california political activists.
in the documents , a police investigator said he believed the adl paid
bullock for many years to provide information and that both the league and
bullock received confidential information from the authorities.
no criminal charges have yet been filed in the case. the adl , bullock and
gerard have all denied any wrongdoing.
reuter ac kg cm



apn 04 14 2202 adl lawsuit

copyright , 1993. the associated press. all rights reserved.

by catalina ortiz
associated press writer
san francisco (ap) arab americans and critics of israel sued the
anti defamation league on wednesday , saying it invaded their privacy by
illegally gathering information about them through a nationwide spy network.
the adl , a national group dedicated to fighting anti semitism , intended to
use the data to discredit them because of their political views , according to
the class action lawsuit filed in san francisco superior court.
none of us has been guilty of racism or nazism or anti semitism or hate
crimes , or any of the other `isms' that the adl claims to protect against. none
of us is violent or criminal in any way , said carol el shaieb , an education
consultant who develops programs on arab culture.
the 19 plaintiffs include yigal arens , son of former israel defense minister
moshe arens. the younger arens , a research scientist at the university of
southern california , said the adl kept a file on him in the 1980s presumably
because he has criticized israel 's treatment of palestinians.
the adl believes that anyone who is an arab american ... or speaks
politically against israel is at least a closet anti semite , arens said.
the adl has denied any wrongdoing , but could n't comment on the lawsuit
because it has n't reviewed it , said a spokesman at the adl 's new york
headquarters.
the fbi and local police and prosecutors are investigating allegations that
the adl spied on thousands of individuals and hundreds of groups , including
white supremacist and anti semitic organizations , arab americans , greenpeace ,
the national association for the advancement of colored people and san francisco
public television station kqed.
some information allegedly came from confidential police and government
records , according to court documents filed in the probe and the civil lawsuit.
no charges have been filed in the criminal investigation.
the lawsuit accuses the adl of violating california 's privacy law , which
forbids the intentional disclosure of personal information not otherwise
public from state or federal records.
the lawsuit claims the adl disclosed the information to persons and
entities who had no compelling need to receive it. it did n't elaborate.
defendants include richard hirschhaut , director of the adl 's office in san
francisco. he did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment.
other defendants are san francisco art dealer roy bullock , an alleged adl
informant over the past four decades , and former police officer tom gerard.
gerard allegedly tapped into law enforcement and government computers and passed
information on to bullock.
gerard , who has retired from the police force , has moved to the philippines.
bullock 's lawyer , richard breakstone , said he could not comment on the lawsuit
because he had not yet studied it.





upwe 04 14 1956 adl sued for allegedly spying on u.s. residents

san francisco (upi) a group of california residents filed suit wednesday
charging the anti defamation league of b'nai brith with violating their privacy
by spying on them for the israeli and south african governments.
the class action suit , filed in san francisco superior court , charges the adl
and its leadership conspired with a local police official to obtain information
on outspoken opponents of israeli policies towards the occupied territories and
south africa 's apartheid policy.
the adl refused to comment on the suit.
the suit also took aim at two top local adl officials and retired san
francicso police officer tom gerard , claiming they violated privacy guarantees
in the state constitution and violated state confidentiality laws.
according to the suit , gerard helped the adl obtain access to confidential
files in law enforcement and government computers. information from these files
were passed to the foreign governments , the suit charges.
the whole concept of an organized collection of information based on
political viewpoints and using government agencies as a source of information is
absolutely repugnant , said former rep. pete mccloskey , who is representing the
plaintiffs.
the adl 's information gathering network was revealed publicly last week when
the san francisco district attorney 's office released documents indicating the
group had spied on 12 , 000 people and 500 political and ethnic groups for more
than 30 years.
my understanding is that they (the adl) consider all activity that is in
some sense opposed to israel or israeli action to be part of their responsbility
to investigate , said arens , a research scientist at the university of southern
california.
the adl believes that anyone who is arab american...or speaks politically
against israel is at least a closet anti semite.
the fbi and the district attorney 's office have been investigating the
operation for four months.
the 19 plaintiffs in the case include arens , the son of former israeli
defense minister moshe arens.
in a press release , the plaintiffs said the alleged spying had damaged them
psychologically and economically and accused the adl of trying to interfere with
their freedom of speech.

from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 19

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

if you consider israeli reporting of events in israel to be propoganda , then
consider the washington post 's handling of american events to be propoganda
too. what makes the israeli press inherently biased in your opinion \? i
would n't compare it to nazi propoganda either. unless you want to provide
some evidence of israeli inaccuracies or parallels to nazism , i suggest you
keep your mouth shut. i'm sick and tired of all you anti semites comparing
israel to the nazis (and yes , in my opinion , if you compare israel to the nazis
you are an anti semite because you know damn well it is n't true and you are
just trying to discredit israel).

ed.


from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re conventional proposales israel palestinians
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 117

in article 2bca3dc0.13224@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

the latest israeli proposal , first proposed in february of 1992 , contains
the following assumptions concerning the nature of any interim status refering to the wb and gaza , the palestinians , implemented by negotiations. it
states that
israel will remain the existing source of authority until final status
is agreed upon
israel will negiotiate the delegation of power to the organs of the
interim self government arrangements (isga)
the isga will apply to the palestinian inhabitants of the territories
under israeli military administration. the arrangements will not have a
territorial application , nor will they apply to the israeli population
of the territories or to the palestinian inhabitants of jerusalem
residual powers not delegated under the isga will be reserved by israel
israelis will continue to live and settle in the territoriesd
israel alone will have responsibility for security in all its aspects
external , internal and for the maintenance of public order
the organs of the isga will be of an administrative functional nature
the exercise of powers under the isga will be subject to cooperation and
coordination with israel.
israel will negotiate delegation of powers and responsibilities in the
areas of administration , justice , personnel , agriculture , education ,
business , tourism , labor and social welfare , local police ,
local transportation and communications , municipal affairs and religious
affairs.

the palestinian counterproposal of march 1992
the establishment of a palestinian interim self governing authority
(pisga) whose authority is vested by the palestinian people
its (pisga) powers cannot be delegated by israel
in the interim phase the israeli military government and civil adminis
tration will be abolished , and the pisga will asume the powers previous
ly enjoyed by israel
there will be no limitations on its (pisga) powers and responsibilities
except those which derive from its character as an interim arrangement
by the time pisga is inaugurated , the israeli armed forces will have
completed their withdrawal to agreed points along the borders of the
occupied palestinian territory (opt). the opt includes jerusalem
the jurisdiction of the pisga shall extend to all of the opt , including
its land , water and air space
the pisga shall have legislative powers to enact , amend and abrogate laws
it will wield executive power withput foreign control
it shall determine the nature of its cooperation with any state or
international body , and shall be empowered to conclude binding coopera
tive agreements free of any control by israel
the pisga shall administer justice throughout the opt and will have sole
and exclusive jruisdiction
it will have a strong police force responsible for security and public
order in the opt
it can request the assistance of a un peacekeeping force
disputes with israel over self governing arrangements will be settled by
a committee composed of representatives of the five permanent members of
the un security council , the secretary general (of the un) , the pisga ,
jordan , egypt , syria and israel.

but perhaps the bargaining attitude behind these very different visions
of the interim stage is wrong \? for two reasons 1) the present palestinian
and israeli leadership are as moderate as is likely to exist for many years ,
so the present opportunity may be the last for a significant period , 2) since
these negotiations are not designed to , or even attempting to , resolve the
conflict , attention to issues dealing with a desired final status are mis
placed and potentially destructive.

given this , how should proposals (from either side) be altered to temper
their maximalist approaches as stated above \? how can israeli worries , and
desire for some interim control , be addressed while providing for a very
real interim palestinian self governing entity \?

tim

april 13 , 1993 response by al moore (l629159@lmsc5.is.lmsc.lockheed.com)

basically the problem is that israel may remain , or leave , the occupied
territories it cannot do both , it cannot do neither. so far , israe
continues to propose that they remain. the palestinians propose that they
leave. why should either change their view \? it is worth pointing out that
the only area of compromise accomodating both views seems to require a
reduction in the israeli presence. israel proposes no such reduction....
and in fact may be said to not be negotiating.


tim

there seem to be two perceptions that have to be addressed . the
first is that of israel , where there is little trust for arab groups , so
there is little support for israel giving up tangible assets in
exchange for pieces of paper , expectations , hopes , etc. the second
is that of the arab world palestinians , where there is the demand that
these tangible concessions be made by israel without it receiving
anything tangible back. given this , the gap between the two stances
seems to be the need by israel of receiving some tangible returns
for its expected concessions. by tangible is meant something that
1) provides israel with comparable protection (from the land it is to
give up) , 2) in some way ensures that the arab states and palestine
will be accountable and held actively (not just diplomatically)
responsible for the upholding of all actions on its territory (by citizens
or visitors ).

in essence i do not believe that israel objections to palestinian
statehood would be anywhere near as strong as they are now if israel
was assured that any new palestinian state would be committed to
co existing with israel and held responsible for all attacks on israel
from its territory.
aside from some of the rather slanted proposals above ,
how could such guarantees be instilled \? for example ,
how could such guarantees controls be added to the
palestinian pisga proposals \?

israel is hanging on largely because it is scared stiff that the minute
it lets go (gives lands back to arab states , no more buffer zone , gives
full autonomy to palestinians) , any and or all of the arab parties
could (and would , if not controlled somehow) easily return to the
traditional anti israel position. the question then is how to really
ensure that that will not happen.

tim


nntp posting host sinober.ifi.uio.no
from michaelp@ifi.uio.no (michael schalom preminger)
subject re zionism is racism
organization dept. of informatics , university of oslo , norway
lines 18
originator michaelp@sinober.ifi.uio.no


in article 20apr93.23565659.0109@vm1.mcgill.ca , b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
in re syria 's expansion , the author writes that the un thought
zionism was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct
the first time , zionism is racism and thankfully , the mcgill daily
(the student newspaper at mcgill) was proud enough to print an article
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail.

steve

was the article about zionism \? or about something else. the majority
of people i heard emitting this ignorant statement , do not really
know what zionism is. they have just associated it with what they think
they know about the political situation in the middle east.

so steve lets here , what is zionism \?

michael

from bill paxton@fourd.com
subject argic
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 7
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

can you aswer me one question \? how did you get to be so retarded \?


system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry



from jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au (joseph askew)
subject re israeli expansion lust
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide
lines 46

in article 1993apr15.090735.17025@news.columbia.edu ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt) writes
in article 2528@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au (joseph askew) writes
in article 1993apr13.002118.24102@das.harvard.edu adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes

it depends entirely on how you define 'war'. the actual fighting largely
predates the arab invasions after all deir yassin happened in midapril
well before the arab invasion.

how do you define war \? do seiges and constant attacks on villiages
count as acts of war , or is that only when the jews do them \?

i would hope that if you intend to have a reasonable discussion you might
wait until i express an opinion before deciding i should be flamed for it.
as for 'war' i am not sure how i would define it. if you just look at attacks
on villages then there is no way of deciding when it started. would you
count the riots in the 20 's and 30 's \? violence but not war. i personally
think that 'war' , as opposed to civil disturbance or whatever , requires
organisation , planning and some measure of regualr or semi regular forces.
perhaps the arab liberation army counts. i could easily be convinced it was
so. from what i know they did not have a great deal of planning let alone
organisation. the haganah and palmach certainly did. that is not a cause
for criticism , it merely reflects the great organisation generally in the
'zionist' camp.

of course , this is n't war , since it 's only the arabs attacking.

now you are being silly are n't you \? in any case the war did not start
with the invasion of the arab armies. you see we both agree on something.
and the previous posters were wrong , no \?

just like last week when the fatah launched katyusha rockets
against northern israel. where does uprising end and war begin \?

again i am not sure , i doubt you want my opinion anyway , but i think
war requires organisation as i said before. it needs a group to command
and plan. if fatah lauches rockets from southern lebanon (and are you
sure you have the right group not the moslems again \? ) then that sounds
like war to me. stone throwing does not.

joseph askew


joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades ,
jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief.
disclaimer \? sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere ,
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on.

from anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed)
subject re why does us consider yigal arens to be a dangerous to humanity
nntp posting host gs135.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 30

in article 4815@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents
of those files.
so it will be nice if yigal will tell us
1. why do american authorities consider yigal arens to be dangerous \?

adl authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including
the millions of americans of arab ancestry. perhaps you can answer
the question as to why the adl maintained files and spied on adc members
in california (and elsewhere \? \? ) \? friendly rivalry perhaps \?

perhaps yigal is a greenpeace member \? or the naacp \? or a reporter \?
or a member of any of the dozens of other political organizations ethnic
minorities occupations that the adl spied on.

2. why does the adl have an interest in that person \?

paranoia \?

3. if one does trust either the us government or the adl what an
additional information should he send them \?

the names of half the posters on this forum , unless they already
have them.



gideon ehrlich

anwar

from hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
lines 118
nntp posting host viktoria.dsv.su.se
reply to hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , stockholm university


henrik \? \? and hilmi writes



henrik the armenians in nagarno karabagh are simply defending their
henrik rights to keep their homeland and it is the azeris that are
henrik invading their homeland.



he homeland \? first nagarno karabagh was armenians homeland today
he fizuli , lacin and several villages (in azerbadjan)
he are their homeland. ca n't you see the
he the great armenia dream in this \? with facist methods like
he killing , raping and bombing villages. the last move was the
he blast of a truck with 60 kurdish refugees , trying to
he escape the from lacin , a city that was given to the kurds
he by the armenians.



nagorno karabakh is in azerbaijan not armenia. armenians have lived in nagorno
karabakh ever since there were armenians. armenians used to live in the areas
between armenia and nagorno karabakh and this area is being used to invade
nagorno karabakh. armenians are defending themselves. if azeris are dying
because of a policy of attacking armenians , then something is wrong with this
policy.


attacking \? who is attacking who \? even the country you live in , usa , have condemned
armenia for it 's attacking. and you start to say that the attackers
are the azeris \? \? \? \? \?

armenians have lived in nagorno karabakh ever since there were armenians

\? \? \? \? \?
azeris have lived in nagorno karabakh ever since there were azeris...
do n't come with nonsence , there is no reason to attack a people
just because a man called gorbatjov and co. gave the freedom to the people
in this area.


if i recall correctly , it was stalin who caused all this problem with land
in the first place , not the armenians.



it 's easy for people like you to blame history. the were a lot of
indians living in usa. there is no reason for these
indians to attack the american
people and say it was the fault of the government of germany and great
britain , because they made people come to our place...... armenians lived in
harmony with the azeris until gorbatjov and co. gave freedom to the people
in karabag , then the armenians started to kill , rape and torture the azeris , not only
in karabag but also noe in azerbadjan....

henrik however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
henrik to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one
henrik that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
henrik (carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.



he do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 u.s. cargo planes
he were heading to armenia. when the turkish authorities
he announced that they were going to search these cargo
he planes 3 of these planes returned to it 's base in germany.
he 5 of these planes were searched in turkey. the content of
he of the other 3 planes \? not hard to guess , is it \? it was sure not
he humanitarian aid.....


what story are you talking about \? planes from the u.s. have been sending
aid into armenian for two years. i would not like to guess about what were in
the 3 planes in your story , i would like to find out.



he search turkish planes \? you do n't know what you are talking about.
he turkey 's government has announced that it 's giving weapons
he to azerbadjan since armenia started to attack azerbadjan
he it self , not the karabag province. so why search a plane for weapons
he since it 's content is announced to be weapons \?

it 's too bad you would want turkey to start a war with armenia.

that 's what i do n't want , you could n't imagine the result of a war.....
so france , greece and usa wants to start fighting with azerbadjan \? \? \? \?
they give a lot more weapons to the armenians without
saying it , that 's no secret any more......


i must say that these armenian government is very shortsighted.
do they think that they shall move from it 's neigbours when the war
is over \? \? \? \? the neighbour around will be there and armenia must
live in harmony with these if they do n't want a stone age country ,
for that 's what 's will happen armenia if the wars continues.

look , the president of turkey , turgut ozal , died and petrosyan
the armenian presindent is now in turkey for the funeral. is it because
he liked him \? sure not , because armenia needs it 's neighbours and must
live with these. but armenia ca n't stop this war with continued ordertaking
from states like france and usa. with other words , if you love your people
you must think twice.....

and i wonder , shoot down turkish planes with what \? \? \? \? \? ohhh i forgot
the armenians ca n't find food but there are a lot of arms from the mentioned
countries.....





hilmi eren
stockholm university
sweden


from smith@minerva.harvard.edu (steven smith)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
in reply to dgannon@techbook.techbook.com 's message of 21 apr 1993 07 55 09 0700
organization applied mathematics , harvard university
lines 15

dgannon@techbook.techbook.com (dan gannon) writes
the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake

by theodore j. o'keefe

holocaust revisionism

theodore j. o'keefe is an editor with the institute for historical
review. educated at harvard university . . .

according to the 1990 harvard alumni directory , mr. o'keefe failed to
graduate. you may decide for yourselves if he was indeed educated
anywhere.

steven smith

from waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (todd j. dicker)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization cybernet bbs , boca raton , florida
lines 21

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

first of all i never said the holocaust. i said before the
holocaust. i'm not ignorant of the holocaust and know more
about nazi germany than most people (maybe including you).

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's
qualifications in an area. if you know something about nazi germany ,
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that.

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii
justifies the crimes commited by the israeli government. any
attempt to call civil liberterians like myself anti semetic is
not appreciated.

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were
tortured. we all suffered. second , the name calling was directed against
you , not civil libertarians in general. your name dropping of a fancy
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite qualifications
in order to obfuscate your glaring unpreparedness for this argument. go
back to the minors , junior.

from aa624@freenet.carleton.ca (suat kiniklioglu)
subject the futility and impotence of greek foreign policy
organization national capital freenet , ottawa , canada
lines 34


there you go the greeks have been trying for over a year , even though
mr. mitsotakis was threatening the ec that if macedonia was recognized
that the honourable papandreou would be back...


well i guess the europeans pulled the plug eh .. \? theis is just one
other example about the corruptness and the perversity of greek
foreign policy objectives...

pity to those who have to live under the greek flag with these
political decision makers...

more recognition for macedonia. belgium , germany , and italy joined
denmark on 15 april in recognizing the republic of macedonia , afp
reports. each is an ec member state. greece , which has blocked ec
recognition of macedonia , noted that such recognition does not
facilitate negotiations between athens and skopje now underway in
new york. duncan perry , rfe rl , inc.


the day will come when reuters will write despite lengthy negotiations
and numerous attempts to reunite the island the turkish republic
of northern cyprus was recognized by...


your humble servant kubilay



from amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
nntp posting host tbilisi.src.honeywell.com
organization honeywell systems research center
lines 26

in article c5ifh7.3q4@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes

what the hell do you know about israeli policy \? what gives you the fiat
to look into the minds of israeli generals \? has this 'policy of intimidation'
been published somewhere \? for your information , the actions taken by arabs ,
specifically the plo , were not uncommon in the lebanon campaign of 1982. my
brain is full of shit \? at least i do n't look into the minds of others and
make israeli policy for them !

... deleted

i am not in the business of reading minds , however in this case it would not
be necessary. israelis top leaders in the past and present , always come across
as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the arabs.

the way i see it , israelis and arabs have not been able to achieve peace
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons

1) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or
dictators.

2) israeli government is arrogant and none comprising.




from jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (john a absood)
subject re hamza salah , the humanist
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (john a absood)
organization columbia university
lines 13

are you people sure his posts are being forwarded to his system operator \? \? \?
who is forwarding them \? \? \?

is there a similar file being kept on mr. omran \? \? \?

salam ,

john absood

marlow ceased , and sat apart , indistinct and silent , in the pose of a
meditating buddha. nobody moved for a time...the offing was barred by
a black bank of clouds , and the tranquil waterway leading to the utter
most ends of the earth flowed sombre under an overcast sky seemed to

from bradski@retina.bu.edu (gary bradski)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
1993apr14.201143.20969@src.honeywell.com
c5huba.cjo@news.cso.uiuc.edu
1993apr15.031349.21824@src.honeywell.com
organization boston university center for adaptive systems
lines 32
in reply to amehdi@src.honeywell.com 's message of 15 apr 93 03 13 49 gmt

on 15 apr 93 03 13 49 gmt , amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) said
in article 1993apr15.031349.21824@src.honeywell.com amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes
. . .
who is the you arabs here. since you are replying to my article you
are assuming that i am an arab. well , i'm not an arab , but i think you
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the
bombardment of civilian and none civilian areas in lebanon by israel is
very consistent with its policy of intimidation. that is the only
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in
the middle east !

i was merley pointing out that the other side is also suffering.
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a lebanese , you bet
i would defende my homeland against any invader by any means.

the syrians \? iranian agents \? or just israeli invaders \?

@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
gary bradski i'net bradski@park.bu.edu reverberate
cognitive and neural systems
boston university. v v
111 cummington st , boston ma 02215 y
617 353 6426

i do n't even agree with some of my opinions or die !
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@







from benali@alcor.concordia.ca ( ilyess b. bdira )
subject re the israeli press
nntp posting host alcor.concordia.ca
organization concordia university , montreal , canada
lines 41

bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman) writes


...
for your information on israel. since i read both american media
and israeli media , i can say with absolute certainty that anybody
who reliesx exclusively on the american press for knowledge about
israel does not have a true picture of what is going on.

of course you never read arab media ,

i read arab , israeli (jer. post , and this network is more than enough)
and western (american , french , and british) reports and i can say
that if we give israel 10 and arabs 10 on the bias scale (of course
you can switch the polarities) israeli newspapers will get either
a 9 or 10 , american leading newspapers and tv news range from 6
to 10 (yes there are some that are more israelis than israelis)
the montreal suburban (a local free newspaper) probably is closer
to kahane 's views than some israeli right wing newspapers , british
range from 0 (neutral) to 10 , french (that iknow of , of course) range
from 2 (afro french magazines) to 10 , arab official media range from
0 to 5 (egyptian) to 9 in sa. why no 10 \? because they do not want to
overdo it and stir people against israel and therefore against them since
they are doing nothing.


as to the claim that israeli papers are biased , of course they
are. some may lean to the right or the left , just like the media
here in america. but they still report events about which people
here know nothing. i choose to form my opinions about israel and
the mideast based on more knowledge than does an average american
who relies exclusively on an american media which does not report
on events in the mideast with any consistency or accuracy.

the average bias of what you read would be probably around 9 ,
while that of the average american would be the same if they do
not read or read the new york times and similar news makers , and
8 if they read some other relatively less biased newspapers.

so you are not better off.


from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 46

hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes


in article 1993apr5.202800.27705@wam.umd.edu , spinoza@next06wor.wam.umd.edu (yon bonnie laird of cairn robbing) writes
in article c50wjj.j4r@newsflash.concordia.ca ilyess@ece.concordia.ca
(ilyess bdira) writes
1)why do jews who do n't even believe in god (as is the case with many
of the founders of secular zionism) have a right in palestine more
than the inhabitants of palestine , just because god gave you the land \?
g d has nothing to do with it. some of the land was in fact given to the
jews by the united nations , quite a bit of it was purchased from arab
absentee landlords. present claims are based on prior ownership (purchase
from aforementioned absentee landlords) award by the united nations in the
partition of the palestine mandate territory , and as the result of
defensive wars fought against the egyptians , syrians , jordanians , et al.


2)why do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of
the inhabitants are not jews and do not want to be part of israel \?
first , i should point out that many jews do not in fact agree with the
idea that the west bank is theirs. since , however , i agree with those who
claim the west bank , i think i can answer your question thusly the west
bank was what is called the spoils of war. hussein ordered the arab legion


this is very funny.
anyway , suppose that in fact israel didnot attack jordan till jordan attacked
israel. now , how do you explain the attack on syria in 1967 , syria didnot
enter the war with israel till the 4th day .

syria had been bombing israeli settlements from the golan and sending
terrorist squads into israel for years. do you need me to provide specifics \?
i can.

why do n't you give it up , hasan \? i'm really starting to get tired of your
empty lies. you can defend your position and ideology with documented facts
and arguments rather than the crap you regularly post. take an example from
someone like brendan mckay , with whom i do n't agree , but who uses logic and
documentation to argue his position. why must you insist on constantly spouting
baseless lies \? you may piss some people off , but that 's about it. you wo n't
prove anything or add anything worthy to a discussion. your arguments just
prove what a poor debater you are and how weak your case really is.

all my love ,
ed.


from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject freedom in u.s.a.
organization university of virginia
lines 11

i have just started reading the articles in this news
group. there seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet
other members with scare tactics. i believe one posting said
that all postings by one person are being forwarded to his
server who keeps a file on him in hope that appropriate action
might be taken .
i do n't know where you guys are from but in america
such attempts to curtail someones first amendment rights are
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind
regardless of how we feel about it. take your fascistic
repressive ideals back to where you came from.

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of virginia
lines 4

i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

from ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
subject re legality of the jewish purchase
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
organization columbia university
lines 96

in article 1993apr19.214951.19180@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes

(amir y rosenblatt) writes
sam zbib writes
no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and dignity.
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about
anti trust in the business world.

since we are debating the legality of a commercial
transaction , we must use the laws governing the guidelines
and ethics of such transactions. basic anti trust law says
that , while you can purchase ibm stocks for the purpose of
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those
shares with the intent or controlling ibm. you can do so
only if you make your intentions clear apriori . clearly ,
the jews who purchased properties from palastenians had some
designs , they were not buying a dwelling or a real estate.
they were establishing a bridgehead for the european jews.

the palastenians sold their properties to the jews in the
old tradition of arab hospitality. being a multi ethnic
multi religious society , accepting the jews as neighbours
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair
market value , etc... they did not know they were victims of
an international conspiracy. (i'm not a conspiracy theorist
myself , but this one is hard to dismiss).


right now , i'm just going to address this point.
when the jewish national fund bought most of its land ,
it did n't buy it from the palestinians themselves , because ,
for the most part , they were tenant farmers (fallahin) ,
living on land owned by wealthy arabs in syria and lebanon.
the jnf offered a premium deal , so the owners took advantage of
it. it 's called commerce. the owners , however , made no
provisions for those who had worked for them , basically shafting
them by selling the land right out from under them.
they are to blame , not the jews.



amir
why would you categorize the sale of land as shafting \? was
it because it was sold to jews \? was it fair to assume that the
fallahin would be mistreated by the jews \? is this the norm of
any commerce (read shafting) between arabs and jews \?

it was shafting on the part of the arab land owners for doing it
without notifying their tenant farmers and for not being responsible
enough to make provisions for them , but rather just leaving
them to their fate.

your claim that the lebanese syrian landlords sold palestine
(if true , even partially) omits the fact that the mandate
treaty put lebanon and syria under french rule , while
palestine under british. obiviously , any such landlord
would have found himself a foreigner in palestine and would
be motivated to sell , regardless of the price.

the point is that the land was sold legally , often at prices
above its actual value. it was legal , and good business for
the sellers , though it left the palestinians who worked the land
in a poor situation.

it is interesting though that you acknowledge that the
palestinians were shafted. do many israelis or jews share
your opinion \? do you absolve the purchaser from
any ethical commitments just because it was n't written down \?

i do n't know if others share this opinion. it is mine ,
and i'm sure there are some who agree and some who do n't
the way i see it , the fallahin were caught in circumstances
beyond their control , in that since they did n't own the land ,
they did n't have a say. of course , now for the sake of the greater
arab unity the arabs are angry that the land was sold to the jews
(an act that is illegal in jordan) , but when it happened , it was just
business.

all told , i did not see an answer in your response. the
question was whether the intent behind the purchase was
aimed at controlling the public assets (land ,
infra structure etc...). imho the palestinians have grounds
to contest the legality of the purchase , say in world court.

sam

my opinions are my own and no one else 's

the purpose of buying the land was to provide space and jobs for
jewish immigrants. in any case , no matter what the purpose ,
the sales were legal , so i really do n't see any grounds for
contesting them.

amir



from deniz@mandolin.ctr.columbia.edu (deniz akkus)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization columbia university center for telecommunications research
x posted from mandolin.ctr.columbia.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 43

in article 1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr20.000413.25123@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes
my response to the shooting down of a turkish airplane over the armenian
air space was because of the ignorant posting of the person from your
country. turks and azeris consistantly want to drag armenia into the
karabakh conflict with azerbaijan. the karabakhi armenians who have lived
in their homeland for 3000 years (cut off from armenia and given to azeris
by stalin) are the ones directly involved in the conflict. they are defending
themselves against azeri aggression. agression that has no mercy for inocent
people that are costantly shelled with mig 23 's and othe russian aircraft.

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the karabakh
crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will never occur again.


armenia is involved in fighting with azarbaijan. it is armenian
soldiers from mainland armenia that are shelling towns in azarbaijan.
you might wish to read more about whether or not it is azeri aggression
only in that region. it seems to me that the armenians are better
organized , have more success militarily and shell azeri towns
repeatedly.

i do n't wish to get into the cyprus discussion. turkey had the right to
intervene , and it did. perhaps the intervention was not supposed to
last for so long , but the constant refusal of the greek governments both
on the island and in greece to deal with reality is also to be blamed
for the ongoing standoff in the region.

lastly , why is there not a soc.culture.armenia \? i vote yes for it.
after all , it is now free.

regards ,
deniz











subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 yr old child \?
from jhsegal@wiscon.weizmann.ac.il (livian segal)
organization weizmann institute of science , computation center
lines 16

in article 1qhv50 222@bagel.cs.huji.ac.il ranen@falafel.cs.huji.ac.il (ranen goren) writes
q how many nick steel 's does it take to twist any truth around \?
a only one , and thank god there 's only one.

ranen.

absolutely not true !
there are lots of them !

livian segal


o


vm cms jhsegall@weizmann.weizmann.ac.il unix jhsegal@wiscon.weizmann.ac.il

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 47



it 's all my fault.
i am in violation of one of my own rules
avoid followingup to a barf posting.



in article 1r64pb nkk@genesis.mcs.com arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes
in article c5ut1s.3xa@bony1.bony.com jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni) writes
through private contributions on federal land . your hate mongering
article is devoid of current and historical fact , intellectual content
and social value. down the toilet it goes.....

and we all know what an unbiased source the nyt is when it comes to things
concerning israel.

those damned , spiking israelists , right , barfling \?

neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to

trained seals \? you mean the ones that flap their flippers making
arf , arf ! arf , arf ! sounds \?

recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax exmpt. in
otherwords , american taxpayers put up at least 30 of the money. and
finalyy , how does federal land mitigate the offensiveness of this alien
monument dedicated to perpetuating pitty and the continual flow of tax money
to a foreign entity \?

in your own diseased mind , you now seem to believe that tax exemption
is equivalent to government funding. holy shit , batman ! the us
government is now one of the major supporters of the catholic church
in violation of the rules of separation of church and state !

that federal land and tax money could have been used to commerate
americans or better yet , to house homeless americans.

quick , bill ! commandeer all the churches and give them to the people !
or does your anti logic only apply to the mosques belonging to what
you have described as ragheads or perhaps the synagogues of those
you have characterized as hymies \?


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian)
subject re seventh century a.d. armenian math problems
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 25

koc@rize.ece.orst.edu (cetin kaya koc) writes

problem 1

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the
armenians and the persians , prince zaurak kamsarakan performed extraordinary
heroic deeds. three times in a single month he attacked the persian troops.
the first time , he struck down half of the persian army. the second time ,
pursuing the persians , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers. the third
time , he destroyed one eleventh of the persian army. the persians who were
still alive , numbering two hundred eighty , fled to nakhichevan. and so , from
this remainder , find how many persian soldiers there were before the
massacre.


answer a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11) 280 a 1760

corollary armenians strike , slaughter , destroy , and massacre. after all ,
they are not as innocent as the asala network claims.

hmm ... turks sure know how to keep track of deaths , but they seem to
lose count around 1.5 million.

hovig


from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject re deriving pleasure from death
organization unocal corporation
lines 26


peter garfiel freeman writes


them. (by the way , i do not applaud the killing of any human being ,
including prisoners sentenced to death by our illustrious justice department)

peace.
marc


boy , you really are a stupid person. our justice department does
not sentence people to death. that 's up to state courts. again ,
get a brain.


peter , i think you are ridiculous here. stupidity is not a measure of how
well someone knows our judicial system. i guess marc meant that he is
against death penalty. but no matter what he meant , your statement not
justified.


regards ,

dorin


from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1rd7eo 1a4@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report
on the situation in the o.t. but , as most people used to see on tv , the
israelis do not allow them to go deep there in the o.t. the israelis
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters.
so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in palestine.
they do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in palestine.

please list the names of some of those neutral reporters that were killed
in the o.t. . it is also interesting to note that at the outbreak of
the intifada , palestinian parties quickly began orchestrating their
demonstrations for the benefit of the media. having spoken to a danish
reporter who covered the initfada , i know of at least one case where
he found out that a mass demonstration on the outskirts of gaza was
setup for himself and his colleagues. when i asked whether the footage
shot was sent he replied affirmatively , after all , it did happen.
when this became the case , the idf began closing sensitive trouble
spots to reporters.

anas omran



shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninja of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from shelomoh s zieniuk 27916070@plearn.bitnet
subject warsaw ghetto uprising 50th anniversary a visitor 's abc
originator tpm@israel.nysernet.org
reply to 27916070@plearn.bitnet
organization nysernet
lines 32

original message
d sb

mincha , tish(a yamim la(omer , yom chamishi , y d b'nisan thshn g
universita varsha b'varsha , galut hamara meod.

shalom all !
those of you visiting the ghetto city these days might be
interested in the following events timetable (abridged)
19 00 , fri. , 16th april , '93 kabbalat shabbat service at the nozyk shul
(6 twarda street , warsaw a 10 mins'
walk from the palace of science
culture the tallest building in the
city 's centre , the same distance from
the central railway station).
09 30 , sat. , 17th april , shacharit l'shabbat service , nozyk shul.
11 30 , sun. , 18th april , the fallen ones memorial service , nozyk shul.
13 00 , sun. , 18th april , memorial ceremony at the jewish cemetery
(okopowa street , warsaw).
18 00 , sun. , 18th april , official arts programme at the congress hall
(a building adjacent to the palace of
science culture , which like the shul
is located a quarter 's walk from most of
downtown hotels bristol , forum , victoria ,
europejski , holiday inn , marriott).
12 00 , mon. , 19th april , laying of wreaths at the ghetto heros
monument.

shabbat shalom ul'hitraot b'varsha !
shelomoh slawek zieniuk , student , univ. of warsaw (dept. of hebrew) , warsaw.
ani shalom v'khi adaber hema lamilchama tehillim q k z'
guest e mail account 27916070@plearn.bitnet

from chrism@cirrus.com (chris metcalfe)
subject nazi eugenic theories circulated by cpr (unconventianal peace)
organization cirrus logic inc.
lines 85

now we have strong evidence of where the cpr really stands.
unbelievable and disgusting. it only proves that we must
never forget...


! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject unconventional peace proposal


a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.

not so unconventional. eugenic solutions to the jewish problem
have been suggested by northern europeans in the past.

eugenics a science that deals with the improvement (as by
control of human mating) of hereditory qualities of race
or breed. webster 's ninth collegiate dictionary.

5. the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
marriages in israel palestine , all of whom would have relatives on
'both sides' of the divide , would make the conflict lose its
ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
truly civil society. the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
people would also help the integration of israeli society into the
middle east in a graceful manner.

this is nothing more than feisal husseini 's statement that the
zionist entity must be disolved by forcing it to engage the
surrounding normal arab society.

a strong mixed stock , integration of israeli society into
the middle east in a graceful manner , these are the phrases
of nazi racial engineering pure and simple. as if israeli
society has no right to exist per se !

3. fundamentalist jews would certainly object to the use of
financial incentives to encourage 'mixed marriages'. from their
point of view , the continued existence of a specific jewish people
overrides any other consideration , be it human love , peace of
human rights. the president of the world jewish congress , edgar
bronfman , reflected this view a few years ago in an interview he
gave to der spiegel , a german magazine. he called the increasing
assimilation of jews in the world a calamity , comparable in its
effects only with the holocaust. this objection has no merit
either because it does not fulfill the first two assumptions (see
above)

the continued existance of a specific jewish people overrides
any other consideration , be it human love , peace of human
rights. disolve the jewish people and protect human values
such as love and peace yes ve have heard this before her himmler.
notice how the source of the problem seems to be accruing to
the jews in this analysis. ya , der spiegal ist a gut sourcen...

5. it may objected that such a fund would need great sums to
bring about substantial demographic changes. this objection has
merits. however , it must be remembered that huge sums , more than
3 billion , are expended each year by the united states government
and by u.s. organizations to maintain an elusive peace in the
middle east through armaments. a mere fraction of these sums would
suffice to launch the above proposal and create a more favorable
climate towards the existence of 'mixed' marriages in
israel palestine , thus encouraging the emergence of a
non segregated society in that worn torn land.

nice attempt to mix in a slam against u.s. aid to israel.

i would be thankful for critical comments to the above proposal as
well for any dissemination of this proposal for meaningful
discussion and enrichment.

elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik , iceland

critical comment you can take the nazi flag and holocaust photos
off of your bedroom wall , elias you 'll never succeed.

chris metcalfe

! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

now we 'll find out where you fans really stand...

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re jews in latvia some documents
article i.d. zuma.9304052018
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 407

in article c4zvvg.50d@unix.amherst.edu nwbernst@unix.amherst.edu (neil bernstein) writes

pardon me \? here is to an amherst clown

your three chiefs , dro , hamazasp and kulkhandanian are the ringleaders
of the bands which have destroyed tartar villages and have staged
massacres in zangezour , surmali , etchmiadzin , and zangibasar. this is
intolerable.

this is about armenia.

were you expecting a different response \? here is another one

source k. s. papazian , patriotism perverted , baikar press , boston , 1934 ,
(73 pages with appendix).

p. 25 (third paragraph)

some real fighters sprang up from among the people , who struck terror
into the hearts of the turks.


within a few months after the war began , these armenian guerrilla
forces , operating in close coordination with the russians , were
savagely attacking turkish cities , towns and villages in the east ,
massacring their inhabitants without mercy , while at the same time
working to sabotage the ottoman army 's war effort by destroying roads
and bridges , raiding caravans , and doing whatever else they could to
ease russian occupation. the atrocities committed by the armenian
volunteer forces accompanying the russian army were so severe that the
russian commanders themselves were compelled to withdraw them from the
fighting fronts and sent them to rear guard duties. the memoirs of many
russian officers who served in the east at this time are filled with
accounts of the revolting atrocities committed by these armenian
guerrillas , which were savage even by relatively primitive standards of
war then observed in such areas. 1

1 journal de guerre du deuxieme d'artillerie de forteresse russe
d'erzeroum , 1919 , p. 28.

honored me by reproducing my text. unfortunately , he has still not produced
the documents on jews in latvia. instead , he asks for my views on the
turkish genocide. well , that debate seems to be going on in a few hundred
other threads. i 'll let other people bring the usual charges , try to debunk
mutlu argic cosar (a net wide terrorism triangle \? ) and their spurious evidence.

when that does ever happen , look out the window to see if there is a
non fascist x soviet armenian government in the east. now , where is
your non existent list of scholars \? what a moronian. during the first
world war and the ensuing years 1914 1920 , the armenian dictatorship
through a premeditated and systematic genocide , tried to complete its
centuries old policy of annihilation against the turks and kurds by
savagely murdering 2.5 million muslims and deporting the rest from
their 1 , 000 year homeland.

this paragraph is well written and interesting , serdar baby , but it has nothing
to do with jews in latvia. i have not presented a list of scholars.

how could you \? because there is none.

i am not
interested in an ex soviet (why do you write x \? it 's very cute) armenian
government , non fascist or otherwise. you are not responding to what i am
writing. instead , you are autoposting your own particular brand of bullshit.

like conversing with a brick wall. and you are not responding to what i
am writing. by the way , that bullshit is justly regarded as the first
instance of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people.
for nearly one thousand years , the turkish and kurdish people lived
on their homeland the last one hundred under the oppressive soviet
and armenian occupation. the persecutions culminated in 1914 the
armenian government planned and carried out a genocide against its
muslim subjects. 2.5 million turks and kurds were murdered and the
remainder driven out of their homeland. after one thousand years ,
turkish and kurdish lands were empty of turks and kurds.

the survivors found a safe heaven in turkiye.

today , x soviet armenian government rejects the right of turks and
kurds to return to their muslim lands occupied by x soviet armenia.

today , x soviet armenia covers up the genocide perpetrated by its
predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against
humanity.

x soviet armenia must pay for its crime of genocide against the muslims
by admitting to the crime and making reparations to the turks and kurds.

you have now done so four times in a row. may i legitimately conclude that
you are not , indeed , a regular net user , but an auto posting computer program \?
(which , for convenience , i have called mutlu.exe.)

you may assert whatever you wish.

here we go with mutlu.exe 's famed list of sources

ditto.

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people.
this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians , government
and international political leaders , such as u.s. ambassador mark
bristol , ...

(and on and on for 46 lines)

and still anxiously awaiting...

.......so the list goes on and on and on.....

i'm still trying to find out about those jews in latvia. can you post those
documents pleeeeeeease , mr. argic \? puh leeze could you \? c'mon , it 's my
birthday in three weeks... post them for me as a birthday present.

remember , the issue at hand is the cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million
muslim people by the armenians between 1914 1920 , and the armenian nazi
collaboration during world war ii. anything to add \?

no , darling , read what i post ! other people are asking you about the turkish
genocide. i am asking you to produce the documents on jews in latvia. no
matter how many times you erase what i post , i will still post the same
question. post the documents on jews in latvia. do not autopost the same
block of text about the turkish genocide.

remember , the issue at hand is the armenian nazi collaboration during
world war ii and the turkish genocide. and i still fail to see how
you can challenge the following western sources.

source john dewey the new republic , vol. 40 , nov. 12 , 1928 , pp. 268 9.

happy the minority jews which has had no christian nation to protect it.
and one recalls that the jews took up their abode in 'fanatic' turkey
when they were expelled from europe , especially spain , by saintly christians ,
and they have lived here for centuries in at least as much tranquility and
liberty as their fellow turkish subjects , all being exposed alike to the
rapacity of their common rulers. to one brought up , as most americans have
been , in the gladstonian and foreign missionary tradition , the condition of
the jews in turkey is almost a mathematical demonstration that religious
differences have had an influence in the tragedy of turkey only as they
were combined with aspirations for a political separation which every
nation in the world would have treated as treasonable. one readily
reaches the conclusion that the jews in turkey were fortunate...

he also stated that

they armenians traitorously turned turkish cities over to the russian
invader that they boasted of having raised an army of one hundred and
fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at least
a hundred turkish villages and exterminated their population.

i want the documents of jews in latvia. i think several other
people on soc.culture.greek are already disputing with you about the turkish
genocide.

is this the joke of the month \? who , when , how , where \? what a clown...

no , sweetie , the joke of the month is that you have now posted the same
block of text four times , but you still have not produced the documents on
jews in latvia. instead , you post the same text you post in every other
message , that same old mccarthy table (how appropriate it 's named mccarthy ! )

how about prof shaw , a jewish scholar \?

source stanford j. shaw , on armenian collaboration with invading russian
armies in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (volume
ii reform , revolution republic the rise of modern turkey , 1808 1975).
(london , cambridge university press 1977). pp. 315 316.

in april 1915 dashnaks from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city
of van , whose 33 , 789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population ,
closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire...leaving erivan
on april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during
the next two days while the small ottoman garrison had to retreat to the
southern side of the lake.

knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions ,
armenians looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their aims.
armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the first
world war with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuse
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other
invading russian armies. their hope was their participation in the russian
success would be rewarded with an independent armenian state carved out of
ottoman territories. armenian political leaders , army officers , and common
soldiers began deserting in droves.

with the russian invasion of eastern anatolia in 1914 at the beginning of
world war i , the degree of armenian collaboration with the ottoman 's enemy
increased drastically. ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks ,
armenian revolutionaries armed armenian civil populations , who in turn
massacred the muslim population of the province of van in anticipation of
expected arrival of the invading russian armies.

source stanford j. shaw , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey ,
vol ii. cambridge university press , london , 1979 , pp. 314 317.

...meanwhile , czar nicholas ii himself came to the caucasus to make final
plans for cooperation with the armenians against the ottomans , with the
president of the armenian national bureau in tiflis declaring in response

'from all countries armenians are hurrying to enter the ranks of the
glorious russian army , with their blood to serve the victory of russian
arms...let the russian flag wave freely over the dardanelles and the
bosporus. let , with your will , great majesty , the peoples remaining
under the turkish yoke receive freedom. let the armenian people of turkey
who have suffered for the faith of christ receive resurrection for a new
free life under the protection of russia.' 155

armenians again flooded into the czarist armies. preparations were made
to strike the ottomans from the rear , and the czar returned to st. petersburg
confident that the day finally had come for him to reach istanbul.

155 horizon , tiflis , november 30 , 1914 , quoted by hovannisian , road to
independence , p. 45 fo 2485 , 2484 46942 , 22083.

ottoman morale and military position in the east were seriously hurt , and
the way was prepared for a new russian push into eastern anatolia , to be
accompanied by an open armenian revolt against the sultan. 156

156 hovannisian , road to independence , pp. 45 47 bayur , iii 1 ,
pp. 349 380 w.e.d. allen and p. muratoff , caucasian battlefields ,
cambridge , 1953 , pp. 251 277 ali ihsan sabis , harb hahralaram , 2 vols. ,
ankara , 1951 , ii , 41 160 fo 2146 no. 70404 fo 2485 fo 2484 , nos.
46942 and 22083.

an armenian state was organized at van under russian protection , and it
appeared that with the muslim natives dead or driven away , it might be
able to maintain itself at one of the oldest centers of ancient armenian
civilization. an armenian legion was organized 'to expel the turks from
the entire southern shore of the lake in preparation for a concerted
russian drive into the bitlis vilayet.' 162 thousands of armenians from
mus and other major centers in the east began to flood into the new
armenian state...by mid july there were as many as 250 , 000 armenians
crowded into the van area , which before the crisis had housed and fed
no more than 50 , 000 people , muslim and non muslim alike. 163

162 hovannisian , road to independence , p. 56 fop 2488 , nos. 127223 and
58350.

163 bva , meclis i vukela mazbatalari , debates of august 15 17 , 1915
babi i ali evrak odasi , no. 175 , 321 , van ihtilali ve katl i ami ,
zilkade 1333 10 september 1915.

muslim population exterminated by the armenians

(31 lines deleted)

why \?

who gives a thunder about your pseudo scholar jokes \? i'am arguing about
the armenian nazi colaboration during world war ii. any comment \?

argue it with someone else or do not reply to my posts , argic my love. i
am not arguing about the armenian nazi collaboration. i do not give a
thunder about it. i want you to do one of three things
a) admit that you are not a regular user , but a computer autoposting turkish
propaganda , or ,
b) post the documents on jews in latvia , or ,
c) run away , like the coward without a real address that you are , and do not
reply to my posts.

it could be , perhaps , your head was n't screwed on just right. in 1941 ,
while the jews were being assembled for their doom in the nazi concentration
camps , the armenian volunteers in germany formed the first armenian
battalion to fight alongside the nazis. in 1943 , this battalion had
grown into eight battalions of 20 , 000 strong under the command of the
former guerilla leader dro (the butcher) , who was the former dictator of the
short lived armenian dictatorship (1918 1920) and the architect of the
cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds between 1914 1920.
an armenian national council was formed by the notorious dashnak party
leaders in berlin , which was recognized by the nazis. encouraged by
this , the armenians summarily formed a provisional government that endorsed
and espoused fully the principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the
members of the aryan super race and full participants to hitler 's policy of
extermination of the jews.

this armenian nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an encore
performance staged by the armenians during wwi , when they back stabbed and
exterminated 2.5 million turks by colluding with the invading russian army.

furthermore , as mccarthy put it , the armenian dictatorship was granted
a respite when the ottomans admitted defeat and signed the mudros
armistice with the allies (october 30 , 1918). the allies had decided
to create a greater armenia , including the old russian province
of yerevan and adjoining areas , as well as most parts of anatolia
claimed by the armenian fanatics. only the area called cilicia
(around the ottoman province of adana) was to be excluded , as it
had already been claimed by the french. the allies quickly set
about attempting to disarm ottoman soldiers and other turks , who
could be expected to oppose their plans.

on april 19 , 1919 the british army occupied kars , gave civilian
and military power over to the armenians , then withdrew. the british
planned for kars to be included in the armenian dictatorship , even
though the russian pre war census had shown kars province to be over
60 muslim. the turks of kars were effectively disarmed , but the
british could not disarm the kurds of the mountains. the fate of
the turks was almost an exact replica of what had occurred earlier
in eastern anatolia. murder , pillage , genocide and the destruction
of turkish homes and entire turkish villages drove the turks of
kars to the mountains or south and west to the safety afforded
by remaining units of the ottoman army. the british had left
the scene to the armenian genocide squads. therefore , few
europeans were present to observe the genocide. one british
soldier , colonel rawlinson , who was assigned to supervise the
disarmament of otoman soldiers , saw what was occurring.

rawlinson wired to his superiors ,

in the interest of humanity the armenians should not be left in
independent command of the moslim population , as , their troops
being without discipline and not being under effective control ,
atrocities were constantly being committed.

instead , you post more armenian nonsense

come again \?

these european dashnags , with headquarters in berlin , appealed to...
(34 lines deleted)

why \?

no wonder you are in such a mess. here are the armenian sources on the
turkish holocaust.
(30 lines deleted)

why \?

(list of dead armenians , 100 lines , deleted)

obrother. spell it out , list of dead muslims

source documents volume i (1919).
document no 64 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 109 , drawer
no 4 , file no 359 , section no 103(1435) , contents no 3 20.
(to acting supreme command socialist salah cimcoz , socialist
nesim mazelyah)

armenian gangs have been murdering and inflicting cruelties on
innocent people of the region. this verified information , supported
by clear statements of reliable eyewitnesses , was also confirmed by
general odishelidje , commander of the russian caucasian army.

armenians are entering every place evacuated by russians carrying out
murders , cruelties , rape and all kind of atrocities which cannot be
expressed in writing , murdering all the women , children , aged people
who happen to be in the street. these barbarous murders repeated
every day with new methods continue and the russian army has been urged
to intervene to terminate these atrocities. public opinion is appalled
and horrified. newspapers are describing the happenings as shocking.
we have decided to inform all our friends urgently about the situation.

document no 65 , archive no 4 3671 , cabin no 163 , drawer
no 5 , file no 2947 , section no 628 , contents no 3 1 , 3 3.
(to acting supreme command commander , 3rd army general)

the situation in the cities of erzincan and erzurum which we have
recently taken over is given below

these two beautiful cities of our country which are alike in the
calamities and destruction which they suffered , have been destroyed ,
as the specially designed and built public and private buildings of
these cities were deliberately burnt by armenians apart from the
destruction suffered during the two year russian occupation.

all barracks buildings of erzincan , the cavalry barracks in erzurum ,
the government building and army corps headquarters are among those
burnt. in short , both cities are burnt , destroyed and trees cut down.

as to the people of these cities

all people old enough to use weapons rounded up , taken to the sarikamis
direction for road building and were slaughtered. the remaining people ,
were subject to cruelties and murder by armenians following the
withdrawal of russians and were partly annihilated the corpses thrown
into wells , burnt in houses , mutilated by bayonets , their abdomens
ripped open in slaughterhouses , their lungs and livers torn out , girls
and women hung up by their hair , after all kinds of devilish acts.
the few people who were able to survive these cruelties , worse than
those of the 'spanish inquisition , ' are in poverty more dead than alive ,
horrified , some driven insane , about 1500 in erzincan and 30 , 000 in
erzurum. the people are hungry and in poverty , for whatever they had
has been taken away from them , their lands left uncultivated.

the people have just been able to exist with some provisions found in
stores left over from the russians. the villages round erzincan and
erzurum are in the worst condition. some villages on the road , have
been leveled to the ground , leaving no stone , the people completely
massacred.

let me submit to your information with deep grief and regret that
history has never before witnessed cruelties at such dimensions.

(a long list)
(a long list)

and still anxiously awaiting...

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)

from perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
summary davidsson ca n't even get the most basic facts right.
nntp posting host qso.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 27

in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

...
the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.
the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

anyone who can repeate this choice piece of tripe without checking
his her sources does not deserve to be believed. the gaza strip does
not possess the highest population density in the world. in fact , it
is n't even close. just one example will serve to illustrate the folly
of this statement the city of hong kong has nearly ten times the
population of the gaza strip in a roughly comparable land area. the
centers of numerous cities also possess comparable , if not far higher ,
population densities. examples include manhattan island (ny city) , sao
paolo , ciudad de mexico , bombay , ...

need i go on \? the rest of mr. davidsson 's message is no closer to the
truth than this oft repeated statement is.


how sad to see a model of decorum and tranquillity become like any other sport
a battleground for rival ideologies to slug it out with glee. tim rice , chess
eric s. perlman perlman@qso.colorado.edu
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenians were also partners in nazi practices.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 82

in article c5vbnv.cj@blaze.cs.jhu.edu arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes

this implies both sides are equal. true , it may sometimes be difficult or

still living in an alternate universe \? numerous articles in major newspapers
(london times) and periodicals (newsweek) during the war , had suggested
the existence of a significant collaboration between armenians and the
nazis. arthur derounian deserves credit for being the first person to
deal with this issue extensively. derounian 's motives were twofold his
deeply held democratic convictions gave him a sense of duty and he felt
obliged to shed light on this yet another dark chapter of armenian history.
concurrently , derounian embarked on what one would call 'crisis control'
or face saving. in order to forestall any potential attacks on the larger
armenian community in the united states , he marginalized collaboration
as deplorable but insignificant. 1

1 john roy carlson (real name arthur derounian) , 'the plotters , '
e. p. dutton company , inc. , new york 1946 , p. 182.


source mitteilungsblatt , berlin , december 1939 , nr. 2 and 5 6

yet another historical fact a fact that for years has been deliberately
forgotten , concealed , and wiped from memory the fact of armenian nazi
collaboration.

a magazine called mitteilungsblatt der deutsch armenischen gesselschaft
is the clearest and most definite proof of this collaboration. the
magazine was first published in berlin in 1938 during nazi rule of germany
and continued publication until the end of 1944. even the name of the
magazine , which implies a declaration of armenian nazi cooperation ,
is attention getting.

this magazine , every issue of which proves the collaboration , is historically
important as documentary evidence. it is a heap of writing that should be
an admonition to world opinion and to all mankind.

in nazi germany , armenians were considered to be an aryan race and certain
political , economic , and social rights were thus granted to them. they
occupied positions in public service and were partners in nazi practices.
the whole world of course knows what awaited those who were not considered
aryan and what befell them.

now wait , there is more.

source from sardarapat to sevres and lausanne by avetis aharonian. the
armenian review , vol. 16 , no. 3 63 , autumn , sep. 1963 , pp. 47 57.

p. 52 (second paragraph).

your three chiefs , dro , hamazasp and kulkhandanian are the ringleaders
of the bands which have destroyed tartar villages and have staged
massacres in zangezour , surmali , etchmiadzin , and zangibasar. this is
intolerable. look and here he pointed to a file of official documents
on the table look at this , here in december are the reports of the last
few months concerning ruined tartar villages which my representative
wardrop has sent me. the official tartar communique speaks of the
destruction of 300 villages.


p. 54 (fifth paragraph).

yes , of course. i repeat , until this massacre of the tartars is stopped
and the three chiefs are not removed from your military leadership i
hardly think we can supply you arms and ammunition.

...it is the armed bands led by dro , hamazasp and kulkhandanian who
during the past months have raided and destroyed many tartar villages in
the regions of surmali , etchmiadzin , zangezour , and zangibasar. there are
official charges of massacres.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re nazi eugenic theories circulated by
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 68

in article 1483500351@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

ps my proposal has nothing to do with nazi eugenics. it has to do with
the search for peace which would enable justice. i do n't consider that
justice is done , when non jews who fled or were expelled in 1948 1967
are not permitted to return to their homeland.

how about jews who were expelled from their homelands in iraq , syria ,
jordan , algeria , etc. \? do n't they deserve justice , too \?

this can at best be called
pragmatism , a nice word for legitimizing the rule of the strong. it can
never be called justice.

why is your criticism always directed against israel , but never
against the arab states , even when they are so much more guilty of the
accusations you make \? is it because you now call yourself a
palestinean \?

and peace without justice will never be peace.

this is why the land for peace formula is so foolish. land for land
or peace for peace seems much more just , except that it would cost the
arabs something and so is not under consideration.

let 's not forget that about half of israel 's population are refugees
from arab countries. somehow , their land now being occupied by arab
states and their homes now being lived in by arab people are not
included in any negotiations. is this your prescription for peace \?

it is my conviction that the situation in which a state , through the
law , attempts to discourage mixed marriages (as israel does) , is not
normal. such a state resembles more nazi germany and south africa than
western democracies , such as the united states , in which jews are free to
marry whom they wish and do so in the thousands.

again , you 've somehow managed to overlook the fact that the arab
states are much more restrictive on these points. in fact , the
officially judenrein policies of almost all of the arab states makes
them resemble nazi germany chillingly closely.

american jews enjoy this fact and would not love to live in a state termed
christian state and to have their green cards stamped with a mark jew.

there are many states in which christians can live happily , many which
have official religions and christian majorities and christian based
laws. there are some 2 dozen arab and islamic states. there is only
1 (one) jewish state. do you have a problem with this \? is this one
jewish state too many \? there are others who might agree with you , you
know.

i would ask those who are genuinely interested in an exchange of views
and personal experiencces to refrain from emotional , infantile
outbursts which might leed readers to infer that jews who respect
judaism are uncivilized. such behaviour is not good for judaism.

have you just arrived on tpm recently \? \? \? again , the supporters of the
arab and islamic camps are frequently and massively guilty of
emotional , infantile outbursts which have weakened their positions
dramatically. somehow , your criticisms are very one sided and
simple minded.

p.s. how 's the fund coming along \?


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science
lines 33

in article 1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr17.185118.10792@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes
in article 1993apr16.195452.21375@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
04 16 93 1045 armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes


ermenistan kasiniyor...

let me translate for everyone else before the public traslation service gets
into it armenia is getting itchy.

esin.


let me clearify mr. turkish

armenia is not getting itchy . she is simply letting the world know that she
will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous
tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of

cypress while the world simply watched.


your ignorance is obvious from your posting.

1) cyprus was an independent country with turkish greek inhabitants (not a
greek island like your ignorant posting claims)

2) the name should be cyprus (in english)

next time read and learn before you post.

esin.

from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject absood
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
organization columbia university
lines 11

to my fellow columbian , i must ask , why do you say that i engage
in fantasies \? arafat is a terrorist , who happens to have
a lot of pull among palestinians. can we ignore the two facts \?
i doubt it.

peace , roar lion roar , and other niceties ,
pete





from steven@surya.cs.ucla.edu (steven berson)
subject re ten questions about israel
nntp posting host surya.cs.ucla.edu
organization ucla , computer science department
lines 25

cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject ten questions about israel

i would be thankful if any of you who live in israel could help to
provide
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are
indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by
people around me.

... questions omitted ...

elias davidsson iceland email elias@ismennt.is

funny you should mention it , but i 've heard these questions time
and again , also. why just the other day , a couple neo nazis by
ucla were passing out literature like this.
cheers ,
steve


steven berson ucla computer science department (310) 825 3189
steven@cs.ucla.edu los angeles , ca 90024 1596


from casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe)
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization european organization for nuclear research , cern
lines 47

in article c5wb46.i3o@blaze.cs.jhu.edu , arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes...
in article 22apr199307534304@vxcrna.cern.ch casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe) writes
i said the fixation on bosnia is due to it being in a european country ,
rather than the third world

ken says intervention in somalia is a counter example

i am a staunch republican , btw. the irony of arguing against military
intervention with arguments based on vietnam has not escaped me. i was opposed
to us intervention in somalia for the same reasons , although clearly it was
not nearly as risky.

based on the same reasons \? you mean you were opposed to us intervention in
somalia because since somalia is a european country instead of the third world ,
the desire to help somalia is racist \? i do n't think this same reason applies
to somalia at all.

no , you have completely misunderstood. i was opposed to intervention in
somalia for the same reason i am opposed to intervention in bosnia there is
no security interest of the united states there which justifies risking the
lives of american servicemen , and there are too many crises in the world for us
to take on all of them. in the case of bosnia , the risks are obviously much
greater , and there are other countries in a much better position and with far
better reasons to take action than the us.

the whole point is that somalia is a third world country , and we were more
willing to send troops there than to bosnia exactly the opposite of what
the fixation on european countries theory would predict. (similarly , the
desire to help muslims being fought by christians is also exactly the opposite
of what that theory predicts.)

you continue to misunderstand. i did not say the reason why people want to
intervene is because of racist ( you seem to be overly fond of using this
word , btw. i said the phenomenon was race related , which is not the same as
racist. perhaps this distinction is too subtle for you to grasp) motives i
said the attention and outrage at the entire yugoslavian situation was a result
of it being 1) closer to home , 2) happening to people we can identify with , and
3) relentlessly harped on by the media. i never said anything about which side
would be preferred , which has a lot more to do with the presentation of the
conflict than any psychological factors. i think there is no doubt that despite
the fact we intervened in somalia , the level of attention devoted to there was
considerably less than what is devoted to bosnia , if the newspapers and tv news
i see are any guide.


dave


from hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
subject re basil , opinions \? (re water on the brain)
reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
organization ncsu chem eng
lines 44


in article 1qmdtlinnkrc@early bird.think.com , shaig@think.com (shai guday) writes

in article 1993apr15.204930.9517@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

in article 1993apr15.055341.6075@nysernet.org , astein@nysernet.org (alan stein) writes
i guess hasan finally revealed the source of his claim that israel
diverted water from lebanon his imagination.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org
mr. water head ,
i never said that israel diverted lebanese rivers , in fact i said that
israel went into southern lebanon to make sure that no
water is being used on the lebanese
side , so that all water would run into jordan river where there
israel will use it ! head.

of course posting some hard evidence or facts is much more
difficult. you have not bothered to substantiate this in
any way. basil , do you know of any evidence that would support
this \?

i can just imagine a news report from ancient times , if hasan
had been writing it.

newsflash
cairo ap (ancient press). israel today denied egypt acces to the red
sea. in a typical display of israelite agressiveness , the leader of
the israelite slave revolt , former prince moses , parted the red sea.
the action is estimated to have caused irreparable damage to the environment.
egyptian authorities have said that thousands of fisherman have been
denied their livelihood by the parted waters. pharaoh 's brave charioteers
were successful in their glorious attempt to cause the waters of the
red sea to return to their normal state. unfortunately they suffered
heavy casualties while doing so.

hehehe.

btw , does the litani river not flow west and not south \? i think that its waters
stay entirely within lebanese territory and so what hasan says about the jordan
river makes no sense , in any case. the hasbani river , on the other hand , flows
into the jordan , if i am not mistaken.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re investment in yehuda and shomron
organization division of applied sciences , harvard university
lines 29


in article 1483500346@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

those who wish to learn something about the perversion of judaism ,
should consult the masterly work by yehoshua harkabi , who was many
years the head of israeli intelligence and an opponent of the plo. his
latest book was published in english and includes a very detailed analysis
of judeo nazism.

you mean he talks about those jews , who , because of their self
hatred , spend all their time attacking judaism , jews , and israel ,
using the most despicable of anti semetic stereotypes \?

i do n't think we need to coin a term like jedeo nazism to
refer to those jews who , in their endless desire to be accepted by the
nazis , do their dirty work for them. we can just call them house
jews , fools , or anti semites from jewish families.

i think house jews , a reference to a person of jewish
ancestry who issues statements for a company or organization that
condemn judaism is perfectly sufficeint. i think a few years free of
their anti semetic role models would do wonders for most of them.

adam

adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 20
reply to cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


m.z.magil writes

it surprises me that this story has not yet made it to
the front pages of the major newspapers (which love to make the state of
israel look as evil as humanly possible) ! such a story would be eaten up
by some of the papers over here. so please explain to me why i have never
seen nor heard of it before ! believe me , i'm not expecting a reply because
we both know where the story came from... your dreams ! ! ! !

i would like to remind my jewish colleague mzm that much of the
stories of the holocaust (including the ones in the u.s. holocaust
memorial museum) were not eaten up by some of the papers.

we just have to wait to build muesums for it..


cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu
(
h a m z a ) foo i.e. most foo

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenians will not get away with the genocide of 204 , 000 azeri people.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 163

in article 1993apr20.190606.13801@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

da armenia is involved in fighting with azarbaijan. it is armenian
da soldiers from mainland armenia that are shelling towns in azarbaijan.

well , this is your opinion !

are you related to 'arromdian' of asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism
triangle \? if you feel that you can simply act as a fascist armenian
governmental crony in this forum you will be sadly mistaken and duly
embarrassed. this is not a lecture to another historical revisionist
and a genocide apologist , but a fact. this time , fascist x soviet armenian
government will not get away with the genocide of 204 , 000 azeri men , women
and children. not a chance.


the sunday times 8 march 1992

morgues fill as azeris head for all out war


thomas goltz , the first to report the massacre by armenian soldiers in
the worst violence since the breakup of the soviet union , reports from
agdam


khojaly used to be a barren town , with empty shops and treeless dirt
roads. yet it was still home to thousands of people who , in happier
times , tended fields and flocks of geese. last week it was wiped off
the map.

.......

as sickening reports trickled in to the azerbaijani border town of
agdam , and the bodies piled up in the morgues , there was little doubt
that khojaly and the stark foothills and gullies around it had been
the site of the most terrible massacre since the soviet union broke
apart.
.......

i was the last westerner to visit khojaly. that was in january and
people were predicting their fate with grim resignation. zumrut ezoya ,
a mother of four on board the helicopter that ferried us into the
town , called her community sitting ducks , ready to get shot . she and
her family were among the victims of the massacre on february 26.
.......

the armenians have taken all the outlying villages , one by one , and
the government does nothing. balakisi sakikov , 55 , a father of five ,
said. next they will drive us out or kill us all , said dilbar , his
wife. the couple , their three sons and three daughters were killed in
the assault , as were many other people i had spoken to.
......

it was close to the armenian lines we knew we would have to cross.
there was a road , and the first units of the column ran across then
all hell broke loose. bullets were raining down from all sides. we had
just entered their trap.

the azeri defenders picked off one by one. survivors say that armenian
forces then began a pitiless slaughter , firing at anything moved in
the gullies. a video taken by an azeri cameraman , wailing and crying
as he filmed body after body , showed a grizzly trail of death leading
towards higher , forested ground where the villagers had sought refuge
from the armenians.

the armenians just shot and shot and shot , said omar veyselov , lying
in hospital in agdam with sharapnel wounds. i saw my wife and
daughter fall right by me.

people wandered through the hospital corridors looking for news of the
loved ones. some vented their fury on foreigners where is my
daughter , where is my son \? wailed a mother. raped. butchered. lost.

azerbaijan has said as many as 1 , 000 refugees were killed as they
tried to flee. the armenians have denied this , saying the civilians
were caught in crossfire .
.......


source the times , 2 march 1992.

corpses litter hills in karabakh

anatol lieven comes under fire while flying with azerbaijani forces to
investigate the alleged mass killings of refugees by armenian troops...

as we swooped low over the snow covered hills of nagorno karabagh we saw
the scattered corpses. apparently , the refugees had been shot down as
they ran. an azerbaijani film of the places we flew over , shown to
journalists afterwards , showed dozens of corpses lying in various parts
of the hills.

the azerbaijanis claim that as many as 1000 have died in a mass killing
of azerbaijanis fleeing from the town of khodjaly , seized by armenians
last week. a further 4 , 000 are believed to be wounded , frozen to death
or missing...

seven of us squatted in the cabin of an azerbaijani m24 attack helicopter
as we flew to investigate the claims of the mass killings. suddenly there
was a thump against the underside of the aircraft , a red flash of tracer
ripped past the starboard wing , and the helicopter rocked sharply. we
swung round , and there was a deafening burst of fire from the cannon
under our wing as the helicopter crew returned fire.

we had been fired on from an armenian anti aircraft post. we swung round
again , tipped to starboard and appeared to dive straight down into a
valley. the brown earth swooped around our heads , the helicopter swung
round again and followed the contours of the ground. our cannon fired
repeated blasts.

later it emerged that a civilian helicopter that we had been escorting
had landed successfully at nakhichevanik in the east of the disputed
enclave of nagorno karabakh , to pick up some of the dead. we had , in
fact , been attacked both by ground fire and by an armenian helicopter.
i had seen the armenian helicopter intermittently through the window ,
its cannons firing , but had thought mistakenly that it was on
our side . our group of western journalists had embarked on a
search and rescue flight that had become a combat mission.

our flight consisted of the civilian passenger helicopter and two
m24 soviet attack helicopters in the azerbaijani service , nicknamed
flying crocodiles for their armour. our party was in the second
crocodile. the civilian helicopter 's job was to land in the mountains
and pick up bodies at sites of the mass killings. the attack helicopters
were there to give covering fire if necessary.

the operation showed a striking sign of the disintegration of the soviet
armed forces because our pilot was a russian officer. an azerbaijani
official told us that there were now five former soviet military
helicopters and their pilots fighting for azerbaijan. they have
signed contracts to fly for us , he said. the helicopter we engaged
in combat was most probably flown by a brother officer of our russian
pilot , but fighting for the armenians.

we had taken off just before 5pm on saturday from agdam airfield , an
heated for the armenian controlled mountains of karabakh , a sheer
white wall in the distance. the civilian helicopter picked up four
corpses , and it was during this and a previous mission that an
azerbaijani cameraman filmed the several the several dozen bodies
on the hillsides. we then took off again in a hurry and speed back
towards azerbaijani lines. azerbaijani gunners on the last hill before
the plain and safety gazed up at us as we passed.

back at the airfield in agdam , we took a look the bodies the
civilian helicopter had picked up. two old men a small girl were
covered with blood , their limbs contorted by the cold and rigor
mortis. they had been shot.

what did our russian pilot think of the tragedy , our close shave ,
and the war in nagorno karabakh \? he gave us cheerful grin , politely
declined to answer ques tions , and marched off to his dinner.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
subject re israeli expansion lust
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
organization columbia university
lines 57


in article 2528@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au (joseph askew) writes
in article 1993apr13.002118.24102@das.harvard.edu adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes
in article 1993apr12.184034.1370@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes

imho , it does not really matter who started any individual battle within
the arabs isreal war context. the real question is who what started the
war. does anyone have any doubts it was the creation of israel on arab
land \?

huh \? a war was started when several armies invaded israel ,
vowing to drive the jews into the sea. most jews wanted to live in
peace , and the arabs who stayed in israel were granted citizenship.

it depends entirely on how you define 'war'. the actual fighting largely
predates the arab invasions after all deir yassin happened in midapril
well before the arab invasion. as i have said elsewhere lt col lorch has
said that hagana forces were fighting well before the arabs invaded as in
months before. as for jews wanting to live in peace that to is entirely
arguable. i think it is easy enough to show that the labour party leadership
had no such intention at all. as for the arabs who 'stayed' do n't you mean
those who were not expelled \? even some of those who did 'stay' were not
granted citizenship but expelled after the fighting had stopped anyway.

joseph askew


how do you define war \? do seiges and constant attacks on villiages
count as acts of war , or is that only when the jews do them \?
january , 1948 arab liberation army attacks kfar szold
1000 men attack kfar etzion , 14 miles south of jerusalem ,
after cutting off the supply lines to it.
attacks on yehiam (western galilee) and kibbutz tirat tzvi.
by mid march , the jewish settlements in the negev had been cut off from
land links with the rest of the jewish population.
the etzion group of villiages , near hebron , had been cut off ,
while 42 members of a convoy trying to supply yehiam were
slaughtered , cutting off the villiage.
jerusalem was under seige , being cut off from its supply route from
tel aviv (the bombed out supply trucks have been left on the side
of that road to this day in memoriam). by this time , 1200 jews
had been killed.

of course , this is n't war , since it 's only the arabs attacking.
just like last week when the fatah launched katyusha rockets
against northern israel. where does uprising end and war begin \?
will it still be 'intifadah' when the plo brings in tanks \?



joseph askew , gauche and proud in the autumn stillness , see the pleiades ,
jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu remote in thorny deserts , fell the grief.
disclaimer \? sue , see if i care north of our tents , the sky must end somwhere ,
actually , i rather like brenda beyond the pale , the river murmurs on.


amir

from mack@isl.stanford.edu (mack)
subject re news briefs from kh 1026
organization stanford university
lines 19

farzin@apollo3.ntt.jp (farzin mokhtarian) writes

from kayhan havai 1026


...

o dr. malekzadeh , the minister of health mentioned that
the population growth rate in iran at the end of 1371
went below 2.7

i know nothing about statistics , but what significance does the
relatively small population growth rate have where the sampling period
is so small (at the end of 1371) \? is it adequete to suggest a trend or
is it just noise \?

farzin mokhtarian

mack

from ilyess@ece.concordia.ca (ilyess bdira)
subject greek prime minister shows support for serbian criminals
keywords international , non usa government , government , fighting , civil rights , social issues
article i.d. newsflas.c53562.jhh
organization ece concordia university
lines 67
nntp posting host davinci.ece.concordia.ca

the above headline is much better than the original one.
read on..

in article yugoslav greeceu3a6430pe@clarinet.com clarinews@clarinet.com (dejan anastasijevic) writes
belgrade , yugoslavia (upi) greek prime minister constantine
mitsotakis visited the capital of the serbia montenegro federation
tuesday in an apparent attempt to press serbian leaders into accepting
the international plan to end the war in bosnia herzegovina.

so far so good...

``i came here as an old friend of this country...to help in solving
the burning problem of bosnia herzegovina , '' mitsotakis told reporters
after talking for two hours with president slobodan milosevic of serbia.

old friend , whatever....

``i did not come here to discuss any particular plan. i came to hear
the serbian point of view , '' he said , adding that serbia is ``sincerely
trying to bring peace to the region.''

that is a great attitude for someone who wants to pressure the serbs to
accept a peace plan that gives them most of the territory they got by
force and terror.

milosevic said that serbia and greece had ``practically identical
views'' on the bosnian war , which started late in march 1992 when the

this is a good thing to hear. anybody wondering why serbia is not
really under any boycott \? anybody remembers the gulf war \? did saddam
kill 100 , 000 people and rape 50 , 000 women \?

in an effort to pressure milosevic , who is considered to be the main
patron of serbian territorial conquest in bosnia , the u.n. security
council has threatened to impose new sanctions against serbia and
montenegro and implement a no fly zone over bosnian skies.

still in the threatening stage.. maybe when there is no more bosnians ,
the un will lift the arms embargo on them ! military intervention \? that
is reserved for muslim countries.

now hear this
after meeting milosevic , mitsotakis had separate talks with radovan
karadzic , the leader of bosnian serbs.
``i encouraged mr. karadzic to proceed with his efforts to achieve a
just peace in the region , '' he said.
``we are ready to play a positive role in the balkans , '' said
mitsotakis.

real positive i might add , in favor of his old freinds of course !

karadzic said that he was ``honored'' to meet the greek premier.
``greeks are not one sided , and they do not tend to condemn only one

you bet they are not !

side in this war , '' said karadzic.
``we will continue to negotiate on all levels , '' he said.
before meeting with milosevic , mitsotakis had talks with president
dobrica cosic of the federal yugoslav union of serbia and montenegro ,
and patriarch pavle , the head priest of the serbian orthodox church.


anybody is still convinced that this is not a religious war \?
a psychopath like karadzik is considered a peacelover.. of course he
sent 100 , 000 muslims to permanent peace. with the blessings of patriarch
pavle.

from tichauer@valpso.hanse.de (manfredo tichauer)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization the private site of manfredo tichauer
lines 16

backon@vms.huji.ac.il writes

in article 1rd7eo 1a4@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (ana

anas , of course ! the yahud needed blood for the matza. after all , passover
was last month )

josh , were you in such a hurry \? we celebrated pesach this month , but only
with xtian blood ! muslim blood has n't been declared kosher le pesach by
our hechscher (not yet) ) )


manfredo tichauer m. email tichauer@valpso.hanse.de
opitzstrasse 14 voice ( 49 40) 27.42.27
2000 hamburg 60 germany fax ( 49 40) 270.53.09


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the wholesale extermination of the muslim population by the armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 82

in article c5yjii.e6b@blaze.cs.jhu.edu arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes

but some of this is verifiable information. for instance , the person who
knows about the buggy product may be able to tell you how to reproduce the
bug on your own , but still fears retribution if it were to be known that he
was the one who told the public how to do so.

typical 'arromdian' of the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism
triangle. well , does it change the fact that during the period of 1914
to 1920 , the armenian government ordered , incited , assisted and participated
in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion
and national origin \?


1) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of van. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5
2) armenians did slaughter 42 of muslim population of bitlis. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
3) armenians did slaughter 31 of muslim population of erzurum. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
4) armenians did slaughter 26 of muslim population of diyarbakir. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
5) armenians did slaughter 16 of muslim population of mamuretulaziz. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
6) armenians did slaughter 15 of muslim population of sivas. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
7) armenians did slaughter the entire muslim population of the x soviet
armenia. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
8) .....

1 mccarthy , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman
anatolia and the end of the empire , new york
university press , new york , 1983 , pp. 133 144.

2 karpat , k. , ottoman population , the university of wisconsin press ,
1985.

3 hovannisian , r. g. , armenia on the road to independence , 1918.
university of california press (berkeley and
los angeles) , 1967 , pp. 13 , 37.

4 shaw , s. j. , 'on armenian collaboration with invading russian armies
in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey
(volume ii reform , revolution republic the rise of
modern turkey , 1808 1975). (london , cambridge university
press 1977). pp. 315 316.

5 gochnak (armenian newspaper published in the united states) , may 24 ,
1915.


source adventures in the near east by a. rawlinson , jonathan cape ,
30 bedford square , london , 1934 (first published 1923) (287 pages).
(memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)

p. 178 (first paragraph)

in those moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched for
arms by the armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of such
search , and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible tortures
had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as to where
valuables had been hidden , of which the armenians were aware of the
existence , although they had been unable to find them.

p. 175 (first paragraph)

the arrival of this british brigade was followed by the announcement
that kars province had been allotted by the supreme council of the
allies to the armenians , and that announcement having been made , the
british troops were then completely withdrawn , and armenian occupation
commenced. hence all the trouble for the armenians at once commenced
the wholesale robbery and persecution of the muslem population on the
pretext that it was necessary forcibly to deprive them of their arms.
in the portion of the province which lies in the plains they were able
to carry out their purpose , and the manner in which this was done will
be referred to in due course.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from kaveh@gate koi.corp.sgi.com (kaveh smith )
subject jews islam dr. frankenstien
nntp posting host gate koi.corp.sgi.com
reply to kaveh@gate koi.corp.sgi.com (kaveh smith )
organization silicon graphics , inc. , mountain view , ca , usa
lines 49

i have found jewish people very imagentative and creative. jewish religion was the foundation for christianity and
islam. in other words judaism has fathered both religions. now islam has turned against its father i may say.
it is ironic that after communizem threat is almost gone , religion wars are going to be on the raise.
i thought the idea of believing on one god , was to unite all man kind. how come both jews and islam which believe
on the same god , the god of ebrahim are killing each other \? is this like dr. frankenstien 's story \?
how are you going to stop this from happening \? how are you going to deal with so many muslims. nuking them
would distroy the whole world \? would god get mad , since you have killed his followers , you believe on the same
god , same heaven and the same hell after all \? what is the peacefull way of ending this saga \?


man kind needs religion , since it sets up the rules and the regulations which keeps the society in a healthy state.
a religion is mostly a sets of rules which people have experienced and know it works for the society.
the praying , keeps the sole healthy and meditates it. god does not care for man kinds pray , but man kind hopes
that god will help him when he prays.
religion works mostly on the moral issues and trys to put away the materialistic things in the life. but the
religious leaders need to make a living through religion \? so they may corrupt it , or turn it to their own way to
make their living. i.e muslims have to pay 20 percent of their income to the mullahs. i guess the rabie gets his
cut too !

is in it that religion should be such that everybody on planet earth respects each other , be good toward each other
helps one another , respect the mother nature. is in that heaven and hell are created on earth through the acts
that we take today \? is in it that within every man there is good and bad , he could choose either one , then he will
see the outcome of his choice. how can we prevent man kind from going crazy over religion. how can we stop
another religious killing field , under poor gods name \? what are your thoughts \? do you think man kind would
to come its senses , before it is too late \?


p.s. on the side

do you think that moses saw the god on mount sina \? why would god go to top of the mountain \? he created
the earth , he could have been anywhere \? why on top the mountain \? was it because people thought to see god
you have to reach to the skies heavens \? why god kept coming back to middle east \? was it because they created
god through their imagination \? is that why jewish people were told by god , they were the chosen ones \?

profit mohammad was married to khadijeh. she was a jewish. she taught him how to trade. she probably taught
him about judaism. quran is mostly copy right of taurah (sp \? old testement). do you think god wrote quran \?
makeh was a trade city before islam. do you think it was made to be the center of islamic world because mohammad
wanted to expand his trade business \? is that why god has put his house in there \?

i think this religious stuff has gone too far. all man kind are going to hurt from it if they do not wise up.
look at david koresh , how that turned out \? i am afraid in the bigger scale , the jews and the muslims will
have the same ending ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

religion is needed in the sense to keep people in harmony and keep them doing good things , rather than
plotting each others distruction. there is one earth , one life and one god. let 's all man kind be good toward
each other.

god help us all.
peace

from hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian)
subject re the republic of turkey sold 400 tones of armenian bones in 1924.
keywords april 24 , 1993 , 78th anniversary of the turkish genocide of armenians
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 42

dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes

on the 78th commemorative anniversary of the turkish genocide of the armenians ,
we remember those whose only crime was to be armenian in the shadow of an
emerging turkish proto fascist state. in their names we demand justice.

in april 1915 , the turkish government began a systematically executed
de population of the eastern anatolian homeland of the armenians through a
genocidal extermination. this genocide was to insure that turks exclusively
ruled over the geographic area today called the republic of turkey. the
result 1.5 million murdered , 30 billion dollars of armenian property stolen
and plundered. this genocide ended nearly 3 , 000 years of armenian civilization
on those lands. today , the turkish government continues to scrape clean any
vestige of a prior armenian existence on those lands. today 's turkish
governmental policy is to re write the history of the era , to manufacture
distortion and generate excuses for their genocide of the armenian people. in
the face of refutation ad nauseam , the turkish historical society and cronies
shamelessly continue to deny that any such genocide occurred. this policy
merely demonstrates that in the modern era , genocide is an effective state
policy when it remains un redressed and un punished. a crime unpunished is a
crime encouraged. adolf hitler took this cue less than 25 years after the
successful genocide of the armenians.

...

armenians demand justice ermeniler adalet istiyor


david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org armenia has not learned a lesson in
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the
p.o. box 382761 punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president turgut ozal
to which i say
hear , hear. motion seconded.

hovig



hovig heghinian
university of illinois at urbana champaign
department of computer science

from bds@uts.ipp garching.mpg.de (bruce d. scott)
subject re news briefs from kh 1026
organization rechenzentrum der max planck gesellschaft in garching
lines 21
distribution world
nntp posting host uts.ipp garching.mpg.de

mack posted

i know nothing about statistics , but what significance does the
relatively small population growth rate have where the sampling period
is so small (at the end of 1371) \?

this is not small. a 2.7 per cent annual population growth rate implies
a doubling in 69 2.7 approx 25 years. can you imagine that \? most people
seem not able to , and that is why so many deny that this problem exists ,
for me most especially in the industrialised countries (low growth rates ,
but large environmental impact). iran 's high growth rate threatens things
like accelerated desertification due to intensive agriculture , deforestation ,
and water table drop. similar to what is going on in california (this year 's
rain wo n't save you in stanford ! ). this is probably more to blame than
the current government 's incompetence for dropping living standards
in iran.

gruss ,
dr bruce scott the deadliest bullshit is
max planck institut fuer plasmaphysik odorless and transparent
bds at spl6n1.aug.ipp garching.mpg.de w gibson

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re israeli terrorism
article i.d. das.1993apr26.184547.20058
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 65

in article 2bdad779.24910@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article amoss.93apr25163327@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il amoss@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il (amos shapira) writes
cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

eh \? \? \? \? could you please give me details about an event where a neutral
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli soldier \?

actually , i'm still trying to understand the self justifying rationale
behind the recent murder of ian feinberg ( \? ) in gaza.

hate to be simple minded about this tim , but i think its
really very simple. he was a dirty jew. and the only good jew , in
some peoples mind , is a dead jew. thats what 40 years of propaganda
that fails to discriminate between jew and zionist will do. thats
what 20 years of statements like the ones i 've appended will do to
someones mind. they make people sick. they drag down political
discourse to the point where killing your opponent is an honorable way
to resolve a dispute.

what else can come of such demagogery \? peace \?

adam


arafat on political pluralism

``any palestinian leader who suggests ending the intifada
exposes himself to the bullets of his own people and
endangers his life. the plo will know how to deal with
him.''
arafat , kuwaiti news agency , 1 2 89

arafat on the massacre at tienamin square

``... on behalf of the arab palestinian people , their
leadership , and myself... i take this opportunity to express
extreme gratification that you were able to restore normal order
after the recent incidents in people 's china.''
arafat in telegram sent to the head of the chinese communist party

yassir arafat , humanitarian

``open fire on the new jewish immigrants ... be they from the
soviet union , ethiopia , or anywhere else. it would be a disgrace if
we did not lift a finger while herds of immigrants settle our
territory. i want you to shoot... it makes no difference if they
live in jaffa or jericho. i give you explicit orders to open fire.
do everything to stop the flow of immigration.''
yassir arafat , al muharar (lebanese weekly) , april 10 , 1990

yassir arafat on genocide

``when the arabs set off their volcano , there will only be arabs in
this part of the world. our people will continue to fuel the torch
of the revolution with rivers of blood until the whole of the
occupied homeland is liberated...''
yasser arafat , ap , 3 12 79




adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca
subject re bb confessions.
lines 46
nntp posting host vm1.mcgill.ca
organization mcgill university

in article 1993apr18.022218.17318@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed) writes

in article c5hu6q.cg3@news.cso.uiuc.edu , eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes
cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah) writes


in a previous article , friedenb@sapphire.egr.msu.edu (gedaliah friedenberg) says


for all those interested , i would like to inform all that binyamin netanyahu
(leader of the israeli likud party) will be interviewed on cnn tonight on
larry king live.


did n't this guy go crying on the zionist tv confessing
that he committed adultary , and was cheating on his wife..

a typical jew leader , huh \?

yes. he is. actually , the typical muslim arab leader hides the fact that he
commited adultery by choosing a camel over his husband (or a small male child ,
whichever is more readily availible).


cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu
(
h a m z a )

ed.


but the irony is that the jewish population has no problem in electing
a leader who has confessed to having an extra marrital affair.

this is a first.

aa.
.
.
what else do you expect \? israel is trying to portray itself
as the great democracy. one requirement is to have a leader
who previously had an extra marital affair (e.g. bill clinton)
it helps if your wife says it 's ok.

steve


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject an iranian azeri who would drop an atomic bomb on armenia
summary fool
article i.d. urartu.1993apr15.231047.13120
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 70

in article 93104.101314fhm100f@oduvm.bitnet farid fhm100f@oduvm.bitnet
writes

farid in support of the preservation of the territorial integrity of
farid azerbaijan and its independence from russian rule , the iranians which
farid includes millions of azerbaijanis will have armenia retreat from the
farid territory of azerbaijan.

oh , they will \? this should prove quite interesting !

farid to count on iranian help to supposedly counter turkish influence will
farid be a fatal error on the part of armenia as long as armenia in
farid violation of international law has azerbaijani lands in occupation.

armenia is not counting on iranian help. as far as violations of international
laws , which international law gives azerbaijan the right to attack and
depopulate the armenians in karabakh \?

farid if armenian aggression continues in the territory of azerbaijan , not
farid only there wo n't be any aid from iran to armenia but also steps will
farid be taken to have armenian army back in armenia.

and who do you speak for \? rafsanjani \?

farid the azerbaijanis of iran will be the guarantors of this policy. as for
farid scaring iranians or turks from the russian power , experts on present
farid and future military potentials of these people would not put much
farid stock on the russain power as the sole power in the region for long ! ! !

well , farid , your supposed experts are not expert ! the russians have had
non stop influence in the caucasus since the treaty of turkmanchay in 1828.
hmm... that makes it 1993 1828 165 years !

oh , i see the azeris from iran are going to force out the armenians from
karabakh ! that will be a real good trick !

farid iran is not alian to developing the capability to produce the a bomb
farid and a reliable delivery system (refer to recent news releases
farid regarding the potential of iran).

so the azeris from iran are going to force the armenians from karabakh by
forcing the iranian government to drop an atomic bomb on these armenians.

farid the moral of the story is that , you do n't go invading your neighbor 's
farid home (azerbaijan) and flash russia 's guns when questioned about it.

oh , but it 's just fine if you drop an atomic bomb on your neighbor ! you are
a damn fool , farid !

farid (marshal shapashnikov may have to eat his words regarding turkey in a
farid few short years ! ).

so you are going to drop an atomic bomb on russia as well.

farid peaceful resolution of the armenian azerbaijani conflict is the only
farid way to go. armenia may soon find the fruits of aggression very bitter
farid indeed.

and the armenians will take your peaceful dropping of an atomic bomb as
an example of iranian azeri benevolence ! you sir are a poor example of an
iranian azeri !

ha ! and to think i had a nice two day stay in tabriz back in 1978 !



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject serdar
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

what are you stupid \?

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject about this 'center for policy research'...
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 20
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


i have read numerous posts over a period of several months , by
this anti israel fanatic , hiding in the shadow of the respectable
sounding name of the 'center for policy research.' obviously , it
is no research center of any kind , unless 'researching' published
documents to find material to use against israel makes it so.

labeling a propaganda mill a research center is not surprising
in itself. that is simply part of the propaganda process. i was
curious if anyone knew who this anti israel fanatic hiding behind
his phoney 'research center' name is. is he an arab \? is he some
typical anti semite hiding behind a veneer of 'anti zionism \? ' is
he some jew who perhaps lived in israel and just could n't make it
there , and is now taking his failure out on israel \?

let 's shed some light on this clown once and for all. it will
help put his nonsense in the proper perspective. and the readers
of this group who are more interested in fact than in anti israel
hyperbola can ignore this junk.


from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 13

in article 2bdc2931.17498@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

certainly , the israeli had a legitimate worry behind the action they took ,
but is n't that action a little draconian \?

what alternative would you suggest be taken to safeguard the
lives of israeli citizens \?

adam
adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re unconventional peace proposal
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 41
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org , center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject unconventional peace proposal


a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson

this could be accomplished by other criteria. one must remember
that children often bring stress into households. as an alternative ,
one could consider financial incentives for every sexual act performed
by two partners of different ethnic backgrounds. the plan could
be entitled peace income sexual security , or piss for short.

every time an israeli gets screwed
by a palestinian or visa versa , they would be eligible for income.
in keeping with the spirit of the times , condoms would be a tax deductible
expense. this policy does not discriminate on a gender basis nor
would it apply to domestic animals of either nationality.

joint palestinan israeli teams would be obligated to ensure that all
acts were voluntary and promptly rewarded. the teams of palestinian israel
morals patrols , or pimps , would receive a percentage of the financial
income in order to encourage their participation and add to their
incentive in locating suitable candidates.

i would be thankful for critical comments to the above proposal as
well for any dissemination of this proposal for meaningful


should n't that be insemination \?

elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik , iceland


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

organization the american university university computing center
from finaid5@auvm.american.edu
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu
lines 129

message id 1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu mr.napoleon responds


to mr. napoleon


well , panos , mr. tamamidis \? , the way you put it it is only the turks
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
believe for somebody trying to be objective.
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides.
what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway \?
do you think it was your right to be there \?

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor
until 1923 someone had to protect them. if not us who \? \?


is that so \? or you were taking advantage of weakness of ottoman
empire to grab some land. as soon as you got green lights from
allied forces , you occupied izmir and other cities in western
turkey. you killed and raped millions people without any reason.
of course , you paid the price. mustafa kemal ataturk made
you swim in aegean sea but not far enough. your aggressions thru
turkey at anytime in the past did not get you any reward and shall
not get you anywhere.


i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

compromise on what , the invasion of cyprus , the involment of turkey in
greek politics , the refusal of turkey to accept 12 miles of territorial
waters as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of
konstantinople , the ownership of the islands in the greek lake , sorry , aegean.


what compromise are you talking about on cyprus. that is not greece
business to join the island to greece. that is up to people in the island
to live or not to live together. they made their decision and they are
living separetely now.there is a peace there. greeks ca n't slaughter
turks anymore because turkish peacemaking force is there.
your dream will never come true. 12 mile territorialwater ! ! ! !
are you joking or dreaming \? we can declare our 12 miles territorial
water which can come close to athens. how would you like it \?
if you have any guts why do n't you shoot at some turkish ships
in your dream 12 mile territorial waters \?
we do not have any city called konstantinople. we have a city
called istanbul ! ! ! ! all the greeks in istanbul are being
treated just any other turks. there is no difference among people
in turkey. you look at your own backyard first before talking
about human rights in turkey. what are the rights of turks in greece \?
nothing. they do not even have basic human rights like right to
have property , fredom of religion , fredom of press , fredom of
vote elect their community leaders. government of greece publicly
encourages people to destroy and burn schools , religious places ,
houses , and farms belong to turkish minority. then , greek government
forces these minorities to go to turkey without anything with them.
you will dream to see aegean sea as greek lake but it will never
happen. think about the war between turkey and greece in 1915.
the river called sakarya flood 21 days filled with blood in 1915.


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are educated
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person
because i am from turkey. politics is not my business , and it is
not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals
why the hatred \?

any person who supports the policies of the turkish goverment
directly or indirecly is a bad person.
it is not your nationality that makes you bad , it is your support
of the actions of your goverment that make you bad .
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish goverment and
as a such you must pay the price.


you mean that any person who supports the actions and policies of the
government of greece is a good person. that is your greek idea to
say turks are bad people. we know who we are and proud to be turks
anywhere in the world. that is not greeks business to tell us what
kind of people we are. you are not at position to judge people because
you are not civilized enough to give equal rights to your own minorities.
millions of minorities are being treated as third class citizen ,
their rights are taken away from them , and they have no voices under
the government of greece. they are almost being treated as slaves
even though we are getting into 21th century. therefore , do not make me
laught at you.


so that makes me think that there is some kind of
brainwashing going on in greece. after all why would an educated person
treat every person from a nation the same way \? can you tell me about your
history books and things you learn about greek turkish
encounters during your schooling.
take it easy !

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks.just
as greeks , arats , slavs , kurds and all other people who had
the luck to be under turkish occupation.
they will talk to you about murders , rapes , distruction.
you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about
them from people who experienced first hand turkish friendliness.

the government of greece is actively supporting terrorism against
turkey.armenian and kurdish terrorists have headquarters in athens.
they are being trained in special camps in greece. they are taught how to
kill innocent women and children.this not a claim , this is a fact known
by whole world. in conlusion , you are in action to murder , rape ,
destroy the innocent people. i do not take you seriously because you
are not at any positions to talk about human rights and dignity.
your own government , the government of greece actively supports
atrocities in bosnia. serbs 's barbarism pleases your government.
please napoleon think twice before you write anything about turks and
turkey. you are the worst in human right conditions and treatment of
the minorities. who wants to be a fried with someone whose government
does not respect the human rights , supports terrorism in turkey , barbaric
actions in bosnia , treats turkish minorities as third class citizen and
take away all of their rights , treating them as slaves at the beginning
of 21th century \? \? \? \? \? \? \?

aykut atalay atakan

napoleon

from aaldoubo@copper.denver.colorado.edu (shaqeeqa)
subject re binyamin netanyahu on cnn tonight.
organization university of colorado at denver
lines 24

in article 1993apr15.152424.5899@ncrcae.columbiasc.ncr.com nabil@ncrcol.columbiasc.ncr.com (nabil.idriss ) writes

arab leaders do n't have to cheat , they are actually allowed to have four wives.
are you implying above that arab leaders are gays \? are n't there jewish gays too \?

arab leaders are now following by islamic rules \? (or is it only applicable
in cases like this \? )

i remember an article of about a year ago which stated that besides his wife ,
saddam also has a mistress. assad 's brother has a wife and several
mistresses , and those 'emirs' in the gulf have , within their lifetimes ,
wives in the double digitas (only they manage to keep four at a time).

this is all irrelevant. it takes a lot more than infidelity to make these
leaders ruthless and corrupt. maybe netanyahu thought he could 'cleanse'
himself by making such a public confession. does the average secular israeli
care , though \? the mossad probably applauded him. )


.. .. .. .
. . .
( ( ( ( )
..


from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject re reasons was re was go hezbollah !
organization unocal corporation
lines 32


hossien amehdi writes


in article 1993apr15.160224.15940@unocal.com stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes
now , about tough talk and arrogance , we are adults , are n't we \? do you listen
to tough talk of american politicians \? or switch the channel \?


i guess , i did n't make my point clear. in the case of israel government , it
is not only tough talk for its intimidation policy. after all , not many
people are intimidated just by talking. here how it goes tough talks ,
followed by aggressive actions followed by taking pride of those actions and
bragging about them.

agressive actions are taken by both sides. tough talk is done by both sides.
when an arab leader is menacing to throw all jews in the water is also tough talk ,
i think. and killing people is mildly agressive (justified , in your opinion
if they are israeli soldiers , justified , in others' opinion if they are jews , not
justified at all in others opinion).

when brad wrote the article about 3 israelis killed , ther was a lot of pride
and satisfaction in his lines. that 's what i feel disgusting. we may agree
or not when a killing is 'technically' murder , but being enthousiastic about it \?


and again , i may appreciate some of your points , but you are not objective. that
is not a blame , just a remark.


dorin


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re investment in yehuda and shomron
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 12

in article 1993apr18.183148.4802@das.harvard.edu adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes

i think house jews , a reference to a person of jewish
ancestry who issues statements for a company or organization that
condemn judaism is perfectly sufficeint.

i believe that cpr is himself such a house jew .


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman)
subject re final solution in palestine \?
nntp posting host qso.colorado.edu
organization university of colorado , boulder
lines 50

in article 1993apr25.171003.10694@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed) writes

in article hm.93apr24133027@angell.cs.brown.edu , hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes
in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

...

the jews in the warsaw ghetto were fighting to keep themselves and
their families from being sent to nazi gas chambers. groups like hamas
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help

these wnderful freedom fighters attain this ultimate goal.

maybe the freedom fighters will choose to spare the co operative jews.
is that what you are counting on , elias the pity of murderers.

you say your mother was jewish. how ashamed she must be of her son. i
am sorry , mrs. davidsson.

harry.

o.k. , its my turn

driving the jews into the sea \? !

i am sick and tired of this 'driving the jews into the sea' sentance attributed
to islamic movements and the plo it simply ca n't be proven as part of their
plan !

this has been discussed before , by several people , on this net. the
statement is attributable either to hajj amin al husseini , former grand
mufti of jerusalem and the leader of the palestinian death squads
during the 1948 war , or to one of his chief henchmen.

it was not coined by b'nai b'rith or , for that matter , any jewish
organization.


how sad to see a model of decorum and tranquillity become like any other sport
a battleground for rival ideologies to slug it out with glee. tim rice , chess
eric s. perlman perlman@qso.colorado.edu
center for astrophysics and space astronomy , university of colorado , boulder

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 17

in article 1rambk cee@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah) writes

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

andi 's posting deleted...

hamaza 's only comment is

well said mr. beyer )

andi , when you get the full fledged support of hamaza salah , you know
you 're on the wrong track.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 25

in article 22apr93.23368145.0079@vm1.mcgill.ca b8ha b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
in article 1993apr22.093527.15720@donau.et.tudelft.nl avi@duteinh.et.tudelft.nl (avi cohen stuart) writes
from article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu , by paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu

there is one big difference between israel and the arabs , christians in this
respect.

israel allows freedom of religion.

avi ,
for your information , islam permits freedom of religion there is
no compulsion in religion. does judaism permit freedom of religion
(i.e. are non jews recognized in judaism). just wondering.

in islam , there is no compulsion , just a tax on dhimini. in
judaism , non jews are allowed to do as they wish , and there is no
effort made to convert them.




adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenians exterminated 2.5 million muslim people. denying the obvious \?
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 109

in article 1993apr23.122146.23931@oucsace.cs.ohiou.edu gassan@ouvaxa.cats.ohiou.edu writes

after having read this group for some time , i am appalled at its lack of
scholarship , its fuzzy thinking , reliance on obsessed and obnoxious posters

well , these are armenian and jewish scholars , not me. denying the obvious \?


source hovannisian , richard g. armenia on the road to independence , 1918.
university of california press (berkeley and los angeles) , 1967 , p. 13.

the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the
area of transcaucasia to over 130 , 000 square miles. the estimated population
of the entire region in 1886 was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom 940 , 000 (20 percent) were
armenian , 1 , 200 , 000 (25 percent) georgian , and 2 , 220 , 000 (45 percent) moslem.
of the latter group , 1 , 140 , 000 were tatars. paradoxically , barely one third
of transcaucasia 's armenians lived in the erevan guberniia , where the
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds. erevan
uezd , the administrative center of the province , had only 44 , 000 armenians
as compared to 68 , 000 moslems. by the time of the russian census of 1897 ,
however , the armenians had established a scant majority , 53 percent , in the
guberniia it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent , or 670 , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000
inhabitants. this impressive change in the province 's ethnic character
notwithstanding , there was , on the eve of the creation of the armenian
republic , a solid block of 370 , 000 tartars who continued to dominate the
southern districts , from the outskirts of ereven to the border of persia.
(see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of
transcaucasia).

in 1920 , '0' percent turk.

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work
of extermination. our troops surrounded village after village.
little resistance was offered. our artillery knocked the huts
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border
into turkey. the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole
length of the borderland of russian armenia from nakhitchevan to
akhalkalaki from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of
tartar villages. they are quiet now , those villages , except for
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the
scattered bones of the dead.

ohanus appressian
men are like that
p. 202.


in soviet armenia today there no longer exists a single turkish soul.
it is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial
life support system of an imagined 'ethnic purity' that some of us
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats
in this alien land.
(sahak melkonian 1920 preserving the armenian purity )


1993apr24.042427.29323@walter.bellcore.com
ddc@nyquist.bellcore.com (daniel dusan chukurov 21324)

the world 's inaction when the conflict began over the mostly
christian armenian enclave inside muslim azerbaijan might have
encouraged the conflict in bosnia herzegovina , said the
moscow based activist , who 's part armenian.

no kidding. the armenians tore apart the ottoman empire 's eastern provinces ,
massacred 2.5 million defenseless turkish women , children and elderly
people , burned thousands of turkish and kurdish villages and exterminated
the entire turkish population of the armenian dictatorship between
1914 1920. such outrageous sleight of hand that is still employed today
in armenia brings a depth and verification to the turkish genocide
that is hard to match. a hundred years ago armenians again thought
they could get whatever they wanted through sheer terror like the
russian anarchists that they accepted as role models. several armenian
terror groups like asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle
resorted to the same tactics in the 1980s , butchering scores of innocent
turks and their families in the united states and europe. it seems that
they are doing it again , at a different scale , in fascist x soviet armenia
today.

a merciless massacre of the civilian population of the small azeri
town of khojali (pop. 6000) in karabagh , azerbaijan , is reported to
have taken place on the night of feb. 28 under a coordinated military
operation of the 366th mechanized division of the cis army and the
armenian insurgents. close to 1000 people are reported to have been
massacred. elderly and children were not spared. many were badly beaten
and shot at close range. a sense of rage and helplessness has overwhelmed
the azeri population in face of the well armed and equipped armenian
insurgency. the neighboring azeri city of aghdam outside of the
karabagh region has come under heavy armenian artillery shelling. city
hospital was hit and two pregnant women as well as a new born infant
were killed. azerbaijan is appealing to the international community to
condemn such barbaric and ruthless attacks on its population and its
sovereignty.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the 'justice' for the victims of the armenian barbarism and fascism.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 102

in article 66118@licre.ludwig.edu.au theo@licre.ludwig.edu.au writes

first of all it is called istanbul.
let me even spell it for you i s t a n b u l


secondly the turks are also asking for their money , for
their destroyed and confiscated properties in greece , and
former yugoslavia (bosnia and serbia).

classic ! !

it is called 'the justice'. we also demand that the x soviet armenian
government admit its responsibility for the turkish and kurdish
genocide , render reparations to the muslim people , and return the
land to its rightful owners. the recognition of the genocide has
become an issue which cannot be delayed further , and it is imperative
that artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed.

now if we 're talking about rent and vandalism , let 's make it fair then
greece pays back it 's dues and turkey pays for 400 years rent and
destruction of classical architecture. deal \? democracy in action.

are you the 'truelove' or 'falselove' of 'arromdian' of the asala sdpa arf
terrorism and revisionism triangle \?

if turks had behaved like christians to use force to convert to islam the
nations which they brought under their power , to which no one could have
opposed , today there would be no eastern problem. but turks did not do so.
they obeyed the word of the koran to permit everybody to worship in their own
way centuries before frederick the great pronounced his famous dictum. thus ,
in an age when the christian europe itself shed christian blood and when
people in europe enjoyed inflicting inhuman tortures upon those whose beliefs
differed from theirs , the ottoman empire became the sole country where the
inquisition did not exist , where deaths at the stake were unheard of and
where accusations of witchcraft were not made. and the barbarian ( ! ) turkey
was the only country where the jews persecuted and chased away everywhere
by the christians , could find asylum. these facts demonstrate that muslim
countries provided spiritually far better living conditions than christian
countries. 1

the turks , who are a conquering nation , did not turkify the nations that came
under their rule instead , they respected their religions and traditions. it
was a stroke of luck for romania to live under turkish rule instead of
russian or austrian rule. because otherwise there would not have been a
romanian nation today (popescu ciocanel).

turks rule over people under their administration only externally , without
interfering with their internal structures. on account of this , the autonomy
of minorities in turkey is better and more complete than any in the most
advanced european countries. 2

...human beings hate each other on account of religious differences. this flaw
is older than islam and christianity. but there has never been any examples
of this adjuration in turkey because turks never oppress anybody on account
of his religion. if enmity on the basis of religion had been such a case of
simple contempt among us too , or if it did not keep translating itself into
action , many nations in our europe would probably have considered themselves
happy ! (a. de mortraye). 3

turkey never became a scene for religious terror or for the cruelty of the
inquisition. on the contrary , it served as an asylum for the unfortunate
victims of christian fanaticism. if you look into history , you will see that
in the fifteenth century thousands of jews who were expelled from spain and
portugal found such a good asylum in turkey that their descendants have been
living there very calmly all through these approximately three hundred years ,
and are only forced to defend themselves in some countries against the
cruelty of christians , especially that of the orthodoxes. no jew is able to
appear in public during easter celebrations in athens , even today. in turkey ,
however , if the israelites are insulted by the greek and armenian communities ,
local courts immediately take them under their protection.

in that vast and calm country of the sultan , all religions and nations are
living together peacefully. although the mosque is superior to the church and
the synagogue , it does not replace them. because of this , the catholic sect is
more free in istanbul and smyrna compared with paris and lyon. in addition
to the fact that no law in turkey prohibits the open air ceremonies of this
sect , neither does any law imprison its cross in the church. while the
dead are being taken to the graves , a long line of priests bear processional
candles and chant catholic hymns. when all the priests in all the churches in
the galata and beyoglu districts go into the streets and form clerical
processions during the eucharist celebrations , chanting hymns and bearing
their crosses and religious banners , a detachment of soldiers escorts them
which forces even the turks to stand in respect around the group of
priests. (a. ubicini). 4

1 ah. djevat , yabancilara gore eski turkler , 3rd ed. (istanbul , 1978) ,
pp. 70 71.
2 ibid. , p.91.
3 ibid. , pp. 214 215.
4 ibid. , pp. 215 216.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re the systematic genocide of the muslim population by the armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 226

in article 1993apr5.091410.4108@massey.ac.nz cblack@massey.ac.nz (c.k. black) writes

mr. furr does it again ,

very sensible.

he says

how many mutlus can dance on the head of a pin \?

and lo and behold , he invokes the mr.666 of the net himself , our beloved
serdar , a program designed to seek out the words terrx and ghex in the
same sentence and gets the automated reply....

must you rave so \? fascist x soviet armenian government engaged in
disgusting cowardly massacres of azeri women and children. i am
really sorry if that fact bothers you.

our mutlu \? oboy , this is exciting. first you discuss your literature
tastes , then your fantasies , and now your choices of entertainment. have
you considered just turning on the tv and leaving those of us who are n't
brain dead to continue to discuss the genocide of 2.5 million muslim
people by the x soviet armenian government \?

etc. etc. etc........

more ridicule , i take it \? still not addressing the original points made.

joel , do n't do this to me mate ! i'm only a poor plant scientist , i do n't
know how to make 'kill' files. my 'k' key works overtime as it is just to

then what seems to be the problem \? did you ever read newspaper at all \?


painful search ..

the gruesome extent of february 's killings of azeris by armenians
in the town of hojali is at last emerging in azerbaijan about
600 men , women and children dead in the worst outrage of the
four year war over nagorny karabakh.

the figure is drawn from azeri investigators , hojali officials
and casualty lists published in the baku press. diplomats and aid
workers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates.

the 25 february attack on hojali by armenian forces was one of
the last moves in their four year campaign to take full control
of nagorny karabakh , the subject of a new round of negotiations
in rome on monday. the bloodshed was something between a fighting
retreat and a massacre , but investigators say that most of the
dead were civilians. the awful number of people killed was first
suppressed by the fearful former communist government in baku.
later it was blurred by armenian denials and grief stricken
azerbaijan 's wild and contradictory allegations of up to 2 , 000
dead.

the state prosecuter , aydin rasulov , the cheif investigator of a
15 man team looking into what azerbaijan calls the hojali
disaster , said his figure of 600 people dead was a minimum on
preliminary findings. a similar estimate was given by elman
memmedov , the mayor of hojali. an even higher one was printed in
the baku newspaper ordu in may 479 dead people named and more
than 200 bodies reported unidentified. this figure of nearly 700
dead is quoted as official by leila yunusova , the new spokeswoman
of the azeri ministry of defence.

francois zen ruffinen , head of delegation of the international
red cross in baku , said the muslim imam of the nearby city of
agdam had reported a figure of 580 bodies received at his mosque
from hojali , most of them civilians. we did not count the
bodies. but the figure seems reasonable. it is no fantasy , mr
zen ruffinen said. we have some idea since we gave the body bags
and products to wash the dead.

mr rasulov endeavours to give an unemotional estimate of the
number of dead in the massacre. do n't get worked up. it will
take several months to get a final figure , the 43 year old
lawyer said at his small office.

mr rasulov knows about these things. it took him two years to
reach a firm conclusion that 131 people were killed and 714
wounded when soviet troops and tanks crushed a nationalist
uprising in baku in january 1990.

those nationalists , the popular front , finally came to power
three weeks ago and are applying pressure to find out exactly
what happened when hojali , an azeri town which lies about 70
miles from the border with armenia , fell to the armenians.

officially , 184 people have so far been certified as dead , being
the number of people that could be medically examined by the
republic 's forensic department. this is just a small percentage
of the dead , said rafiq youssifov , the republic 's chief forensic
scientist. they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the
chaos and the fact that we are muslims and have to wash and bury
our dead within 24 hours.

of these 184 people , 51 were women , and 13 were children under 14
years old. gunshots killed 151 people , shrapnel killed 20 and
axes or blunt instruments killed 10. exposure in the highland
snows killed the last three. thirty three people showed signs of
deliberate mutilation , including ears , noses , breasts or penises
cut off and eyes gouged out , according to professor youssifov 's
report. those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of those
believed to have been killed , mr rasulov said.

files from mr rasulov 's investigative commission are still
disorganised lists of 44 azeri militiamen are dead here , six
policemen there , and in handwriting of a mosque attendant , the
names of 111 corpses brought to be washed in just one day. the
most heartbreaking account from 850 witnesses interviewed so far
comes from towfiq manafov , an azeri investigator who took a
helicopter flight over the escape route from hojali on 27
february.

there were too many bodies of dead and wounded on the ground to
count properly 470 500 in hojali , 650 700 people by the stream
and the road and 85 100 visible around nakhchivanik village , mr
manafov wrote in a statement countersigned by the helicopter
pilot.

people waved up to us for help. we saw three dead children and
one two year old alive by one dead woman. the live one was
pulling at her arm for the mother to get up. we tried to land but
armenians started a barrage against our helicopter and we had to
return.

there has been no consolidation of the lists and figures in
circulation because of the political upheavals of the last few
months and the fact that nobody knows exactly who was in hojali
at the time many inhabitants were displaced from other villages
taken over by armenian forces.

the independent , london , 12 6 '92


heroes who fought on amid the bodies

aref sadikov sat quietly in the shade of a cafe bar on the
caspian sea esplanade of baku and showed a line of stitches in
his trousers , torn by an armenian bullet as he fled the town of
hojali just over three months ago , writes hugh pope.

i'm still wearing the same clothes , i do n't have any others ,
the 51 year old carpenter said , beginning his account of the
hojali disaster. i was wounded in five places , but i am lucky to
be alive.

mr sadikov and his wife were short of food , without electricity
for more than a month , and cut off from helicopter flights for 12
days. they sensed the armenian noose was tightening around the
2 , 000 to 3 , 000 people left in the straggling azeri town on the
edge of karabakh.

at about 11pm a bombardment started such as we had never heard
before , eight or nine kinds of weapons , artillery , heavy
machine guns , the lot , mr sadikov said.

soon neighbours were pouring down the street from the direction
of the attack. some huddled in shelters but others started
fleeing the town , down a hill , through a stream and through the
snow into a forest on the other side.

to escape , the townspeople had to reach the azeri town of agdam
about 15 miles away. they thought they were going to make it ,
until at about dawn they reached a bottleneck between the two
armenian villages of nakhchivanik and saderak.

none of my group was hurt up to then ... then we were spotted by
a car on the road , and the armenian outposts started opening
fire , mr sadikov said.

azeri militiamen fighting their way out of hojali rushed forward
to force open a corridor for the civilians , but their efforts
were mostly in vain. mr sadikov said only 10 people from his
group of 80 made it through , including his wife and militiaman
son. seven of his immediate relations died , including his
67 year old elder brother.

i only had time to reach down and cover his face with his hat ,
he said , pulling his own big flat turkish cap over his eyes. we
have never got any of the bodies back.

the first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire.
one hero of the evacuation , alif hajief , was shot dead as he
struggled to change a magazine while covering the third group 's
crossing , mr sadikov said.

another hero , elman memmedov , the mayor of hojali , said he and
several others spent the whole day of 26 february in the bushy
hillside , surrounded by dead bodies as they tried to keep three
armenian armoured personnel carriers at bay.

as the survivors staggered the last mile into agdam , there was
little comfort in a town from which most of the population was
soon to flee.

the night after we reached the town there was a big armenian
rocket attack. some people just kept going , mr sadikov said. i
had to get to the hospital for treatment. i was in a bad way.
they even found a bullet in my sock.

victims of war an azeri woman mourns her son , killed in the
hojali massacre in february (left). nurses struggle in primitive
conditions (centre) to save a wounded man in a makeshift
operating theatre set up in a train carriage. grief stricken
relatives in the town of agdam (right) weep over the coffin of
another of the massacre victims. calculating the final death toll
has been complicated because muslims bury their dead within 24
hours.

photographs liu heung ap
frederique lengaigne reuter

the independent , london , 12 6 '92

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject re desertification of the negev
nf id r cdp 1483500361 cdp 1483500365 000 272
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 26 17 41 00 1993
lines 10


danhy ,

as you think bedouin will be surprised by the posted article , i
would be happy to have some feedback from bedouin readers , if you
will. i cannot judge the accuracy of the article , but assumes that
it is no fabrication. any critical review would be helpful.

elias


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re basil , opinions \? (re water on the brain)
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 15

in article 1qmr5qinn5af@early bird.think.com shaig@think.com (shai guday) writes

the litani river flows in a west southwestern direction and indeed does
not run through the buffer zone. the hasbani does flow into the jordan
but contrary to what our imaginative poster might write , there has been
no increase in the inflow from this river that is not proportional to
climatic changes in rainfall.

what did you have to go and bring that up for \? now they 're going to
say that israel is stealing the rain , too....


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from howard frederick hfrederick@igc.apc.org
subject re turkish government agents on usenet
nf id r 1993apr15.204512.11971@urartu.sd 1238805668 cdp 1483500341 000 1042
nf from cdp.uucp ! hfrederick apr 16 14 31 00 1993
lines 20


i do n't know anything about this particular case , but other
governments have been known to follow events on the usenet. for
example after tienanmien square in beijing the chinese government
began monitoring cyberspace. as the former director of peacenet ,
i am aware of many incidents of local , state , national and
international authorities monitoring usenet and other conferences
such as those on the institute for global communications. but
what 's the big deal \? you should n't advocate illegal acts in this
medium in any case. if you are concerned about being monitored ,
you should use encyrption software (available in igc 's micro
conference). i know for a fact that human rights activists in the
balkan mideast area use encryption software to send out their
reports to international organizations. such message can be
decoded however by large computers consuming much cpu time , which
probably the turkish government does n't have access to.

howard frederick , university of california , irvine department of
politics and society


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject it was an 'encore' performance staged by the armenians during wwi.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 47

in 1941 , while the jews were being assembled for their doom in the nazi
concentration camps , the nazi armenians in germany formed the first
armenian battalion to fight alongside the nazis. in 1943 , this battalion
had grown into eight battalions of 20 , 000 strong under the command of dro
(the butcher) who is the architect of the cold blooded genocide of 2.5
million turks and kurds between 1914 1920. an armenian national council
was formed by the notorious dashnak party leaders in berlin , which was
recognized by the nazis. encouraged by this , the armenians summarily
formed a provisional government that endorsed and espoused fully the
principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the members of the
aryan super race and full participants to hitler 's policy of extermination
of the jews.

this armenian nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an encore
performance staged by the armenians during wwi , when they back stabbed and
exterminated 2.5 million turks by colluding with the invading russian army.


source adventures in the near east , 1918 1922 by a. rawlinson ,
jonathan cape , 30 bedford square , london , 1934 (first published 1923)
(287 pages).
(memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)

p. 184 (second paragraph)

i had received further very definite information of horrors that
had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain , and as
i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their
treatment of my own detached parties , i had wired to tiflis from
zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the armenians should not
be left in independent command of the moslem population , as , their
troops being without discipline and not under effective control ,
atrocities were constantly being committed , for which we should
with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject in nazi germany , armenians were considered to be an aryan race and...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 41

in article 2bac23ff.25215@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

there was no such letter in the chronicle on that date , or at any other time.

is this a figment of your imagination \? here is another one


source mitteilungsblatt , berlin , december 1939 , nr. 2 and 5 6

yet another historical fact a fact that for years has been deliberately
forgotten , concealed , and wiped from memory the fact of armenian nazi
collaboration.

a magazine called mitteilungsblatt der deutsch armenischen gesselschaft
is the clearest and most definite proof of this collaboration. the
magazine was first published in berlin in 1938 during nazi rule of germany
and continued publication until the end of 1944. even the name of the
magazine , which implies a declaration of armenian nazi cooperation ,
is attention getting.

this magazine , every issue of which proves the collaboration , is historically
important as documentary evidence. it is a heap of writing that should be
an admonition to world opinion and to all mankind.

in nazi germany , armenians were considered to be an aryan race and certain
political , economic , and social rights were thus granted to them. they
occupied positions in public service and were partners in nazi practices.
the whole world of course knows what awaited those who were not considered
aryan and what befell them.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject re news you may have missed , apr 20
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 65
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

in article 1993apr19.165514.17138@porthos.cc.bellcore.com bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin) writes
in article 1qu7op 456@genesis.mcs.com , arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

news you may have missed , apr 19 , 1993

not because you were too busy but because
israelists in the us media spiked it.

................


those intrepid israeli soldiers


israeli soldiers have sexually taunted arab women in the occupied gaza strip
during the three week long closure that has sealed palestinians off from the
jewish state , palestinian sources said on sunday.

the incidents occurred in the town of khan younis and involved soldiers of
the golani brigade who have been at the centre of house to house raids for
palestinian activists during the closure , which was imposed on the strip and
occupied west bank.
if you are as revolted at this as i am , drop israel 's best friend email and
let him know what you think.


75300.3115@compuserve.com (via compuserve)
clintonpz@aol.com (via america online)
clinton hq@campaign92.org (via mci mail)


tell 'em arf sent ya.

..................................

if you are tired of learning about american foreign policy from what is
effectively , israeli controlled media , i highly recommend checking out the
washington report. a free sample copy is available by calling the american
education trust at
(800) 368 5788

tell 'em arf sent you.

js




i took your advice and ordered a copy of the washinton report. i
heartily recommend it to all pro israel types for the following
reasons

1. it is an excellent absorber of excrement. i use it to line
the bottom of my parakeet 's cage. a negative side effect is
that my bird now has a somewhat warped view of the mideast.

2. it makes a great april fool 's joke , i.e. , give it to someone
who knows nothing about the middle east and then say april
fools .


clearly , if a chutzpa reacts this way , it must be worth reading by
more objective types. you are so wrapped up in your hate that you
ca n't even take the time to edit out my long posting. thanks for
the extra milege by reposting it.

organization the american university university computing center
from paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu
subject re israel 's expansion ii
1993apr20.013037.20907@news.columbia.edu
lines 5

what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of the muslim a
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what yitza
k shamir did forty or fifty years ago which is terrorize westerners much in the
way abdul nidal does today. seems isrealis are nowhere above arabs , so theref
ore they have a right to jerusaleum as much as isreal does.

from bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay)
subject re unconventional peace proposal
nntp posting host virginia
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny
lines 42

in article c5un2y.7jn@apollo.hp.com goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writes
in article 1483500348@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject unconventional peace proposal

a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson
having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal.

1. a fund should be established which would disburse grants
for each child born to a couple where one partner is israeli jew
and the other palestinian arab.
...
5. the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
marriages in israel palestine , all of whom would have relatives on
'both sides' of the divide , would make the conflict lose its
ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
truly civil society. the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
people would also help the integration of israeli society into the

sounds just like a racial theory that hitler outlined in mein kampf.

someone else said something similar. i will not comment on the
value or lack of value of elias 's proposal . i just want to say
that it is very distressing that at least two people here are
profoundly ignorant of nazi racial doctrine. they were not
like elias 's idea , they were more like the opposite.

nazis believed in racial purity , not racial assimilation. an
instructive example is the nazi attitude to gypsies. according to
nazi theoreticians , gypsies were an aryan race. they were persecuted ,
and in huge numbers murdered , because most european gypies were
considered not pure gypsies but mongrels formed from the pure gypsy
race and other undesirable races. this was the key difference between
the theoretical approach to jews and gypsies , by the way. it is also
true that towards the end of wwii even the purist gypsies were
hunted down as the theory was forgotten.

brendan.
(email bdm@cs.anu.edu.au)

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject after all , armenians exterminated 2.5 million muslim people there.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 297

in article c5y56o.a62@news.cso.uiuc.edu hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian) writes

article. i have no partisan interests i would just like to know
what conversations between terpetrosyan and demirel sound like. )

very simple.

x soviet armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide
against 2.5 million muslims by admitting to the crime and making
reparations to the turks and kurds.

after all , your criminal grandparents exterminated 2.5 million muslim
people between 1914 and 1920.


c5yybt.5zo@news.cso.uiuc.edu
hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian)

to which i say
hear , hear. motion seconded.

you must be a new 'arromdian'. you are counting on asala sdpa arf
crooks and criminals to prove something for you \? no wonder you are in
such a mess. that criminal idiot and 'its' forged non existent junk has
already been trashed out by mutlu , cosar , akgun , uludamar , akman , oflazer
and hundreds of people. moreover , asala sdpa arf criminals are responsible
for the massacre of the turkish people that also prevent them from entering
turkiye and trnc. sdpa has yet to renounce its charter which specifically
calls for the second genocide of the turkish people. this racist , barbarian
and criminal view has been touted by the fascist x soviet armenian government
as merely a step on the road to said genocide.

now where shall i begin \?

from ahmet@eecg.toronto.edu (parlakbilek ahmet)
subject yalanci , liar davidian
keywords davidian , the biggest liar
message id 1991jan10.122057.11613@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu

following is the article that davidian claims that hasan mutlu is a liar

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
message id 1154@urartu.sdpa.org

in article 1991jan4.145955.4478@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu ahmet@eecg.toronto.
edu (ahmet parlakbilek) asked a simple question

ap i am asking you to show me one example in which mutlu , coras or any other
ap turk was proven to lie.i can show tens of lies and fabrications of
ap davidian , like changing quote , even changing name of a book , anna.

the obvious ridiculous armenians murdered 3 million moslems is the most
outragious and unsubstantiated charge of all. you are obviously new on this
net , so read the following sample not one , but three proven lies in one
day !

start yalanci.txt

some parts are deleted

in article 1990aug5.142159.5773@cbnewsd.att.com the usenet scribe for the
turkish historical society , hbm@cbnewsd.att.com (hasan.b.mutlu) , continues to
revise the history of the armenian people. let 's witness the operational
definition of a revisionist yalanci (or liar , in turkish)

yalanci according to leo 1
yalanci
yalanci the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks
yalanci and on the other side , peace loving armenians , both sides minding
yalanci their own affairs. then all was submerged in blood and fire. indeed ,
yalanci the war was actually being waged between the committee of
yalanci dashnaktsutiun and the society of ittihad and terakki a cruel and
yalanci savage war in defense of party political interests. the dashnaks
yalanci incited revolts which relied on russian bayonets for their success.
yalanci
yalanci 1 l. kuper , genocide its political use in the twentieth century ,
yalanci new york 1981 , p. 157.

this text is available not only in most bookstores but in many libraries. on
page 157 we find a discussion of related atrocities (which is title of the
chapter). the topic on this page concerns itself with submissions to the sub
commission on prevention of discrimination of minorities of the commission on
human rights of the united nations with respect to the massacres in cambodia.
there is no mention of turks nor armenians as claimed above.



vay sarsak , vay yobaz , vay yalanci ! vay turk milletinin yuz karasi mutlu vay !

the depth of foolishness the turkish historical society engages in , while
covering up the turkish genocide of the armenians , is only surpassed by the
ridiculous historical material publicly displayed !

david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org the life of a people is a sea , and

receiving this message , i checked the reference , l.kuper , genocide... and
what i have found was totally consistent with what davidian said.the book
was like voice of armenian revolutionists and although i read the whole book ,
i could not find the original quota.
but there was one more thing to check the original posting of mutlu.i found
the original article of mutlu.it is as follows

according to leo 1

the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks and on
the other side , peace loving armenians , both sides minding their own
affairs. then all was submerged in blood and fire. indeed , the war was
actually being waged between the committee of dashnaktsutiun and the
society of ittihad and terakki a cruel and savage war in defense of party
political interests. the dashnaks incited revolts which relied on russian
bayonets for their success.

1 b. a. leo. the ideology of the armenian revolution in turkey , vol ii ,

p. 157.


quato is the same , reference is different !

davidian lied again , and this time he changed the original posting of mutlu
just to accuse him to be a liar.

davidian , thank you for writing the page number correctly...

you are the biggest liar i have ever seen.this example showed me that tomorrow
you can lie again , and you may try to make me a liar this time.so i decided
not to read your articles and not to write answers to you.i also advise
all the netters to do the same.we can not prevent your lies , but at least
we may save time by not dealing with your lies.

and for the following line
vay sarsak , vay yobaz , vay yalanci ! vay turk milletinin yuz karasi mutlu vay !

i also return all the insults you wrote about mutlu to you.
i hope you will be drowned in your lies.

ahmet parlakbilek

from vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (vedat dogan)
message id 1993apr8.233029.29094@news.columbia.edu

in article 1993apr7.225058.12073@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
in article 1993apr7.030636.7473@news.columbia.edu vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
(vedat dogan) wrote in response to article 1993mar31.141308.28476@urartu.
11sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes


( source adventures in the near east , 1918 1922 by a. rawlinson ,
( jonathan cape , 30 bedford square , london , 1934 (first published 1923)
( (287 pages).

dd such a pile of garbage ! first off , the above reference was first published
dd in 1924 not 1923 , and has 353 pages not 287 ! second , upon checking page
dd 178 , we are asked to believe

vd no , mr.davidian ...

vd it was first published in 1923 (i have the book on my desk , now ! )
vd

vd and furthermore , the book i have does not have 353 pages either , as you
vd claimed , mr.davidian..it has 377 pages..any question \? ..

well , it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the
n crap posted by mr. ( !

o boy !

please , can you tell us why those quotes are crap \? ..because you do not
like them ! ! ! ...because they really exist...why \?

as i said in my previous posting , those quotes exactly exist in the source
given by serdar argic ..

you could n't reject it...


in addition , the author 's preface was written on january 15 , 1923 , but the book
was published in 1924.

here we go again..
in the book i have , both the front page and the author 's preface give
the same year 1923 and 15 january , 1923 , respectively !
(anyone can check it at her his library , if not , i can send you the copies of
pages , please ask by sct)


i really do n't care what year it was first published(1923 or 1924)
what i care about is what the book writes about murders , tortures , et..in
the given quotes by serdar argic , and your denial of these quotes..and your
groundless accussations , etc.


...

dd i can provide .gif postings if required to verify my claim !

vd what is new \?

i will post a .gif file , but i am not going go through the effort to show there
is some turkish modified re publication of the book , like last time !


i claim i have a book in my hand published in 1923(first publication)
and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published
in 1934(serdar argic 's reference) has..you could n't reject it..but , now you
are avoiding the real issues by twisting around..

let 's see how you lie ! ..(from 'non existing' quotes to re publication)

first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference..you
called serdar argic a liar ! ..
i said to you , no , mr.davidian , there exactly existed such a quote...
(i even gave the call number , page numbers..you could't reject it.)

and now , you are lying again and talking about modified , re published book
(without any proof how , when , where , by whom , etc..)..
(by the way , how is it possible to re publish the book in 1923 if it was
first published in 1924(your claim).i am sure that you have some 'pretty
well suited theories' , as usual)

and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who
wants to compare the fact and mr.davidian 's lies...i also give the call number
and page numbers again for the library use , which are
949.6 r 198

and the page numbers to verify the quotes 218 and 215




it is not possible that ( 's text has 287 pages , mine has 353 , and yours has
377 !

now , are you claiming that there ca n't be such a reference by saying it is
not possible... ..if not , what is your point \?

differences in the number of pages \?
mine was published in 1923..serdar argic 's was in 1934..
no need to use the same book size and the same letter
charachter in both publications , etc , etc.. does it give you an idea ! !

the issue was not the number of pages the book has..or the year
first published..
and you tried to hide the whole point..
the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about
how moslems are killed , tortured , etc by armenians..and those quotes given
by serdar argic exist ! !
it was the issue , was n't it \?

you were not able to object it...does it bother you anyway \?

you name all these tortures and murders (by armenians) as a crap ..
people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still
has so many craps in the 1993.

any question \?


c5wwqa.9wl@news.cso.uiuc.edu
hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian)

hmm ... turks sure know how to keep track of deaths , but they seem to
lose count around 1.5 million.

well , apparently we have another son of dro 'the butcher' to contend with.
you should indeed be happy to know that you rekindled a huge discussion on
distortions propagated by several of your contemporaries. if you feel
that you can simply act as an armenian governmental crony in this forum
you will be sadly mistaken and duly embarrassed. this is not a lecture to
another historical revisionist and a genocide apologist , but a fact.

i will dissect article by article , paragraph by paragraph , line by line ,
lie by lie , revision by revision , written by those on this net , who plan
to 'prove' that the armenian genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds is
nothing less than a classic un redressed genocide. we are neither in
x soviet union , nor in some similar ultra nationalist fascist dictatorship ,
that employs the dictates of hitler to quell domestic unrest. also , feel
free to distribute all responses to your nearest asala sdpa arf terrorists ,
the armenian pseudo scholars , or to those affiliated with the armenian
criminal organizations.

armenian government got away with the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men ,
women and children and is enjoying the fruits of that genocide. you , and
those like you , will not get away with the genocide 's cover up.

not a chance.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re investment in yehuda and shomron
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 22

in article 1483500346@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

those who wish to learn something about the perversion of judaism ,
should consult the masterly work by yehoshua harkabi , who was many
years the head of israeli intelligence and an opponent of the plo. his

your suggestion to learn something about the perversion of judaism
from someone you claim has experience in israeli intelligence and the
plo is like a suggestion to learn something about the conspiracy of
sesame street from someone with experience in fashion design and
pizza making.

latest book was published in english and includes a very detailed analysis
of judeo nazism.

judeo nazism \? cpr , you 're in a league with barf shmidling himself.
you can take that as a compliment , if you see it that way.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject serdar
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

you are quite the loser

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
subject re was go hezbollah !
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
organization columbia university
lines 28

in article 1993apr16.130037.18830@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes



tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in lebanon have been
disarmed. hezbollah remains the only independent militia. hezbollah does
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the idf burned up
sheikh mosavi , his wife , and young son. of course , if israel would withdraw
from lebanon and stop assassinating people and shelling villages they would n't
make the lebanese so mad as to do that. furthermore , with hezbollah
subsequently disarmed , it would not be possible.


just to address this one point , what about the two katyusha rocket
attacks made within lebanon , for which fatah claimed responsibility.
i did n't realize that one can use katyushas while onr is disarmed.
also , page 8 of today 's new york times , faisal saleh , a high ranking
fatah official , and his 9 month old son were gunned down in beirut
by members of abu nidal. there have been 46 assasination attempts
in 1993 alone in the fued between these two factions , resulting in
11 deaths.

amir


from dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren)
subject hamza salah , the humanist
organization brown university department of computer science
lines 13

cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah) writes

well said mr. beyer )

he he. the great humanist speaks. one has to read mr. salah 's posters ,
in which he decribes jews as sons of pigs and monkeys , keeps
promising the final battle between muslims and jews (in which the
stons and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the
jews hiding behind them ) , makes jokes about jews dying from heart
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved.

danny keren.


from nraclaw@jade.tufts.edu (nissan raclaw)
subject re go hezbollah ! !
organization tufts university medford , ma
lines 13

congratulations also are due to the hamas activists who blew up the
world trade center , no \? after all , with every american that they put

in the grave they are underlining the usa 's bankrupt imperialist
policies. go hamas !

blah blah blah blah blah

brad , you are only asking that that violence that you love so much
come back to haunt you...............

nissan


from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re zionism is racism
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 17

in article 20apr93.23565659.0109@vm1.mcgill.ca b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
in re syria 's expansion , the author writes that the un thought
zionism was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct
the first time , zionism is racism and thankfully , the mcgill daily
(the student newspaper at mcgill) was proud enough to print an article
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail.

steve


i know this paper well , and see it for the exercise in selective morality
and judgement it is. until such time as it recognizes that any religiously
based government is racist , exclusionary and simply built on a philosophy
of separate but equal second class treatment of minorities , it will
continue to be known for its bias. if jewish nationalism is racism , so is
islam anywhere where people are allotted different rights according to
race , religion or culture is racist .

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 28

in article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu writes
what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of the muslim a
s well as jewish religion , among others.

what gives the us the right to keep new york \? it is the home of the
united nations as well as being home to a myriad of ethnic groups.

(actually , nyc is more comparable to the gaza strip the controlling
authority would probably be pleased as punch to unload it on someone
else but no one seems to want it ! )

heck , nobody ever mentions what yitzak shamir did forty or fifty
years ago which is terrorize westerners much in the way abdul nidal
does today. seems isrealis are nowhere above arabs , so therefore
they have a right to jerusaleum as much as isreal does.

a historical bullshit. shamir fought the british (who , incidentally ,
shipped whole shiploads of jews back to the nazis for extermination
and hung those jewish fighters that they captured and did n't want to
deal with anymore). shamir did not attack civilians on airliners ,
cruise ships , in airports , sports events , movie theaters , markets ,
on buses and children in schoolyards. your comparison to a master
murderer like abu nidal is blind !


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 45

amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes

in article c5ifh7.3q4@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes

what the hell do you know about israeli policy \? what gives you the fiat
to look into the minds of israeli generals \? has this 'policy of intimidation'
been published somewhere \? for your information , the actions taken by arabs ,
specifically the plo , were not uncommon in the lebanon campaign of 1982. my
brain is full of shit \? at least i do n't look into the minds of others and
make israeli policy for them !

... deleted

i am not in the business of reading minds , however in this case it would not
be necessary. israelis top leaders in the past and present , always come across
as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the arabs.

how would you deal with arabs who always threaten to drive you into the sea or
burn half your conuntry \? would you talk nicely \? would you say please \? you
would n't. the language of the middle east is power and force. sorry that
is the way it is now. if you are n't strong , you go down. israel has to talk
and act tough. notice , israel talks and acts tough in battle , but is willing
to talk peace.

the way i see it , israelis and arabs have not been able to achieve peace
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons

1) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or
dictators.

true and they have brainwashed their people into thinking jews are some sort
of monsters. arab non recognition of israel and support of war and terror
is also an important factor , would n't you say \?

2) israeli government is arrogant and none comprising.

what do you want israel to do \? they are negotating \? i'm sick of people calling
for israel to withdraw from the territories now. that 's not realistic , do n't
you realize that \? a solution must be negotiated. it is on the table. have
patience.

ed.



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian genocide of the muslim people in 1914 and 1993.
article i.d. zuma.9304052051
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 52

in article c51a38.mcj@news.cso.uiuc.edu ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis ) writes

alah , alah , kleriklemek mutuglu diyeni de la malakismenos kolo tourkos ...
likkleserfelc ekmek salam. toukoutakli , ranadas sarma.
geke re \? ti , eipate yok \? plaka numarani alalim kanw re...


source a. alper gazigiray , osmanlilardan gunumuze kadar vesikalarla
ermeni teroru'nun kaynaklari , gozen kitabevi , istanbul , 1982.

pp. 267 268.

van 'dan sonra ilk isyan sebinkarahisar 'da basladi. 1915 senesi 5
haziran da , sivasli murat hamparsum boyaciyan sa denilen bir
caninin emri altinda 500 kadar cete sebinkarahisari basti. burasi o
zaman en onemli askeri bir yerdi. erzurum bolgesinde rus ordusu ile
savasan osmanli ordularinin butun ikmal araclari buradan gecmekte idi.
ermeniler boyle onemli bir yer isgal ettikleri takdirde turk
ordularinin ikmali yapilamayacak ve rus ordularinin harekati
kolaylasacakti. sebinkarahisarin islam mahalleleri tamamen atese
verildi. her rastlanan turk iskence ile olduruldu.

mus 'da ayni sekilde isyan devam ediyordu. sason daglari ermeni
eskiyalariyla dolu idi. bu isyanlari , ordunun arkasini vurmak ve rus
ordusunun ilerlemesini saglamak icin ermenilerin pasa dedikleri rupen
idare ediyordu. bundan baska , rus ordularinin rus turk sinirindan
gecerek turk topraklarina girdikleri bu safhada rus ordusu icinde
bulunan ermeni gonullu alaylariyla rus ordularinin isgali altina giren
ermeni koylerindeki silahli halk , turk koylerine hucum ederek bu
koyleri yakip yikmislar ve turk halkini hatira gelmeyen mezalim ve
iskence ile oldurmulerdir.

p. 285.

bu suretle sehirde 23 gun cok kanli olaylar cereyan etti , bu sure
sonunda van , ermeniler tarafindan tamamen isgal olundu. buradan
kacabilen turklerin , ermenilerin davranislari hakkinda verdikleri
haberler tuyler urpertici idi. cunku isyancilar halkin cogunu oldurmus ,
kadinlarin irzina gecmis , turk kadin ve kizlarini bazi evlerde
topladiktan sonra buralarini genelev haline getirmislerdir. o zaman
van 'da 1500 kadar kadin ve cocuktan baska turk kalmamis , bunlari da
oradaki amerikalilar korumustur. sehir bastan basa harab olmus , carsi
kamilen yanmisti.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)

from chrism@cirrus.com (chris metcalfe)
subject brendan mckay clarifies the nazi racial theory
organization cirrus logic inc.
lines 59


only brendan mckay , or maybe arf , would come to the rescue of nazi
racial theory. is it distressing brendan \? the point is that any
eugenic solution to the jewish problem as elias has proposed smacks
of pure nazism. the fact that elias' proposal cast the entire problem
as one of the abnormal presence of israeli society in the middle east ,
and that he buried a slam against u.s. aid to israel in the midst of
his even handed solution of the jewish question , made it obvious what
he had in mind disolving the jewish polity. that is a nazi doctrine
rectification of the abnormal presence of the jewish people within a
larger body politic. whether your solution involves gas , monetary
incentives to the poor jews to marry out , or as feisal husseini has
said , disolve the zionist entity by forcing it to engage the normal
surrounding arab culture , you are engaged in a nazi project.

just as obvious is your statement i will not comment on the value
or lack of value of elias 's proposal. still striking the glancing
blow , right brendan \? you could easily see where he was going , but you
will not comment. so , you are complicitous.

what is your fascination with nazi racial theory , anyway \?

chris metcalfe ( someone else )

! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

in article 1993apr22.175022.15543@cs.rit.edu bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay) writes

a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.
by
elias davidsson

5. the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
marriages in israel palestine , all of whom would have relatives on
'both sides' of the divide , would make the conflict lose its
ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
truly civil society. the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
people would also help the integration of israeli society into the

sounds just like a racial theory that hitler outlined in mein kampf.

someone else said something similar. i will not comment on the
value or lack of value of elias 's proposal . i just want to say
that it is very distressing that at least two people here are
profoundly ignorant of nazi racial doctrine. they were not
like elias 's idea , they were more like the opposite.

nazis believed in racial purity , not racial assimilation. an
instructive example is the nazi attitude to gypsies. according to
nazi theoreticians , gypsies were an aryan race. they were persecuted ,
and in huge numbers murdered , because most european gypies were
considered not pure gypsies but mongrels formed from the pure gypsy
race and other undesirable races. this was the key difference between
the theoretical approach to jews and gypsies , by the way. it is also
true that towards the end of wwii even the purist gypsies were
hunted down as the theory was forgotten.

brendan.
(email bdm@cs.anu.edu.au)

from amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
nntp posting host tbilisi.src.honeywell.com
organization honeywell systems research center
lines 27

in article bradski.93apr15210934@retina.bu.edu bradski@retina.bu.edu (gary bradski) writes
on 15 apr 93 03 13 49 gmt , amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) said

i was merley pointing out that the other side is also suffering.
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a lebanese , you bet
i would defende my homeland against any invader by any means.

the syrians \? iranian agents \? or just israeli invaders \?

@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
gary bradski i'net bradski@park.bu.edu reverberate
cognitive and neural systems
boston university. v v
111 cummington st , boston ma 02215 y
617 353 6426

i do n't even agree with some of my opinions or die !
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@


i did say any invader , did n't i \? what do you want from me , perhaps a neural
net design with all countries involved in lebanon as its nodes \? ) (you are
in cognitive and neural systems)

if that 's the case , i would put different weights for each country in my
net.


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian scholars on the extermination of 2.5 million muslim people.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 288

in article 735251412@amazon.cs.duke.edu wiener@duke.cs.duke.edu (eduard wiener) writes

why do n't you post this in english , mike \?
this appears to mean milan , it seems that
some greek has fucked you.

is that what turns you on \? the truth needs to be told over and over
again. there are armenians who of course witnessed the armenian genocide
of 2.5 million muslim people between 1914 1920 but their voices of truth
are suppressed today in the hollow din of anti turkish muslim campaign
by the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle of the fascist
x soviet armenian government. well , that is what i saw in the library.
what 's your problem with this \?


source k. s. papazian , patriotism perverted , baikar press , boston , 1934.

pp. 17 18.

it seems that terrorism against their own co nationals has been a prominent
part of the revolutionary activities of the dashnag leaders of the caucasus.
organized to fight the turks , these chieftains have been more successful
in their fight against their armenian opponents in turkey , and the caucasus ,
very often defenseless and innocent.

p. 38.

the fact remains , however , that the leaders of the turkish armenian section
of the dashnagtzoutune did not carry out their promise of loyalty to the
turkish cause when the turks entered the war...and a call was sent for
armenian volunteers to fight the turks on the caucasian front.

p. 38.

thousands of armenians from all over the world , flocked to the standards of
such famous fighters as antranik , kery , dro , etc. the armenian volunteer
regiments rendered valuable service to the russian army in the years of
1914 15 16.


source adventures in the near east , 1918 1922 by a. rawlinson ,
jonathan cape , 30 bedford square , london , 1934 (first published 1923)
(287 pages).
(memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)

p. 184 (second paragraph)

i had received further very definite information of horrors that
had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain , and as
i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their
treatment of my own detached parties , i had wired to tiflis from
zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the armenians should not
be left in independent command of the moslem population , as , their
troops being without discipline and not under effective control ,
atrocities were constantly being committed , for which we should
with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'.

p. 177 (third paragraph)

armenian troops , who , having pillaged and destroyed all the
moslem villages in the plain....

caravans of refugees were in the meanwhile constantly arriving from the
plain , from which the whole moslem population was fleeing with as much of
their personal property as they could transport , seeking to obtain security
and protection...

p. 178 (first paragraph)

in those moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched
for arms by the armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of
such search , and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible
tortures had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as
to where valuables had been hidden , of which the armenians were aware
of the existence , although they had been unable to find them.

p. 179 (first paragraph)

shortly afterwards the head of the miserable column appeared. there
were in all about 200 persons , mostly old men and women and children ,
with a few ox carts , ponies , and donkeys , carrying all their worldly
possessions , except a few sheep that they were driving before them.
their leader interviewed bekir bey , and was told to keep farther on
into the hills , where he would be able to cross the frontier into
turkey unmolested by his enemies.

p. 181 (first paragraph)

the armenians from the plain were attacking the kurdish line with
artillery , with probably a large force in support.

p. 175 (first paragraph)

the arrival of this british brigade was followed by the announcement
that kars province had been allotted by the supreme council of the
allies to the armenians , and that announcement having been made , the
british troops were then completely withdrawn , and armenian occupation
commenced. hence all the trouble for the armenians at once commenced
the wholesale robbery and persecution of the muslem population on the
pretext that it was necessary forcibly to deprive them of their arms.
in the portion of the province which lies in the plains they were able
to carry out their purpose , and the manner in which this was done will
be referred to in due course.

the following news from turan news agency in baku azerbaijan
is brought to you as a service of

azerbaijan aydinlig association
p.o. box 14571
berkeley , ca 94701
fax (804) 490 3832
email farid@mem.odu.edu

azerbaijan's government appeals to compatriots all over the world
60 refugees from kelbajar perished in their escape lorries
situation in the region of kelbajar
armenian army continues attack on fizuli
press conference of the chief of press service of president of azerbaijan
azerbaijanis picket in front of ministry of foreign affairs of russia
picket of sadvalers in moscow
attack of armenian units stopped
statement of ministry of foreign affairs of azerbaijan



azerbaijan's government appeals to compatriots all over the world

baku (april 5) turan today , azerbaijan 's government appealed
to azeris all over the world in connection with escalation of the
armenian aggression against the republic.
it is stressed in appeal that the experience of five years of fighting
for independence from imperial chains shows a grim process . the war
against azerbaijan under the pretence of protecting the human rights of
the armenians of ukhari (upper) garabag , has meant the destruction of
azeri villages and towns , occupation of 10 percent of the territory , 60
thousand new refugees in addition to 500 thousand already in place.
this is all the price of fighting for liberty from russian imperial rule ,
is said in the document.
azerbaijan 's government appeals to all compatriots to make every
effort to inform the people of the world about the truth in azerbaijan ,
and to assistance in solving the problems facing the young state.
it is stressed in the appeal that there is urgent need for medicine ,
food , experienced doctors and financial help to settle refugees from
kelbajar , fizuli and lachin regions , and to render medical aid for the
sick and the wounded men. o


60 refugees from kelbajar perished in their escape lorries

baku (april 5) turan today , during the evacuation from kelbajar
region , 60 refugees on board two lorries were killed in the fire from the
armenian tanks on the only road to leave kelbajar. according to press
service of azerbaijan president , no one survived the tragedy. o


situation in the region of kelbajar

baku (5 april) turan attempts to evacuate the rest of 15 , 000
citizens , encircled on alpine villages of the region of kelbajar
went on within the last twenty four hours. evacuation helicopters
could not land near these villages because of shelling from the
armenian side and existence of fog. measures are undertaken to air drop
food and medicine to the encircled people.
several hundred people succeed within the last twenty four hours to
get out of the region of kelbajar via mountain range. refugees are
settled in the neighboring regions of azerbaijan and in ganja.
authorities face serious problem with rendering refugees medical
aid and food. the number of refugees from kelbajar is over 40 , 000 people.
azerbaijan is not capable of handling a disaster of this magnitude. 0


armenian army continues attack on fizuli

baku (5 april) turan the region of fizuli of azerbaijan ,
situated outside of the territory of daglig (nagorno) garabag , has been
subjected to heaviest attacks of armenian army for the fourth day. about
30 armored technique and more than 500 soldiers of the enemy are taking
part in the attack.
armenian units broke the defence line of the azeri forces and occupied
the ruling height from where the town is shelled from grad installations ,
this morning. there is heavy destructions in the town and more than 20
people are dead. population of the town is hastily evacuated. 0


press conference of the chief of press service of president of azerbaijan

baku (5 april) turan fifty five thousand refugees from the region
of kelbajar were taken out by 11 o'clock on april 5 , informed the chief
of the press service of president of azerbaijan , arif aliev , today.
journalists were also informed at the press conference that
international red cross is helping to accept and render refugees medical
aid. there is an urgent need to supply the refugees with tents , food and
medical aid.
arif aliev informed that as a result of the ongoing tragedy brought
on by the latest aggression of armenia , the leadership of azerbaijan
intends to appeal to azerbaijanis and all those who treasure human life
all over the world for help.
concerning the reaction of the international community to aggression
of armenia , aliev said the department of state of the usa has expressed
its anxiety to leadership of armenia.
participants of peace efforts in daglig (nagorno) garabag under
csce , rafaelli , mareska and chetin strongly blamed the aggression of
armenia against azerbaijan.
leader of press service informed that tomorrow ambassador of
azerbaijan in russia , hikmet haji zade , will conduct a press conference
in moscow. detailed information on latest events in the region of
kelbajar of azerbaijan will be given at the press conference. 0


azerbaijanis picket in front of ministry of foreign affairs of russia

baku (5 april) turan azerbaijanis , living in moscow , picketed
in front of the building of the ministry of foreign affairs of russia.
picket was conducted as a token of protest against participation of
russian units in capture of the region of kelbajar of azerbaijan by
armenians. about 100 people took part in the picket , organized by
azerbaijani society dayag . 0


picket of sadvalers in moscow

baku (5 april) 30 40 members of sadval society picketed before
the building of permanent representation of azerbaijan in moscow.
picketers were demanding the return of lezghins lands , as if annexed
by azerbaijan.
ambassador of azerbaijan in moscow , hikmet haji zade classified
this action as provocation aimed at creating a further inter ethnic
conflict in azerbaijan. he marked in his talk with the turan
correspondent that he does not rule out a connection between the
armenian aggression in the region of kelbajar and this anti
azerbaijani action of the sadval society in moscow. he also
marked that 30 40 people do not mean the lezghian nationality in
the whole.
society of lezghins , sadval , registered in moscow in 1990 ,
demands the creation of a lezghistan state , which never existed
before on the northern territories of azerbaijan. 0


attack of armenian units stopped

baku (5 april) turan attack of armenian army on the town of
fizuli , which began in the last twenty four hours , is stopped , informs
the press service of the ministry of defence of azerbaijan.
in the result of undertaken measures , 6 tanks and a number of
the attackers were destroyed. advance units of the armenian army
retreated several kilometers.
chairman of the parliament , isa gambar , visited the town of
fizuli and met with commanders of the units of the national army
and local citizens , today. 0


statement of ministry of foreign affairs of azerbaijan

baku (5 april) turan ministry of foreign affairs of azerbaijan
issued a statement in connection with aggression of armenia in the
region of kelbajar of azerbaijan.
it is stated in the statement that regular units of the armed
forces of armenia captured the town of kelbajar on april 3 .
attack of armenian units , which began on march 27 deep in the
territory of azerbaijan still continues. armenia has occupied at
present 7500 sq.km of the territory of azerbaijan.
spreading of armenian aggression far away from ukhari (upper)
garabag proves that the armenian azerbaijani conflicts has entered a
specially dangerous phase. this is the result of non recognition of
armenia as an aggressor by the international community , is marked
in the document.
it is stressed in the statement that the units of the 7th russian
army are participating in the armenian attack. this casts doubt on
the sincerity of russian mediation efforts in finding a peaceful
solution to the conflict.
it is marked in conclusion that aggressive actions of armenia
have wrecked the negotiation process under aegis of csce.
the document contains the appeal to the world community to stop
armenian aggression and to use political and economic sanctions
against the aggressor. 0


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re israel 's expansion
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 39
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 18apr93.15729846.0076@vm1.mcgill.ca , b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
just a couple of questions for the pro israeli lobby out there

1) is israel 's occupation of southern lebanon temporary \? for mr.
stein i am working on a proof for you that israel is diverting
water to the jordan river (away from lebanese territory).

yes it is , as has been evidenced by the previous two stages
of withdrawal from the area and by the reductions in troops.
currently the troops are kept at a level consistent with light
and armored patrols. no permanent installations have been
built in the area , nor are any planned.

as to the prodigal water question , you can continue to waste
your time looking for non existent proof , or you can accept the
testimony of people here , some lebanese , who have acknowledged
that they know of no evidence for these allegations.

2) is israel 's occupation of the west bank , gaza , and golan
temporary \? if so (for those of you who support it) , why were so
many settlers moved into the territories \? if it is not temporary ,
let 's hear it.

it depends which of those territories you refer to.
in general , settlers were moved into the territories because
at the time , in the context of the situations , it seemed the
logical move. this is not to say that views do n't change
or that mistakes are not made. currently , i would say that
the only disputed territory that does not appear to be temporary
is that of eastern and northern jerusalem.

steve



shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from friedenb@silver.egr.msu.edu (gedaliah friedenberg)
subject jewish committee on the middle east (jcome)
organization college of engineering , michigan state university
lines 34
distribution world
reply to friedenb@silver.egr.msu.edu (gedaliah friedenberg)
nntp posting host silver.egr.msu.edu

i flipped on my local cable access channel (a channel where any
community member can broadcast whatever they want for about 50
per half hour) and saw a documentary (i use this term loosely)
on the conflict in the west bank.

it was apparently made with a hand held camcorder (the quality was
terrible , and the camera was really jumpy). the documentary (sic)
told the tales of all of the children who died in the war against
the jews as martyrs.

it was a regular sob story. one victimized youth was recounting
on how all he really wants to do is to get an education and that
the big bad jews wo n't let him go to high school. he admittedly
spent 4 years in prison (age 13 to 17) for murdering a jewish woman
but claims that it was for the cause.

i have seen this kind of garbage before. i have a lot of sympathy for
the palestinian cause (as do many jews) , but i think that even many
arabs would be ashamed to call this a documentary !

the most suprising part is that the only credits shown at the end
was an address for the makers of the film named jewish comm. on
the middle east.

anybody heard of them \? they make peace now look like right wingers.


gedaliah friedenberg
department of mechanical engineering
department of metallurgy , mechanics and materials science
michigan state university




from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re legality of the jewish purchase
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 104

in article 1993apr16.225910.16670@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes
adam shostack writes
sam zbib writes
i'm surprised that you do n't consider the acquisition of land by
the jews from arabs , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive
state , as a hostile action leading to war.

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have
400 000 arab citizens.

could you please tell me what was the ethnic composition of
israel right after it was formed.

100 israeli citizens. the ethnic composition depends on what
you mean by formed. what the un deeded to israel \? what it won in war \?

and no , i do not consider the purchase of land a hostile
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce. it
is not a hostile action leading to war.

no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and dignity.
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about
anti trust in the business world.

were there anti trust laws in place in mandatory palestine \?
since the answer is no , you 're argument , while interestingly
constructed , is irrelevant. i will however , respond to a few points
you assert in the course of talking about anti trust laws.


they were establishing a bridgehead for the european jews.

and those fleeing arab lands , where jews were second class
citizens.

plus they paid fair market value , etc...

jews often paid far more than fair market value for the land
they bought.

they did not know they were victims of an international conspiracy.

you know , sam , when people start talking about an
international jewish conspiracy , its really begins to sound like
anti semitic bull.

the reason there is no conspiracy here is quite simple.
zionists made no bones about what was going on. there were
conferences , publications , etc , all talking about creating a national
home for the jews.

israel gave citizenship to the remaining arabs because it
had to maintain a democratic facade (to keep the western aid
flowing).

israel got no western aid in 1948 , nor in 1949 or 50...it
still granted citizenship to those arabs who remained. and how
is granting citizenship a facade \?

do n't get me wrong. i beleive that israel is democratic
within the constraints of one dominant ethnic group (jews).
...
'bad' arabs. personaly , i 've never heard anything about the
arab community in isreal. except that they 're there. so
yes , they 're there. but as a community with history and
roots , its dead.

because you 've never heard of it , its dead \? the fact is , you
claimed israel had to give arabs rights because of (non existant)
international aid. then you see that that argument has a hole you
could drive a truck through , and again assert that israel is only
democratic within the (unexplained) constraints of one ethnic group.
the problem with that argument is that arabs are allowed to vote for
whoever they please. so , please tell me , sam , what constraints are
there on israeli democracy that do n't exist in other democratic
states \?

i 've never heard anything about the khazakistani arab
population. does that mean that they have no history or roots \? when
i was at ben gurion university in israel , one of my neighbors was an
israeli arab. he was n't really all that different from my other
neighbors. does that make him dead or oppressed \?


i stand corrected. i meant that the jewish culture was not
predominant in palestine in recent history. i have no
problem with jerusalem having a jewish character if it were
predominantly jewish. so there. what to make of the rest
palestine \?

how recent is recent \? i can probably build a case for a
jewish gaza city. it would be pretty silly , but i could do it. i'm
arguing not that jerusalem is jewish , but that land has no ethnicity.

adam



adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from rint69@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (rintoul bradley e)
subject re news you may have missed , apr 20
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 4

why do you insist on reposting the entire original post \?
do n't waste bandwidth , please. you know how picky us non
jews can be. ha ha.


from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 16

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

i understand how israel captured the teritory and feels that it
is its right to annex it. i ca n't fully understand why it has
to deal with palestinians much the same way jews were treated
before the holocaust (the final solution) by hitler. what i
totally do n't get is why the u.s. has to subsidize the
existance of such a thorough abuser of human rights.
just wondering

seems that you 're more just misinformed than just wondering.

the comparison you 're making is not just totally off base , but
offensive to all sane people.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from alaa@peewee.unx.dec.com (alaa zeineldine)
subject re wtc bombing
organization digital equipment corp.
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
lines 13

tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

but hadas might be a fictitious character invented by the two men for
billing purposes , said mohammed mehdi , head of the arab american relations committee.

tim

i would remind readers of the fact that the ny daily news on march 5th
reported the arrest of joise hadas. foreign newspapers reported her
release shortly afterwards. i can provide copies of the articles
upon request.

alaa zeineldine

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject now , the genocide of the azeri turks of x soviet armenia and karabag.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 69

in article 1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the karabakh
crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will never occur again.

do you have a terminal cold \? karabag is 'turkish' and will remain
'turkish'. here we are , almost at the end of the 20th century , and
a whole community , the azeri turks of x soviet armenia and karabag ,
is facing forced assimilation , torture and murder on one hand and
forced exodus , expulsion and genocide on the other , all because
of their ethnic and religious background. and one should ask herself
is the world community really so powerless \? where are all those human
rights advocates \? where are all the decent people \? are we going to
let this human tragedy go on and do nothing about it \? the number
of azeris murdered by the terrorist armenian army and its savage
gangs is increasing. on the one hand they wish to distort the truth
and on the other , they beg mercy from turkiye.

the age...melbourne...6 3 92

by helen womack .... agdam , azerbaijan , thursday

the exact number of victims is still unclear , but there can be
little doubt that azeri civilians were massacred by armenian
fighters in the snowy mountains of nagorno karabakh last week.

refugees from the enclave town of khojaly , sheltering in the
azeri border town of agdam , give largely consistent accounts of
how their enemies attacked their homes on the night of 25
february , chased those who fled and shot them in the
surrounding forests. yesterday , i saw 75 freshly dug graves in
one cemetery in addition to four mutilated corpses we were
shown in the mosque when we arrived in agdam late on tuesday. i
also saw women and children with bullet wounds in a makeshift
hospital in a string of railway carriages.

khojaly , an azeri settlement in the enclave mostly populated by
armenians , had a population of about 6000. mr. rashid mamedov
commander of police in agdam , said only about 500 escaped to
his town. so where are the rest \? . some might have taken
prisoner , he said , or fled. many bodies were still lying in the
mountains because the azeris were short of helicopters to
retrieve them. he believed more than 1000 had perished , some of
cold in temperatures as low as minus 10 degrees.

one refugee , rami nasiru , described how khojaly residents at
first thought the attack was no more than the routine shooting
to which they had become accustomed in four years of conflict.
but when they saw the armenians with a convoy of armored
personnel carriers , they realised they could not hope to defend
themselves with machineguns and grenades , and fled into the
forests. in the small hours , the massacre started.

mr. nasiru , who believes his wife and two children were taken
prisoner , repeated what many other refugees have said that
troops of the former soviet army helped the armenians to attack
khojaly. it is not my opinion , i saw it with my own eyes.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (todd j. dicker)
subject re hamza salah , the humanist
organization cybernet bbs , boca raton , florida
lines 19

dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren) writes

he he. the great humanist speaks. one has to read mr. salah 's posters ,
in which he decribes jews as sons of pigs and monkeys , keeps
promising the final battle between muslims and jews (in which the
stons and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the
jews hiding behind them ) , makes jokes about jews dying from heart
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved.

danny keren.

do n't worry , danny , every blatantly violent and abusive posting made by
hamzah is immediately forwarded to the operator of the system in which he
has an account. i 'd imagine they have quite a file started on this
fruitcake and have already indicated that they have rules governing
racist and threatening use of their resources. i 'd imagine he 'll be out
of our hair in a short while.

todd

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenians serving in the wehrmacht and the ss.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 63

in article 735426299@amazon.cs.duke.edu wiener@duke.cs.duke.edu (eduard wiener) writes

i can see how little taste you actually have in the
cheap shot you took at me when i did nothing more
than translate kozovski 's insulting reference
to milan pavlovic.

c'mon , you still have n't corrected yourself , 'wieneramus'. in april
1942 , hitler was preparing for the invasion of the caucasus. a
number of nazi armenian leaders began submitting plans to german
officials in spring and summer 1942. one of them was souren begzadian
paikhar , son of a former ambassador of the armenian republic in baku.
paikhar wrote a letter to hitler , asking for german support to his
armenian national socialist movement hossank and suggesting the
creation of an armenian ss formation in order

to educate the youth of liberated armenia according to the
spirit of the nazi ideas.

he wanted to unite the armenians of the already occupied territories
of the ussr in his movement and with them conquer historic turkish
homeland. paikhar was confined to serving the nazis in goebbels
propaganda ministry as a speaker for armenian and french language
radio broadcastings. 1 the armenian language broadcastings were
produced by yet another nazi armenian viguen chanth. 2

1 patrick von zur muhlen (muehlen) , p. 106.
2 enno meyer , a. j. berkian , 'zwischen rhein und arax , 900
jahre deutsch armenische beziehungen , ' (heinz holzberg
verlag oldenburg 1988) , pp. 124 and 129.


the establishment of armenian units in the german army was favored
by general dro (the butcher). he played an important role in the
establishment of the armenian 'legions' without assuming any
official position. his views were represented by his men in the
respective organs. an interesting meeting took place between dro
and reichsfuehrer ss heinrich himmler toward the end of 1942.
dro discussed matters of collaboration with himmler and after
a long conversation , asked if he could visit pow camp close to
berlin. himmler provided dro with his private car. 1

a minor problem was that some of the soviet nationals were not
'aryans' but 'subhumans' according to the official nazi philosophy.
as such , they were subject to german racism. however , armenians
were the least threatened and indeed most privileged. in august
1933 , armenians had been recognized as aryans by the bureau of
racial investigation in the ministry for domestic affairs.

1 meyer , berkian , ibid. , pp. 112 113.

need i go on \?

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
reply to tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
organization iowa state university
lines 36

in article 1993apr20.143453.3127@news.uiowa.edu , mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau
napoleon) writes
from article 1qvgu5inn2np@lynx.unm.edu , by osinski@chtm.eece.unm.edu (marek
osinski)

well , it did not take long to see how consequent some greeks are in
requesting that thessaloniki are not called solun by bulgarian netters.
so , napoleon , why do you write about konstantinople and not istanbul \?

marek osinski

thessaloniki is called thessaloniki by its inhabitants for the last 2300
years.
the city was never called solun by its inhabitants.
instabul was called konstantinoupolis from 320 ad until about the 1920s.
that 's about 1600 years. there many people alive today who were born in a
city
called konstantinoupolis. how many people do you know that were born in a city
called solun.

napoleon

are you one of those people who were born when istanbul was called
konstantinopolis \? i do n't think so ! if those people use it because
they are used to do so , then i understand. but open any map
today (except a few that try to be political) you will see that the name
of the city is printed as istanbul. so , do n't try to give
any arguments to using konstantinopolis except to cause some
flames , to make some political statement.



tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !

from koc@rize.ece.orst.edu (cetin kaya koc)
subject re seventh century a.d. armenian math problems
organization college of engineering , oregon state university
lines 32
nntp posting host rize.ece.orst.edu

problem 1

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the
armenians and the persians , prince zaurak kamsarakan performed extraordinary
heroic deeds. three times in a single month he attacked the persian troops.
the first time , he struck down half of the persian army. the second time ,
pursuing the persians , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers. the third
time , he destroyed one eleventh of the persian army. the persians who were
still alive , numbering two hundred eighty , fled to nakhichevan. and so , from
this remainder , find how many persian soldiers there were before the
massacre.


answer a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11) 280 a 1760

corollary armenians strike , slaughter , destroy , and massacre. after all ,
they are not as innocent as the asala network claims.
















from ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich)
subject why does us consider yigal arens to be a dangerous to humanity
organization math department , bar ilan university , ramat gan , israel
lines 20

in article arens.93apr13161407@grl.isi.edu arens@isi.edu (yigal
arens) writes

los angeles times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993. p. a1.
........

the problem if transffering us government files about yigal arens
and some other similar persons does or does not violate a federal
or a local american law seemed to belong to some local american law
forum not to this forum.
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents
of those files.
so it will be nice if yigal will tell us
1. why do american authorities consider yigal arens to be dangerous \?
2. why does the adl have an interest in that person \?
3. if one does trust either the us government or the adl what an
additional information should he send them \?


gideon ehrlich

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 008 a
summary part a
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 501

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 008 part a
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh

(part a of 008)



oh , yes , i just remembered. while they were raping me they
repeated quite frequently , let the armenian women have babies
for us , muslim babies , let them bear azerbaijanis for the
struggle against the armenians. then they said , those
muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes ! they repeated
it very often.



deposition of lyudmila grigorevna m.

born 1959
teacher
sumgait secondary school no. 10
secretary of the komsomol organization at school no. 10
member of the sumgait city komsomol committee office

resident at building 17 33b , apartment 15
microdistrict no. 3
sumgait azerbaijan

note the events in kafan , used as a pretext to attack armenians in
azerbaijan are false , as verified by independent international human rights
organizations dd

i'm thinking about the price the sumgait armenians paid to be living in
armenia now. we paid for it in human casualties and crippled fates the
price was too great ! now , after the sumgait tragedy , we , the victims , divide
our lives into before and ''after. we talk like that that was before the
war. like the people who went through world war ii and considered it a whole
epoch , a fate. no matter how many years go by , no matter how long we live ,
it will never be forgotten. on the contrary , some of the moments become even
sharper in our rage , in our sorrow , we saw everything differently , but now
. . . they say that you can see more with distance , and we can see those
inhuman events with more clarity now . . . we more acutely perceive our
losses and everything that happened.

nineteen eighty eight was a leap year. everyone fears a leap year and wants it
to pass as quickly as possible. yet we never thought that that leap year would
be such a black one for every sumgait armenian those who lost someone and
those who did n't.

that second to last day of winter was ordinary for our family , although you
could already smell danger in the air. but we did n't think that the danger was
near and possible , so we did n't take any steps to save ourselves. at least , as
my parents say , at least we should have done something to save the children.
my parents themselves are not that old , 52 and 53 years. but then they thought
that they had already lived enough , and did everything they could to save us.

in our apartment the tragedy started on february 28 , around five in the
afternoon. i call it a tragedy , and i repeat it was a tragedy even though all
our family survived. when i recall how they broke down our door my skin
crawls even now , among armenians , among people who wish me only well , i feel
like it 's all starting over again. i remember how that mob broke into our
apartment . . . my parents were standing in the hall. my father had an axe in
his hands and had immediately locked both of the doors. our door was rarely
locked since friends and neighbors often dropped by. we 're known as a
hospitable family , and we just never really thought about whether the people
who were coming to see us were azerbaijanis , jews , or russians. we had friends
of many nationalities , even a turkmen woman.

my parents were in the hall , my father with an axe. i remember him telling my
mother , run to the kitchen for a knife. but mother was detached , pale , as
though she had decided to sell her life a bit dearer. to be honest i never
expected it of her , she 's afraid of getting shot and afraid of the dark. a
girlfriend was at the house that day , a russian girl , lyuda , and mamma said ,
no matter what happens , no matter what they do to us , you 're not to come out
of the bedroom. we 're going to tell them that we 're alone in the apartment.

we went into the bedroom. there were four of us. marina and the russian girl
crawled under the bed , and we covered them up with a rug , boxes of dishes , and
karina and i are standing there and looking at one another. the idea that
perhaps we were seeing each other for the last time flashed somewhere inside
me. i'm an emotional person and i express my emotions immediately. i wanted to
embrace her and kiss her , as though it were the last second. and maybe karina
was thinking the same thing , but she 's quite reserved. we did n't have time to
say anything to each other because we immediately heard mamma raise a shout.
there was so much noise from the tramping of feet , from the shouting , and from
excited voices. i could n't figure what was going on out there because the door
to the bedroom was only open a crack. but when mamma shouted the second time
karina ran out of the bedroom. i ran after her , i had wanted to hold her back ,
but when she opened the door and ran out into the hall they saw us
immediately. the only thing i managed to do was close the door behind me , at
least so as to save marina and her friend. the mob was shouting , all of their
eyes were shining , all red , like from insomnia. at first about 40 people burst
in , but later i was standing with my back to the door and could n't see. they
came into the hall , into the kitchen , and dragged my father into the other
room. he did n't utter a word , he just raised the axe to hit them , but mamma
snatched the axe from behind and said , tell them not to touch the children.
tell them they can do as they want with us , but not to harm the children. she
said this to father in armenian.

there were azerbaijanis from armenia among the mob who broke in. they
understood armenian perfectly. the local azerbaijanis do n't know armenian ,
they do n't need to speak it. and one of them responded in armenian you and
your children both . . . we 're going to do the same thing to you and your
children that you armenians did in kafan. they killed our women , our girls ,
our mothers , they cut their breasts off , and burned our houses . . . , and
so on and so forth , and we came to do the same thing to you. this whole time
some of them are destroying the house and the others are shouting at us. they
were mostly young people , under 30. at first there were n't any older people
among them. and all of their faces were unfamiliar. sumgait is a small town ,
all the same , and we know a lot of people by their faces , especially me , i'm
a teacher.

so they dragged my father into the other room. they twisted his arms and took
him in there , no they did n't take him in there , they dragged him in there ,
because he was already unable to walk. they closed the door to that room all
but a crack. we could n't see what was happening to father , what they were
doing to him. then a young man , about 26 years old , started to tear off
mamma 's sarafan , and mamma shouted at him in azerbaijani i'm old enough to
be your mother ! what are you doing \? ! he struck her. now he 's being held ,
mamma identified him. i hope he 's convicted. then they went after karina ,
who 's been talking to them like a komsomol leader , as though she were trying
to lead them down a different path , as they say , to influence their
consciousness. she told them that what they were doing was wrong , that they
must n't do it. she said , come on , let 's straighten this out , without
emotions. what do you want \? who are you \? why did you come here \? what did we
ever do to you \? someone tried to explain who they were and why they had come
into our home , but then the ones in the back more of them kept coming and
coming said , what are you talking to , them for. you should kill them. we
came here to kill them.

they pushed karina , struck her , and she fell down. they beat her , but she
did n't cry out. even when they tore her clothes off , she kept repeating , what
did we do to you \? what did we do to you \? and even later , when she came to ,
she said , mamma , what did we do to them \? why did they do that to us \?

that group was prepared , i know this because i noticed that some of them only
broke up furniture , and others only dealt with us. i remember that when they
were beating me , when they were tearing my clothes off , i felt neither pain
nor shame because my entire attention was riveted to karina. all i could do
was watch how much they beat her and how painful it was for her , and what they
did to her. that 's why i felt no pain. later , when they carried karina off ,
they beat her savagely . . . it 's really amazing that she not only lived , but
did n't lose her mind . she is very beautiful and they did everything they
could to destroy her beauty. mostly they beat her face , with their fists ,
kicking her , using anything they could find.

mamma , karina , and i were all in one room. and again i did n't feel any pain ,
just did n't feel any , no matter how much they beat me , no matter what they
did. then one of those creeps said that there was n't enough room in the
apartment. they broke up the beds and the desk and moved everything into the
corners so there would be more room. then someone suggested , let 's take her
outside.

those beasts were in heaven. they did what they would do every day if they
were n't afraid of the authorities. those were their true colors. at the time
i thought that in fact they would always behave that way if they were n't
afraid of what would happen to them.

when they carried karina out and beat mamma her face was completely covered
with blood that 's when i started to feel the pain. i blacked out several
times from the pain , but each moment that i had my eyes open it was as though
i were recording it all on film. i think i'm a kind person by nature , but i'm
vengeful , especially if someone is mean to me , and i do n't deserve it. i hold
a grudge a long time if someone intentionally causes me pain. and every time
i would come to and see one of those animals on top of me , i 'd remember them ,
and i 'll remember them for the rest of my life , even though people tell me
forget , you have to forget , you have to go on living.

at some point i remember that they stood me up and told me something , and
despite the fact that i hurt all over i had been beaten terribly i found
the strength in myself to interfere with their tortures. i realized that i had
to do something resist them or just let them kill me to bring my suffering
to an end. i pushed one of them away , he was a real horse. i remember now that
he 's being held , too. as though they were all waiting for it , they seized me
and took me out onto the balcony. i had long hair , and it was stuck all over
me. one of the veranda shutters to the balcony was open , and i realized that
they planned to throw me out the window , because they had already picked me up
with their hands , i was up in the air. as though for the last time i took a
really deep breath and closed my eyes , and somehow braced myself inside , i
suddenly became cold , as though my heart had sunk into my feet. and suddenly
i felt myself flying. i could n't figure out if i was really flying or if i
just imagined it. when i came to i thought now i'm going to smash on the
ground. and when it did n't happen i opened my eyes and realized that i was
still lying on the floor. and since i did n't scream , did n't beg them at all ,
they became all the more wild , like wolves. they started to trample me with
their feet. shoes with heels on them , and iron horseshoes , like they had spe
cially put them on. then i lost consciousness.

i came to a couple of times and waited for death , summoned it , beseeched it.
some people ask for good health , life , happiness , but at that moment i did n't
need any of those things. i was sure that none of us would survive , and i had
even forgotten about marina and if none of us was alive , it was n't worth
living.

there was a moment when the pain was especially great. i withstood inhuman
pain , and realized that they were going to torment me for a long time to come
because i had showed myself to be so tenacious. i started to strangle myself ,
and when i started to wheeze they realized that with my death i was going to
put an end to their pleasures , and they pulled my hands from my throat. the
person who injured and insulted me most painfully i remember him very well ,
because he was the oldest in the group. he looked around 48. i know that he
has four children and that he considers himself an ideal father and person ,
one who would never do such a thing. something came over him then , you see ,
even during the investigation he almost called me daughter , he apologized ,
although , of course , he knew that i 'd never forgive him. something like that
i can never forgive. i have never injured anyone with my behavior , with my
words , or with my deeds , i have always put myself in the other person 's shoes ,
but then , in a matter of hours , they trampled me entirely. i shall never
forget it.

i wanted to do myself in then , because i had nothing to lose , because no one
could protect me. my father , who tried to do something against that hoard of
beasts by himself , could do nothing and would n't be able to do anything.
i knew that i was even sure that he was no longer alive.

and ira melkumian , my acquaintance i knew her and had been to see her family a
couple of times her brother tried to save her and could n't , so he tried to
kill her , his very own sister. he threw an axe at her to kill her and put an
end to her suffering. when they stripped her clothes off and carried her into
the other room , her brother knew what awaited her. i do n't know which one it
was , edik or igor. both of them were in the room from which the axe was
thrown. but the axe hit one of the people carrying her and so they killed her
and made her death even more excruciating , maybe the most excruciating of all
the deaths of those days in sumgait. i heard about it all from the neighbor
from the melkumians' landing. his name is makhaddin , he knows my family a
little. he came to see how we had gotten settled in the new apartment in baku ,
how we were feeling , and if we needed anything. he 's a good person. he said ,
you should praise god that you all survived. but what i saw with my own eyes ,
i , a man , who has seen so many people die , who has lived a whole life , i , he
says , nearly lost my mind that day. i had never seen the likes of it and
think i never shall again. the door to his apartment was open and he saw
everything. one of the brothers threw the axe , because they had already taken
the father and mother out of the apartment. igor , edik , and ira remained. he
saw ira , naked , being carried into the other room in the hands of six or seven
people. he told us about it and said he would never forget it. he heard the
brothers shouting something , inarticulate from pain , rage , and the fact that
they were powerless to do anything. but all the same they tried to
do something. the guy who got hit with the axe lived. i i

after i had been unsuccessful at killing myself i saw them taking marina and
lyuda out of the bedroom. i was in such a state that i could n't even
remember my sister 's name. i wanted to cry marina ! out to her , but could
not. i looked at her and knew that it was a familiar , dear face , but could n't
for the life of me remember what her name was and who she was. and thus
i saved her , because when they were taking her out , she , as it turns out , had
told them that she had just been visiting and that she and lyuda were both
there by chance , that they were n't armenians. lyuda 's a russian , you can tell
right away , and marina speaks azerbaijani wonderfully and she told them that
she was an azerbaijani. and i almost gave her away and doomed her. i'm glad
that at least marina came out of this all in good physical health . . .
although her spirit was murdered . . .

at some point i came to and saw igor , igor agayev , my acquaintance , in that
mob. he lives in the neighboring building. for some reason i remembered his
name , maybe i sensed my defense in him. i called out to him in russian , igor ,
help ! but he turned away and went into the bedroom. just then they were
taking marina and lyuda out of the bedroom. igor said he knew marina and
lyuda , that marina in fact was azerbaijani , and he took both of them to the
neighbors.

and the idea stole through me that maybe igor had led them to our apartment ,
something like that , but if he was my friend , he was supposed to save me.

then they were striking me very hard we have an indian vase , a metal one ,
they were hitting me on the back with it and i blacked out they took me out
onto the balcony a second time to throw me out the window. they were already
sure that i was dead because i did n't react at all to the new blows. someone
said , she 's already dead , let 's throw her out. when they carried me out onto
the balcony for the second time , when i was about to die the second time , i
heard someone say in azerbaijani do n't kill her , i know her , she 's a
teacher. i can still hear that voice ringing in my ears , but i ca n't remember
whose voice it was. it was n't igor , because he speaks azerbaijani with an
accent his mother is russian and they speak russian at home. he speaks
azerbaijani worse than our marina does. i remember when they carried me in and
threw me on the bed he came up to me , that person , and i having opened my
eyes , saw and recognized that person , but immediately passed out cold. i had
been beaten so much that i did n't have the strength to remember him. i only
remember that this person was older and he had a high position. unfortunately
i ca n't remember anything more.

what should i say about igor \? he did n't treat me badly. i had heard a lot
about him , that he was n't that good a person , that he sometimes drank too
much. once he boasted to me that he had served in afghanistan. he knew that
women usually like bravery in a man. especially if a man was in afghanistan ,
if he was wounded , then it 's about eighty percent sure that he will be treated
very sympathetically , with respect. later i found out that he had served in
ufa , and was injured , but that 's not in afghanistan , of course. i found that
all out later.

among the people who were in our apartment , my karina also saw the secretary
of the party organization. i do n't know his last name , his first name is
najaf , he is an armenian born azerbaijani. but later karina was n't so sure ,
she was no longer a hundred percent sure that it was he she saw , and she
did n't want to endanger him. she said , he was there , and a little while
later , maybe they beat me so much that i am confusing him with someone else.
no , it seems like it was he. i am sure it was he because when he came to see
us the first time he said one thing , and the next time he said something
entirely different. the investigators have n't summoned him yet. he came to see
us in the khimik boarding house where we were living at the time. he brought
groceries and flowers , this was right before march 8th he almost started
crying , he was so upset to see our condition. i do n't know if he was putting
us on or not , but later , after we had told the investigator and they summoned
him to the procuracy , he said that he had been in baku , he was n't in sumgait.
the fact that he changed his testimony leads me to believe that karina is
right , that in fact it was he who was in our apartment. i do n't know how the
investigators are now treating him. at one point i wondered and asked , and was
told that he had an alibi and was not in our apartment. could n't he have gone
to baku and arranged an alibi \? i'm not ruling out that possibility.

ill now return to our apartment. mamma had come to. you could say that she
bought them off with the gold father gave her when they were married her
wedding band and her watch were gold. she bought her own and her husband 's
lives with them. she gave the gold to a 14 year old boy. vadim vorobyev. a
russian boy , he speaks azerbaijani perfectly. he 's an orphan who was raised by
his grandfather and who lives in sumgait on nizami street. he goes to a
special school , one for mentally handicapped children. but i 'll say this i'm
a teacher all the same and in a matter of minutes i can form an opinion that
boy is not at all mentally handicapped. he 's healthy , he can think just fine ,
and analyze , too . . . policemen should be so lucky. and he 's cunning , too.
after that he went home and tore all of the pictures out of his photo album.

he beat mamma and demanded gold , saying , lady , if you give us all the gold
and money in your apartment we 'll let you live. and mamma told them where
the gold was. he brought in the bag and opened it , shook out the contents , and
everyone who was in the apartment jumped on it , started knocking each other
over and taking the gold from one another. i'm surprised they did n't kill one
another right then.

mamma was still in control of herself. she had been beaten up , her face was
black and blue from the blows , and her eyes were filled with blood , and she
ran into the other room. father was lying there , tied up , with a gag in his
mouth and a pillow over his face. there was a broken table on top of the pil
low. mamma grabbed father and he could n't walk like me , he was half dead ,
halfway into the other world. he could n't comprehend anything , could n't see ,
and was covered with black and blue. mamma pulled the gag out of his mouth ,
it was some sort of cloth , i think it was a slipcover from an armchair.

the bandits were still in our apartment , even in the room mamma pulled father
out of , led him out of , carried him out of. we had two armchairs in that room ,
a small magazine table , a couch , a television , and a screen. three people
were standing next to that screen , and into their shirts , their pants ,
everywhere imaginable , they were shoving shot glasses and cups from the coffee
service mamma saw them out of the corner of her eye. she said , i was afraid
to turn around , i just seized father and started pulling him , but at the
threshold i could n't hold him up , he fell down , and i picked him up again and
dragged him down the stairs to the neighbors'. mamma remembered one of the
criminals , the one who had watched her with his face half turned toward her ,
out of one eye. she says , i realized that my death would come from that
person. i looked him in the eyes and he recoiled from fear and went stealing.
later they caught that scoundrel. meanwhile , mamma grabbed father and left.

i was alone. igor had taken marina away , mamma and father were gone , karina
was already outside , i did n't know what they were doing to her. i was left all
alone , and at that moment . . . i became someone else , do you understand \? even
though i knew that neither mother and father in the other room , nor marina and
lyuda under the bed could save me , all the same i somehow managed to hold out.
i went on fighting them , i bit someone , i remember , and i scratched another.
but when i was left alone i realized what kind of people they were , the ones
i had observed , the ones who beat karina , what kind of people they were , the
ones who beat me , that it was all unnecessary , that i was about to die and
that all of that would die with me.

at some point i took heart when i saw the young man from the next building. i
did n't know his name , but we would greet one another when we met , we knew that
we were from the same microdistrict. when i saw him i said , neighbor , is that
you \? in so doing i placed myself in great danger. he realized that if i lived
i would remember him. that 's when he grabbed the axe. the axe that had been
taken from my father. i automatically fell to my knees and raised my hands to
take the blow of the axe , although at the time it would have been better if he
had struck me in the head with the axe and put me out of my misery. when he
started getting ready to wind back for the blow , someone came into the room.
the newcomer had such an impact on everyone that my neighbor 's axe froze in
the air. everyone stood at attention for this guy , like soldiers in the
presence of a general. everyone waited for his word continue the atrocities
or not. he said , enough , let 's go to the third entryway. in the third
entryway they killed uncle shurik , aleksandr gambarian. this confirms once
again that they had prepared in advance. almost all of them left with him , as
they went picking up pillows , blankets , whatever they needed , whatever they
found , all the way up to worn out slippers and one boot , someone else had
already taken the other.

four people remained in the room , soldiers who did n't obey their general. they
had to have come recently , because other faces had flashed in front of me over
those 2 to 3 hours , but i had never seen those three. one of them , kuliyev (i
identified him later) , a native of the sisian district of armenia , an
azerbaijani , had moved to azerbaijan a year before. he told me in armenian
sister , do n't be afraid , i 'll drive those three azerbaijanis out of here.
that 's just what he said , those azerbaijanis , as though he himself were not
azerbaijani , but some other nationality , he said with such hatred , i 'll drive
them out of here now , and you put your clothes on , and find a hammer and nails
and nail the door shut , because they 'll be coming back from apartment 41.
that 's when i found out that they had gone to apartment 41. before that , the
person in the eskimo dogskin coat , the one who came in and whom they listened
to , the general , said that they were going to the third entryway.

kuliyev helped me get some clothes on , because l could n't do it by myself.
marina 's old fur coat was lying on the floor. he threw it over my shoulders , i
was racked with shivers , and he asked where he could find nails and a hammer.
he wanted to give them to me so that when he left i could nail the door shut.
but the door was lying on the floor in the hall.

i went out onto the balcony. there were broken windows , and flowers and dirt
from flowerpots were scattered on the floor. it was impossible to find
anything. he told me , well , fine , i wo n't leave you here. would any of the
neighbors let you in \? they 'll be back , they wo n't calm down , they know you 're
alive. he told me all this in armenian.

then he returned to the others and said , what are you waiting for \? leave !
they said , ah , you just want to chase us out of here and do it with her
yourself. no , we want to do it to. he urged them on , but gently , not
coarsely , because he was alone against them , although they were still just
boys , not old enough to be drafted. he led them out of the room , and went
down to the third floor with them himself , and said , leave. what 's the mat
ter , are n't you men \? go fight with the men. what do you want of her \? and
he came back upstairs. they wanted to come up after him and he realized that
he could n't hold them off forever. then he asked me where he could hide me. i
told him at the neighbors' on the fourth floor , apartment 10 , we were on really
good terms with them.

we knocked on the door , and he explained in azerbaijani. the neighbor woman
opened the door and immediately said , i'm an azerbaijani. he said , i know.
let her sit at your place a while. do n't open the door to anyone , no one knows
about this , i wo n't tell anyone. let her stay at your place. she says , fine ,
have her come in. i went in. she cried a bit and gave me some stockings , i
had gone entirely numb and was racked with nervous shudders. i burst into
tears. even though i was wearing marina 's old fur coat , it 's a short one , a
half length , i was cold all the same. i asked , do you know where my family
is , what happened to them \? she says , no , i do n't know anything. i'm afraid
to go out of the apartment , now they 're so wild that they do n't look to see
who 's azerbaijani and who 's armenian. kuliyev left. ten minutes later my
neighbor says , you know , lyuda , i do n't want to lose my life because of you ,
or my son and his wife. go stay with someone else. during the butchery in our
apartment one of the scum , a sadist , took my earring in his mouth i had pearl
earrings on and ripped it out , tearing the earlobe. the other earring was
still there. when i'm nervous i fix my hair constantly , and then , when i
touched my ear , i noticed that i had one earring on. i took it out and gave it
to her. she took the earring , but she led me out of the apartment.

i went out and did n't know where to go. i heard someone going upstairs. i
do n't know who it was but assumed it was them. with tremendous difficulty i
end up to our apartment , i wanted to die in my own home. i go into the
apartment and hear that they are coming up to our place , to the fifth floor.
i had to do something. i went into the bedroom where marina and lyuda had
hidden and saw that the bed was overturned. instead of hiding i squatted near
some broken christmas ornaments , found an unbroken one , and started sobbing.
then they came in. someone said that there were still some things to take. i
think that someone pushed me under the bed. i lay on the floor , and there were
broken ornaments on it , under my head and legs. i got all cut up , but i lay
there without moving. my heart was beating so hard it seemed the whole town
could hear it. there were no lights on. maybe that 's what saved me. they were
burning matches , and toward the end they brought in a candle. they started
picking out the clothes that could still be worn. they took father 's sport
jacket and a bedspread , the end of which was under my head. they pulled on the
one end , and it felt like they were pulling my hair out. i almost cried out.
and again i realized i was n't getting out of there alive , and i started to
strangle myself again. i took my throat in one hand , and pressed the other on
my mouth , so as not to wheeze , so that i would die and they would only find me
afterward. they were throwing the burned matches under the bed , and i got
burned , but i withstood it. something inside of me held on , someone 's hand was
protecting me to the end. i knew that i was going to die , but i did n't know
how. i knew that if i survived i would walk out of that apartment , but if
i found out that one of my family had died , i would die for sure , because i
had never been so close to death and could n't imagine how you could go on
living without your mother or father , or without your sister. marina , i
thought , was still alive she went to lyuda 's place or someone is hiding her.
i tried to think that igor would n't let them be killed. he served in
afghanistan , he should protect her.

while i was strangling myself i said my good byes to everyone. and then i
thought , how could marina survive alone. if they killed all of us , how would
she live all by herself \? there were six people in the room. they talked among
themselves and smoked. one talked about his daughter , saying that there was no
children 's footwear in our apartment that he could take for his daughter.
another said that he liked the apartment recently we had done a really good
job fixing everything up and that he would live there after everything was
all over. they started to argue. a third one says , how come you get it \? i
have four children , and there are three rooms here , that 's just what i need.
all these years i 've been living in god awful places. another one says ,
neither of you gets it. we 'll set fire to it and leave. then someone said
that azerbaijanis live right next door , the fire could move over to their
place. and they , to my good fortune , did n't set fire to the apartment , and
left.

oh , yes , i just remembered. while they were raping me they repeated quite
frequently , let the armenian women have babies for us , muslim babies , let
them bear azerbaijanis for the struggle against the armenians. then they
said , those muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes ! they repeated it
very often.

reference for 008

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 118 145



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 46

in article 1rd7eo 1a4@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

in a previous article , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) says

in article 1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or
palestinian news outlets , where do we go to understand , to learn \?
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another \?

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report
on the situation in the o.t.

a neutral organization would report on the situation in
israel , where the elderly and children are the victims of stabbings by
hamas activists. a neutral organization might also report that
israeli arabs have full civil rights.

the israelis used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these
neutral reporters.

care to name names , or is this yet another unsubstantiated
slander \?

so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in palestine.
they do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in palestine.

terrorism , as you would know if you had a spine that allowed
you to stand up , is random attacks on civilians. terorism includes
such things as shooting a cripple and thowing him off the side of a
boat because he happens to be jewish. not allowing people to go where
they are likely to be stabbed and killed , like a certain lawyer killed
last week , is not terorism.

adam







adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from alaa@peewee.unx.dec.com (alaa zeineldine)
subject re facts about wtc bombing
organization digital equipment corp.
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
lines 27

backon@vms.huji.ac.il writes
in article 1pll52 sms@usenet.ins.cwru.edu , cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah) writes
who is josie hadas \?


i see you did n't notice my recent posting.

the fbi found that josie hadas was simply an alias taken by salameh.


i have the sources for the information in the chronology , including the
ny daily news of march 5 that reports the arrest of josie hadas and a
copy of the foreign press reports of her release shortly afterwards.

what is the source for your alias story \?

and pray tell me how can the fbi arrest and release an alias \?

what is the relationship between that person and the israeli mussad \?

zilch , zero , nothing. like the iq of the idiot who posted this absurdity in the
first place.

what has iq to do with collecting information and putting it forward. why
has the fbi refused comment on the guardian reporter 's question about
hadas' link with israeli intelligence (the information did not mention
the mossad explicitly).

from nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson)
subject re remember those names come election time.
nntp posting host c.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard corporation , chelmsford , ma
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government
lines 34

in article c5ztk0.dyi.1@cs.cmu.edu anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed) writes
i said
in article c5u4qi.mz4@apollo.hp.com nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , liberia , angola , or
(it appears with the khmer rouge 's new campaign) cambodia. non whites
do n't count \?

hmm...some might say kuwaitis are non white. ooops , i forgot , kuwaitis are
oil rich , loaded with petro dollars , etc so they do n't count.

...and let 's not forget somalia , which is about as far from white as it
gets.

and why are we in somalia \? when right across the gulf of aden are
some of the wealthiest arab nations on the planet \? why does the
us always become the point man for this stuff \? i do n't mind us
helping out but what invariably happens is that everybody expects
us to do most of the work and take most of the risks , even when these
events are occuring in other people 's back yards , and they have the
resources to deal with them quite well , thank you. i mean , it 's
not like either serbia , or somalia represent some overwhelming
military force that their neighbors ca n't handle. nor are the
logistics a big deal it 's a lot bigger logistical challenge
to get troops and supplies from new york to somalia , than from
saudi arabia harder to go from texas to serbia , than turkey or
austria to serbia.


peter




from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject traditional and historical armenian barbarism (was re watch out ! ! ).
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 106

in article 21apr199314025948@elroy.uh.edu st156@elroy.uh.edu (fazia begum rizvi) writes

seems to me that a lot of good muslims would care about those terms.
especially those affected by the ideology and actions that such terms
decscribe. the bosnians suffering from such bigotry comes to mind. they
get it from people who call them 'dirty descendants of turks' , from
people who hate their religion , and from those who do n't think they are
really muslims at all since they are white. the suffering that they are

let us not forget about the genocide of the azeri people in 'karabag'
and x soviet armenia by the armenians. between 1914 and 1920 , armenians
committed unheard of crimes , resorted to all conceivable methods of
despotism , organized massacres , poured petrol over babies and burned
them , raped women and girls in front of their parents who were bound
hand and foot , took girls from their mothers and fathers and appropriated
personal property and real estate. and today , they put azeris in the most
unbearable conditions any other nation had ever known in history.


aref sadikov sat quietly in the shade of a cafe bar on the
caspian sea esplanade of baku and showed a line of stitches in
his trousers , torn by an armenian bullet as he fled the town of
hojali just over three months ago , writes hugh pope.

i'm still wearing the same clothes , i do n't have any others ,
the 51 year old carpenter said , beginning his account of the
hojali disaster. i was wounded in five places , but i am lucky to
be alive.

mr sadikov and his wife were short of food , without electricity
for more than a month , and cut off from helicopter flights for 12
days. they sensed the armenian noose was tightening around the
2 , 000 to 3 , 000 people left in the straggling azeri town on the
edge of karabakh.

at about 11pm a bombardment started such as we had never heard
before , eight or nine kinds of weapons , artillery , heavy
machine guns , the lot , mr sadikov said.

soon neighbours were pouring down the street from the direction
of the attack. some huddled in shelters but others started
fleeing the town , down a hill , through a stream and through the
snow into a forest on the other side.

to escape , the townspeople had to reach the azeri town of agdam
about 15 miles away. they thought they were going to make it ,
until at about dawn they reached a bottleneck between the two
armenian villages of nakhchivanik and saderak.

none of my group was hurt up to then ... then we were spotted by
a car on the road , and the armenian outposts started opening
fire , mr sadikov said.

azeri militiamen fighting their way out of hojali rushed forward
to force open a corridor for the civilians , but their efforts
were mostly in vain. mr sadikov said only 10 people from his
group of 80 made it through , including his wife and militiaman
son. seven of his immediate relations died , including his
67 year old elder brother.

i only had time to reach down and cover his face with his hat ,
he said , pulling his own big flat turkish cap over his eyes. we
have never got any of the bodies back.

the first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire.
one hero of the evacuation , alif hajief , was shot dead as he
struggled to change a magazine while covering the third group 's
crossing , mr sadikov said.

another hero , elman memmedov , the mayor of hojali , said he and
several others spent the whole day of 26 february in the bushy
hillside , surrounded by dead bodies as they tried to keep three
armenian armoured personnel carriers at bay.

as the survivors staggered the last mile into agdam , there was
little comfort in a town from which most of the population was
soon to flee.

the night after we reached the town there was a big armenian
rocket attack. some people just kept going , mr sadikov said. i
had to get to the hospital for treatment. i was in a bad way.
they even found a bullet in my sock.

victims of war an azeri woman mourns her son , killed in the
hojali massacre in february (left). nurses struggle in primitive
conditions (centre) to save a wounded man in a makeshift
operating theatre set up in a train carriage. grief stricken
relatives in the town of agdam (right) weep over the coffin of
another of the massacre victims. calculating the final death toll
has been complicated because muslims bury their dead within 24
hours.

photographs liu heung ap
frederique lengaigne reuter

the independent , london , 12 6 '92

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re was go hezbollah !
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 133

in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

it is not a terrorist camp as you and the israelis like
to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer
in the streets , women preparing lunch , men playing cards , etc.....
some young men , usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of
the lebanese resistance. even the inhabitants of the village do not
know who these are , they are secretive about it , but most people often
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are
supported financially by iran most of the time. they sneak arms and
ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps
for israeli patrols. every time an israeli soldier is killed or injured
by these traps , israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians.

this a tried and true method utilized by guerilla and terrorists groups
to conduct operations in the midst of the local populace , thus forcing the
opposing state to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or ,
in order to avoid the deaths of civilians , abandon the search. certainly the
people who use the population for cover are also to blaim for dragging the
innocent civilians into harm 's way.

are you suggesting that , when guerillas use the population for cover , israel
should totally back down \? so...the easiest way to get away with attacking
another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the other respects
innocent lives \?

if israel insists that
the so called security zone is necessary for the protection of
northern israel , than it will have to pay the price of its occupation
with the blood of its soldiers.

your damn right israel insists on some sort of demilitarized or buffer
zone. its had to put up with too many years of attacks from the territory
of arab states and watched as the states did nothing. it is not exactly
surprizing that israel decided that the only way to stop such actions is to
do it themselves.

if israel is interested in peace , than it should withdraw from our land.

what \? so the whole bit about attacks on israel from neighboring arab states
can start all over again \? while i also hope for this to happen , it will
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the
responsibility and the duty to stop guerilla attacks on israel from their
soil. they have to prove it (or provide some guaratees ) , there is no way
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of
tolerance towards anti israel guerillas in residence .

i have written before on this very newsgroup , that the only
real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace
settlement whereby israel withdraws to its own borders and
peace keeping troops are stationed along the border to insure
no one on either side of the border is shelled.

good lord , brad. what in the world goves you the idea that un troops stop
anything \? they are only stationed in a country because that country allows
them in. it can ask them to leave at any time as nasser did in '56 and
'67. somehow , with that limitation on the troops powers i do n't
think that israel is going to be any more comfortable. without a genuine commitment to peace from the arab states , and concrete (not intellectual or political exercises in jargon) guarantees by other parties , the un is worthless
to israel (but , perhaps useful as a ruse \? ).

this is the only realistic solution , it is time for israel to
realize that the concept of a buffer zone aimed at protecting
its northern cities has failed. in fact it has caused much more
israeli deaths than the occasional shelling of northern israel
would have resulted in.

perhaps you are aware that , to most communities of people , there is
the feeling that it is better that many of us die fighting
against those who attack us than for few to die while we silently
accept our fate. if , however , you call on israel to see the sense of
suffering fewer casualties , i suggest you apply the same to palestinian ,
arab and islamic groups.

if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would withdraw
unilaterally from the so called security zone before the conclusion
of the peace talks. such a move would save israeli lives ,
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's
public image abroad and give it an edge in the peace negociations
since israel can rightly claim that it is genuinely interested in
peace and has already offered some important concessions.
along with such a withdrawal israel could demand that hizbollah
be disarmed by the lebanese government and warn that it will not
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a
shelling occurs than it will consider re taking the buffer zone
and will hold the lebanese and syrian government responsible for it.

from israel 's perspective , concessions gets it nothing...except the
realization that it has given something up and now can only
hope that the other side decides to do likewise. words can be taken
back by merely doing so to take back tangible items (land ,
control of land) requires the sort of action you say israel should
stay away from.

israel put up with attacks from arab state territories for decades
before essentially putting a stop to it through its invasion of lebanon.
the entire basis of that reality was exactly as you state above 1) israel
would express outrage at these attacks and protest to the arab state
involved , 2) that state promptly ignored the entire matter , secure
in the knowledge that it could not be held responsible for the acts
committed by private groups , 3) israel would prepare for the next
round of attacks. what would israel want to return to those days (and
do n't be so idiotic as to suggest trust for the motivations of
present day arab states) \?

there seems to be very little incentive for the syrian and lebanese
goovernment to allow hizbollah to bomb israel proper under such
circumstances ,

ah , ok...what is different about the present situation that tells
us that the arab states will not pursue their past antagonistic
policies towards israel \? now , do n't talk about vague political factors
but about those tangible (just like that which israel gave up)
factors that guarantee the responsibility of those states. your
assessment of difference here is based on a whole lot of assumptions ,
and most states do n't feel confortable basing their existence on that
sort of thing.

and now the lebanese government has proven that it is
capable of controlling and disarming all militias as they did
in all other parts of lebanon.

basil

it has not. without the support , and active involvement , of syria ,
lebanon would not have been able to accomplish all that has occurred.
once syria leaves who is to say that lebanon will be able to retain
control \? if syria stays thay may be even more dangerous for israel.

tim

your view of this entire matter is far too serenely one sided and
selectively naive.

subject re deriving pleasure from death
from mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi)
organization calif state univ electronic information services
lines 30

brad hernlem writes...

congratulations to the brave men of the lebanese resistance ! with every
israeli son that you place in the grave you are underlining the moral
bankruptcy of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli
government 's policy of reckless disregard for civilian life.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

to which mark ira kaufman responds

your delight in the death of human beings says more about you
than anything that i could say.

mark ,
were you one of the millions of americans cheering the slaughter of iraqi
civilians by us forces in 1991 \? your comment could also apply to all of
them. (by the way , i do not applaud the killing of any human being ,
including prisoners sentenced to death by our illustrious justice department)

peace.
marc




some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with
both eyes.
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions.


from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 67

in article 1993apr20.173009.10580@sol.ctr.columbia.edu , deniz@mandolin.ctr.columbia.edu (deniz akkus) writes
in article 1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr20.000413.25123@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes

henrik my response to the shooting down of a turkish airplane over the
henrik armenian air space was because of the ignorant posting of the
henrik person from your country. turks and azeris consistantly want to
henrik drag armenia into the karabakh conflict with azerbaijan. the
henrik karabakhi armenians who have lived in their homeland for 3000
henrik years (cut off from armenia and given to azeris by stalin) are
henrik the ones directly involved in the conflict. they are defending
henrik themselves against azeri aggression. agression that has no mercy
henrik for inocent people that are costantly shelled with mig 23 's and
henrik othe russian aircraft.

henrik at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the
henrik karabakh crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will
henrik never occur again.

da armenia is involved in fighting with azarbaijan. it is armenian
da soldiers from mainland armenia that are shelling towns in azarbaijan.

well , this is your opinion !

turkish azeris can bark all they want since the above is untrue. however ,
i am sure you guys would have never brought up armenia 's involvement if
karabakhi armenians had had heavy losses.


da you might wish to read more about whether or not it is azeri aggression
da only in that region. it seems to me that the armenians are better
da organized , have more success militarily and shell azeri towns
da repeatedly.

read what \? the new york times , that is publishing anti armenian
articles. nop , i have my resources. look , everyone knows how aggressive
turks azeris have been in the past. armenians are not gona sit
around and watch fire works by azeris taught by turks.

da it seems to me that the armenians are better organized , have more success
da militarily and shell azeri towns repeatedly.

buch of non sence crap and you know it. who the hell you think
you are talking to \? azeris are fighting local armenians in
nagarno karabakh. you tell me who has more mig 's \? freedom fighters
in nagarno karabakh or azerbaijan \?

again , i will say it for the last time , armenia is not involved
in this war and you guys want to bring this up in order to cover
up the turkish involvment in the karabakh. go ahead , repeat as
much as you want.

da i do n't wish to get into the cyprus discussion. turkey had the right to
da intervene , and it did. perhaps the intervention was not supposed to
da last for so long , but the constant refusal of the greek governments both
da on the island and in greece to deal with reality is also to be blamed
da for the ongoing standoff in the region.

not a chance ! you can not convince me (based on your reasons)that
your government did the right thing to invade cyprus.

da lastly , why is there not a soc.culture.armenia \? i vote yes for it.
da after all , it is now free.

well , i am not in the position to agree or disadree with you.



from arens@isi.edu (yigal arens)
subject re why does us consider yigal arens to be a dangerous to humanity
organization usc information sciences institute
lines 43
nntp posting host grl.isi.edu
in reply to ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet 's message of 19 apr 93 14 58 49 gmt

in article 4815@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes

in article arens.93apr13161407@grl.isi.edu arens@isi.edu (yigal
arens) writes

los angeles times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993. p. a1.
........

the problem if transffering us government files about yigal arens
and some other similar persons does or does not violate a federal
or a local american law seemed to belong to some local american law
forum not to this forum.
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents
of those files.
so it will be nice if yigal will tell us
1. why do american authorities consider yigal arens to be dangerous \?

i'm not aware that the us government considers me dangerous. in any
case , that has nothing to do with the current case. the claim against
the adl is that it illegally obtained and disseminated information that
was gathered by state and or federal agencies in the course of their
standard interaction with citizens such as myself. by that i refer to
things such as address and phone number , vehicle registration and
license information , photographs , etc.

2. why does the adl have an interest in that person \?

you should ask the adl , if you want an authoritative answer. my guess
is that they collected information on anyone who did or might engage in
political criticism of israel. i further believe that they did this as
agents of the israeli government , or at least in agreement with them.
at least some of the information collected by the adl was passed on to
israeli officials. in some cases it was used to influence , or attempt
to influence , people 's access to jobs or public forums. these matters
will be brought out as the court case unfolds , since california law
entitles people to compensation if such actions can be proven. as my
previous posting shows , california law entitles people to compensation
even in the absence of any specific consequences just for the further
dissemination of certain types of private information about them.

yigal arens
usc isi tv made me do it !
arens@isi.edu

from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject serdar
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

what are you , retarded \?

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 011
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 210

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 011
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh



right , we should slaughter the armenians ! and
there 's no need to be afraid , all of moscow is
behind us. i even heard that all moscow is
behind us. well i watched and listened in and
realized that this was no joke.



deposition of yuri vagarshakovich musaelian

born 1953
line electrician
sumgait streetcar and trolleybus administration

resident at building 4 21 , apartment 29
block 14 , narimanov street
sumgait azerbaijan


i spent almost all of february doing overhaul. the 27th was a short day at
work , we worked until eleven or eleven thirty and left for home. i decided
to go for a short walk. i went to primorsky park. i walked past the eternal
flame and saw a group of about 8 to 10 people standing there. when i had
walked another 15 to 20 yards i heard the screech of automobile brakes
behind me. i turned my head toward the sound. it was a light blue gaz 24
volga. i see that the people who were standing there have gone over to the
car. a man and a woman get out. the man is expensively dressed , in a suit ,
and the woman has a raincoat on. she does n't have anything on her head , and
her hair is let down , sightly reddish hair , a heavy set woman. they 're 40 to
45 years old. they get something out of the trunk. the people start to help
them. i become curious just what are they pulling out of there \?

when i got up close i heard them turn something on. i did n't see what it was ,
but it was probably a tape recorder. they put it on the ground near the
eternal flame honoring the 26 baku commissars and formed a tight circle
around it. i ask , what 's going on \? someone tells me , come listen. well
they were azerbaijanis , i had asked in azerbaijani. i hear appeals brother
muslims , our time has come . . . and something else along that line. i
did n't understand what it was all about. i walked around the group trying to
get a look at the owner of the tape recorder. but the circle drew in tighter.
new people started coming from various directions , five here , seven there. and
the comments started right , we should slaughter the armenians ! and there 's
no need to be afraid , all of moscow is behind us. i even heard that all
moscow is behind us. well i watched and listened in and realized that this
was no joke. i quietly left and went home.

now before that at work i had heard that something was going on in karabagh ,
that there were demonstrations there. well , people were saying all kinds of
things , but i did n't have any idea what was really going on.

my wife and son were at home , but my daughter was at my aunt 's house in baku.
i did n't say anything to my wife. we sat and drank tea. sometime around two
o'clock right behind our house suddenly there is noise , whistling , and
shouting. i looked out the window and saw a crowd. the crowd is moving slowly ,
like they show on tv when blacks in south africa are striking or having a
demonstration and move slowly.

my wife asks what 's going on out there. i say i do n't know. i put on some
outdoor clothes and went out to find out what it was all about. in the crowd
people are shouting down with the armenians ! and death to the armenians ! i
waited for the entire crowd to pass. at first they went down narimanov street
on the side with the sk club and the city party committee then they turned
and went against the traffic it 's one way there down the street of the 26
baku commissars toward the streetcar line. i went home and told my wife there
was a demonstration going on. in fact i thought that we were having the same
kind of demonstrations that they had had in yerevan and in karabagh. aside
from the things they were shouting , i was surprised that there were only young
people in the crowd. and they were minors , under draft age.

my wife and son wanted to go upstairs to visit a friend , but i was kind of
uneasy and said , no , let 's stay at home instead. an hour went by , or maybe
an hour and a half. well , i was n't keeping track of the time , i ca n't say
exactly how long it was. i look and see another crowd on narimanov , but now on
the side with the microdistricts , the bazaar , and the rossiya movie theater.

i put outside clothes on and went out again. there 's noise , an uproar outside ,
and the crowd has grown. there are more people. and whereas the first time
there were individual shouts , this time they are more focused , more
aggressive. no , i think , something 's wrong here , this is n't any demonstration.
they would run , stop , then walk quickly and make sharp dashes , and then run
again. i was walking along the sidewalk and they were in the street. i
followed them. i was thinking i 'd just watch and see. who knew where this was
leading \? we came out on lenin square. at the square the sk club is on one
side , and the city party committee is on the other. i went toward the square
and heard noise and shouting , as though the whole town had turned out. there
was some sort of a rally going on. i go closer and hear exclamations , appeals.
i heard both anti armenian and anti soviet appeals. we do n't need
perestroika , we want to go on living like we have been. now what did they
mean by living like we have been \? the azerbaijanis work like everyone else.
but too many people live at the expense of the government and at the expense
of others. speculation , theft , and cheating go on all the time. and not just
in azerbaijan , everywhere , in all the republics , but i 've never seen it
anywhere else like i have in azerbaijan.

now at this rally someone says that they should go around to the armenians'
apartments and drive them out , beat them and drive them out. true , i did n't
hear them say kill them over the microphone , i only heard beat them and
drive them out. i stayed at the square a few minutes longer. first one , then
another are going up onto the stage , and no one tries to stop the crowd. off
to the side of the crowd there were small groups of three or four people , and
i think they were mvd ministry of internal affairs or state security kgb.
there were also uniformed policemen there , but i did n't see any of them try
to pacify the crowd. new people kept coming up onto the stage.

well i had finally decided that this could end badly this was no
demonstration , and i had to protect my family.

i left the square to return home and suddenly noticed a truck. it was next
to the city party committee , on narimanov street , it stood next to the tai
lor 's shop there , a low truck , and it had low , wooden panels. i see that some
thing is being unloaded , crates of some sort. i decided to go look because
after all those appeals i was apprehensive and thought there might be weapons
in there. they pulled the crates out onto the square , not toward the city
party committee , but toward the sk club. and when i went right up to them i
saw that they were cases of vodka. there were two people handing down the
cases from the bed of the truck , and on the ground there were many people , 15
to 20. they were handing them down from the truck and each case was carried
off by two people. two people , one case of vodka. and there was a man standing
right next to the truck and he was handing out roundish black lumps , maybe
about the size of a fist , maybe a little bigger or smaller. it was anasha.
when i passed next to that person , he stood with his side to me. there was
about a yard and a half between us , and two people were standing near him. he
has a package in his hand , and he 's pulling out anasha and handing it out. i
have never smoked it myself. once i tried it for fun , but i 've seen a lot of
people smoke it , i 've seen it many times , and i know what it is. i strolled
around and no one asked me who i was or what i was doing there.

before i got to the glass bazaar i heard more howling , more warlike shouting.
i turned around and saw them running. well i 'll just keep on going like i am ,
i thought. when they caught up with me i saw that they were carrying flags.
and i recognized the person who was carrying the flag on my side of the
street. he 's a young guy , 21 or 22 years old. he was carrying a red flag ,
which had ermeni oryum written on it in azerbaijani , that means death to
armenians ! that guy used to live off the same courtyard as us. i do n't really
know what his name is , but i know his father very well. his father 's name is
rafik he used to be a cook , and then became head chef. he used to have a dark
blue zhiguli van , then he sold it and now he has a white zhiguli 06. his
family , as i said , lived on the same courtyard as we did. our building was on
narimanov street , and theirs was on the street of the 26 baku commissars
their apartment was in the far entryway , on the fifth floor , the door on the
left. now rafik 's little brother lives there , and he , rafik , i heard , got a
new apartment either in the forth or eighth microdistrict. in a word , his son
was carrying a flag that said death to armenians ! i was surprised because
before this i had gotten the impression that all of this nonsense was being
done not by people from sumgait , but by azerbaijanis from agdam and kafan.

well anyway i went home. my wife was upset. i told her , it 's ok , it 'll pass ,
they 're young kids , they 've just gotten all whooped up. naturally i did n't
want her to get overly upset. after a while a new surge of crowd went by. and
this time they were breaking glass. i could hear it breaking , but i could n't
see where. well i think , here we go , the machine 's in motion. they were n't
handing out that vodka and anasha for nothing. i did n't see people drinking
and smoking on the spot , but they certainly had n't unloaded the vodka and
hashish to put in a store window !

so the thought flashed through my head that the machine was running , no one
would stop them now , they were n't even trying , although , i 'll say it again ,
the police were there , i saw them. and it 's not just that the police were n't
breaking them up , they were joking with them , they were having a good time.
true , at the time i could n't even imagine that under our government , our much
vaunted leadership and i'm not afraid to say these words so many people
died , so many women were abused , and how many abominations there were ! i
could n't imagine that under our much vaunted authorities , and if i were to be
specific , i would say under the much touted authorities in our city of
sumgait , i could n't imagine that such things could take place.

when they started breaking glass i told my wife and son let 's go upstairs.
we went to our neighbors , the grigorians , on the fourth floor. and in the
evening , when those crowds started going past again , i went outside once more.
i stopped at the corner , a place called that right next to the bazaar. i
look and see a crowd on the run. and there , a few yards from the entrance to
the bazaar , are three respectable looking men of around , say , 50 years old.
the crowd was running and one of the three waved with his arm and pointed
toward the bazaar. and then the whole crowd , as though it were one person ,
wheeled and raced toward the bazaar. and not a soul went past those three , as
though it were off limits ! well everything got all churned up , there was more
noise , and the glass was flying again.

we spent the night at the neighbors'. my apartment was on the first floor ,
there was really no way to defend yourself there.

in the morning i went out to buy bread and to see what was happening in town.
on the way i saw someone hunched up , still. i never found out who it was or
what happened to him. there were 10 to 15 people standing near him. i got the
bread and on my way back , they had gathered around the person who was lying
there hunched up , sort of enclosing him because of the way they were standing
you could n't even see him.

that was on the morning of february 28. everyone knows the rest.

may 17 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 161 164



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from spinoza@next06wor.wam.umd.edu (yon bonnie laird of cairn robbing)
subject re islam borders. ( was israel misisipi to ganges)
nntp posting host next03wor.wam.umd.edu
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park
lines 20

in article 1993apr5.183555.20163@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

in article 4805@bimacs.bitnet , ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich)
writes

hassan and some other seemed not to be a ware that jews celebrating
on
these days thje passover holliday the holidy of going a way from the
nile.
so if one let his imagination freely work it seemed beter to write
that the zionist drean is from the misisipi to the nile .

the question is by going east or west from the misisipi. on either
choice
you would loose palestine or broklyn , n.y.

i thought you 're gonna say fromn misisipi back to the misisipi !

nonononnononono....its from the nile to the nile.....the long way ! )

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 153

in article 1993apr20.143453.3127@news.uiowa.edu mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon) writes

instabul was called konstantinoupolis from 320 ad until about the 1920s.
that 's about 1600 years. there many people alive today who were born in
a city called konstantinoupolis.

i know it does n't make sense , but since when is 'napoleon' about
sense , anyway \? further striking bigoted and racist attitude of
certain greeks still exists in our day. most greeks insist even
today , that the 537 year old capital of the ottoman empire should
be called not by its rightful name of istanbul , but by its half
a millennium old moniker 'cons (whatever).'

everyone knows that new york city was once called 'new amsterdam'
but dutch people do not persist on calling it that today. the name
of stalingrad too is long gone , replaced by volgagrad. china 's
peking traded its name for beiging long ago. ciudad trujillo
of the dominican republic is now santa domingo. zimbabve 's
old colonial capital salisburry became harrare. these changes
have all been accepted officially by everyone in the world.

but , greeks are still determined on calling the turkish istanbul
by the name of 'cons .'

how can one explain this total intransigence \? what makes greeks
so different from other mortals \? 18 year old questionable
democracy \? why do n't they seem to reconcile with the fact ,
for instance , that istanbul changed hands 537 years ago in
1453 ad , and that this predates the discovery of the new
world , by 39 years. the declaration of u.s. independence
in 1776 will come 284 years later.

should n't then , half a millennium be considered enough time for
'cons ' to be called a turkish city \? where is the logic in the
greek reasoning , if there is any \? how long can one sit on the
laurels of an ancient civilization \? ancient greece does not exist ,
any more than any other 16 civilizations that existed on the soil
of anatolia.

these undereducated 'wieneramus' live with an illusion. it
is the same mentality which allows them to rationalize
that cyprus is a greek island. no history book shows
that it ever was. it belonged to the ottoman turks 'lock ,
stock and barrel' for a period of well over 300 years.

in fact , prior to the turks' acquisition of it , following
bloody naval battles with the venetians in 1570 ad , the
island of cyprus belonged , invariably , to several nations

the assyrians , the sumerians , the phoenicians , the egyptians ,
the ottoman turks , of course in that order , owned it as
their territory. but , it has never been the possession
of the government of greece not even for one day
in the history of the world. moreover , cyprus is
located 1500 miles from the greek mainland , but only
40 miles from turkiye 's southern coastline.

saddam hussein claims that kuwait was once iraqi
territory and the greek cypriot government and
the terrorist greek governments think that cyprus
also was once part of the greek hegemony.

those 'arromdians' involved in this grandiose hallucination
should wake up from their sweet daydreams and confront
reality. again , wishful thinking is unproductive , only
facts count.

as for selanik ,

those jews who survived these assaults in southeastern europe fled
particularly to salonica , whose jewish population increased substantially
as a result , from 28 , 000 in 1876 to 90 , 000 in 1908 , more than half the
total population , though even there increased persecution by local greeks
led many jews to flee elsewhere in the ottoman empire , particularly to
the great port of izmir.

despite all the pressure from ottomans and foreign jews alike , the ritual
murders and other assaults by christians on jews went on and on. greek
efforts to decimate the jewish population of salonica culminated in 1912
and 1913 , following greek conquest of salonica during the first balkan war ,
when many of its jews , were either killed or terrorized into leaving...

though greece was obligated by the post world war i treaties to allow
jews and other minorities to use their own languages in education and to
practice their religions without hindrance , a law was issued in 1923
which forbad all inhabitants from working on sunday , stimulating a new
jewish exodus as it was intended to do. between 1932 and 1934 there was a
series of anti semitic riots in salonica , with the cambel quarter , where
most of the remaining jews lived , being burned to the ground. this
was followed by regulations requiring the use of greek and prohibiting
hebrew and judea spanish in the jewish schools. a start was made also
on expropriating the land of the principal jewish cemetery in salonica
for use by the new university in order to derive the jews out 47 . by
killing and driving out large numbers of jews , the greeks left a
substantial greek majority in the city for the first time , and starting
salonica jewry on the way to its final decimation by the nazis during the
occupation of greece starting in 1941.

salonica and izmir of course were not the only places of refuge for
jewish refugees entering the empire during its last century of existence.
istanbul , edirne , and other parts of rumelia and anatolia received
thousands more. nor were jews the only refugees received and helped by
the government of the sultan. thousands of muslims accompanied them in
flight from similar persecutions wherever balkan christian states gained
independence or expanded. the russian conquest of the crimea and the
caucasus starting in the late eighteenth century , and particularly during
and after the crimean war , combined with the same independence movements
in southeastern europe that had caused so much suffering and flight among
its jews caused thousands of helpless , ill , and poverty stricken muslim
refugees to accompany them into the ever shrinking boundaries of the
ottoman empire , with the istanbul government struggling mightly but vainly
to house and feed them as best it could. from 1850 to 1864 as many as
800 , 000 crimean tatars , circassians , and other muslims from north and
east of the black sea had entered anatolia alone , as many as 200 , 000 more
came during the next twenty years , while 474 , 389 refugees entered in 1876
1877 as a result of the ottoman wars with russia and the balkan states ,
with an equal number gaining refuge in the european portions of the
empire.

47 robert mantran , 'la structure sociale de la communaute juive de
salonqiue a la fin du dix neuvieme siecle' , rh no.534 (1980) , 391 92
nehama vii , 762 joseph nehama (salonica) to aiu (paris) no.2868 2 ,
12 may 1903 (aiu archives i c 43) and no.2775 , 10 january 1900 (aiu
archives i c 41) , describing daily battles between jewish and greek
children in the streets of salonica. benghiat , director of ecole moise
allatini , salonica , to aiu (paris) , no.7784 , 1 december 1909 (aiu
archives i c 48) , describing greek attacks on jews , boycotts of jewish
shops and manufacturers , and greek press campaigns leading to blood libel
attacks. cohen , ecole secondaire moise allatini , salonica , to aiu (paris) ,
no.7745 4 , 4 december 1912 (aiu archives i c 49) describes a week of terror
that followed the greek army occupation of salonica in 1912 , with the
soldiers pillaging the jewish quarters and destroying jewish synagogues ,
accompanied by what he described as an 'explosion of hatred' by local
greek population against local jews and muslims. mizrahi , president of the
aiu at salonica , reported to the aiu (paris) , no.2704 3 , 25 july 1913
(aiu archives i c 51) that 'it was not only the irregulars (comitadjis)
that massacred , pillaged and burned. the army soldiers , the chief of
police , and the high civil officials also took an active part in the
horrors...' , moise tovi (salonica) to aiu (paris) no.3027 (20 august 1913)
(aiu archives i c 51) describes the greek pillage of the jewish quarter
during the night of 18 19 august 1913.

(aiu alliance israelite universelle , paris.)

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from brow2812@mach1.wlu.ca (craig brown 9210 u)
subject re pbs frontline iran and the bomb
organization wilfrid laurier university
lines 93

in article c5lihi.389@ccu.umanitoba.ca ebrahim@ee.umanitoba.ca (mohamad ebrahimi) writes

i would like to share with netters a few points i picked up from the pbs
frontline program regarding iran 's nuclear activities , aired on tuesday
april 13. for the sake of brevity , i 'll present them in some separate
points.
already say it the other week on cbc snoozeworld


1 as many other western programs , this program was laid on a bed of
misinformation throughout the program , to maximize the effect of the
program on the viewer. some of the misinformations were as follows
yeah , i thought bonanza was full of lies about the west...

















while the number of martyrs during the sacred defense against iraqi
aggression has been officially announced to be about 117 , 000 and even most
radical counter revolutionary groups claim that iran and iraq had a total
of one million dead , this program claims that iran alone has one million
dead left from the war.

the translation of iranian officials' talks are not 100 true. for
example when iranian head of atomic energy says that it hurts me to
see that iran is the subject of these unfriendly propaganda. the
translator says it hurts to see that iran is doing unfriendly
research. !

2 almost all alleged devices or material bought or planned to be bought
by iranians were of countless dual usage , while the program tries to
undermine their non military uses , without any reference to iran 's
big population and its inevitable need to other sources of energy in
near future and its current deficit in electrical power.


why the hell would such an oil rich (and hydroelectric potential to be
exploited) spend billions on a nuclear energy programme \?

3 the whole program is trying to show the sharif university of
technology as a nuclear research center , while even the cameramen of the
program know well that in a country like iran without a so tightly closed
society no one can make a nuclear bomb in a university ! taking in account
the scientific advancement of sharif u. in engineering fields and its
potential role in improvement of iran 's industries and eventually the
lives of people , it is obvious that they are persuading other countries
to prevent them from further helping this university or other ones
in scientific and industrial efforts.

4 a key point in program 's justifications is trying to disvalidate as
much as possible all efforts done by iaea in their numerous visits from
iran 's different sites. they say we are not sure if the places visited
by iaea are the real ones or not ! , or we can not rely on iaea 's
reports and observation , because they failed to see iraq 's nuclear
activities before as if they did n't know that iraq was trying to build
nuclear weapons !

yeah , and we have every reason in the world to trust the iranian regime.
after all , they 've been so forward with us in the past....

5 as an extremely personal opinion , the most disgusting aspect of the
program was the arrogance of the member of us senate foreign affairs ,
william triplet , in his way of talking , as if he was the god talking
from the absolute knowledge !

maybe he is god !

i hope all iranians be aware of the gradual buildup against their
country in western media , and i hope iranian authorities continue to
their wise and calculated approach with regard to international affairs
and peaceful coexistence with friendly nations.

hahahahahahaahah !
mohammad


international atomic energy agency




from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 21

in article 1993apr17.185118.10792@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes
in article 1993apr16.195452.21375@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
04 16 93 1045 armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes


ermenistan kasiniyor...

let me translate for everyone else before the public traslation service gets
into it armenia is getting itchy.

esin.


let me clearify mr. turkish

armenia is not getting itchy . she is simply letting the world know that she
will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous
tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of
cypress while the world simply watched.



from maler@vercors.imag.fr (oded maler)
subject re binyamin netanyahu on cnn tonight.
nntp posting host pelvoux
organization imag , university of grenoble , france
lines 16

i have not seen but i guess would not liked it to me he
represents the worst of both american and israeli politics
but this is a matter of taste.

as for the famous confession , it is currently believed (at
least by some people) that all this adultry affair was just
invented by him in order to impress the likkud voters (and poor
jealous hamazah) and appear as a real man.





oded maler , lgi imag , bat d , b.p. 53x , 38041 grenoble , france
phone 76635846 fax 76446675 e mail maler@imag.fr


from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject argic
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

you definetly are in need of a shrink , loser !

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca
subject zionism is racism
lines 8
nntp posting host vm1.mcgill.ca
organization mcgill university

in re syria 's expansion , the author writes that the un thought
zionism was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct
the first time , zionism is racism and thankfully , the mcgill daily
(the student newspaper at mcgill) was proud enough to print an article
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail.

steve


from warren@itexjct.jct.ac.il (warren burstein)
subject re serdar argic
organization itex , jerusalem , israel
lines 42

in 1993apr13.194543.225925@fourd.com bill paxton@fourd.com writes

hello serdar ,
i would like very much to meet you. where are you located \?
let me know as soon as possible where we can meet. i am looking forward to
meeting you.

i do n't know how to reach serdar , but you might be able to reach his
sysadmin by email , phone , or snail mail.

here is information from rs.internic.net

ahmet cosar (anatolia dom)
1530 s. 6th st.
suite c705
minneapolis , minnesota , 55454

domain name anatolia.org

administrative contact , technical contact , zone contact
cosar , ahmet (ac234) cosar@anatolia.org
612 376 7873

and here is what finger cosar@umn.edu gets you

name ahmet cosar 1
info last registered 1993 winter qtr
internet mailbox cosa0001@student.tc.umn.edu
other mailbox profs cosa0001@umntcml
postal address 1530 so 6th st apt c705
minneapolis
mn 55454
surname cosar
telephone 1 612 376 7873
title grad
userid cosa0001
x.400 mailbox g ahmet s cosar 1 ou mail o tc prmd umn.edu admd c us



warren@
nysernet.org

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject thousands of armenians were serving the german army and waffen ss.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 62

in article 48095@sdcc12.ucsd.edu hminassi@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (hm) writes

turkey must bare its teeth to armenia.

sooner than you expect. remember 'cyprus' \?

i have to say i vehemently disagree with you , i have seen

too bad. in fact , by 1942 , nazi armenians in europe had established
a vast network of pro german collaborators , that extended over two
continents. thousands of armenians were serving the german army and
waffen ss in russia and western europe. armenians were involved in
espionage and fifth column activities for hitler in the balkans and
arabian peninsula. they were promised an 'independent' state under
german 'protection' in an agreement signed by the 'armenian national
council.' (a copy of this agreement can be found in the 'congressional
record , ' november 1 , 1945 see document 1.) on this side of the atlantic ,
nazi armenians were aware of their brethrens alliance. they had often
expressed pro nazi sentiments until america entered the war. in summary ,
during world war ii armenians were carried away with the german might and
cringing and fawning over the nazis. in that zeal , the armenian publication
in germany , hairenik , carried statements as follows 1

sometimes it is difficult to eradicate these poisonous elements (the jews)
when they have struck deep root like a chronic disease , and when it
becomes necessary for a people (the nazis) to eradicate them in an uncommon
method , these attempts are regarded as revolutionary. during the surgical
operation , the flow of blood is a natural thing.

now for a brief view of the armenian genocide of the muslims and jews
extracts from a letter dated december 11 , 1983 , published in the san
francisco chronicle , as an answer to a letter that had been published
in the same journal under the signature of one b. amarian.

...we have first hand information and evidence of armenian atrocities
against our people (jews)...members of our family witnessed the
murder of 148 members of our family near erzurum , turkey , by armenian
neighbors , bent on destroying anything and anybody remotely jewish
and or muslim. armenians should look to their own history and see
the havoc they and their ancestors perpetrated upon their neighbors...
armenians were in league with hitler in the last war , on his premise
to grant them self government if , in return , the armenians would
help exterminate jews...armenians were also hearty proponents of
the anti semitic acts in league with the russian communists. mr. amarian !
i do n't need your bias.

signed elihu ben levi , vacaville , california.

1 james g. mandalian , 'dro , drastamat kanayan , ' in the 'armenian
review , ' a quarterly by the hairenik association , inc. , summer
june 1957 , vol. x , no. 2 38.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from avi@duteinh.et.tudelft.nl (avi cohen stuart)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
originator avi@duteinh.et.tudelft.nl
nntp posting host duteinh.et.tudelft.nl
organization delft university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering
lines 14

from article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu , by paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu
what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of the muslim a
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what yitza
k shamir did forty or fifty years ago which is terrorize westerners much in the
way abdul nidal does today. seems isrealis are nowhere above arabs , so theref
ore they have a right to jerusaleum as much as isreal does.


there is one big difference between israel and the arabs , christians in this
respect.

israel allows freedom of religion.

avi.

from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re nazi eugenic theories circulated by cpr (unconventianal peace)
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university
lines 36

in article 1993apr19.223054.10273@cirrus.com chrism@cirrus.com (chris metcalfe) writes
now we have strong evidence of where the cpr really stands.
unbelievable and disgusting. it only proves that we must
never forget...


a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle east.

not so unconventional. eugenic solutions to the jewish problem
have been suggested by northern europeans in the past.

eugenics a science that deals with the improvement (as by
control of human mating) of hereditory qualities of race
or breed. webster 's ninth collegiate dictionary.

i would be thankful for critical comments to the above proposal as
well for any dissemination of this proposal for meaningful
discussion and enrichment.

elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik , iceland

critical comment you can take the nazi flag and holocaust photos
off of your bedroom wall , elias you 'll never succeed.

chris metcalfe

chris , solid job at discussing the inherent nazism in mr. davidsson 's post.
oddly , he has posted an address for hate mail , which i think we should
all utilize. and elias ,

wie nur dem koph nicht alle hoffnung schwindet ,
der immerfort an schalem zeuge klebt \?

peace ,
pete


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject role of 'sdpa.org' in slaughter of gunduz , ariyak , arikan , benler , ...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 107

in article 1993apr16.044001.15540@urartu.sdpa.org hla@urartu.sdpa.org writes

sure it is. it tells us how far right the whole turkish political spectrum

nobody ever exposed your crimes like that before \? what was your personal
role in the murder of orhan gunduz and kemal arikan , again \? how many more
muslims will be slaughtered by 'sdpa.org' as publicly declared and filed
with legal authorities \? please spell it out for us.


...that more people have to die...

sdpa 91@urartu.uucp

yes , i stated this and stand by it.

sdpa 255@urartu.uucp


january 28 , 1982 los angeles
kemal arikan is slaughtered by two armenians while driving to work.

march 22 , 1982 cambridge , massachusetts
prelude to grisly murder. a gift and import shop belonging to
orhan gunduz is blown up. gunduz receives an ultimatum either
he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . he
refuses. responsibility is claimed by jcag and sdpa.

may 4 , 1982 cambridge , massachusetts
orhan gunduz , the turkish honorary consul in boston , would not bow
to the armenian terrorist ultimatum that he give up his title of
honorary consul . now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood.
president reagan orders an all out manhunt to no avail. an eye
witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. he
survives... but falls silent. one of the most revolting triumphs in
the senseless , mindless history of armenian terrorism. such a murder
brings absolutely nothing except an ego boost for the murderer
within the armenian terrorist underworld , which is already wallowing
in self satisfaction.

were you involved in the murder of sarik ariyak \?

december 17 , 1980 sydney
two nazi armenians massacre sarik ariyak and his bodyguard , engin
sever. jcag and sdpa claim responsibility.

it is public knowledge that the founder of the marxist leninist terrorist
organization , the asala (an integral part of asala sdpa arf) , hagop
hagopian , began his notorious career as a member of the terrorist
group which perpetrated the massacre of the israeli athletes at the
munich olympics in 1972. and the 'armenian foundation' stole from the
children of turkiye to fund the criminal activities of the asala sdpa arf
terrorists in their cold blooded murder of defenceless turkish and
kurdish people.

the armenian foundation provided 30 billion tl to asala

01 09 92 , milliyet the armenian foundation based in
istanbul is found to have provided 30 billion turkish lira ( 6
million) to the armenian terrorist organization asala which have
murdered several turkish diplomats abroad...

experts on international terrorism assert that the armenian terrorists
use proceeds from drug trafficking (and from the armenian foundation)
to fund their deadly enterprises. the deadliest of terrorist assassins ,
carlos , proclaimed on spanish television that his organization had
entered into a working relationship with armenian terrorists and they
are using drug trafficking to raise money 'to continue' to slaughter
innocent people. now , what is your personal and organizational role
in this scheme \?

recent reports which have been confirmed by the u.s. administration ,
indicate that armenian terrorist organizations are collaborating with
those who are responsible for the bombing of the united states marine
barracks in beirut. you wo n't be able to get away with your crimes
forever the justice is long overdue.

as for the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslim people between
1914 and 1920

source documents volume i (1919).
document no 42 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 110 , drawer
no 1(4) , file no 373 , section no 1484(1032) , contents no 9 , 9 1.
(to the office of acting supreme commander acting assistant
section director major ali sukru)

it is sufficient to mention just some of the terrible and shameful crimes
committed only in erzurum to get an idea about the armenian atrocities
in the villages...

i would also like to mention with disgust and abominable sight , a stain
on humanity , that i encountered at the west of hasankale while my regiment
was proceeding into this town. there was a young turkish women , apparently
once a very beautiful one , lying dead on one side of the road. a huge
stick had been inserted into her vagina. we took the corpses and left it
at a spot that was invisible from the road...

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 29

in article 1993apr23.225710.10438@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

what is a shame is that in austria , daily reports of
the inhuman acts commited by israeli soldiers ...

it was n't all that long ago that the acts of israeli soldiers were
described as superhuman . now , they are inhuman . did the israelis
change so radically so quickly or have reporting attitudes changed \?

and the blessing
received from the government makes some of the holocaust guilt
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races
when they got power.

when the jews were powerless , they did what they could to help others ,
which was obviously quite limited. later , liberated american jews
were on the forefront of the civil rights movement. the jewish
government of israel rescued jews ranging in skin color from white
russian to brown yemenite to black ethiopian. please , andi , tell us
how the jews are treating other races when they got power.

it is unfortunate.

your ignorance and bias are indeed unfortunate.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject nazi armenian philosophy race above everything and before everything.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 155

in article 1993apr19.234534.18368@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

buch of crap and you know it. nagarno karabagh has always been part
of armenia and it was stalin who gave it to the azeris. go back and
review the history.

if a 'dog 's prayers were answered , bones would rain from the sky.
did you know that the word 'karabag' itself is a 'turkish' name \?
before 1827 , before the russians and their 'zavalli kole' armenians ,
drove all the turks muslims out , it was a turkish majority town. well ,
anyway , it is not surprising that armenians also collaborated with the
nazis.

wholly opportunistic the dashnaktzoutun have been variously
pro nazi , pro russia , pro soviet armenia , pro arab , pro jewish ,
as well as anti jewish , anti zionist , anti communist , and
anti soviet whichever was expedient. 1

1 john roy carlson (arthur derounian) , 'cairo to damascus , '
alfred a. knopf , new york , 1951 , p. 438.

as a dear friend put it , the tzeghagrons (armenian racial patriots)
was the youth organization of the dashnaktzoutun. it was based in
boston (where asala sdpa arf terrorism triangle is located) but
had followers in armenian colonies all over the world. literally
tzeghagron means 'to make a religion of one 's race.' the architect
of the armenian racial patriots was garegin nezhdeh , a nazi armenian
who became a key leader of collaboration with hitler in world war ii.
in 1933 , he had been invited to the united states by the central
committee of the dashnaktzoutun to inspire and organize the
american armenian youth. nezhdeh succeeded in unifying many local
armenian youth groups in the tzeghagrons. starting with 20
chapters in the initial year , the tzeghagrons grew to 60 chapters
and became the largest and most powerful nazi armenian organization.
nezhdeh also provided the tzeghagrons with a philosophy

the racial religious beliefs in his racial blood as a deity.
race above everything and before everything. race comes first. 1

1 quoted in john roy carlson (real name arthur derounian) , the
armenian displaced persons , in 'armenian affairs , ' winter ,
1949 50 , p. 19 , footnote.


now wait , there is more.

the gruesome extent of february 's killings of azeris by armenians
in the town of hojali is at last emerging in azerbaijan about
600 men , women and children dead in the worst outrage of the
four year war over nagorny karabakh.

the figure is drawn from azeri investigators , hojali officials
and casualty lists published in the baku press. diplomats and aid
workers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates.

the 25 february attack on hojali by armenian forces was one of
the last moves in their four year campaign to take full control
of nagorny karabakh , the subject of a new round of negotiations
in rome on monday. the bloodshed was something between a fighting
retreat and a massacre , but investigators say that most of the
dead were civilians. the awful number of people killed was first
suppressed by the fearful former communist government in baku.
later it was blurred by armenian denials and grief stricken
azerbaijan 's wild and contradictory allegations of up to 2 , 000
dead.

the state prosecuter , aydin rasulov , the cheif investigator of a
15 man team looking into what azerbaijan calls the hojali
disaster , said his figure of 600 people dead was a minimum on
preliminary findings. a similar estimate was given by elman
memmedov , the mayor of hojali. an even higher one was printed in
the baku newspaper ordu in may 479 dead people named and more
than 200 bodies reported unidentified. this figure of nearly 700
dead is quoted as official by leila yunusova , the new spokeswoman
of the azeri ministry of defence.

francois zen ruffinen , head of delegation of the international
red cross in baku , said the muslim imam of the nearby city of
agdam had reported a figure of 580 bodies received at his mosque
from hojali , most of them civilians. we did not count the
bodies. but the figure seems reasonable. it is no fantasy , mr
zen ruffinen said. we have some idea since we gave the body bags
and products to wash the dead.

mr rasulov endeavours to give an unemotional estimate of the
number of dead in the massacre. do n't get worked up. it will
take several months to get a final figure , the 43 year old
lawyer said at his small office.

mr rasulov knows about these things. it took him two years to
reach a firm conclusion that 131 people were killed and 714
wounded when soviet troops and tanks crushed a nationalist
uprising in baku in january 1990.

those nationalists , the popular front , finally came to power
three weeks ago and are applying pressure to find out exactly
what happened when hojali , an azeri town which lies about 70
miles from the border with armenia , fell to the armenians.

officially , 184 people have so far been certified as dead , being
the number of people that could be medically examined by the
republic 's forensic department. this is just a small percentage
of the dead , said rafiq youssifov , the republic 's chief forensic
scientist. they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the
chaos and the fact that we are muslims and have to wash and bury
our dead within 24 hours.

of these 184 people , 51 were women , and 13 were children under 14
years old. gunshots killed 151 people , shrapnel killed 20 and
axes or blunt instruments killed 10. exposure in the highland
snows killed the last three. thirty three people showed signs of
deliberate mutilation , including ears , noses , breasts or penises
cut off and eyes gouged out , according to professor youssifov 's
report. those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of those
believed to have been killed , mr rasulov said.

files from mr rasulov 's investigative commission are still
disorganised lists of 44 azeri militiamen are dead here , six
policemen there , and in handwriting of a mosque attendant , the
names of 111 corpses brought to be washed in just one day. the
most heartbreaking account from 850 witnesses interviewed so far
comes from towfiq manafov , an azeri investigator who took a
helicopter flight over the escape route from hojali on 27
february.

there were too many bodies of dead and wounded on the ground to
count properly 470 500 in hojali , 650 700 people by the stream
and the road and 85 100 visible around nakhchivanik village , mr
manafov wrote in a statement countersigned by the helicopter
pilot.

people waved up to us for help. we saw three dead children and
one two year old alive by one dead woman. the live one was
pulling at her arm for the mother to get up. we tried to land but
armenians started a barrage against our helicopter and we had to
return.

there has been no consolidation of the lists and figures in
circulation because of the political upheavals of the last few
months and the fact that nobody knows exactly who was in hojali
at the time many inhabitants were displaced from other villages
taken over by armenian forces.

the independent , london , 12 6 '92

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from backon@vms.huji.ac.il
subject re ten questions about israel
distribution world
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem
lines 134

in article 1483500349@igc.apc.org , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject ten questions about israel


ten questions to israelis


i would be thankful if any of you who live in israel could help to
provide
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are
indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by
people around me.

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize
israeli nationality \? and that id cards , which israeli citizens
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or arabs , not as
israelis \?


although the hebrew expression le'um is used , the id card specifically states on
the 2nd page ezrachut yisrealit israeli citizen. this is true for all
israeli citizens no matter what their ethnicity. in the united states most
official forms have race (caucasian , black , amerindian , etc.).


2. is it true that the state of israel has no fixed borders
and that israeli governments from 1948 until today have refused to
state where the ultimate borders of the state of israel should be
\?


funny , i have a number of maps and all of them have fixed borders.



3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons \? if so ,
could you provide any evidence \?

probably yes. so what \?




4. is it true that in israeli prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?


apart from mordechai vanunu who had a trial behind closed doors , there was one
other espionage case (the nutty professor at the nes ziona biological
institute who was a k.g.b. mole) who was tried in camera . i would n't exactly
call it a state secret. the trial was simply tried behind closed doors. i hate
to disappoint you but the united states has tried a number of espionage cases
in camera.



5. is it true that jews who reside in the occupied
territories are subject to different laws than non jews \?


not jews. israeli citizens. jordanian law is in effect in the west bank but the
knesset passed a law that israeli law would be binding on israeli citizens
residing in the west bank. these citizens could be jews , israeli muslims , druze ,
or israeli christians. it has nothing to do with religion.




6. is it true that jews who left palestine in the war 1947 48
to avoid the war were automatically allowed to return , while their
christian neighbors who did the same were not allowed to return \?

anyone who was registered (jew , muslim , christian) could return. you might be
confusing this with the census taken in june 1967 on the west bank after the
six day war. in this instance , if the arab was not physically present he
could n't reside on the west bank (e.g. if he had been visting jordan).



7. is it true that israel 's prime minister , y. rabin , signed
an order for ethnical cleansing in 1948 , as is done today in
bosnia herzegovina \?


no. not even if you drowned him in bourbon , scotch or brandy )



8. is it true that israeli arab citizens are not admitted as
members in kibbutzim \?

not true. although a minority , there are some israeli arabs living on
kibbutzim. on the other hand , at my age (42) i would n't be admitted to a
kibbutz nor could the family join me. not that i would be so thrilled to do so
in the first place. the kibbbutz movement places candidates under rigorous
membership criteria. many israeli jews are not admitted.



9. is it true that israeli law attempts to discourage
marriages between jews and non jews \?

the religious status quo in israel has marriage and divorce handled by the
religious courts. the rabbanut handles marriage and divorce for jews , the
muslim shaaria courts are for muslims , the christian denominations have their
religious courts , and the druze have their own courts. the entire religious
establishment (jewish , muslim , druze , christian) wants to keep it that way.


10. is it true that hotel hilton in tel aviv is built on the
site of a muslim cemetery \?

i believe it 's adjacent to a former muslim cemetary. from what i heard (and i 'd
like to get feedback from muslins on the net) sanctity of cemetaries is not
held that sancrosanct as it is held by jews. the current israeli ministry of
trade and industry on agron road in jerusalem is housed in a former hotel that
was built by arabs in the 1920 's on the site of an arab cemetary.


josh
backon@vms.huji.ac.il






thanks ,

elias davidsson iceland email elias@ismennt.is


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject ozal died !
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 9

it was announced on npr 4 17 93 10 00 am edt , that turkish president ozal died
of a heart attack in ankara.



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from zbib@bnr.ca (sam zbib)
subject legality of the jewish purchase (was re israeli expansion lust)
nntp posting host bcarh1fa
reply to zbib@bnr.ca
organization bell northern research
lines 134

adam shostack writes
sam zbib writes
i'm surprised that you do n't consider the acquisition of land by
the jews from arabs , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive
state , as a hostile action leading to war.

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have
400 000 arab citizens.

could you please tell me what was the ethnic composition of
israel right after it was formed.


and no , i do not consider the purchase of land a hostile
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce. it
is not a hostile action leading to war.

no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and dignity.
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about
anti trust in the business world.

since we are debating the legality of a commercial
transaction , we must use the laws governing the guidelines
and ethics of such transactions. basic anti trust law says
that , while you can purchase ibm stocks for the purpose of
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those
shares with the intent or controlling ibm. you can do so
only if you make your intentions clear apriori . clearly ,
the jews who purchased properties from palastenians had some
designs , they were not buying a dwelling or a real estate.
they were establishing a bridgehead for the european jews.

the palastenians sold their properties to the jews in the
old tradition of arab hospitality. being a multi ethnic
multi religious society , accepting the jews as neighbours
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair
market value , etc... they did not know they were victims of
an international conspiracy. (i'm not a conspiracy theorist
myself , but this one is hard to dismiss).


as to whether the jews wanted to live in peace , maybe.
however they wanted and still want an exclusively jewish
state , where jews are in control and jews are the masters of
the land. living in peace is meaningless unless it means
living with someone else , as equal. for a native arab , this
does not leave many options.

oh , you mean like both jews and arabs being citizens \? the
arabs who stayed are now citizens , with as much right to choose who
they vote for as the jews.

again adam , the devil is in the details. i do n't want to get
on a tangent here but its the same reasonning that says its
ok to return 100 deportes and leave the rest. because 100 is
a nice number that you can devide by 10 , 100 and besides , it
has an integer square root.

those palestinians who stayed , actually stayed despite of what
happened , and their number was somewhat tolerated as a defenseless
and ineffective minority.
if i were wrong , you 'd have israel recall all the
palestinian refugees (we 're talking millions). after all ,
they are civilians.

huh \? the people who left , did so voluntarily. there is no
reason for israel to let them in.

do you actually believe this \? my experience tells me that
every palestinian i knew still keeps the key to his home , in
palestine. besides they often refer to their exodus as an
escape from hell (so to speak). i know none that agrees with
you. did you sample their opinions \? i know you do n't care ,
just being rethorical.


israel gave citizenship to the remaining arabs because it
had to maintain a democratic facade (to keep the western aid
flowing).

israel got no western aid in 1948 , nor in 1949 or 50...it
still granted citizenship to those arabs who remained. and how
is granting citizenship a facade \?

do n't get me wrong. i beleive that israel is democratic
within the constraints of one dominant ethnic group (jews).
israel probably had a few options after 1948 ethnic
cleansing serbian style , and deserve the wrath of the
international community , or make the best out of a no win
condition show the world how good israel is towards the
'bad' arabs. personaly , i 've never heard anything about the
arab community in isreal. except that they 're there. so
yes , they 're there. but as a community with history and
roots , its dead.

tell me something , sam. what makes land arab \?

how shall i explain , its a contract between the man and the
land. control is n't it. the ottomans ruled 400 years , and
then left with barely a trace. the concept of land identity
is somewhat foreign to the mobile and pragmatic west. it is
partly the concept of 'le sol natal' , native soil. i know
that jews had previous history in the region , but none in
recent memory. i'm talking everyday life not archeology.

try again , you tell me what its is n't , but you fail to
establish what it is.

also , jews did have history in israel for over a thousand
years. there were lots of jews slaughtered by crusaders in israel.
there was a thriving community in gaza city from roughly 1200 1500.
jews were a majority in jerusalem from 1870 or so onwards. does that
make the land jewish \?


i stand corrected. i meant that the jewish culture was not
predominant in palestine in recent history. i have no
problem with jerusalem having a jewish character if it were
predominantly jewish. so there. what to make of the rest
palestine \?


adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu


sam zbib bell northern research

bitnet internet zbib@bnr.ca voice (613) 763 5889
fax (613) 763 2626
surface mail stop 162 , p.o.box 3511 , station c , ottawa , canada , k1y 4h7

my opinions are my own and no one else 's

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 8
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


as someone who reads israeli newpapaers every day , i can state
with absolute certainty , that anybody who relies on western media
to get a picture of what is happening in israel is not getting an
accurate picture. there is tremendous bias in those stories that
do get reported. and the stories that never get mentioned create
a completely false picture of the mideast.


from b8ha b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca
subject re israel 's expansion ii
lines 24
nntp posting host vm1.mcgill.ca
organization mcgill university

in article 1993apr22.093527.15720@donau.et.tudelft.nl avi@duteinh.et.tudelft.nl (avi cohen stuart) writes
from article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu , by paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu
what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of the muslim a
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what yitza
k shamir did forty or fifty years ago which is terrorize westerners much in the
way abdul nidal does today. seems isrealis are nowhere above arabs , so theref
ore they have a right to jerusaleum as much as isreal does.


there is one big difference between israel and the arabs , christians in this
respect.

israel allows freedom of religion.

avi.
.
.
avi ,
for your information , islam permits freedom of religion there is
no compulsion in religion. does judaism permit freedom of religion
(i.e. are non jews recognized in judaism). just wondering.

steve


from tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
reply to tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
organization iowa state university
lines 43

in article c5if8u.3ky@news.cso.uiuc.edu , ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos
tamamidis ) writes
yeah , too much mutlu argic is n't helping. i could , one day , proceed and

you should n't think many turks read mutlu argic stuff.
they are in my kill file , likewise any other fanatic.

(i have nothing against greeks but my problem is with fanatics. i have met
so many greeks who would n't even talk to me because i am turkish. from my
experience , all my friends always were open to greeks)

well , the history , wars , current situations , all of them do not help.

well , panos , mr. tamamidis \? , the way you put it it is only the turks
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
believe for somebody trying to be objective.
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides.
what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway \?
do you think it was your right to be there \?
i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are educated
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person
because i am from turkey. politics is not my business , and it is
not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals
why the hatred \? so that makes me think that there is some kind of
brainwashing going on in greece. after all why would an educated person
treat every person from a nation the same way \? can you tell me about your
history books and things you learn about greek turkish
encounters during your schooling.
take it easy !


tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !

from oaf@zurich.ai.mit.edu (oded feingold)
subject re news you will miss , apr 15
organization m.i.t. artificial intelligence lab.
lines 18
distribution world
reply to oaf@zurich.ai.mit.edu
nntp posting host klosters.ai.mit.edu
in reply to arf@genesis.mcs.com 's message of 15 apr 1993 22 51 03 0500

sorry , arf you dog ,

that news was suppressed because the israeli national volleyball team
repeatedly spiked it.

let this be a lesson to others not to invoke the wrath of sports nuts.
(brits lead the way in this regard , with 220 casualties in the last 2
years.)

anyway , yigal would never sue. his life is (presumably) so pristine
that its most intimate details could be revealed without harm to
anyone. might even be good instruction for some people i can think of.

me , i would sue ! i hate the way sports dominates the media.
anyway , the last 3 adl agents watching me die of boredom before filing
their reports. i 've damaged their atlanta operation something fierce.



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject though his book was dealing with the genocide of muslims by armenians..
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 45

in article c5y86j.6hs@blaze.cs.jhu.edu arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes

then repeat everything i said before with the word race related
substituted for racist . all that changes is the phrasing complaining
that i used the wrong word is a quibble.

well , your armenian grandparents were fascist. as early as 1934 , k. s.
papazian asserted in 'patriotism perverted' that the armenians

'lean toward fascism and hitlerism.' 1

at that time , he could not have foreseen that the armenians would
actively assume a pro german stance and even collaborate in world
war ii. his book was dealing with the armenian genocide of turkish
population of eastern anatolia. however , extreme rightwing ideological
tendencies could be observed within the dashnagtzoutune long before
the outbreak of the second world war.

in 1936 , for example , o. zarmooni of the 'tzeghagrons' was quoted
in the 'hairenik weekly '

the race is force it is treasure. if we follow history we shall
see that races , due to their innate force , have created the nations
and these have been secure only insofar as they have reverted to
the race after becoming a nation. today germany and italy are
strong because as nations they live and breath in terms of race.
on the other hand , russia is comparatively weak because she is
bereft of social sanctities. 2

1 k. s. papazian , 'patriotism perverted , ' (boston , baikar press
1934) , preface.
2 'hairenik weekly , ' friday , april 10 , 1936 , 'the race is our
refuge' by o. zarmooni.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject re lezgians astir in azerbaijan and daghestan
keywords pis bogaz
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 38

in article 94492@hydra.gatech.edu gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu (gt1091a gt1091a
kaan , timucin) wrote

kt hello , shit face david , i see that you are still around. i dont want to
kt see your shitty writings posted here man. i told you.

so ... close your eyes and walk away.

kt you are getting itchy as your fucking country.

i have been defending the history of the armenians on this network for over
six years. i have seen the likes of you enter his forum , make fools of
themselves , and simply vanish as did the armenians in 1915 !

kt hey , and dont give me that freedom of speach bullshit once more.

realize sir , you are not in turkey ! in the usa freedom of speech is not
considered bullshit . it is because of such freedoms that turks like yourself
are allowed to attend georgia tech.

kt because your freedom has ended when you started writing things about my
kt people. and try to translate this ebenin donu butti kafa david. .

what 's the problem \? if you ca n't stand the heat leave ! your government
murdered 1.5 million armenians and you would have me stay quiet to suit your
personal fancy or some fascist fetish regarding the greatness of turkey ! well ,
that is simply too bad.

kt bye , anacim hade.
kt timucin

pis bogaz !


david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org armenia has not learned a lesson in
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the
p.o. box 382761 punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president turgut ozal

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian nazi collaboration during world war ii.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 51

in article 2bc0d53b.20378@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

is it possible to track down zuma and determine who what where seradr
is \?

done. but did it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920 ,
the armenian government ordered , incited , assisted and participated
in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion
and national origin \? by the way , you still have n't corrected yourself.
during world war ii armenians were carried away with the german might and
cringing and fawning over the nazis. in that zeal , the armenian publication
in germany , hairenik , carried statements as follows 1

sometimes it is difficult to eradicate these poisonous elements (the jews)
when they have struck deep root like a chronic disease , and when it
becomes necessary for a people (the nazis) to eradicate them in an uncommon
method , these attempts are regarded as revolutionary. during the surgical
operation , the flow of blood is a natural thing.

now for a brief view of the armenian genocide of the muslims and jews
extracts from a letter dated december 11 , 1983 , published in the san
francisco chronicle , as an answer to a letter that had been published
in the same journal under the signature of one b. amarian.

...we have first hand information and evidence of armenian atrocities
against our people (jews)...members of our family witnessed the
murder of 148 members of our family near erzurum , turkey , by armenian
neighbors , bent on destroying anything and anybody remotely jewish
and or muslim. armenians should look to their own history and see
the havoc they and their ancestors perpetrated upon their neighbors...
armenians were in league with hitler in the last war , on his premise
to grant them self government if , in return , the armenians would
help exterminate jews...armenians were also hearty proponents of
the anti semitic acts in league with the russian communists. mr. amarian !
i do n't need your bias.

signed elihu ben levi , vacaville , california.

1 james g. mandalian , 'dro , drastamat kanayan , ' in the 'armenian
review , ' a quarterly by the hairenik association , inc. , summer
june 1957 , vol. x , no. 2 38.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from backon@vms.huji.ac.il
subject re go hezbollah ! !
distribution world
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem
lines 23

in article 1993apr14.125813.21737@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

lebanese resistance forces detonated a bomb under an israeli occupation
patrol in lebanese territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and
two wounded. in retaliation , israeli and israeli backed forces wounded
8 civilians by bombarding several lebanese villages. ironically , the israeli
government justifies its occupation in lebanon by claiming that it is
necessary to prevent such bombardments of israeli villages ! !

congratulations to the brave men of the lebanese resistance ! with every
israeli son that you place in the grave you are underlining the moral
bankruptcy of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli
government 's policy of reckless disregard for civilian life.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)


i'm sure the federal bureau of investigation (fbi.gov on the internet) is going
to love reading your incitement to murder.


josh
backon@vms.huji.ac.il

from deniz@mandolin.ctr.columbia.edu (deniz akkus)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization columbia university center for telecommunications research
x posted from mandolin.ctr.columbia.edu
nntp posting host sol.ctr.columbia.edu
lines 46

in article 1993apr20.190606.13801@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr20.173009.10580@sol.ctr.columbia.edu , deniz@mandolin.ctr.columbia.edu (deniz akkus) writes

well , this is your opinion !


of course it is !

turkish azeris can bark all they want since the above is untrue. however ,
i am sure you guys would have never brought up armenia 's involvement if
karabakhi armenians had had heavy losses.


and this is your opinion. it is not any more valid due to repeated
capital letters and words such as 'untrue' 'never' etc.

read what \? the new york times , that is publishing anti armenian
articles. nop , i have my resources. look , everyone knows how aggressive
turks azeris have been in the past. armenians are not gona sit
around and watch fire works by azeris taught by turks.

so armenians are justified in aggression since supposedly turks have
been aggressive in the past \? i do n't follow your logic.

da i do n't wish to get into the cyprus discussion. turkey had the right to

not a chance ! you can not convince me (based on your reasons)that
your government did the right thing to invade cyprus.

i have said that i do n't wish to get into cyprus discussion and did not
give any reasons for turkey 's involvement. i also am not trying to
convince you of anything , seeing no reason to waste any time....

da lastly , why is there not a soc.culture.armenia \? i vote yes for it.
da after all , it is now free.

well , i am not in the position to agree or disadree with you.



i am serious. let 's get soc.culture.armenia started and have some peace
of mind \?

deniz akkus



from bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin)
subject re news you may have missed , apr 20
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
summary totally unbiased magazine
lines 134

in article 1qu7op 456@genesis.mcs.com , arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

news you may have missed , apr 19 , 1993

not because you were too busy but because
israelists in the us media spiked it.

................


those intrepid israeli soldiers


israeli soldiers have sexually taunted arab women in the occupied gaza strip
during the three week long closure that has sealed palestinians off from the
jewish state , palestinian sources said on sunday.

the incidents occurred in the town of khan younis and involved soldiers of
the golani brigade who have been at the centre of house to house raids for
palestinian activists during the closure , which was imposed on the strip and
occupied west bank.

five days ago girls at the al khansaa secondary said a group of naked
soldiers taunted them , yelling ``come and kiss me.'' when the girls fled ,
the soldiers threw empty bottles at them.

on saturday , a group of soldiers opened their shirts and pulled down their
pants when they saw girls from al khansaa walking home from school. parents
are considering keeping their daughters home from the all girls school.

the same day , soldiers harassed two passing schoolgirls after a youth
escaped from them at a boys' secondary school. deputy principal srur
abu jamea said they shouted abusive language at the girls , backed them
against a wall , and put their arms around them.

when teacher hamdan abu hajras intervened the soldiers kicked him and beat
him with the butts of their rifles.

on tuesday , troops stopped a car driven by abdel azzim qdieh , a practising
moslem , and demanded he kiss his female passenger. qdieh refused , the
soldiers hit him and the 18 year old passenger kissed him to stop the
beating.

on friday , soldiers entered the home of zamno abu ealyan , 60 , blindfolded
him and his wife , put a music tape on a recorder and demanded they dance. as
the elderly couple danced , the soldiers slipped away. the coupled continued
dancing until their grandson came in and asked what was happening.

the army said it was checking the reports.

....................


israeli troops bar christians from jerusalem

israeli troops prevented christian arabs from entering jerusalem on thursday
to celebrate the traditional mass of the last supper.

two arab priests from the greek orthodox church led some 30 worshippers in
prayer at a checkpoint separating the occupied west bank from jerusalem after
soldiers told them only people with army issued permits could enter.

``right now , our brothers are celebrating mass in the church of the holy
sepulchre and we were hoping to be able to join them in prayer , '' said father
george makhlouf of the ramallah parish.

israel sealed off the occupied lands two weeks ago after a spate of
palestinian attacks against jews. the closure cut off arabs in the west bank
and gaza strip from jerusalem , their economic , spiritual and cultural centre.

father nicola akel said christians did not want to suffer the humiliation
of requesting permits to reach holy sites.

makhlouf said the closure was discriminatory , allowing jews free movement
to take part in recent passover celebrations while restricting christian
celebrations.

``yesterday , we saw the jews celebrate passover without any interruption.
but we cannot reach our holiest sites , '' he said.

an israeli officer interrupted makhlouf 's speech , demanding to see his
identity card before ordering the crowd to leave.

...................



if you are as revolted at this as i am , drop israel 's best friend email and
let him know what you think.


75300.3115@compuserve.com (via compuserve)
clintonpz@aol.com (via america online)
clinton hq@campaign92.org (via mci mail)


tell 'em arf sent ya.

..................................

if you are tired of learning about american foreign policy from what is
effectively , israeli controlled media , i highly recommend checking out the
washington report. a free sample copy is available by calling the american
education trust at
(800) 368 5788

tell 'em arf sent you.

js




i took your advice and ordered a copy of the washinton report. i
heartily recommend it to all pro israel types for the following
reasons

1. it is an excellent absorber of excrement. i use it to line
the bottom of my parakeet 's cage. a negative side effect is
that my bird now has a somewhat warped view of the mideast.

2. it makes a great april fool 's joke , i.e. , give it to someone
who knows nothing about the middle east and then say april
fools .

anyway , i plan to call them up every month just to keep getting
those free sample magazines (you know how cheap we jews are).

btw , when you call them , tell 'em barf sent you.

just kidding ,

ben.


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject day and night armenians were rounding up male inhabitants...
article i.d. zuma.9304052020
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 71

in article 734048492@locust.cs.duke.edu wiener@duke.cs.duke.edu (eduard wiener) writes

sure it joined you by ballot in 1918 ! and i suppose that
northern bukovina (where i was born) , which has always had

that 's why zoologists refer to you as a 'fecal shield'. colonel semen
m. budienny , a subsequent soviet military fame , said about the
armenian genocide of 2.5 million defenseless turkish and kurdish
women , children and elderly people during his visit to anatolia
in june 1919 that

the armenians had become troublemakers , their hinchakist
and dashnakist parties were opportunist , serving as lackeys
of whatever power happened to be ascendent.

in september 16 , 1920 , major general w. thwaites , director of
military intelligence , wrote to lord hardinge , under secretary
of state for foreign affairs

...it is useless to pretend that the armenians are satisfactory
allies , or deserving of all the sympathy to which they claim. 1

1 f.o. 331 3411 158288.

in the special collection at stanford hoover library , donated by
georgia cutler , the letter dated nov. 1 , 1943 states that

prescot hall wrote a large volume to prove that armenians were
not and never could be desirable citizens , that they would
always be unscrupulous merchants.


source documents volume i (1919).
document no 50 , archive no 4 3621 , cabin no 162 , drawer
no 5 , file no 2905 , section no 433 , contents no 6 , 6 1 , 6 2.
(to 36th division command militia commander ismail hakki)

for eight days , armenians have been forcibly obstructing people from
leaving their homes or going from one village to the other. day and night
they are rounding up male inhabitants , taking them to unknown destinations ,
after which nothing further is heard of them. (informed from statements
of those who succeeded in escaping wounded from the massacres around
taskilise ruins). women and children are being openly murdered or are
being gathered in the church square and similar places. most inhuman and
barbarous acts have been committed against moslems for eight days.


document no 52 , archive no 4 3671 , cabin no 163 , drawer
no 1 , file no 2907 , section no 440 , contents no 6 6 , 6 7.
(to 1st caucasian army corps command , 2nd caucasian army corps
command , communications zone inspectorate commander 3rd army
general)

as almost all russian units opposite our front have been withdrawn , the
population loyal to us in regions behind the russian positions are
facing an ever increasing threat and suppression as well as cruelties
and abuses by armenians who have decided to systematically annihilate
the moslem population in regions under their occupation. i have
regularly informed the russian command of these atrocities and
cruelties and i have gained the impression that the above authority
seems to be failing in restoring order.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)

from dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren)
subject re himmler 's speech on the extirpation of the jewish race
organization brown university department of computer science
lines 56

it is appropriate to add what himmler said other inferior races
and human animals in his speech at posen and elsewhere


from the speech of reichsfuehrer ss himmler , before ss
major generals , posen , october 4 1943
nazi conspiracy and aggression , vol. iv , p. 559

one basic principal must be the absolute rule for the ss man we
must be honest , decent , loyal , and comradely to members of our own
blood and to nobody else. what happens to a russian , to a czech ,
does not interest me in the slightest. what the nations can offer
in good blood of our type , we will take , if necessary by kidnapping
their children and raising them with us. whether nations live in
prosperity or starve to death interests me only in so far as we
need them as slaves for our culture otherwise , it is of no interest
to me. whether 10 , 000 russian females fall down from exhaustion
while digging an anti tank ditch interest me only in so far as
the anti tank ditch for germany is finished. we shall never be rough
and heartless when it is not necessary , that is clear. we germans ,
who are the only people in the world who have a decent attitude
towards animals , will also assume a decent attitude towards these
human animals. but it is a crime against our own blood to worry
about them and give them ideals , thus causing our sons and
grandsons to have a more difficult time with them. when someone
comes to me and says , i cannot dig the anti tank ditch with women
and children , it is inhuman , for it will kill them , then i
would have to say , you are a murderer of your own blood because
if the anti tank ditch is not dug , german soldiers will die , and
they are the sons of german mothers. they are our own blood .



extract from himmler 's address to party comrades , september 7 1940
trials of wa criminals , vol. iv , p. 1140

if any pole has any sexual dealing with a german woman , and by this
i mean sexual intercourse , then the man will be hanged right in
front of his camp. then the others will not do it. besides ,
provisions will be made that a sufficient number of polish women
and girls will come along as well so that a necessity of this
kind is out of the question.

the women will be brought before the courts without mercy , and
where the facts are not sufficiently proved such borderline
cases always happen they will be sent to a concentration camp.
this we must do , unless these one million poles and those
hundreds of thousands of workers of alien blood are to inflict
untold damage on the german blood. philosophizing is of no avail
in this case. it would be better if we did not have them at all
we all know that but we need them.



danny keren.


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 85

04 16 93 1045 armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes

by david ljunggren

moscow , april 16 , reuter armenia accused turkey on friday of flying weapons
x and troops across armenian airspace to azerbaijan and strongly hinted it
might try to shoot the planes down , local journalists in yerevan said.

separately , itar tass news agency said armenian forces had halted their latest
offensive which has swallowed up one tenth of azerbaijan and sent tensions in
the transcaucasian region soaring.

the journalists in the armenian capital quoted armen duliyan , head of the
armenian defence ministry press centre , as saying ankara had been sending
planes up to 15 times a day to azerbaijan with arms and troops.

it looks as though the armenian leadership will have to warn turkey about
the impermissibility of such actions , the journalists quoted duliyan as
saying.

if such steps are pursued in the future we will have recourse to appropriate
measures. we have all the necessary means , including modern anti aircraft
units.

turkey , which shares a border with armenia , has supported azerbaijan in the
conflict over the mainly armenian populated nagorno karabakh region in which
more than 2 , 500 people have been killed since fighting erupted in 1988.

the turkish foreign ministry said on friday it had so far sent one plane to
azerbaijan containing humanitarian aid.

a turkish foreign ministry spokesman on thursday would not comment directly
on a report by hurriyet newspaper that a first consignment of rockets , rocket
launchers , ammunition and light weapons had arrived in azerbaijan from turkey.

duliyan said turkey had been sending up to 30 trucks a day carrying troops
and arms to the bordering azeri autonomous territory of nakhichevan , from where
they were flown across armenian airspace to the azeri capital baku.

all the responsibility for possible consequences will be borne by the
country which is affording military assistance over our airspace , he said.

armenia denies any formal role in the conflict , saying that the troops
involved in the fighting are from the enclave itself.

tass said the karabakh forces decided on friday to suspend their offensive
along the entire armenian azerbaijani front.

the karabakh authorities are reportedly ready to give independent
inspectors a chance to see for themselves on the spot that the (enclave 's)
leadership is striving to achieve a ceasefire , the agency said.

armenian president levon ter petrosyan called for a two stage ceasefire in
karabakh when he arrived in the belarus capital minsk on friday for a summit of
commonwealth leaders.

the first stage of the settlement should involve a ceasefire and securing the
protection of the karabakh population , tass quoted him as saying.

at least 10 ceasefires have been brokered in the conflict but all have
collapsed.

the second stage should involve discussing and finding a solution to the
legal issues that is , a clarification of the status of nagorno karabakh , he
said. the republic declared full independence last year but the move has not
been recognised by any other country.

armenia insists that a separate karabakh delegation should take part in future
peace talks , something azerbaijan rejects.

local news agencies in baku said on friday that interior minister iskender
gamidov , a fiery nationalist and hardliner in the territorial dispute with
armenia , had resigned.

turan news agency said he quit on thursday and had cleared his office.
khabar servis agency said he would be replaced by the military commandant of
baku , police major general abdullah allakhverdiyev. there was no official
confirmation.



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin)
subject re clintons views on jerusalem
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
summary verify statements
lines 21

in article 16bb28abd.dshal@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu , dshal@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu writes
it seems that president clinton can recognize jerusalem as israels capitol
while still keeping his diplomatic rear door open by stating that the parties
concerned should decide the city 's final status. even as i endorse clintons vie
w (of course) , it is definitely a matter to be decided upon by israel (and
other participating neighboring contries).
i see no real conflict in stating both views , nor expect any better from
politicians.

david shalhevet dshal@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu university of illinois
dept anim sci 220 pabl 1201 w. gregory dr. urbana , il 61801

i was trying to avoid a discussion of the whether clintons views
should be endorsed or not. all i was trying to find out was
whether the newspaper article was correct in making these
statements about the president by obtaining some information
about when and where he made these statements.

thank you.

ben.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject as armenians celebrating the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people , ...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 65

in article 48299@sdcc12.ucsd.edu ma170saj@sdcc14.ucsd.edu (system operator) writes

or , as we have painfully witnessed in azerbaijan , would like to see
it happen again...

is this the joke of the month \?

1. your fascist grandparents exterminated 2.5 million muslim people
between 1914 and 1920.

2. your nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the
european jewry during wwii.

3. your criminal cousins have been slaughtering muslim women , children
and elderly people in fascist x soviet armenia and karabag for the last
four years.

the entire population of x soviet armenia now , as a result of the
genocide of 2.5 million muslim people , are armenians.

for nearly one thousand years , the turkish and kurdish people
lived on their homeland the last one hundred under the
oppressive soviet and armenian occupation. the persecutions
culminated in 1914 the armenian government planned and carried
out a genocide against its muslim subjects. 2.5 million turks
and kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their
homeland. after one thousand years , turkish and kurdish lands
were empty of turks and kurds.

the survivors found a safe heaven in turkiye.

today , x soviet armenian government rejects the right of turks and
kurds to return to their muslim lands occupied by x soviet armenia.

today , x soviet armenian government covers up the genocide perpetrated
by its predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against
humanity.

x soviet armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide
against the muslims by admitting to the crime and making reparations
to the turks and kurds.

turks and kurds demand the right to return to their lands , to determine
their own future as a nation in their own homeland.

during the 78th anniversary , we come once again reiterate the
unity of the muslim people , the timelessness of the turkish
and kurdish demands and the desire to pursue the struggle
for that restitution a struggle that unites all turks and kurds.

today , we appeal to all turkish and kurdish people in the united
states and canada to participate en masse in the commemorative
events , be they cultural , political or religious.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from pgf5@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re deriving pleasure from death
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university
lines 22


with regards to my condemnation of marc 's ridiculous attacks on the
american department of justice , and further attacks on jews , to
anyone who took offense to my calling marc stupid , i
apologize for pointing out the obvious. it was a waste of the
net 's time. i hope , though , that most american citizens have
the basic knowlege of the structure of american government to
understand the relationship between the justice department
as a part of the executive branch , and the courts , which
are of the judicial branch.
marc 's ignorance of basic civic knowlege underscores his
inability to comprehend and interpret foreign affairs.


peace ,
pete







subject re enough freeman bashing ! was no free man propaganda machine freemanwith blood greetings from israel
from mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi)
organization calif state univ electronic information services
lines 16

pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman) writes


peter ,

i believe this is your most succinct post to date. since you have nothing
to say , you say nothing ! it 's brilliant. did you think of this all by
yourself \?

marc


some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with
both eyes.
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions.


from sethr@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (seth.r.rosenthal)
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
organization at t bell laboratories
lines 51

in article 1993apr25.221603.3260@virginia.edu , ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu writes
dear mr. beyer

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom
of racism and violent deragatory.

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial
distinction.

in fact , if a speach was not offensive to some , its
protection under freedom of speach laws would be useless. it is
speach that some find questionable that must be protected , be
it religiously blasphemous or inherently racist. it is only
through civilized discourse and not scare tactics that one can
enlighten those that one perceives to be ignorant. that is the
idea behind freedom of expression.
what you find offensive might be perceived as truth by
some and what they might find offensive might be your belief.
it is only through free exchange of ideas (and insults as the
case seems to be with this channel) that one can change
another 's erring ways.that is why jefferson said that here
we are not afraid to tolerate error so long as reason is left to
combat it .

those who forward offensive posts to the sysadmin are n't curtailing
anyones' freedom of speech. the neo nazi movement has a right to
make speeches , say anything they want. they do not have a right
to have these speeches published by the n.y. times. that depends
on the times analysis of the economic and to somewhat extent
newsworthy value of those speeches. likewise to the sysadmin
of this fellows system. if he feels his resources are being
used in a manner that is not in his best interests , or are
perhaps embarassing to his organization , he will act just as
the new york times does , not to be a conduit for these ideas.
the poster is after all free loading off of someone else 's
pocket book when he posts. he who controls the purse strings
has the right to make the decision how he wants those funds
spent or not spent.

noone is going to put the poster in jail , unless he bombs a local
building as a symbol of his hatred. freedom of speech in no
way equates to accessibility to conduits of information. the
market of ideas has its own natural selection process that
weeds out the ga ga from the credible ideas that are of
importance.


seth rosenthal

disclaimer all opinions are my own not my employers'.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the museum of 'barbarism'.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 215

in article c5i7ap.eld@acsu.buffalo.edu v999saum@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (varnavas a. lambrou) writes

what about cyprus \? \? the majority of the population is christian , but
your fellow turkish friends did and still doing a 'good' job for you
by cleaning the area from christians.

all your article reflects is your abundant ignorance. the people of
turkiye know quite well that greece and the greek cypriots will never
abandon the idea of hellenizing cyprus and will remain eternally
hopeful of uniting it with greece , someday , whatever the cost to the
parties involved. the history speaks for itself. greece was the sole
perpetrator of invasion on that island when it sent its troops on july
15 , 1974 in an attempt to topple the legitimate government of archibishop
makarios.

following the greek cypriot attempt to annex the island to greece with
the aid of the greek army , turkiye intervened by using her legal right
given by two international agreements. turkiye did it for the frequently
and conveniently forgotten people of the island , turkish cypriots. for
those turkish cypriots whose grandparents have been living on the island
since 1571.

the release of nikos sampson , a member of eoka national organization
of cypriot fighters and a convicted terrorist , shows that the
'enosis' mentality continues to survive in greece. one should not
forget that sampson dedicated his life to annihilating the turks
in cyprus , committed murder to achieve this goal , and tried to
destroy the island 's independence by annexing it to greece. of
course , the greek governments will have to bear the consequences
for this irresponsible conduct.


the museum of barbarism

2 irfan bey street , kumsal area , nicosia , cyprus

it is the house of dr. nihat ilhan , a major who was serving at
the cyprus turkish army contingent. during the attacks launched
against the turks by the greeks , on 20th december 1963 , dr. nihat
ilhan 's wife and three children were ruthlessly and brutally
killed in the bathroom , where they had tried to hide , by savage
greeks. dr. nihat ilhan happened to be on duty that night , the
24th december 1963. pictures reflecting greek atrocities
committed during and after 1963 are exhibited in this house which
has been converted into a museum.

an eye witness account of how a turkish family was butchered by
greek terrorists

the date is the 24th of december , 1963... the onslaught of the
greeks against the turks , which started three days ago , has been
going on with all its ferocity and defenseless women , old men
and children are being brutally killed by greeks. and now kumsal
area of nicosia witnesses the worst example of the greeks savage
bloodshed...

the wife and the three infant children of dr. nihat ilhan , a
major on duty at the camp of the cyprus turkish army contingent ,
are mercilessly and dastardly shot dead while hiding in the
bathroom of their house , by maddened greeks who broke into their
home. a glaring example of greek barbarism.

let us now listen to the relating of the said incident told by
mr. hasan yusuf gudum , an eye witness , who himself was wounded
during the same terrible event.

on the night of the 24th of december , 1963 my wife feride hasan
and i were paying a visit to the family of major dr. nihat ilhan.
our neighbours mrs. ayshe of mora , her daughter ishin and mrs.
ayshe 's sister novber were also with us. we were all sitting
having supper. all of a sudden bullets from the pedieos river
direction started to riddle the house , sounding like heavy rain.
thinking that the dining room where we were sitting was
dangerous , we ran to the bathroom and toilet which we thought
would be safer. altogether we were nine persons. we all hid in
the bathroom except my wife who took refuge in the toilet. we
waited in fear. mrs. ilhan the wife of major doctor , was standing
in the bath with her three children murat , kutsi and hakan in her
arms. suddenly with a great noise we heard the front door open.
greeks had come in and were combing , every corner of the house
with their machine gun bullets. during these moments i heard
voices saying , in greek , you want taksim eh ! and then bullets
started flying in the bathroom. mrs. ilhan and her three children
fell into the bath. they were shot. at this moment the greeks ,
who broke into the bathroom , emptied their guns on us again. i
heard one of the major 's children moan , then i fainted.

when i came to myself 2 or 3 hours later , i saw mrs. ilhan and
her three children lying dead in the bath. i and the rest of the
neighbours in the bathroom were all seriously wounded. but what
had happened to my wife \? then i remembered and immediately ran to
the toilet , where , in the doorway , i saw her body. she was
brutally murdered.

in the street admist the sound of shots i heard voices crying
help , help. is there no one to save us \? i became terrified. i
thought that if the greeks came again and found that i was not
dead they would kill me. so i ran to the bedroom and hid myself
under the double bed.

an our passed by. in the distance i could still hear shots. my
mouth was dry , so i came out from under the bed and drank some
water. then i put some sweets in my pocket and went back to the
bathroom , which was exactly as i had left in an hour ago. there i
offered sweets to mrs. ayshe , her daughter and mrs. novber who
were all wounded.

we waited in the bathroom until 5 o'clock in the morning. i
thought morning would never come. we were all wounded and needed
to be taken to hospital. finally , as we could walk , mrs. novber
and i , went out into the street hoping to find help , and walked
as far as koshklu chiftlik.

there , we met some people who took us to hospital where we were
operated on. when i regained my consciousness i said that there
were more wounded in the house and they went and brought mrs.
ayshe and her daughter.

after staying three days in the hospital i was sent by plane to
ankara for further treatment. there i have had four months
treatment but still i cannot use my arm. on my return to cyprus ,
greeks arrested me at the airport.

all i have related to you above i told the greeks during my
detention. they then released me.

on foot into cyprus's devastated turkish quarter

we went tonight into the sealed off turkish quarter of nicosia in
which 200 to 300 people have been slaughtered in the last five
days.

we were the first western reporters there , and we saw some
terrible sights.

in the kumsal quarter at no. 2 , irfan bey sokagi , we made our way
into a house whose floors were covered with broken glass. a
child 's bicycle lay in a corner.

in the bathroom , looking like a group of waxworks , were three
children piled on top of their murdered mother.

in a room next to it we glimpsed the body of a woman shot in the
head.

this , we were told , was the home of a turkish army major whose
family had been killed by the mob in the first violence.

today was five days later , and still they lay there.

rene maccoll and daniel mcgeachie , (from the daily express )

...i saw in a bathroom the bodies of a mother and three infant
children murdered because their father was a turkish officer...

max clos , le figaro 25 26 january , 1964


peter moorhead reporting from the village of skyloura , cyprus.
date 1 january , 1964.

il giarno (italy)

they are turk hunting , they want to exterminate them.

discussions start in london in cyprus terror continues. right now we
are witnessing the exodus of turks from the villages. thousands of people
abandoning homes , land , herds greek cypriot terrorism is relentless. this
time , the rhetoric of the hellenes and the bust of plato do not suffice to
cover up barbaric and ferocious behaviors.

article by giorgo bocca , correspondent of il giorno
date 14 january 1964

daily herald (london)

an appalling sight

and when i came across the turkish homes they were an appalling sight.
apart from the walls , they just did not exist. i doubt if a napalm bomb
attack could have created more devastation. i counted 40 blackened brick
and concrete shells that had once been homes. each house had been deliberately
fired by petrol. under red tile roofs which had caved in , i found a twisted
mass of bed springs , children 's conts and cribs , and ankle deep grey
ashes of what had once been chairs , tables and wardrobes.

in the neighbouring village of ayios vassilios , a mile away , i counted 16
wrecked and burned out homes. they were all turkish cypriot homes. from
this village more than 100 turkish cypriots had also vanished.in neither village
did i find a scrap of damage to any greek cypriot house.


daily telegraph (london)

graves of 12 shot turkish cypriots found in cyprus village

silent crowds gathered tonight outside the red crescent hospital in the
turkish sector of nicosia , as the bodies of 9 turkish cypriots found
crudely buried outside the village of ayios vassilios , 13 miles away , were
brought to the hospital under the escort of the parachute regiment. three
more bodies , including one of a woman , were discovered nearby but could
not be removed. turkish cypriots guarded by paratroops are still trying to
locate the bodies of 20 more believed to have been buried on the same site.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization unocal corporation
lines 35


(brad hernlem writes


well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli
patrol inside lebanese territory while i was condemning the retaliatory
shelling of lebanese villages by israeli and israeli backed forces. my team ,
you see , was playing fair while the opposing team was rearranging the
faces of the spectators in my team 's viewing stands , so to speak.

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on
in lebanon and try to see through the propaganda. there are no a priori
black and white hats but one sure wonders how the idf can bombard villages in
retaliation to pin point attacks on its soldiers in lebanon and then call the
lebanese terrorists.

if the attack was justified or not is at least debatable. but this is not the
issue. the issue is that you were cheering death. read again your original
article. you find israeli government responsible for those dead soldiers , that 's
a reasonable (debatable) point , but feel satisfaction from dead bodies is
not reasonable by any standards. no matter how you try to justify it.
i may understand your frustration against israeli occupation in s lebanon.
but no matter what you say , i can not understand your satisfaction for dead
bodies.

i have a question for you. let 's assume a bosnian village , inhabited by serbs
untill a few (10 20) years ago , and later taken over by bosnian muslims (the means
are not very peaceful). now , do you enjoy serbs coming and killing all (armed)
bosnian muslims \? i would not enjoy , but i would not enjoy any dead bodies
israelis , lebanese or bosnians.


dorin



from varvel@plains.nodak.edu (andrew varvel)
subject to be exact , 2.5 million readers enlightened by serdar argic
summary p
article i.d. ns1.c5uvbm.mze
organization north dakota higher education computing network
lines 13
nntp posting host plains.nodak.edu


in article 9304202017@zuma.uucp sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic) writes
(a.k.a. serdar argic , the merciful and compassionate)

serdar argic 's bountiful , divine , all knowing , and footnoted
wisdom is regrettably omitted for this solemn tribute.


where can i join the serdar argic fan club \? do i get a t shirt \?

the friendly neighborhood alien

life just has n't been the same since david koresh died...

from bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to bh437292@lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host parry.lance.colostate.edu
organization engineering college , colorado state university
lines 101

in article shaig.93apr15220200@composer.think.com , shaig@composer.think.com (shai guday) writes

snip
imagine \? \? \? \? it is not a terrorist camp as you and the israelis like
to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer
in the streets , women preparing lunch , men playing cards , etc.....

i would not argue that all or even most of the villages are terrorist
camps . there are however some which come very close to serving that
purpose and that is not to say that other did not function in that way
prior to the invasion.

the village i described was actually the closest i could come to
describing mine. i agree there may be other villages where the civilian
population has deserted because it is too close to israeli lines and
thus gets bombed more often. in such villages often the only remaining
inhabitants are guerillas and some elderly who have nowhere else to go.
but for the most part the typical south lebanon village is more like
mine. one where civilians and guerillas live together. they are
often inhabiting the same house. many families are large , some
have members of the families involved in hizollah , most others
are not. that is what is so hard of south lebanon , israel is
not fighting an army with well drawn battle lines , but a guerilla
tyoe resistance which by definition and necessity blends with
the local populace. not because they are evil cowards that
use women and children as shields , but because that is the only
way one can fight a more powerful better equipped occupying army.

some of the villages , and yours might well be among them , are as you
describe. not all are. there are a large number of groups in the area ,
backed by various organizations , with a wide range of purposes. hizbollah
and amal were two of the larger ones and may still be.

hizbollah and amal are now the main two militias. though
hizbollah people tend to be more committed to resistrance
operation and better motivated by religious conviction.

as to retaliation ,
while mistakes may be made , that is still a far cry from indiscriminate
bombing , which would have produced major casualties.

it may be a mixture of what we both say. sometimes israel chooses
its targets carefully. at other times it just sends its pilots on
sorties aimed at a town in general since it only knows that the
attackers came from that specific village but has no further
intelligence. on several occasions israel retalliated against
civilian refugee camps , even in north lebanon , just to show
that it will not sit idly after its soldiers have been attacked.
most of the time it directs the sla to do the dirty work and
indiscriminately shell some lebanese villages on the other side.
i have experienced this shelling myself on several occasions ,
this is why the sla militia is sometimes even more despised than
israeli troops.


well , here we disagree. i think that israel would willingly withdraw if
the lebanese gov't was able to field a reliable force in the area to police
it and prevent further attacks.

i hope you are right on israeli willingness to withdraw , but i still
contend that withdrawal would be the better course for israel 's
security , since it would reduce its military losses , and i claim
that the lebanese and syrian gov'ts would be able to prevent any
further attacks on northern israel.


there seems to be very little incentive for the syrian and lebanese
goovernment to allow hizbollah to bomb israel proper under such
circumstances , and now the lebanese government has proven that it is
capable of controlling and disarming all militias as they did
in all other parts of lebanon.

no , the syrian gov't is more than happy to have israel sink into another
lebanese morass. i could elaborate if necessary.

hmm... here we disagree on what serves syria interests better.
i think syria wants to have lebanon all to itself. it would
be willing to guarantee northern israel 's security in return for
israeli withdrawal. i do n't think syria wants israel to be
involved in its protectorate of lebanon. syria is sitting at the
negotiating table because it has come to accept that and wants
to get a political resolution. a renewal of hostilities
along the lebanese front could put the whole me peace negotiations
back in question.


i agree , only in the case of the isareli soldiers their killing
cannot be qualified as murder , no matter what you say.

no , but it is regretable , as is the whole situation.


i agree that the loss of any human life is deplorable and regrettable.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

basil

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject nazi armenians were of service to germans in arab countries as well.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 40

in article 1993apr26.175246.24412@colorado.edu perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman) writes

this has been discussed before , by several people , on this net. the
statement is attributable either to hajj amin al husseini , former grand
mufti of jerusalem and the leader of the palestinian death squads
during the 1948 war , or to one of his chief henchmen.

let us not forget the nazi armenians. nazi armenians were of service
to germans in arab countries as well. as uzun put it , one well known
case which received a lot of media coverage involved two nazi armenian
agents which were dropped over syria by italian war planes. the mission
of the agents was to mingle among the armenian population in syria and
to acquire relevant information for the german wehrmacht on the allied
forces in the area. 1 nazi armenians also helped german propaganda
efforts in arab countries designed to promote pro nazi sentiments among
the french and british ruled arab populations. beirut had traditionally
been strong hold of the nazi armenians and until very recently it was
the center of international armenian terrorism.

in russia general dro (the butcher) , the architect of the turkish
genocide in wwi , was working closely with the german secret
service. he entered the war zone with his own men and acquired
important intelligence about the soviets. his experience with
the turkish genocide in x soviet armenia made him an invaluable
source for the germans. 2

1 meyer , berkian , ibid. , p. 150.
2 meyer , berkian , ibid. , p. 113 patrick von zur muehlen ,
ibid. , p. 84.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from steel@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (nick steel)
subject re f ck off tsiel , logic of mr. emmanuel huna
keywords conspiracy , nutcase
organization etc organization
lines 24
nntp posting host hal.ai.mit.edu

in article 4806@bimacs.bitnet huna@bimacs.bitnet (emmanuel huna) writes

mr. steel , from what i 've read tsiel is not a racist , but you
are an anti semitic. and stop shouting , you fanatic ,

mr. emmanuel huna ,

give logic a break will you. gosh , what kind of intelligence do
you have , if any \?


tesiel says be a man not an arab for once.
i say fuck of tsiel (for saying the above).

i get tagged as a racist , and he gets praised \?
well mr. logicless , tsiel has apologized for his racist remark.
i praise him for that courage , but i tell take a hike to whoever calls me
a racist without a proof because i am not.

you have proven to us that your brain has been malfunctioning
and you are just a moron that 's loose on the net.

about being fanatic i am proud to be a fanatic about my rights and
freedom , you idiot.

from ucer@ee.rochester.edu (kamil b. ucer)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
organization university of rochester department of electrical engineering

in article 1993apr23.002811.22496@usage.csd.unsw.oz.au 2120788@hydra.maths.unsw.edu.au () writes
i 've heard many turks say this and it surpises me that they do n't read about
it.remember the treaty of sevres as a consequence of being in the axis powers
in wwi.the turks under international law were supposed to look after their
minorities ie. greeks , armenians , kurds(i must say turk kurd relations are
improving slightly with time) and not pose a threat to turkey 's neighbours.
the turks blatantly rejected this treaty(the germans grudgingly accepted
versailles which was a million times worse for the health and pride of the
german people).the greeks who had an army there , were there with british
and french backing to enforce sevres.
in possibly the first example of appeasement the young turk government
managed screwed the treaty of laussane out of the weak allies , this was after
the greek forces were were destroyed at smyrna.when this occurred incidently ,
french warships were in the harbour and many greeks trying escape swam to the
french warships and climbed aboard only to get their arms cut off by the french
as they clawed they 're way up the sides of the ships.
libertae , egalitae , fraternatae.
it seems to me that you are the one who is supposed to do some reading. i think
that our major difference in opinion is on the legitimacy of sevres. first , thattreaty was signed by the ottoman empire therefore legally it does not bind the
republic of turkey. the new independence movement (which by the way , is not the same as the young turks) naturally rejected it out of hand. to say that we
should accept because the germans did theirs is absurd. we saw what the cosequences of such harsh treaties were in hitler. second , the sevres treaty was even
worse than versailles. it divided the ottoman empire in to several influence
zones , had the capital occupied , the economy under allied control , the army di
minished to nothing but a police force , in short a country in name only. i 'd
wonder if you would like to live under such conditions. and for the record , i donot feel sorry for the soldiers killed in izmir harbour. before evacuating the
city , the greek forces burned it down , so it serves them right.
as for being fooled by allied promises , that too is your fault. you did not come to anatolia just to enforce sevres but to take part in the plunder as well.
k. burak ucer


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re deir yassin
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 21

in article 1993apr24.023039.1485@cs.rit.edu bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay) writes
in article 1r94f9 ge3@morrow.stanford.edu as.vxf@forsythe.stanford.edu (vic filler) writes

you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical methodology.

that 's true. i try to learn from people who know more than me ,
not from useless farts.

and anyone who does n't agree with you is , by your own definitions , a
useless fart . just like any text that disputes your own findings
is always described as flawed or biased . in other words , you
trumpet the things you like and dismiss those that might embarass you.
we 've seen you play these games here for a long time.

one thing is for sure when it comes to useless farts , you sure know
what you 're talking about.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject news you may have missed , apr 20
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 111
distribution world
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com


news you may have missed , apr 19 , 1993

not because you were too busy but because
israelists in the us media spiked it.

................


those intrepid israeli soldiers


israeli soldiers have sexually taunted arab women in the occupied gaza strip
during the three week long closure that has sealed palestinians off from the
jewish state , palestinian sources said on sunday.

the incidents occurred in the town of khan younis and involved soldiers of
the golani brigade who have been at the centre of house to house raids for
palestinian activists during the closure , which was imposed on the strip and
occupied west bank.

five days ago girls at the al khansaa secondary said a group of naked
soldiers taunted them , yelling ``come and kiss me.'' when the girls fled ,
the soldiers threw empty bottles at them.

on saturday , a group of soldiers opened their shirts and pulled down their
pants when they saw girls from al khansaa walking home from school. parents
are considering keeping their daughters home from the all girls school.

the same day , soldiers harassed two passing schoolgirls after a youth
escaped from them at a boys' secondary school. deputy principal srur
abu jamea said they shouted abusive language at the girls , backed them
against a wall , and put their arms around them.

when teacher hamdan abu hajras intervened the soldiers kicked him and beat
him with the butts of their rifles.

on tuesday , troops stopped a car driven by abdel azzim qdieh , a practising
moslem , and demanded he kiss his female passenger. qdieh refused , the
soldiers hit him and the 18 year old passenger kissed him to stop the
beating.

on friday , soldiers entered the home of zamno abu ealyan , 60 , blindfolded
him and his wife , put a music tape on a recorder and demanded they dance. as
the elderly couple danced , the soldiers slipped away. the coupled continued
dancing until their grandson came in and asked what was happening.

the army said it was checking the reports.

....................


israeli troops bar christians from jerusalem

israeli troops prevented christian arabs from entering jerusalem on thursday
to celebrate the traditional mass of the last supper.

two arab priests from the greek orthodox church led some 30 worshippers in
prayer at a checkpoint separating the occupied west bank from jerusalem after
soldiers told them only people with army issued permits could enter.

``right now , our brothers are celebrating mass in the church of the holy
sepulchre and we were hoping to be able to join them in prayer , '' said father
george makhlouf of the ramallah parish.

israel sealed off the occupied lands two weeks ago after a spate of
palestinian attacks against jews. the closure cut off arabs in the west bank
and gaza strip from jerusalem , their economic , spiritual and cultural centre.

father nicola akel said christians did not want to suffer the humiliation
of requesting permits to reach holy sites.

makhlouf said the closure was discriminatory , allowing jews free movement
to take part in recent passover celebrations while restricting christian
celebrations.

``yesterday , we saw the jews celebrate passover without any interruption.
but we cannot reach our holiest sites , '' he said.

an israeli officer interrupted makhlouf 's speech , demanding to see his
identity card before ordering the crowd to leave.

...................



if you are as revolted at this as i am , drop israel 's best friend email and
let him know what you think.


75300.3115@compuserve.com (via compuserve)
clintonpz@aol.com (via america online)
clinton hq@campaign92.org (via mci mail)


tell 'em arf sent ya.

..................................

if you are tired of learning about american foreign policy from what is
effectively , israeli controlled media , i highly recommend checking out the
washington report. a free sample copy is available by calling the american
education trust at
(800) 368 5788

tell 'em arf sent you.

js




from rj3s@virginia.edu ( get thee to a nunnery..... )
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of virginia
lines 32

eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu writes
ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

if you consider israeli reporting of events in israel to be propoganda , then
consider the washington post 's handling of american events to be propoganda
too. what makes the israeli press inherently biased in your opinion \? i
would n't compare it to nazi propoganda either. unless you want to provide
some evidence of israeli inaccuracies or parallels to nazism , i suggest you
keep your mouth shut. i'm sick and tired of all you anti semites comparing
israel to the nazis (and yes , in my opinion , if you compare israel to the nazis
you are an anti semite because you know damn well it is n't true and you are
just trying to discredit israel).

ed.

you know ed , ... you 're right ! andi should n't be comparing
israel to the nazis. the israelis are much worse than the
nazis ever were anyway. the nazis did a lot of good for
germany , and they would have succeeded if it were n't for the
damn jews. the holocaust never happened anyway. ample
evidence given by george schafer at harvard , dept. of history ,
and even by randolph higgins at nyu , have shown that the
holocaust was just a semitic conspiracy created to obtain
sympathy to piush for the creation of israel.




from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 54

in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.

another cpr non fact.

the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

actually , they are free to leave and seek work in egypt , except that
the egyptians do n't want them , either. and who are you going to blame
if when gazans establish their own state of gaza palestine \?

while polish non jews risked their lives to save jews from the
ghetto , no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help
the gazan resistance. the only help given to gazans by israeli
jews , only dozens of people , is humanitarian assistance.

actually , one such jew who did risk his life to help gazan arabs was
hacked to death by palestinean murderers just last week. it seems
that the risk has been primarily from the arabs in need of help .

this is also true for telephone repairmen , traders who seek to buy
agricultural products from gazans , israeli soldiers who get involved
in fighting between feuding palestinean groups that are as determined
to destroy each other as they are to destroy outsiders...

the right of the gazan population to resist occupation is
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to
rise up against its tormentors.

i just wanna see you try this here in the usa. you know what 's going
to happen.

as is known , the israeli regime is considering gazans unworthy of
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are
considered worthy to do the dirty work in israeli hotels , shops
and fields. many gazans are born in towns and villages located in
israel. they may not live there , for these areas are reserved for
the master race.

okay. that 's enough. i'm not going to read this posting of yours any
further.


elias davidsson iceland


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed)
subject re final solution in palestine \?
originator ahmeda@celeborn.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host celeborn.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 59


in article hm.93apr24133027@angell.cs.brown.edu , hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes
in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

...

the jews in the warsaw ghetto were fighting to keep themselves and
their families from being sent to nazi gas chambers. groups like hamas
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help

these wnderful freedom fighters attain this ultimate goal.

maybe the freedom fighters will choose to spare the co operative jews.
is that what you are counting on , elias the pity of murderers.

you say your mother was jewish. how ashamed she must be of her son. i
am sorry , mrs. davidsson.

harry.

o.k. , its my turn

driving the jews into the sea \? !

i am sick and tired of this 'driving the jews into the sea' sentance attributed
to islamic movements and the plo it simply ca n't be proven as part of their
plan !

(pro israeli activists repeat it like parrots without checking its authenticity
since it was coined by bnai brith)

what hamas and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media ,
is an islamic state that protects the rights of all its inhabitants under koranic
law. this would be a reversal of the 1948 situation in which the jews in
palestine took control of the land and its (mostly muslim) inhabitants.

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity (torture , blowing up their
homes , murders , ...) must be treated and tried as a war criminal. the political
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the destintion of their choice.

as for the plo , i am at a loss to explain what is going inside arafat 's mind.

although their political thinking seems far fetched with israel acting as a true
super power in the region , the islamic movements are using the same weapon the
jews used to establish their state religion.


ahmed.


subject re israeli terrorism
from amoss@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il (amos shapira)
1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu 2bd9c01d.11546@news.service.uci.edu 1rd7eo 1a4@usenet.ins.cwru.edu
organization inst. of comp. sci. , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel
nntp posting host shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il
in reply to cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu 's message of 25 apr 1993 05 26 48 gmt
lines 14

cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

the israelis
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters.

eh \? \? \? \? could you please give me details about an event where a neutral
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli soldier \?

amos

amos shapira (jumper extraordinaire) it is true that power corrupts ,
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better !
jerusalem 91904 , israel
amoss@cs.huji.ac.il the demon to his son


from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject serdar
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

go back to nursery school jerk.

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 23

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

i have just started reading the articles in this news
group. there seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet
other members with scare tactics. i believe one posting said
that all postings by one person are being forwarded to his
server who keeps a file on him in hope that appropriate action
might be taken .
i do n't know where you guys are from but in america
such attempts to curtail someones first amendment rights are
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind
regardless of how we feel about it. take your fascistic
repressive ideals back to where you came from.

freedom of speech does not mean that others are compelled to give one
the means to speak publicly. some systems have regulations
prohibiting the dissemination of racist and bigoted messages from
accounts they issue.

apparently , that 's not the case with virginia.edu , since you are still
posting.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject dir yassin (was re no free man propaganda machine freeman , with blood greetings from israel)
in reply to hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu 's message of tue , 13 apr 93 14 15 18 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 85

in article 1993apr13.141518.13900@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

check menahem begin dairies (published book) you 'll find accounts of the
massacres there including deir yassen ,
though with the numbers of massacred men , children and women are
greatly minimized.

as per request of hasan

from the revolt , by menachem begin , dell publishing , ny , 1977

pp. 225 227

apart from the military aspect , there is a moral aspect to the
story of dir yassin. at that village , whose name was publicized
throughout the world , both sides suffered heavy casualties. we had
four killed and nearly forty wounded. the number of casualties was
nearly forty percent of the total number of the attackers. the arab
troops suffered casualties neraly three times as heavy. the fighting
was thus very severe. yet the hostile propaganda , disseminated
throughout the world , deliberately ignored the fact that the civilian
population of dir yassin was actually given a warning by us before the
battle began. one of our tenders carrying a loud speaker was stationed
at the entrance to the village and it exhorted in arabic all women ,
children and aged to leave their houses and to take shelter on the
slopes of the hill. by giving this humane warning our fighters threw
away the element of complete surprise , and thus increased their own
risk in the ensuing battle. a substantial number of the inhabitants
obeyed the warning and they were unhurt. a few did not leave their
stone houses perhaps because of the confusion. the fire of the enemy
was murderous to which the number of our casualties bears eloquent
testimony. our men were compelled to fight for every house to
overcome the enemy they used large numbers of hand grenades. and the
civilians who had disregarded our warnings suffered inevitable
casualties.

the education which we gave our soldiers throughout the years of
revolt was based on the observance of the traditional laws of war. we
never broke them unless the enemy first did so and thus forced us , in
accordance with the accepted custom of war , to apply reprisals. i am
convinced , too , that our officers and men wished to avoid a single
unnecessary casualty in the dir yassin battle. but those who throw
stones of denunciation at the conquerors of dir yassin 1 would do
well not to don the cloak of hypocrisy 2 .

in connection with the capture of dir yassin the jewish agency
found it necessary to send a letter of apology to abdullah , whom mr.
ben gurion , at a moment of great political emotion , called 'the wise
ruler who seeks the good of his people and this country.' the 'wise
ruler , ' whose mercenary forces demolished gush etzion and flung the
bodies of its heroic defenders to birds of prey , replied with feudal
superciliousness. he rejected the apology and replied that the jews
were all to blame and that he did not believe in the existence of
'dissidents.' throughout the arab world and the world at large a wave
of lying propaganda was let loose about 'jewish attrocities.'

the enemy propaganda was designed to besmirch our name. in the
result it helped us. panic overwhelmed the arabs of eretz israel.
kolonia village , which had previously repulsed every attack of the
haganah , was evacuated overnight and fell without further fighting.
beit iksa was also evacuated. these two places overlooked the main
road and their fall , together with the capture of kastel by the
haganah , made it possible to keep open the road to jerusalem. in the
rest of the country , too , the arabs began to flee in terror , even
before they clashed with jewish forces. not what happened at dir
yassin , but what was invented about dir yassin , helped to carve the
way to our decisive victories on the battlefield. the legend of dir
yassin helped us in particular in the saving of tiberias and the
conquest of haifa.


1 (a footnote from the revolt , pp.226 7.) to counteract the loss
of dir yassin , a village of strategic importance , arab headquarters at
ramallah broadcast a crude atrocity story , alleging a massacre by
irgun troops of women and children in the village. certain jewish
officials , fearing the irgun men as political rivals , seized upon this
arab gruel propaganda to smear the irgun. an eminent rabbi was induced
to reprimand the irgun before he had time to sift the truth. out of
evil , however , good came. this arab propaganda spread a legend of
terror amongst arabs and arab troops , who were seized with panic at
the mention of irgun soldiers. the legend was worth half a dozen
battalions to the forces of israel. the `dir yassin massacre' lie
is still propagated by jew haters all over the world.

2 in reference to denunciation of dir yassin by fellow jews.

from siegfried r@spcvxb.spc.edu
subject re more on adl spying case
organization st. peter 's college , us
lines 36

in article arens.93apr13161407@grl.isi.edu , arens@isi.edu (yigal arens)
writes
los angeles times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993. p. a1.
new details of extensive adl spy operation emerge
san francisco to the outside world , roy bullock was a small time
art dealer who operated from his house in the castro district. in
reality , he was an undercover spy who picked through garbage and
amassed secret files for the anti defamation league for nearly 40
years.
.....
the anti defamation league , a self described jewish defense and civil
rights organization , acknowledges it has long collected information on
groups that are anti semitic , extremist or racist. the adl 's
fact finding division , headed by irwinn suall in new york , enjoys a
reputation for thoroughness and has often shared its information with
police agencies and journalists.

there is something almost comical in the fact that yigal arens is
important enough to have the adl and g d knows who else sifting through his
garbage (which happens to be legal you throw it out , it ai n't yours any more).

this brings to mind a few possibilities other than the adl connection

it is all in arens' mind.
bullock may have been working for arens' friend in the plo
arens' father (or is it brother \? ) moshe arens (former israeli defense
minister) was spying on him.
arens hired bullock to spy on him to get attention.

in any case , who cares \?

robert siegfried
computer science dept.
saint peter 's college
jersey city , nj 07306
siegfried r@spcvxa.spc.edu

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject from israeli press. short notes.
nf id n cdp 1483500345 000 1466
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 16 16 51 00 1993
lines 39


from center for policy research cpr
subject from israeli press. short notes.

written 4 43 pm apr 16 , 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc mideast.forum
from israeli press. short notes.
from the israeli press

hadashot , 14 march 1993

the israeli police department announced on the evening of friday ,
march 12 that it is calling upon jewish israeli citizens with
gun permits to carry them at all times so as to contribute to
their security and that of their surroundings .

ha'aretz , 15 march 1993

yehoshua matza (likud) , chair of the knesset interior committee ,
stated that he intends to demand that the police department make
it clear to the public that anyone who wounds or kills
non jewish terrorists will not be put on trial.

ha'aretz , 16 march1993

today a private security firm and units from the idf southern
command will begin installation of four magnetic gates in the gaza
strip , as an additional stage in the upgrading of security
measures in the strip.

the gates will aid in the searching of non jewish gaza residents
as they leave for work in israel. they can be used to reveal the
presence of knives , axes , weapons and other sharp objects.

in addition to the gates , which will be operated by a private
civilian company , large quantities of magnetic card reading
devices are being brought to the inspection points , to facilitate
the reading of the magnetic cards these non jewish workers must
carry.


from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 17

mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi) writes

let 's not forget that the soldiers were killed not murdered. the
distinction is not trivial. murder happens to innocent people , not people
whose line of work is to kill or be killed. it just so happened that these
soldiers , in the line of duty , were killed by the opposition.

that still does n't mean we should cheer their deaths. policemen are also in
the line of fire and their job includes the possibility of getting killed.
should we be happy when they die \? as i said before , the question is not
whether or not you agree with the policies of israel. you may wish for the
israelis to cease occupation , but do n't rejoice in death.

marc

ed.


from eldar@fraser.sfu.ca (danny eldar)
subject pbs frontline documentary memory of the camps
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 13

yesterday , i watched an outstanding documentary on pbs prepared for frontline
by the documentary consortia. it is called memory of the camps and shows some
un censored pictures taken immediately after the liberation of bergen belsen
and other death camps.

i recommend it to everybody. check with your pbs station for re broadcast.
it is a must see documentary.

in the seatle , vancouver area ksts 9 will re broadcast the documentary
on monday 01 30 am.
you can also order a copy from pbs video 1 800 3287271. the cost is 59.95.

danny

from jar2e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (virginia 's gentleman)
subject re from israeli press. madness.
organization university of virginia
lines 8

this post has all the earmarks of a form program , where the user types in
a nationality or ethnicity and it fills it in in certain places in the story.
if this is true , i condemn it. if it 's a fabrication , then the posters have
horrible morals and should be despised by everyone on tpm who values truth.

jesse



from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 47
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article c50wjj.j4r@newsflash.concordia.ca , ilyess@ece.concordia.ca (ilyess bdira) writes
in article 4805@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes


what are the borders the islamic world dreams about \? \?

the islamic world dreams of being the whole planet , but not by kicking
the current inhabitant out , we rather deam of the day everybody converts.
if jews had the same dream , i would not feel threatened a bit.

contrary to what the protocols of zion crowd might suggest ,
judaism does not have any such goals.

islamic readers , i am waiting to your honest answer.

i want also a honest answer from zionists for the following questions

1)why do jews who do n't even believe in god (as is the case with many
of the founders of secular zionism) have a right in palestine more
than the inhabitants of palestine , just because god gave you the land \?

the question you ask is complicated and deserves an honest answer.
i am going to provide one from my own current perspective , not a historical
one. currently , as a non observant jew israeli american , my own feeling
is that jews from the diaspora do not have a greater right in palestine or
israel , than the palestinians or israelis (both arab and jew) do.
with regard to jewish israelis , they should have the same rights
in israel as do all other israelis.

2)why do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of
the inhabitants are not jews and do not want to be part of israel \?

who are them \? if by them you mean the non religious jews , i think
you should be aware by now that the majority of the settlers and their
supporters are religious. the other part of the problem is , to my
knowledge , not that the palestinians do n't want to be a part of israel ,
as much as they would accept (for the most part) being full citizens
of israel , with all the priviliges and responsibilities accorded israeli
citizens. what they object to is the current limbo in which they find
themselves.



shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
in reply to center for policy research 's message of 23 apr 93 15 10 pdt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 30

in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

...

elias should the families of the children who were stabbed in their
high school by a palestinian freedom fighter be the ones who offer
their help to the gazans. perhaps it should be the families of the 18
israelis who were murdered last month by palestinian freedom
fighters .

the jews in the warsaw ghetto were fighting to keep themselves and
their families from being sent to nazi gas chambers. groups like hamas
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help
these wnderful freedom fighters attain this ultimate goal.

maybe the freedom fighters will choose to spare the co operative jews.
is that what you are counting on , elias the pity of murderers.

you say your mother was jewish. how ashamed she must be of her son. i
am sorry , mrs. davidsson.

harry.

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 012
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 622

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 012
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh



i saw a naked girl with her hair down. they were
dragging her. she kept falling because they were
pushing her and kicking her. she fell down , it was
muddy there , and later other witnesses who saw it from
their balconies told us , they seized her by the hair
and dragged her a couple of blocks , as far as the
mortgage bank , that 's a good block and a half or two
from here. i know this for sure because i saw it
myself.




deposition of tatyana mikhailovna arutunian (nezhintseva)

born 1932
train conductor
azerbaijani railroad

resident at building 13 15 , apartment 27
microdistrict no. 3
sumgait azerbaijan

i had n't lived very long in sumgait , only eight years. i moved there from
novosibirsk. my son entered the baku nautical school , and so i transferred
to azerbaijan. later i met someone and married him , and now my name is
arutunian , my husband 's name . . .

that there would be a massacre was not discussed openly , but there were hints
and gibes , so to speak , at the armenian people , and they were mocking the
russians , too. i was constantly aware of it at work , and not just this past
year. i could n't find a definite place for myself in the pool at work because
i , i 'll just say it , could n't steal , could n't deceive , and could n't be
involved in bribe taking. and when i asked for decent working conditions they
told me , leave , do n't keep the others from working , you are n't cut out for
this kind of work. and at work and around all the time i would hear gibes at
the armenians , like the turks had it right , they killed them all the way
they 've multiplied here they 're making it hard for us to live , and things
will be just fine if we get rid of them all. no problem , the turks will
help , they say , if we ask them , they 'll rid armenia of armenians in half an
hour. well that 's the way it all was , but i never thought , of course that it
would spill over into a bloody tragedy , because you just could n't imagine it.
here we 've been living under the soviet government for 70 years , and no one
even considered such an idea possible.

but i had been forming my own opinions , and in the presence of authoritative
people i would often ask , where is this all leading , do people really not see
what kind of situation is emerging here. the russians are fleeing sumgait ,
there are very few of them left. why is no one dealing with this , what 's going
on \? and when it all happened on the 27th and 28th , it became clear that
everything had been arranged by someone , because what else are you to make of
it if the first secretary of the city party committee is marching ahead of the
demonstration with an azerbaijani flag \? i would n't be saying this now if i
had n't received personal confirmation from him later. because when we were
under guard in the sk club on the 1st , he came to the club , that muslimzade.
the women told me , there he is , there he is , that 's muslimzade. i did n't
believe the rumors that he had carried an azerbaijani flag. i thought that
they were just false rumors. i went over to him and said , are you the first
secretary of our city party committee \? he answers me , yes. and i ask him ,
tell me , did you really march ahead of that gang carrying an azerbaijani
flag , and behind you they were carrying denigrating signs , i do n't know
exactly what they said , but there was mention of armenian blood \? and he tells
me , yes , i was there , but i tried to dissuade them from it. then i asked him
another question and where were you when they were burning and slaughtering
us \? and he said , i. . . we did n't know what to do , we did n't know , we did n't
anticipate that that would happen in sumgait.

comrade mamedov , the first deputy chairman of the council of ministers of the
azerbaijani ssr , answered the same question for me no , we actually did n't
anticipate the slaughter in sumgait. at that time we were trying to contain
the crowd of 45 , 000 in baku that was preparing for a massacre. those are his
exact words , the ones he said in the office of the council of ministers of the
armenian ssr.

and now , about the events themselves. of course it 's painful to discuss them ,
because it may seem that it 's not true to someone else. various rumors
concerning what happened are making the rounds some are true , others are n't.
but unfortunately there are more true ones than false , because it was so
horrible in our age , here in the space age , the age of science , the age of
progress , i do n't know , if someone had told me this story , if i were living in
or around moscow , i would n't have believed it. why not \? because it was really
a genocide , it was a massacre. that 's genuinely what it was.

for example , on that day , the 28th i did n't know about the 27th because my
husband and i were both sick , both of us had the flu , and we were in bed on
the 28th our neighbor comes to our place and says , you 're in bed \? you do n't
know anything about it \? there was a demonstration in town , and after it they
were overturning armenian cars and burning them. they were looking into cars
and asking , 'are you an armenian \? ' if they answered in armenian , then they
turned the car over and burned it. this is n't made up , the wife of the senior
investigator of the baku ministry of internal affairs told us. he was
returning home from his dacha with his wife , raisa sevastyanova , she 's my
neighbor. she immediately came and told lis that they had landed right in the
middle of it , i do n't know what to call it , the cavalcade of automobiles they
were stopping. he answered in azerbaijani , they let them go , but they made him
honk the horn , they were kicking up a fracas. we did n't even believe it , and
i said , certainly that did n't happen , how can that be \? and she said ,
muslimzade was leading the crowd , and the sputnik store was completely
smashed because most of the salespeople there are armenians. and when he saw
that they had started breaking the glass in that store , he said , do n't break
the shop windows , do n't destroy state property , but do whatever else you want.
i did n't hear this with my own two ears , but it is a fact that the store was
torn up and the director of the store was beaten for employing armenians
although he 's an azerbaijani.

while we were talking , all of a sudden right across from us . . . sevastyanova
is the first to look out the window and say , look , there 's a crowd out
there. and sure enough , when we looked out there we saw that the crowd had
already started wrecking the neighboring building. there was an armenian
family there , a woman and two girls. they lived across from us. i'm sorry , i
do n't know the building number or the people 's names , since we were in my
husband 's apartment , in microdistrict 8 , and i lived in microdistrict no. 3.
there was awful looting going on there at the time , the most hideous things
were going on there then. one building there , ours , was attacked twice , once
was n't enough for them. they returned to the places where they had n't finished
the armenians off. if an azerbaijani family dared to conceal armenians , they
beat the azerbaijanis too. they also beat russians , if it was russians doing
the hiding. because there were russians among them , they said so on
television , there were people of various nationalities. but they did n't tell
us why there were people of different nationalities. because they would n't
have touched the azerbaijanis if they had n't dared to stick up for the
armenians and give them temporary shelter in their homes.

at the time i saw this from the window i was there , sevastyanova was there ,
and so was my husband. we went out onto the balcony and saw a television fly
off a balcony. all kinds of things , even a sofa. then , when it was all down
there , they burned it up. then we saw the crowd , and they were all oohing. at
first i could n't figure out what was happening. and later i told my husband ,
lendrush , l think they 're beating someone out there. and he answered , i
do n't know , could be. suddenly the crowd separated for a moment , and i saw
it , and raisa sevastyanova saw it too. my husband had turned the other way ,
he did n't see it. i saw a naked girl with her hair down. they were dragging
her. she kept falling because they were pushing her and kicking her. she fell
down , it was muddy there , and later other witnesses who saw it from their
balconies told us , they seized her by the hair and dragged her a couple of
blocks , as far as the mortgage bank , that 's a good block and a half or two
from here. i know this for sure because i saw it myself.

then the crowd rushed toward our building. we were standing there , and you can
of course imagine what we were feeling. were they going to kill us or not \? and
i also had the awful thought that they might torment me the way they tormented
that woman , because i had just seen that.

i asked my husband. i gave him an axe and said , you kill me first , and then
let them do what they want with the corpse. but our neighbors , it 's true ,
defended us , they said , there are n't any armenians in our entryway , go away ,
only muslims live here. disaster missed us that time.

but at two o'clock in the morning a crowd of about 15 people , approximately ,
came back to our place. my husband was already asleep. he can sleep when he 's
upset about something , but i ca n't. i was standing , running from balcony to
balcony. our power was out , i do n't remember for how long , but it was as
though it had been deliberately turned off. there were no lights whatsoever ,
and i was glad , of course. i thought it was better that way. but then i look
and the crowd is at our balcony. this was at 2 15 in the morning. the first
time they were at our building it was 6 30 , and now it was 2 15 in the
morning. but i never thought that that old woman on the first floor , the
azerbaijani , was awake and watching out , there were human beings among them
too. so she goes out with a pail of garbage , as though she needed to be taking
garbage out at two o'clock in the morning. she used it as a pretext and went
toward those young people. they really were youngsters. from my balcony you
could see perfectly that they were young azerbaijani boys. they spoke
azerbaijani. and when they came up to her she said , what do you want \? and
they answered , we want the armenian family that lives here pointing toward
the second floor with their hands . she says , i already told you , we do n't
have any armenians here , now leave , do you hear , this is an old muslim woman
talking to you , and grabbed the hand of one boy who was trying to walk around
her and enter the building anyway and started pushing him away. and so they
seemed to listen to her. they were all very young , they started apologizing
and left. that was the second time death was at our door.

i forgot to mention about one other apartment , a man named rubik lives there ,
i do n't know him really , i knew his daughter , i mean i saw her around , but we
really did n't know them. but i do know that that guy who lives on the fourth
floor across from our entryway went to chernobyl and worked there for eight
months , to earn money. can you imagine what that means \? he risked his life to
earn x amount of money in order to better his family. he bought new furniture
and was getting ready to give his daughter 's hand in marriage , but , alas ,
everything was ruined by those creeps and scoundrels. they threw everything
out the windows , and the rest we saw from our balcony how the neighbors on
the left and right ran into the apartment and carried off everything that
had n't already been smashed or taken. what is one to think of that \? it means
that the parents in those families were in on it too. unfortunately i came to
be of the opinion that it was all organized and that everything had been
foreseen in advance both the beating of the armenians and the stripping of
apartments. something on the order of we 'll move the armenians out and take
over their apartments.

i have worked honestly my whole life , you can check everything about me. i
came as a patriot from china , waited for nights on end in front of the
consulate general of the ussr , i came to my homeland as a patriot because i
knew that the party and the komsomol were holy things. but when i saw in
sumgait that there was n't anything holy about them , that party membership was
bought , that komsomol members joined only for personal gain , that there were
no ideals , no ideas , god save me , everything was being bought and sold , i saw
all of it and understood how they could allow that crap to go on like it did.

i ca n't talk any more about it . . . the image of that beating . . . when i
went out of my own apartment they picked us up under soviet army guard , they
had arrived from all over to suppress that gang not only armenians , but some
russian families and their children , too , came out of their apartments and
joined us , because no normal person who had seen that could stay there with
the situation the way it was. and what 's interesting is that when we left on
the buses i rode and thought that at least one group of people , for sure
people would basically rise to the situation , would have some compassion for
the armenians , would somehow understand the injustice of what was done. but
having analyzed and weighed the whole thing , once i calmed down , having
thought it all through , i came to a conclusion that is shared by many people.
if a lot of azerbaijanis did n't want their armenian neighbors to be killed ,
and that basically depended on that muslimzade he said that he had wanted to
calm them down then is it possible that he did n't have people at hand to whom
he could whisper at the last minute , go and announce it on television
citizens of sumgait ! take what you can into your hands , let 's protect our
neighbors from this massacre \? those crowds were n't such that there was no
controlling them. basically they were unarmed. they did n't have firearms ,
mostly they had knives , they had all kinds of metal parts , like armature
shafts , sharpened at the ends , special rocks , different to a degree that we
noticed them there are n't rocks like those in sumgait soils , they were
brought from somewhere , as though it were all specially planned. so as i was
saying , i weighed it all out and if any of our neighbors had wanted to defend
us , why was n't it arranged \? it means that the government did n't want to do
it. when the crowd was moving from the city party committee to the sputnik ,
what , there was no way of informing baku \? no , there was no way , it turns out !
the crowd was doing violence in our microdistrict. i wo n't mention the things
i did n't see myself , i 'll only talk about the things i myself witnessed. they
were in microdistrict 8 beginning at 6 o'clock in the evening , when i saw them
from the other building , and they were somewhere else until mid night or one
o'clock in the morning , because at 2 15 they came back to our building. they
had n't completely finished making their predatory rounds of microdistrict 8.
when they returned to our building i told my husband , lendrush , now the
police are probably going to come , my god , now the authorities are probably
going to find out and come to our aid. well , alas , no , there were to be no
authorities , not a single policeman , not a single fireman , not a single
ambulance came while they were raging , as it turns out , as we later found out ,
beginning on the might of the 27th. there were dead people , ruined apartments ,
and burned autos one car near the bus station , it was burned and overturned ,
it was probably there about four days , everyone saw it and what went on in
block 45 ! those who live there know , they saw from their balconies how they
attacked the soldiers in the buses , how they beat those poor , unarmed
soldiers , and how on that square , i ca n't remember the name of it , where there
is that fork coming from the bus station , that intersection , now i'm upset and
i ca n't think of the name . . . there 's a tall building there , a 9 story , and
from the balconies there people saw that butchery , when the poor soldiers ,
wearing only helmets , with shields and those unfortunate clubs , moved against
that mob. and when they fell , those 12 to 14 year old boys ran up and using
stones , big heavy stones , beat them to death on their heads. who could have
guessed that something like that could happen in the soviet union and under
the soviet government \? the upshot is that this republic has not been under
soviet control for a long time , but no one wanted to pay any attention or get
involved.

if you were to go and ask at my work many people would confirm that i tell the
truth , i 've been struggling for truth for five years there already , the five
years that i worked at the azerbaijani railroad. some people there considered
me a demagogue , others who knows what some think i'm an adventure seeker , and
some , a prankster. but i wanted everything to be right , i would become
outraged how can this be , why is it people treat one another this way on a
soviet railroad , as though the azerbaijani railroad were azerbaijani property ,
or the property of some magnate , or some mafia if i want to , i 'll get you
out of here if i want to , i 'll get rid of you if i want to , i 'll do
something else \? and there 's a black market price for everything , in the most
brazen way a coach to moscow costs so much , a coach on a local train costs so
much. once when i was complaining to the head of the conductor 's pool , he had
the nerve to tell me , maybe you wo n't even believe this , but this , i'm afraid ,
i heard with my own ears tatyana , just how long can you fight for something
that you know will never have any effect \? you 're alone against everyone , so
instead why do n't you give more money to the chief conductor , and everything
will go fine for you. i started to cry , turned , and left. what else could i
do , where else could i go to complain \? i realized that everything was useless.
and the root of the whole thing is that it all goes on and no one wants to see
it. i filed a written complaint , and they ground it into dust , they destroyed
it , i still have a copy , but what 's the use \? when the general procuracy got
involved with the investigation of the bloody sumgait affair , in addition to
the information about what i saw , what i was a witness to , i gave testimony
about the mafia at the railroad. they accepted my petition , but i do n't know
if they 're going to pursue it or not. because , you 'll excuse me , i no longer
believe in the things i aspired to , the things i believed in before it 's all
dead. they just spit on my soul , stomped on everything , physically , and most
important , spiritually , because you can lose belongings , that 's nonsense , that
all comes with time , but when your soul is spit upon and when the best in
you your beliefs are destroyed , it can be very difficult to restore them...

i want to tell of one incident. i just do n't know , at the time i was in such a
state that i did n't even take minor things into account. here is an example.
of course , it 's not a minor one. my neighbor , raisa sevastyanova , she has a
son , valery , who is in the 9th grade in a school in microdistrict 8. a boy ,
vitaly danielian , i do n't know his last name , goes to school with him , or
rather , went to school with him. i was just sitting in an apartment trying to
make a phone call to moscow . . . oh yes , and there 's one important detail
when the massacre began , for two to three hours the phones were n't working in
armenian apartments , and later , in several russian and azerbaijani apartments.
but the fact of the matter is that service was shut off , you could not call
anywhere. why \? again , it means it was all planned. how come service is cut off
for no reason \? and the lights went off. and those brats were raging as they
liked they were n't afraid , they ran about freely , they that no one would slap
their hands and no one would dare to stop them. they knew it.

now i'm going to tell about the incident. so this little vitaly , vitalik , an
armenian boy , went to school with valery they were in the same class.
according to what valery and his neighbor pal said at the time i was in the
same apartment as they were , i sat at the phone waiting for the call to be put
through a mob attacked the building where vitalik lived. so valery ran to
his mother and said , mamma , please let me go to vitalik 's , what if they kill
him \? maybe he 's still alive , maybe we can bring him here and save him somehow.
. . . he 's a nice guy , we all like him , he 's a good person , he 's smart. his
mother would n't let him go. in tears , she says , valery , you ca n't go because
i am afraid. he says , mamma , we can get around the crowd. we 'll just watch ,
just have a look. they made it through. i do n't know , i think vitalik 's
parents lived in microdistrict no. 1 , and when they got there , they made a
superficial deduction. knowing that balconies and doors were being broken
everywhere , that you could see from the street which were the armenian
apartments in the building , they went here and there and looked , and saw that
the windows were intact , and so they calmed down. but even though the windows
in that apartment were not broken , everything inside was totally smashed , and
vitalik lay there with a broken skull , and his mother and father had already
been murdered. little vitalik did n't even know they were dead. so two weeks
ago , i do n't know , he was in critical condition , no , maybe it was longer we
left sumgait on march 20 , spent some time in moscow , and then we came to
yerevan. so it 's been about a month already it 's so hard to keep all this
straight. so valery , the next day , when he found out that vitalik 's family has
been killed and vitalik was ling in the semashko hospital in baku , valery and
his classmates got together and went to visit him. but they would n't admit
them , telling them that he was in critical condition and that he was still in
a coma. they cried and left , having also found out that the girl i saw being
kicked and dragged was in that hospital too. as it turns out she was brought
there in serious condition , but at least she was alive at the time . . .

when we got to the sk club we would see first one friend and then another ,
throw ourselves into their arms and kiss them , because you had wondered if
these friends were alive or not , if those friends were alive or not . . . and
when you saw them you were so glad to find out that the family had lived ! when
you saw people you heard things that made your hair stand on end.

if you publish everything that happened it will be a hideous book. a book of
things it is even difficult to believe. and those two girls who were raped
were entirely black and blue , the ones at the sk , they know i'm not lying ,
that girlfriend came up to one of them and said , what happened \? and she
bared her breasts , and they were completely covered in cigarette burns . . .
those rogues had put cigarettes out on her breasts. after something like that
i do n't know how you can live in a city and look at the people in it.

now . . . when we stayed at the military unit for a while , they provided ,
well , basic conditions for us there. the military unit is located in nasosny ,
some six miles from sumgait. and living there we met with a larger group
of people. there were about 1 , 600 people at the unit. you know , there was a
point when i could n't even go outside because if you went outside you saw
so much heartbreak around you. and when you hear the false rumors . . .

yes , by the way , false rumors were spread in sumgait saying that the armenians
around yerevan had destroyed azerbaijani villages and razed them to the ground
with bulldozers. i did n't know whether to believe it or not. and people who
do n't know any better get the idea that it was all done in revenge. but when
i arrived in armenia and was in spitak , and in spitak all those villages are
not only intact , but at that time had even been protected just in case , they
were guarded , they got better food than did the inhabitants of spitak. not a
single person there died , and no one is planning to harm them. around yerevan
all the villages are safe and unharmed , and the armenians did n't attack
anyone. but actually , after an evil of the magnitude suffered in sumgait there
could have been a feeling of vengefulness , but no one acted on it. and i do n't
know why you sometimes hear accusations to the effect that the armenians are
guilty , that it is they who organized it. rumors like that are being spread in
azerbaijan. and if one old person says it and ten young ones hear it , they not
only perceive it with their minds , but with their hearts , too. to them it
seems that the older person is telling the truth. for example , one says did
you know that out of 31 people killed (by the way , originally they said 31
people , but later they found a 32nd) , 30 were azerbaijani and one was an
armenian \?

of course i'm upset , but it 's utterly impossible to discuss such things and
not become upset. sometimes l forget things , but i know i want to return to
the time when we were in the sk club across from the city party committee.
when i saw muslimzade in the sk club building i went to him to ask because i
could n't believe that he had marched in the front carrying a banner. i already
mentioned this , and if i repeat anything , please excuse me. i asked him , why
did you do that and why are you here now , why did you come here \? to laugh at
these women who are strewn about on the floor \? the overcrowding there was
tremendous , it was completely unsanitary , and several of the children were
already sick. it 's true the troops tried to make it livable for us. they
cooked for us on their field stoves and provided us with wonderful food , but
the thing is that their main job was to ferret out the gang that was still at
it everywhere , that was continuing its sordid affairs everywhere. plus they
were never given any direct orders , they did n't know what they were authorized
to do and not to do. and it was only on march 8 at five o'clock in the evening
that krayev himself , the lieutenant general , the city commandant of sumgait ,
was given full authority and told everyone over a microphone from an armored
personnel carrier that now he could do what he wanted to do , as his heart
advised him , and relocate people to the military unit.

but that 's not what i want to talk about now. muslimzade , characteristically ,
tried to get me out of the sk building and take me to the city party
committee , which is across the square from the club. he took me by the
hand and said , citizen , do n't worry , we 'll go and have a talk in my office.
i told him , no , after everything you 've done , i do n't believe one iota of
what you say. if i go to the city party committee i 'll disappear , and the
traces of me will disappear too. because you ca n't stand it when . . . oh
yes , and there was another interesting detail from that meeting. it was even
very funny , although at the time i was n't up to laughing. he was in a nice ,
expensive hat , and so as to put him to shame , so to speak , i said , oh , why
did you come here all duded up like a london dandy , you smell of good perfume ,
you 're in your starched shirt , and you have your expensive hat on. you came
to ridicule the poor women and children who are lying on the floor , who are
already getting sick , whose relatives have died. did you come to laugh at
them \? and the one who was accompanying him , an azerbaijani , i do n't know who
he was or what his title was , he quickly snatched the hat off muslimzade 's head
and hid it. then i said , my god ! we 're not marauders. we 're not you ! we
did n't come to you with the intention of stealing ! well kill me , kill me !
muslimzade says to me , but i'm not guilty . . . kill me , kill me , but i'm not
guilty. and i say , ok , fine , you 're not guilty , have it your way. but give
us an answer , we 're asking you where were you when they were torturing and
raping those poor women , when they were killing the children , burning things ,
carrying on outrageously , and wrecking all those apartments \? where were you
then \? you know , we did n't expect it , we did not know what to do , we did n't
anticipate that something like that would happen in sumgait. i started
laughing and said , it 's truly funny. he says , what could i do \? we did n't
know what to do. and i say , i'm sorry , but it 'll be ridiculous if i tell
you the first secretary of the city party committee should n't march out in
front with a banner he should fall down so that the gang would have to cross
over his dead body. that 's what you should have done. that 's the way it was
during the war. not a single party committee secretary compromised himself
either he died or he led people into battle. and what did you do \? you ran
away , you left , you hid , you marched with a flag , because you were afraid ,
excuse my language , you feared for your own damned hide. and when we ask you ,
you tell us that you got confused and you ask me what you could have done \?
that 's right , i told him , the city party committee got confused , all the
party committees got confused , the police got confused , . baku got confused ,
they all lay in a faint for two weeks , and the gang ran the show with
impunity. and if it were n't for the troops it would n't have been just two
days , there would n't be a single armenian left in sumgait for sure , they would
have finished their bloody affair , because they brazenly went up to some
russians , too , the ones who tried to say something to them , and they told
them , 'as soon as we finish with the armenians we 'll come after you , too.

and by the way , there was a colonel , who took us to the military unit. he was
the one with the light blue collar tabs who flew in and two hours later
arrived on an armored personnel carrier when we were at the sk and took us to
the military unit and who later started moving us from the military unit. we
asked him , what \? how \? what will come of us \? he openly said , you know , for
us the main thing now is to catch that gang. we 'll finish that quickly. you 'll
stay at the military unit for the time being , and we 'll decide later. the
general procuracy of the ussr arrived , it consists of investigators from all
cities. there were some from stavropol , from everywhere , just everywhere , because
the affair was truly frightful. about this , by the way , comrade katusev spoke
as everyone knows , he 's the first deputy general procurator of the ussr. when
he gave us a speech from the armored personnel carrier at the military unit ,
by the way , he told us the honest truth , because he could n't not say it ,
because he was still experiencing his first impressions of what he had seen ,
and he said , there was afghanistan and it was bad , but sumgait it 's
horrible ! and the people who dared to do such a thing will be severely
punished , in accordance with our laws. and that 's a quote. then one mother
throws herself at him her two sons had died before her very eyes and says ,
who will return my sons \? who is going to punish the culprits \? they tried
to calm her down , and he said , in order for us to conduct a proper
investigation , in order that not a single scoundrel avoid responsibility , you
must help us , because we do n't know , maybe there was someone else in the gang
who is now being concealed in homes , and maybe the neighbors know , maybe
someone saw something. do n't be afraid , write about it in detail. so that
you 're not afraid . . . everyone knows that many of you are afraid , having
lived through such horrors , they think that if they write the whole truth
about , let 's say , their neighbor or someone else , that they will seek revenge
later. we 're going to do it like this we 're going to set up an urn and you
can throw what you write in there. we do n't need to know who wrote it. the
names of the people who write wo n't be made public , but we need all the
information. let each and every one not be afraid , let each write what is
necessary , who they saw in that gang , who made threats or shouted threatening
gibes about the armenians . . . you must describe all of these people and put
the information into the urn.

two soldiers and a major guarded the urn. and , sure enough , many people ,
people who did n't even want to write . . .i know one woman who asked me , she
came up and said , you , as a russian , the same thing wo n't happen to you as
will happen to me. so please . . . i 'll give you the information , and you
please write it down for me. so she was afraid , and there were a lot like
her . . . but later , after katusev made his speech , she sat and wrote down
everything she knew. and we threw it all into the urn. now we do n't know if
it will be of any use. for a factual picture will emerge from all that
information. one person can lie , but thousands ca n't lie , thousands simply
ca n't lie. you have to agree with that , a fact is a fact. why , for example ,
should someone say that black is white if it is really black \?

the first deputy chairman of the council of ministers of the azerbaijani
ssr , mamedov , as i said , was in yerevan. my husband and i were at the council
of ministers of the armenian ssr and found out that mamedov was present , the
one who had come to convince the people of sumgait to return to their
previous dwellings , to their old apartments. we asked for a meeting with him ,
and it was granted. when we went to see him he tried to behave properly , very
politely , delicately , but . . . when the truth was told right to his face and
when i asked him some of the same questions i had asked muslimzade , where were
you personally when they were beating us \? now you 're trying to convince us to
return , why did n't you think at the time that they were slaughtering us where
it was all leading \? he says , you 're telling the truth. let 's not mince
words. you 've told me right to my face , and i 'll tell you straight. i 'll tell
you the pure truth. i was gotten out of bed in the evening , the whole
government was up , including me , and we were restraining a crowd of about
45 , 000 in baku. but we never expected that in a city like sumgait , with its
fine international record , such a thing could happen. we expected it in baku.
i say , so that means you expected it all the same \? why were you expecting
it \? and he says , you know , it just happened that way. we were expecting it
in baku , we were trying to restrain it , but in sumgait . . . i say , fine ,
you did n't know for the first three or four hours , but then you should have
known. why did no one help us \? and he says , well , ok , we did n't know what to
do and things like that. basically it was the same story i got from
muslimzade. later , when he said , you go on back , the situation in sumgait is
favorable now , everything is fine , the armenians are friendly with the
azerbaijanis . . . to this l answered , you know what . . . i'm speaking
with you as a member of a neutral nation . . . i have never argued with
armenians or with azerbaijanis and i was an eyewitness . . . you tell me ,
please , comrade mamedov , i asked him , what would you say about this
honestly , if you were being completely frank with us \? then he said , yes , i
admit that i am honestly ashamed , shame on the entire azerbaijani nation , we
have disgraced ourselves not only before the entire soviet union , but before
the whole world. because now the voice of america and all the other foreign
radio stations of various hues are branding us with all kinds of rumors , too.
and i say , there 's nothing to add to what really happened. i do n't think it 's
possible to add anything more awful. he says , yes , i agree with you , i
understand your pain , it is truly an unfortunate occurrence. i repeat that he
said unfortunate occurrence. and then he suddenly remembered himself , what
he was saying he had a pen in his hands , he was fidgeting with it nervously
and said , oh , excuse me , a tragedy , really . . . i take this to mean that
he really thinks it 's an unfortunate occurrence. and of course , he says ,
i understand that having gone through all this you ca n't return to sumgait ,
but it 's necessary to cool down and realize that all those people are being
tried. and he even gave a detail , which , i do n't know if it matters or not ,
that 160 policemen were being tried. specifically in relation to that bloody
affair.

yes , by the way , there is another good detail , how i was set up at work in
baku after the events. i went to an undergarment plant , there was an
azerbaijani working there , and suddenly she tells me , what , they did n't
nail your husband \? they screwed up. i was floored , i had n't imagined that
anyone in baku , too , could say something like that. well after that i went up
to see . . . to my office , i needed to find out about those days , what was
going to happen with them , how they were going to put down those days from
february 29 to march 10 . . . and the administrator told me , i do n't know ,
tatyana , go to the head of the conductors' pool. be grateful if they do n't
put it down as unexcused absence. i was really discouraged by this. they all
know that we were but a hair away from death and barely survived , and here
they 're telling me that i was skipping work , as though i was off enjoying
myself somewhere. i went to the office of the chief of the pool , his last name
is rasulov , and he 's had that position for many years. incidentally , he 's a
party member , and is a big man in town. and suddenly , when i went to him and
said , comrade rasulov , this is the way it was . . . he looked at me askance
and said , and why are you he knows me by my previous last name why did
you get wrapped up in this mess \? i say , what do you mean , why did i get
wrapped up in this mess \? my husband 's an armenian , i tell him , i have an
armenian last name. and he screwed up his face , made a kind of a grimace , as
though he had eaten something sour , and said , i did n't expect that you would
. . . what did he mean by that \? and how should he behave , the chief of the
pool , a man who supervises 1 , 700 workers \? now , it 's true , there was a
reduction , but for sure there are still 1 , 200 conductors working for him. and
if someone who supervises a staff that size says things like that , then what
can you expect from a simple , uneducated , politically unsophisticated person \? !
he 's going to believe any and all rumors , that the armenians are like this ,
the armenians are like that , and so on . . .

by the way , that mamedov now i'm going back to mamedov 's office when i asked
him are you really going to guarantee the safety of our lives if we return
to sumgait \? he answered , yes , you know , i would guarantee them . . . i do n't
want to take on too much , i would guarantee them firmly for 50 years. but i
wo n't guarantee them for longer than 50 years. i say , so you 've got another
thing like that planned for 50 years from now \? so they 'll be quiet and then
in another 50 years it 'll happen again \? ! i could n't contain myself any more ,
and i also told him , and how did it get to that point , certainly you knew
about it , how they were treating the russians , for example , in baku and in
sumgait , how they were hounded from their jobs \? certainly you received
complaints , i wrote some myself. why did no one respond to them \? why did
everyone ignore what was going on \? did n't you prepare people for this by the
way you treated them \? and he says , you know , you 're finally starting to
insult me ! he threw his pen on the desk. maybe now you 'll say i'm a
scoundrel too \? i say , you know , i'm not talking about you because i do n't
know. but about the ones who i do know i can say with conviction , yes , that
comrade was involved in this , that , and that , because i know for certain.
well anyway he assured us that here , in yerevan , there were false rumors ,
that 3 , 000 sumgait armenians were here , and 15 , 000 were in sumgait and had
gotten back to work. everyone was working , he said , and life was very good.
we drove about the town ourselves , comrade arutiunian first secretary of
the communist party of armenia ssr came from the council of ministers of
armenian , he came and brought information showing that everything was fine in
sumgait. when i asked mamedov how he had reached that conclusion he said , '
well , i walked down the street. and i said , walking down the street in any
city , even if i were to go to new york , i would never understand the situation
because i would be a guest , i do n't have any contact with people , but if you
spend 10 days among some blue collar workers in such a way that they did n't
know you were the first deputy chairman of the council of ministers , you 'd
hear something quite different. i told him , for example , that i drew my
conclusion when we left the military unit to look at our apartments. they took
us all in turns to pick things up , since people had fled to the military unit
they got on the bus just to save themselves as soon as possible. how are the
neighbors in the microdistrict , how will they view us , what do they think \? i
thought maybe that in fact it was n't something general , of a mass nature , some
anti national something. and when that bus took us to our building , because it
was the same bus , while we were going up to our apartment , an armed soldier
accompanied us. what does that say \? it speaks of the fact that if everything
there were fine , why do we need to have soldiers go there and come back with
us , going from apartment to apartment \? and in fact , especially with the young
people , you could sense the delight at our misfortune , the grins , and they
were making comments , too. and that was in the presence of troops , when police
detachments were in the microdistricts and armored personnel carriers and
tanks were passing by. and if people are taking such malicious delight when
the situation is like that , then what is it going to be like when they
withdraw protection from the city altogether \? there will be more outrages , of
course , perhaps not organized , but in the alleys . . .

april 20 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 166 177



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject re deir yassin
in reply to aurag@ere.umontreal.ca 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 18 48 15 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 44

in article martinb.735590895@brise.ere.umontreal.ca aurag@ere.umontreal.ca (aurag hassan) writes

are you trying to say that there were no massacres in deir yassin
or in sabra and shatila \? if so then let me tell you some good jokes

there is not and was not any such thing like jewish killing in wwii

palestinians just did what davidians did for fourty years and more.

in fact no one was killed in any war at any time or any place.

people die that is all. no one gets killed.

maybe also vietamiese did n't die in vietnam war killed by american
napalm they were just pyromaniacs and that 's all.

maybe jews just liked gas chambers and no one forced them to get in there.they
may be thought it was like snifing cocaine. no \?

what do you think of this \? is n't it stupid to say so \?
well it is as stupid as what you said .next time you want to lie do it
intelligently.

sincerely yours.

hassan

arab civilians did die at dir yassin. but there was no massacre. first
of all , the village housed many armed troops. secondly , the irgun
and stern fighters had absolutely no intentions of killing civilians.
the village was attacked only for its military significance. in fact ,
a warning was given to the occupants of the village to leave before
the attack was to begin.

by all rational standards , dir yassin was not a massacre. the killing
was unintentional. the village housed arab snipers and arab troops.
thus it was attacked for its military significance. it was not
attacked with intentions of killing any civilians.

to even compare dir yassin , in which some 120 or so arabs died , to the
holocaust is absurd. the irgun did not want to kill any civilians. the
village had almost 1000 inhabitants , most of whom survived.

harry.

from hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
organization ncsu chem eng
lines 132


in article 2bcf287a.25524@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

in article 1993apr16.130037.18830@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu
(brad hernlem) writes

in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu
(tim clock) writes

are you suggesting that , when guerillas use the population for cover ,
israel should totally back down \? so...the easiest way to get away with
attacking another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the
other respects innocent lives \?

tell me tim , what are these guerillas doing wrong \? assuming that they are
using civilians for cover ,

assuming \? also come on , brad. if we are going to get anywhere in
this (or any) discussion , it does n't help to bring up elements i never
addressed , nor commented on in any way . i made no comment on who is
right or who is wrong , only that civilians are being used as cover
and that , having been placed in between the israelis and the guerillas ,
they will be injured as both parties continue their fight.

pardon me tim , but i do not see how it can be possible for the idf to fail
to detect the presence of those responsible for planting the bomb which
killed the three idf troops and then later know the exact number and
whereabouts of all of them. several villages were shelled. how could the idf
possibly have known that there were guerrillas in each of the targetted
villages \? you see , it was an arbitrary act of retaliation .


if the buffer zone is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working \? why
is it further neccessary for israeli guns to pound lebanese villages \? why
not just kill those who try to infiltrate the buffer zone \? you see , there
is more to the shelling of the villages.... it is called retaliation...
getting back ... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the
villages. the least it shows is a reckless disregard by the israeli
government for the lives of civilians.

i agree with you here. i have always thought that israel 's bombing
sortees and bombing policy is stupid , thoughtless , inhumane and
ineffective. but , there is no reason that israel should passive wait
until attackers chose to act there is every reason to believe that
taking the fight to the enemy will do more to stop attacks.

as i said previously , israel spent several decades sitting passively
on its side of a border and only acting to stop these attacks after
the attackers had entered israeli territory. it did n't work very well.
the host arab state did little nothing to try and stop these attacks
from its side of the border with israel so the number of attacks
were considerably higher , as was their physical and psychological impact
on the civilians caught in their path.

the problem , tim , is that the original reason for the invasion was palestinian
attacks on israel , not lebanese attacks.


what \? so the whole bit about attacks on israel from neighboring arab states
can start all over again \? while i also hope for this to happen , it will
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the
responsibility and the duty to stop guerilla attacks on israel from their
soil. they have to prove it (or provide some guaratees ) , there is no way
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of
tolerance towards anti israel guerillas in residence .

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has
no business wasting others' time coming to the peace talks.

this is just another selectively applied statement.

the reason for this drawn out impasse between ababs palestinians and israelis
is that neither side is willing to accept the word of the other. by your
criteria everyone should stay away from the negotiations.

that is precisely why the palestinians (in their recent pisga proposal for
the interim period after negotiations and leading up to full autonomy) are
demanding conditions that essentially define autonomy already. they do
not trust that israel will follow through the entire process and allow
palestinians to reach full autonomy.

do you understand and accept this viewpoint by the palestinians \?
if you do , then why should israel 's view of arabs palestinians
be any different \? why should they trust the arab palestinians' words \?
since they do n't , they are very reluctant to give up tangible assets
(land , control of areas) in exchange for words . for this reason ,
they are also concerned about the sorts of guarantees they will have
that the arabs will follow through on their part of any agreement reached.

first , i believe that my statement applies to both sides.

having said that , i think it is neccessary to separate what is legitimately
negotiable and what is not. for example , no country has the right to abuse
one 's human rights. deciding whether there will be one or two states in
palestine is a legitimate question. while de facto one state exists , israel
must treat all within its domain equitably.

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in lebanon have been
disarmed. hezbollah remains the only independent militia. hezbollah does
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the idf burned up
sheikh mosavi , his wife , and young son.

while the major armaments (those allowing people to wage civil wars )
have been removed , the weapons needed to cross border attacks still
remain to some extent. rocket attacks still continue , and commando
raids only require a few easily concealed weapons and a refined disregard
for human life (yours of that of others). such attacks also continue.

yes , i am afraid that what you say is true but that still does not justify
occupying your neighbor 's land. israel must resolve its disputes with the
native palestinians if it wants peace from such attacks.

of course , if israel would withdraw from lebanon
and stop assassinating people and shelling villages they would n't
make the lebanese so mad as to do that.

bat guano. the situation you call for existed in the 1970s and attacks
were commonplace.

not true. lebanese were not attacking israel in the 1970s. with a strong
lebanese government (free from syrian and israeli interference) i believe
that the border could be adequately patrolled. the palestinian heavy
weapons have been siezed in past years and i do not see as significant a
threat as once existed.

please , tim , do n't fall into the trap of treating lebanese and palestinians
as all part of the same group. there are too many who think all arabs or all
muslims are the same. too many times i have seen people support the bombing
of palestinian camps in retaliation for an idf death at the hands of the
lebanese resistance or the shelling of lebanese villages in retaliation for
a palestinian attack.
tim

from cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research)
subject ten questions about israel
lines 55
nf id n cdp 1483500349 000 1868
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 19 14 38 00 1993


from center for policy research cpr
subject ten questions about israel


ten questions to israelis


i would be thankful if any of you who live in israel could help to
provide
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are
indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by
people around me.

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize
israeli nationality \? and that id cards , which israeli citizens
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or arabs , not as
israelis \?

2. is it true that the state of israel has no fixed borders
and that israeli governments from 1948 until today have refused to
state where the ultimate borders of the state of israel should be
\?

3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons \? if so ,
could you provide any evidence \?

4. is it true that in israeli prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?

5. is it true that jews who reside in the occupied
territories are subject to different laws than non jews \?

6. is it true that jews who left palestine in the war 1947 48
to avoid the war were automatically allowed to return , while their
christian neighbors who did the same were not allowed to return \?

7. is it true that israel 's prime minister , y. rabin , signed
an order for ethnical cleansing in 1948 , as is done today in
bosnia herzegovina \?

8. is it true that israeli arab citizens are not admitted as
members in kibbutzim \?

9. is it true that israeli law attempts to discourage
marriages between jews and non jews \?

10. is it true that hotel hilton in tel aviv is built on the
site of a muslim cemetery \?

thanks ,

elias davidsson iceland email elias@ismennt.is

from adams@bellini.berkeley.edu (adam l. schwartz)
subject re seventh century a.d. armenian math problems
nntp posting host bellini.berkeley.edu
organization u.c. berkeley erl
lines 24

in article 1r6qn1innd0n@flop.engr.orst.edu koc@rize.ece.orst.edu (cetin kaya koc) writes
problem 1

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the
armenians and the persians , prince zaurak kamsarakan performed extraordinary
heroic deeds. three times in a single month he attacked the persian troops.
the first time , he struck down half of the persian army. the second time ,
pursuing the persians , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers. the third
time , he destroyed one eleventh of the persian army. the persians who were
still alive , numbering two hundred eighty , fled to nakhichevan. and so , from
this remainder , find how many persian soldiers there were before the
massacre.


answer a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11) 280 a 1760


i thought the implication was that the prince destroyed one fourth of the
remaining persian troops on the second round , and then 1 11 of those remaining
on the third round. this would mean

answer a (1 1 2) (1 1 4) (1 1 11) 280 a 821.333



from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject seventh century a.d. armenian math problems
keywords philosphy , greece , persians , math
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 366


from quantum magazine , march april 1993 pages 42 46

the problem book of anania of shirak


on the ancient peak of ararat
the centuries have come like seconds
and passed on.
avetik issahakian

by yuri danilov

some years ago journalists interviewing celebrities liked to ask them what
books would you take with you if you were to go off on a space flight \? and
though the number of books allowed on the trip varied from 10 to 30 ,
depending on the type of spacecraft and the generosity of the interviewer ,
and celebrities are people of the most varied tastes , ages , and professions ,
not one of them dared to say that he or she would want to take with them at
least one book of arithmetic problems.

some of these people certainly excluded this kind of literature because they
were trained in the humanities and had nothing but scorn for numbers (though
secretly afraid of them). others steered clear of such puzzle books because
they were masters of incomparably more difficult branches of modern
mathematics and did n't mind saying for all the world to hear that they did n't
know how to solve mere arithmetic problems. professional mathematicians were
no exception. here 's what the russian mathematician alexander khinchin , a
specialist in statistics , wrote about arithmetic i willingly confess that
any time a fifth grader asked me to help solve an arithmetic problem , it was
a hard work for me , and sometimes i failed completely. of course , like most of
my friends , i could easily solve the problem by the natural algebraic route
constructing equations or sets of equations. but we were supposed to avoid
using algebraic analysis at all costs ! . . . by the way , it 's a fact that is
well known and oft repeated that , as a rule , neither high school graduates ,
nor students at teaching colleges , nor teachers beginning their careers
(nor , i must add , scientific researchers) can solve arithmetic problems. it
seems the only people in the world who are able to solve them are fifth grade
teachers.

now , i'm not insisting that a book of arithmetic problems be included in the
bookbag of anyone flying into space. but a sense of justice induces me to
recommend one particular problem book , one that will satisfy the most
fastidious taste and supply food for thought sufficient not only for a
relatively short flight to the moon but for a extended space voyage say , to
venus and back.

one for the road

they both took out the books they brought for the road. kingsley
glanced at the royal astronomer 's book and saw a bright cover with
a group of cutthroats shooting at each other with revolvers. god
knows what this kind of stuff leads to , thought kingsley.

the royal astronomer looked at kingsley 's book and saw the history
of herodotus. good lord , next he 'll be reading thucydides , thought
the royal astronomer.
fred hoyle , the black cloud

the book i'm talking about is n't very big , but its 24 problems constitute 24
elegant miniatures from seventh century armenia. naive and wise at the same
time , rich in striking detail and the bright coloration of the period , these
problems are reminiscent of the reliefs on the famous monument of armenian
architecture , the church on the island of akhtamar in lake van (in what is
now turkey . they are as inseparable from the image of armenia as the elegant
letters of the armenian alphabet , invented by mesrop mashtots , or the songs of
komitas , or the paintings of saryan.

an edition of these incredibly beautiful problems has long been a
bibliographic rarity. it was published under the title problems and solutions
of vardapet 1 anania of shirak , armenian mathematician of the seventh
century (translated and published by i. a. orbeli , petrograd , 1918).

the abundance of close observations and wide ranging information about the way
of life and customs of that remote epoch when anania of shirak lived and
worked have actually rendered a disservice to his problem book. for many years
the book was known only to researchers in the humanities specialists in
armenian history who jealously guarded their treasure and would n't let just
anyone see it. even now , after research by k. p. patkanov , the learned monk
father kaloust , j.i. orbeli , a. abramyan , v. k. chaloyan , and others has
brought the works of anania of shirak to light in scholarly circles , the
general reader remains ignorant of the very existence of this remarkable
problem book.

vardapet anania of shirak

once fell in love with the art of calculation , i thought that no
philosophical notion can be constructed without number , considering
it the mother of all wisdom.
anania of shirak

among ancient armenian thinkers , vardapet anania of shirak stands out because
of the breadth of his interests and the unique mathematical orientation of his
work. some of his works have been preserved. in addition to the problems and
solutions , the following tracts have found a special place in the estimation
of scholars on weights and measures , cosmography and calendrical theory , and
armenian geography of the seventh century a.d. (the authorship of the last
work was long attributed to another outstanding thinker of ancient armenia ,
movses of khoren).

in his autobiography , anania of shirak has this to say about himself

i , anania of shirak , having studied all the science of our
armenian land and having learned the holy scripture intimately ,
in the expression of the psalmist , every day i illuminated the
eyes of my mind. feeling myself lacking in the art of calculation ,
i came to the conclusion that it is fruitless to study philosophy ,
the mother of all sciences , without number. i could find in armenia
neither a man versed in philosophy nor books that explained the
sciences. i therefore went to greece and met in theodosiople a man
named iliazar who was well versed in ecclesiastical works. he told me
that in forth armenia 2 there lived a famous mathematician ,
christosatur. i went this person and spent six months with him. but
soon i noticed that christosatur was a master not of all science but
only of certain fragmentary facts.

i then went to constantinople , where i met acquaintances who told me
why did you go so far , when much closer to us , in trebizon , on the
coast of pontus 3 lives the byzantine vardapet tyukhik. he is full
of wisdom , is known to kings , and knows armenian literature. i asked
them how they knew this. they answered we saw ourselves that many
people traveled long distances to become pupils of so learned a man.
indeed the archdeacon of the patriarchate of constantinople ,
philagrus , traveled with us , bringing many young persons to become
pupils of tyukhik. when i heard this , i expressed my gratitude to
god , who had quenched the thirst of his slave.

i went to tyukhik at the monastery of st. eugene and explained why i
had come. he received me graciously and said i praise our lord that
he sent you to learn and to transplant science in the domain of st.
gregory i am glad that all your country will learn from me. i myself
lived in armenia for many years as a youth. ignorance reigned there.
vardapet tyukhik loved me as a son and shared all his thoughts with
me. the lord bestowed upon me his blessing i completely assimilated
the science of number , and with such success that my fellow students
at the king 's court began to envy me.

i spent eight years with tyukhik and studied many books that had not
been translated into our language. for the vardapet had an innumerable
collection of books secret and explicit , ecclesiastical and pagan ,
books on art , history , and medicine , books of chronologies. why
enumerate them by title \? in a word , there is no book that tyukhik did
not have. and he had such a gift from the holy spirit for translating
that when he sat down to translate something from the greek into
armenian , he did not struggle as other translators did , and the
translation read as if the work were written in that language
originally.

tyukhik told me how he had achieved such vast erudition and how he had
learned the armenian language. when i was young , he said , i lived
in trebizon , at the court of the military chief ioannus patricus , and
for a long time , up to the accession of mauritius to the throne i
served as a military man in armenia and learned your language and
literature. during one attack by persian troops on the greeks , i was
wounded and escaped to antioch. i lost all my possessions. praying to
the lord to heal my wounds , i made a promise if you prolong my life ,
i shall dedicate it not to accumulating perishable treasures but to
collecting treasures of knowledge. and the lord heard my prayers.
after i recovered i went to jerusalem , and from there to alexandria
and rome. upon returning to constantinople , i met a famous philosopher
from athens and studied with him for many years. after that i returned
to my homeland and began to teach and instruct my people.

after some years that philosopher died. not finding a replacement for
him , the king and his courtiers sent for tyukhik and invited him to
assume the teacher 's position. tyukhik , citing the promise he made to
god not to move far from the city , turned down the offer. but because
of his wide leaning , people came streaming from all countries to study
with him.

and i , the most insignificant of all armenians , having learned from
him this powerful science , desired by kings , brought it to our
country , supported by no one , obligated only to my own industry , god 's
help , and the prayers of the blessed educator. and no one thanked me
for my efforts.

problems and solutions

a half and one sixth and one nine ninth of all the books were printed
on verge' one fifth and one two hundred eighty fifth on rag paper
one forty fifth and one eight hundred fifty fifth on vellum , and
forty five inscribed copies on dutch paper. and so , find how many
copies were printed in all.
imitation of anania of shirak

a latin proverb says habent sua fata libelli ( books have their own fate ).
the fate of problems and solutions by anania of shirak is quite amazing. the
manuscripts of anania 's book were preserved only because , according to
armenian historians , in ancient and medieval armenia manuscripts were guarded
from invaders , like weapons , and cherished , like one 's own children. biding
their time , the manuscripts lay in the matenadaran , a renowned depository of
ancient manuscripts (now the mesrop mashtots institute of ancient manuscripts).
and its hour finally arrived. in 1896 the learned monk father kaloust used two
manuscripts to publish the problem book , supplementing it with an introduction
and commentary. in 1918 the book was translated into russian , edited ,
annotated , and typeset by iosef orbeli , a prominent scholar (and later a
member of the academy of sciences of the ussr).

in the translator 's words , the problems of anania are amusing , full of life ,
and simple. orbeli goes on to say the subjects of the problems are
generally taken from everyday life. the scene is predominantly his homeland
shirak and the surrounding countryside , and the dramatis personae , if they are
named , are the local princes the kamsarakans , including nersekh , who was a
contemporary of anania. like other ancient authors , anania of shirak used
only aliquots that is , fractions with a numerator of 1. when it is
necessary to write fractions with numerators other than 1 , one has to
represent it as a sum of aliquots (see the epigraph above).

like any true work of art , the problems of anania suffer terribly in the
retelling. you have to read the originals (albeit in translation) in their
full glory. so let 's open anania 's problem book a gift from across the ages.

problems 1 and 8 relate to the armenian uprising against the persians in a.d.
572.

problem 1

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the
armenians and the persians , prince zaurak kamsarakan performed extraordinary
heroic deeds. three times in a single month he attacked the persian troops.
the first time , he struck down half of the persian army. the second time ,
pursuing the persians , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers. the third
time , he destroyed one eleventh of the persian army. the persians who were
still alive , numbering two hundred eighty , fled to nakhichevan. and so , from
this remainder , find how many persian soldiers there were before the massacre.

problem 8

during the famous armenian uprising against the persians , when zaurak
kamsarakan killed suren , one of the armenian azats 4 sent an envoy to the
persian king to report the baleful news. the envoy covered fifty miles in a
day. fifteen days later , when he learned of this , zaurak kamsarakan sent
riders in pursuit to bring the envoy back. the riders covered eighty miles in
a day. and so , find how many days it took them to catch the envoy.

problem 18 mentions vessels made of varying amounts of metal. in the russian
translation , they are all called dishes. but in the original armenian ,
according to orbeli 's note , the dishes in the first and second instances are
called mesur , and in the third instance scutel. scutel is a common armenian
word , but mesur had not been encountered in armenian literature before
anania 's problems and solutions.

problem 18

there was a tray in my house. i melted it down and made other vessels from the
metal. from one third i made a mesur from one fourth , another mesur from
one fifth , two goblets from one sixth , two scutels and from two hundred ten
drams , i made a bowl. and now , find the weight of the tray.

several of the problems reflect the richness of the caucasian fauna in
anania 's time for instance , problem 7.

problem 7

once i was in marmet , the capital of the kamsarakans. strolling along the bank
of the river akhuryan , i saw a school of fish and ordered that a net be cast.
we caught a half and a quarter of the school , and all the fishes that slipped
out of the net ended up in a creel. when i looked in the creel , i found
forty five fishes. and now , find how many fishes here were in all.

the temptation is great to present all 24 problems. but i 'll restrain myself
and offer you just one more.

problem 20 provides some interesting information about the wild animals that
inhabited armenia at one time but now extinct for so long that there is no
mention of them even in zoological reference books. the wild donkey , according
to the generally accepted view , never roamed the armenian lands. yet anania of
shirak offers evidence to the contrary .

problem 20

the hunting preserve of nersekh kamsarakan , ter 5 of shirak and asharunik ,
was at the base of the mountain called artin. one night great herds of wild
donkey entered the preserve. the hunters could not cope with the donkeys and ,
running to the village of talin , told nersekh about them. when he arrived with
his brothers and azats and entered the preserve , they began killing the wild
beasts. half of the animals were caught in traps , one fourth were killed by
arrows. the young , which constituted one twelfth of all the animals , were
caught alive , and three hundred sixty wild donkeys were killed by spears. and
so , find how many beasts there were at the start of this massacre.

set in type by me , iosef orbeli

his biography could not be squeezed into the framework of a
bibliography.
k uzbashyan , academician
iosef abgarovich orbeli

anyone who is lucky enough to hold a copy (1 n of the small printing n is the
solution to the epigraph in the previous section) of the russian translation
of anania of shirak 's problems and solutions , a thin book with yellowed pages ,
has probably noticed the variety of the fonts , the elegance of the borders ,
and the high quality of the design , printing , and binding. such great
attention to detail is characteristic of works that fulfill a requirement for
a degree in bookmaking. and this problem book was indeed a kind of diploma
attesting to the professional maturity of the man who created it. an
advertisement at the end of the book reads this book was typeset in
december 1917 at the printing offices of the russian academy of sciences by
me , iosef orbeli the text was also proofread , laid out , and decorated with
borders by me. various circumstances prevented me from carrying this project
to the end the final pages of the book were typeset by m. strolman.

typesetting was neither the first nor the only profession of the renowned
orientalist iosef orbeli , who later became the director of the hermitage
museum in leningrad. he was also a cabinetmaker and a locksmith. orbeli had
already become acquainted with the famous academic printing house typis
academiae , founded in 1728 and known all over the scientific world for its
rich collection of fonts and its virtuoso typesetters. in preparing to publish
the corpus of ancient inscriptions preserved on the walls of armenian
churches , orbeli found it necessary to create a new font that would preserve
the unique signs and ligatures. this complicated work was done by m. g.
strolman. (unfortunately the entire set of letters was destroyed during the
blockade of leningrad in world war ii.)

when orbeli came to the printing offices of the academy of sciences , times
were hard. the only way to publish the newly translated problems of anania
was for orbeli to learn typesetting (he had always been attracted to the
printer 's craft). in 1922 orbeli became the director of printing at the
academy of sciences. even after he retired , he remained a tireless champion
of russian academic typography.

back to earth

this book by definition does not exhaust all the most important
works in this domain. the editor hopes that those who are guilty
of this incompleteness will read these lines and , stung by shame ,
will work up , if not a collection like this , at least a monograph.

v. bonch bruyevich introduction to the
russian translation of solid body
symmetry by r. knox and a. gold

let 's imagine a time when space flight is an everyday thing , and high
schoolers will spend their breaks as astronauts in training in the perelman
crater on the far side of the moon. maybe one of the space travelers will take
this very copy of quantum , and another , looking over her shoulder , will read
this article and say to himself this anania from shirak seems like a pretty
interesting guy. when i get home i 'll try to find his problems.

good luck , my young friend ! anania is sure to entertain you. perhaps by then
there will be more than n copies of his timeless problems and solutions. and
we can hope they will be as lovingly printed as the masterpieces created by
iosef orbeli.

1 vardapet (or vartabed) means teacher or learned man in armenian. (the
armenian language suffers in english from a dual transliteration scheme.
thus , mesrop is often rendered as mesrob , komitas as gomidas , and so
on).

2 fourth armenia was one of fifteen provinces into which , according to
armenian geography in the seventh century a.d. , so called great armenia
was divided.

3 pontus (or pontus euxinus ) was an old name for the black sea.

4 azats were members one of several strata of freemen in ancient armenia.

5 ter was the title of the heads of sovereign royal families in ancient
armenia.



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from eggertj@moses.atc.ll.mit.edu (jim eggert x6127 g41)
subject re israeli terrorism
in reply to cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu 's message of 26 apr 93 22 22 28 gmt
lines 22
reply to eggertj@atc.ll.mit.edu
organization mit lincoln lab group 41
2bdad779.24910@news.service.uci.edu
1993apr26.184547.20058@das.harvard.edu
1rhnb4 1pp@usenet.ins.cwru.edu

in article 1rhnb4 1pp@usenet.ins.cwru.edu cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes
in a previous article , adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) says

in article 2bdad779.24910@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article amoss.93apr25163327@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il amoss@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il (amos shapira) writes
cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

eh \? \? \? \? could you please give me details about an event where a neutral
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli soldier \?


there are many cases , but i do not remeber names. the isralis shot and killed
a un observer in gaza in the first half of intifada.
...

not exactly the same , but reminiscent of the assassination of count
bernadotte , who was the un negotiator during the 1948 israeli war of
independence. he was killed by the israelis. seems he was being too
successful in negotiating a cease fire , which would have worked
territorially against the nascent israel , compared to continued war.

jim eggertj@atc.ll.mit.edu (jim eggert)

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the scenario and genocide staged by the armenians 78 years ago.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 72

the scenario and genocide staged by the armenians 78 years ago in
x soviet armenia is being reenacted again this time in azerbaijan.

the stories of survivors of karabag massacre are in 'milliyet' today.

69 year old hatin nine telling

''my twin grandchildren were cut to pieces in front of my eyes. they told
me we wo n't kill you. but the babies have to die in front of your eyes.''

72 year old huseyin ibrahimoglu

''our turkish village in khojalu town was blown up in two hours.
while killing children and babies mercilessly they said you are
turks , you must die.''

28 year old gulsum huseyin

''they bayonetted my 3 year old daughter in her stomach in front of
my eyes.''

are these stories lies \? have the eye witnesses been day dreaming \?
were these stories forged by turkish journalists in the region \?

the nonsense of such a claim is clear from the writings of british
journalists , too. two days before we had quoted from a sunday times
article. they british reported the events in karabag even before
turkish journalists. what is more here are the pictures. pictures
of people who were bayonetted , whose eyes were gouged , ears cut off.

even the armenian radio could n't claim these lies. they are saying
exaggeration. that means ' 'somethings'' have happened but the
situation is not as bad as reported. perhaps that village of khojalu
town was destroyed in 4 hours , instead of 2... or gulsum huseyin 's
3 year old daughter was bayonetted in her chest instead of stomach...

the massacre is clearly seen with all its dimensions. the effects of
this massacre on karabag and environs cannot be reduced by any word.

some of the western press' , led by some french newspapers , ability
to ''close their eyes'' is nothing but complicity in this massacre.

yesterday we gave samples from le figaro. until yesterday 's print
no news about the real events in karabag were printed. so were the
french tv channels.. the subject they considered related to karabag
was ''the necessity of protecting armenians against azeri attacks.''

the age we are living in is termed a human rights age. there are lots
of organizations such as united nations and csce(conference on security
and cooperation in europe) , and rules , all designed to fight against human
rights violations. international reactions must be made with international
cooperation. with support of everybody and every organization claiming
to be civilized.

could there be a more serious human rights violation than that of the
right to live and with such levels of barbarity and cruelty \? where
is the cooperation \? where are the reactions \? and the intellectuals ,
journalists , writers , tv stations of certain western countries such
as france who are fast to claim leadership of human rights \?
where are you \?


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re armenian killings in kelbadjar ( azerbadjan ) continues.....
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 28

in article 1993apr5.064028.24746@kth.se hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren) writes

armenian killings in kelbadjar ( azerbadjan ) continues , armenian
attackers continues it 's attack against kelbadjar , azerbadjan.
45 , 000 people have been evacuated from kelbadjar , 15 , 000 are still in
town.

the fascist x soviet armenian government also hired mercenaries
to slaughter azeris this time.

the armenian government says that the forces are n't from armenia
but from nagorno karabag. heavy weapons and ordertaking
from france is the result.....turkey 's president , turgut ozal , says
if un does n't act then we may have to show our teeth before the
situation becomes worse. .

finally...about time...


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university
lines 30

in article 1993apr25.182253.1449@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

i do n't know where you guys are from but in america
such attempts to curtail someones first amendment rights are
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind
regardless of how we feel about it. take your fascistic
repressive ideals back to where you came from.


hey tough guy , freedom necessitates responsibility , and
no freedom is absolute.
btw , to anyone who defends arafat , read on

open fire on the new jewish immigrants , be they from the soviet
union , ethiopia or anywhere else....i give you my instructions to
use violence against the immigrants. i willjail anyone who
refuses to do this.
yassir arafat , al muharar , 4 10 90

at least he 's not racist !
just anti jewish


pete







from ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
subject re legality of the jewish purchase (was re israeli expansion lust)
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
organization columbia university
lines 69

in article 1993apr16.225910.16670@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes
adam shostack writes
sam zbib writes
i'm surprised that you do n't consider the acquisition of land by
the jews from arabs , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive
state , as a hostile action leading to war.

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have
400 000 arab citizens.

could you please tell me what was the ethnic composition of
israel right after it was formed.


and no , i do not consider the purchase of land a hostile
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce. it
is not a hostile action leading to war.

no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and dignity.
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about
anti trust in the business world.

since we are debating the legality of a commercial
transaction , we must use the laws governing the guidelines
and ethics of such transactions. basic anti trust law says
that , while you can purchase ibm stocks for the purpose of
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those
shares with the intent or controlling ibm. you can do so
only if you make your intentions clear apriori . clearly ,
the jews who purchased properties from palastenians had some
designs , they were not buying a dwelling or a real estate.
they were establishing a bridgehead for the european jews.

the palastenians sold their properties to the jews in the
old tradition of arab hospitality. being a multi ethnic
multi religious society , accepting the jews as neighbours
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair
market value , etc... they did not know they were victims of
an international conspiracy. (i'm not a conspiracy theorist
myself , but this one is hard to dismiss).


right now , i'm just going to address this point.
when the jewish national fund bought most of its land ,
it did n't buy it from the palestinians themselves , because ,
for the most part , they were tenant farmers (fallahin) ,
living on land owned by wealthy arabs in syria and lebanon.
the jnf offered a premium deal , so the owners took advantage of
it. it 's called commerce. the owners , however , made no
provisions for those who had worked for them , basically shafting
them by selling the land right out from under them.
they are to blame , not the jews.


adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu


sam zbib bell northern research

bitnet internet zbib@bnr.ca voice (613) 763 5889
fax (613) 763 2626
surface mail stop 162 , p.o.box 3511 , station c , ottawa , canada , k1y 4h7

my opinions are my own and no one else 's


amir

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject keeping the silent memory of 2.5 million muslim people alive.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 34

source men are like that by leonard ramsden hartill. the bobbs merrill
company , indianapolis (1926). (305 pages).
(memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)

p. 193.

their muslim villages were destroyed and they themselves were slain or
driven out of the country.

p. 218.

we armenians did not spare the tartars. if persisted in , the slaughtering
of prisoners , the looting , and the rape and massacre of the helpless become
commonplace actions expected and accepted as a matter of course.

i have been on the scenes of massacres where the dead lay on the ground ,
in numbers , like the fallen leaves in a forest. they had been as helpless
and as defenseless as sheep. they had not died as soldiers die in the
heat of battle , fired with ardor and courage , with weapons in their hands ,
and exchanging blow for blow. they had died as the helpless must , with
their hearts and brains bursting with horror worse than death itself.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject re israel 's expansion
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 34


in article 18apr93.15729846.0076@vm1.mcgill.ca , b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
just a couple of questions for the pro israeli lobby out there

1) is israel 's occupation of southern lebanon temporary \? for mr.
stein i am working on a proof for you that israel is diverting
water to the jordan river (away from lebanese territory).

yes. as long as the goverment over there can force some authority and prevent
terrorists attack against israel.


2) is israel 's occupation of the west bank , gaza , and golan
temporary \? if so (for those of you who support it) , why were so
many settlers moved into the territories \? if it is not temporary ,
let 's hear it.

sinai had several big cities that were avcuated when isreal gave it back to
egypth , but for a peace agreement. so it is my opinin that the settlers will not
be an obstacle for withdrawal as long it is combined with a real peace agreement
with the arabs and the palastinians.


steve



naftaly


naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re enough freeman bashing ! was no free man propaganda machine freemanwith blood greetings from israel
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university
lines 18

in article c5i6jg.bm1@eis.calstate.edu mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi) writes
pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman) writes


peter ,

i believe this is your most succinct post to date. since you have nothing
to say , you say nothing ! it 's brilliant. did you think of this all by
yourself \?

marc


hey tough guy , read the topic. that 's the message. get a brain. go to
a real school.




from bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
summary hope springs eternal
lines 37

in article 1993apr20.013037.20907@news.columbia.edu , pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman) writes
in article 19apr93.22304462.0062@vm1.mcgill.ca b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca (b8ha) writes
so nice of you all to answer some questions. and it so nice that most
of you feel that it would be in your hearts to give the palestinians
some land most of you focus on the fact that israel annexed all
this land and it is a kind gesture to give some of it back. well ,
i hope that after after a state run by palestinians is established ,
the first decision should be to make jerusalem part of this state
by annexing it of course.


steve

steve ,

if the israelis are stupid enough to allow a second palestinian
state (the first one is jordon) , then you will probably get your
wish and the israelis would get what 's coming to them.

however , if the palestinians were to somehow demonstrate that
they could govern themselves and live in peace with their
jewish neighbors , then they would have to give up the idea of
jerusalem as a part of their state and you would be disappointed.




israel has not annexed any of the west bank , just jeruselum. which
will remain part of israel forever !


yashir koach to this.




ben.

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re israeli expansion lust
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 83

in article 1993apr13.182614.2634@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes
in article 1993apr13.002118.24102@das.harvard.edu
adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes

in article 1993apr12.184034.1370@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes

imho , it does not really matter who started any individual battle within
the arabs isreal war context. the real question is who what started the
war. does anyone have any doubts it was the creation of israel on arab
land \?
huh \? a war was started when several armies invaded israel ,
vowing to drive the jews into the sea. most jews wanted to live in
peace , and the arabs who stayed in israel were granted citizenship.

i am
surprised that you do n't consider the acquisition of land by
the jews from arabs , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive
state , as a hostile action leading to war.

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have
400 000 arab citizens.

and no , i do not consider the purchase of land a hostile
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce. it
is not a hostile action leading to war.

as to whether the jews wanted to live in peace , maybe.
however they wanted and still want an exclusively jewish
state , where jews are in control and jews are the masters of
the land. living in peace is meaningless unless it means
living with someone else , as equal. for a native arab , this
does not leave many options.

oh , you mean like both jews and arabs being citizens \? the
arabs who stayed are now citizens , with as much right to choose who
they vote for as the jews.

those palestinians who stayed , actually stayed despite of what
happened , and their number was somewhat tolerated as a defenseless
and ineffective minority.
if i were wrong , you 'd have israel recall all the
palestinian refugees (we 're talking millions). after all ,
they are civilians.

huh \? the people who left , did so voluntarily. there is no
reason for israel to let them in.

israel gave citizenship to the remaining arabs because it
had to maintain a democratic facade (to keep the western aid
flowing).

israel got no western aid in 1948 , nor in 1949 or 50...it
still granted citizenship to those arabs who remained. and how
is granting citizenship a facade \?

tell me something , sam. what makes land arab \?

how shall i explain , its a contract between the man and the
land. control is n't it. the ottomans ruled 400 years , and
then left with barely a trace. the concept of land identity
is somewhat foreign to the mobile and pragmatic west. it is
partly the concept of 'le sol natal' , native soil. i know
that jews had previous history in the region , but none in
recent memory. i'm talking everyday life not archeology.

try again , you tell me what its is n't , but you fail to
establish what it is.

also , jews did have history in israel for over a thousand
years. there were lots of jews slaughtered by crusaders in israel.
there was a thriving community in gaza city from roughly 1200 1500.
jews were a majority in jerusalem from 1870 or so onwards. does that
make the land jewish \?

adam


adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the armenians were fascist historical armenian fascism.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 47


the armenians were deeply anti semitic as well. in the may 10 , 1936
edition of 'hairenik weekly' the vice mayor of bucharest , rumania is
quoted as saying

the armenians helped us not to become the slaves of the jewish
elements in our country.

in another edition , an author named captain george haig writes

and the type of jew who is imported to palestine...is not anything
to be proud about. their loose morals , and other vices were
unknown to the arabs prior to balfour declaration , on top of
all communist activities were the cause of most of the arab
criticism. 1

as uzun exposed , the armenians were fascist. before pearl harbor ,
the dashnak daily 'hairenik' (not to be confused with the tzeghagrons
'hairenik weekly') expressed pro nazi sentiments

and came adolf hitler , after herculean struggles. he spoke
to the racial heart strings of the german , opened the
fountain of his national genius , strock down the spirit
of defeatism...at no period since the world war had berlin
conducted so realistic , well organized , and planned policy
as now , since hitler 's assumption to power...and whatever
others may think concerning hitlerism and fascism as a
system of government , it is proved that they have revitalized
and regenerated the two states , germany and italy. 2

1 captain george haig , 'the case of palestine , ' in hairenik
weekly , friday , september 25 , 1936.
2 'hairenik , ' official organ of the dashnaktsuitune , sept.
17 , 1936 quoted in john roy carlson , 'the armenian displaced
persons' (see endnote 1) , p. 21.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from javad@hplabsz.hpl.hp.com (mash javad)
subject re news briefs from kh 1026
organization labaniyati ye sar e koocheh
lines 40

in article sehari.735313083@vincent1.iastate.edu farzin@apollo3.ntt.jp (farzin mokhtarian) writes

from kayhan havai 1026



o dr. namaki , deputy minister of health stated that infant
mortality (under one year old) in iran went down from 120
per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at
the end of 1371 (last month).

dr. cheghadr ba namakand ! they just wait until they are teenagers to kill
them !


o dr namaki also stated that before the revolution only
254f children received vaccinations to protect them
from various deseases but this figure reached 93at
the end of 1371.

huh \?


o during the visit of mahathir mohammad , the prime minister
of malaysia , to iran , agreements for cooperation in the
areas of industry , trade , education and tourism were
signed. according to one agreement , iran will be in
charge of building malaysia 's natural gas network.

yup. iri also granted a great deal of reconstruction of houses and
buildings in war torn areas to malaysia. khak too sareshoon , one of the
only industries we really have is construction , and there are all these
unemployed youth , and they give money to malaysia to do what iranians
can and should be doing.


farzin mokhtarian

mash javad


from amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
nntp posting host tbilisi.src.honeywell.com
organization honeywell systems research center
lines 25

in article c5huba.cjo@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes
amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes

you know when israelis f16 (thanks to general dynamics) fly high in the sky
and bomb the hell out of some village in lebanon , where civilians including
babies and eldery getting killed , is that plain murder or what \?

if you arabs would n't position guerilla bases in refugee camps , artillery
batteries atop apartment buildings , and munitions dumps in hospitals , maybe
civilians would n't get killed. kinda like saddam hussein putting civilians
in a military bunker.

ed.

who is the you arabs here. since you are replying to my article you
are assuming that i am an arab. well , i'm not an arab , but i think you
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the
bombardment of civilian and none civilian areas in lebanon by israel is
very consistent with its policy of intimidation. that is the only
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in
the middle east !

i was merley pointing out that the other side is also suffering.
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a lebanese , you bet
i would defende my homeland against any invader by any means.

from c.l.gannon@newcastle.ac.uk (space cadet)
subject re to be exact , 2.5 million readers enlightened by serdar argic
nntp posting host evenwood
organization computing laboratory , u of newcastle upon tyne , uk ne1 7ru.
lines dog


andrew varvel writes


serdar argic
(a.k.a. serdar argic , the merciful and compassionate) writes

serdar argic 's bountiful , divine , all knowing , and footnoted
wisdom is regrettably omitted for this solemn tribute.


where can i join the serdar argic fan club \? do i get a t shirt \?

the friendly neighborhood alien

life just has n't been the same since david koresh died...

ah c'mon , give the guy three days and see what comes up.

leo


disclaimer it was n't me , honest , email
it was him , he made me do it ! ! c.l.gannon@newcastle.ac.uk


from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject basil , opinions \? (re water on the brain)
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 40
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1993apr15.204930.9517@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

in article 1993apr15.055341.6075@nysernet.org , astein@nysernet.org (alan stein) writes
i guess hasan finally revealed the source of his claim that israel
diverted water from lebanon his imagination.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org
mr. water head ,
i never said that israel diverted lebanese rivers , in fact i said that
israel went into southern lebanon to make sure that no
water is being used on the lebanese
side , so that all water would run into jordan river where there
israel will use it ! head.

of course posting some hard evidence or facts is much more
difficult. you have not bothered to substantiate this in
any way. basil , do you know of any evidence that would support
this \?

i can just imagine a news report from ancient times , if hasan
had been writing it.

newsflash
cairo ap (ancient press). israel today denied egypt acces to the red
sea. in a typical display of israelite agressiveness , the leader of
the israelite slave revolt , former prince moses , parted the red sea.
the action is estimated to have caused irreparable damage to the environment.
egyptian authorities have said that thousands of fisherman have been
denied their livelihood by the parted waters. pharaoh 's brave charioteers
were successful in their glorious attempt to cause the waters of the
red sea to return to their normal state. unfortunately they suffered
heavy casualties while doing so.

hasan


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 39

in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

most of the
people in my village are regular inhabitants that go about their daily
business , some work in the fields , some own small shops , others are
older men that go to the coffe shop and drink coffee. is that so hard to
imagine \? \? \? \?

...quickly followed by...

some young men , usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of
the lebanese resistance. even the inhabitants of the village do not
know who these are , they are secretive about it , but most people often
suspect who they are and what they are up to.

this is the standard method for claiming non combatant status , even
for the commanders of combat.

these young men are
supported financially by iran most of the time. they sneak arms and
ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps
for israeli patrols. every time an israeli soldier is killed or injured
by these traps , israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians.

innocent civilians \? \? \? like the ones who set up the booby traps or
engaged in shoot outs with soldiers or attack them with grenades or
axes \?

we are now accustomed to israeli tactics , and we figure that this is

and the rest of the world is getting used to arab tactics of claiming
innocence for even the most guilty of the vile murderers among them.
keep it up long enough and it will backfire but good.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from melons@vnet.ibm.com (mike magil)
subject re final solution in palestine \?
lines 89


o.k. , its my turn

driving the jews into the sea \? !

i am sick and tired of this 'driving the jews into the sea' sentance attributed
to islamic movements and the plo it simply ca n't be proven as part of their
plan !


may i suggest you chech out the palestinian national covenant (1964) . it may
not use the exact words as quoted above but i'm sure many will agree that the
same message is being issued. later on when i get back home i will try to find
the precise section(s) but you can do the research for now (i hope). i also
realize that yasser arafat renounced the covenant to the western media only
but he has yet to inform the pnc officially and enequivocally of his exact
intentions on this issue. therefore , as far as we are concerned the covenant
still stands as the bible (so to speak) of the mainstream palestinian
national movement !


(pro israeli activists repeat it like parrots without checking its authenticity
since it was coined by bnai brith)

as a staunch pro israel activist i can confidently say that bnai brith has not
influenced my opinions on the arab israeli conflict. as i mentioned above ,
just a little research on the subject will lead anyone to reach a similar
conclusion on the palestinian national movement (the plo in most cases). bb
does not properly speak for me nor many of the people around me who share
my views.


what hamas and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media ,
is an islamic state that protects the rights of all its inhabitants under koranic
law. this would be a reversal of the 1948 situation in which the jews in
palestine took control of the land and its (mostly muslim) inhabitants.


what 1948 situation \? a negative situation i presume \? is this the same
situation when the jordanian occupiers of east jerusalem would not allow the
jews to go worship at the holiest site in judiasm \? was this an example of
qu'ranic law being exercised \? if not , i have another suggested reading for
you... get into the soc.culture.arabic newsgroup where the posters have been
debating the topic jews in the qu'ran (and may i remind you the people doing
the debating appear to be devout muslims with some knowledge of the qu'ran).
you will find that jews are n't really viewed positively by the qu'ran (to put
it lightly). so how do you think jews (or any other non islamic religion) will
be treated by an islamic state governed by the words of the qu'ran \? i think
the 1948 1967 situation in jerusalem will return at best ! what do you
think \?

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity (torture , blowing up their
homes , murders , ...) must be treated and tried as a war criminal. the political
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the destintion of their choice.

all i have to say to that is , once again , see s.c.a jews in the qu'ran and
think again. freedom of choice is definitely not an option in qu'ranic
law especially for non muslims and all women ! remember the gulf war \? i'm sure
you saw the reports about how women had few rights in saudi arabia (an islamic
state).


as for the plo , i am at a loss to explain what is going inside arafat 's mind.


probably nothing ! aside from how to break the news to his palestinian brethren
that the covenant is null and void without getting assassinated himself !

although their political thinking seems far fetched with israel acting as a true
super power in the region , the islamic movements are using the same weapon the
jews used to establish their state religion.


in conclusion , ahmed , you should go to the library and find the palestinian
national covenant (1964) and read it very carefully. by the way , redpath
library does have it in stock because that is exactly where i found it when i
was doing my research. so enjoy the reading and i hope we will be hearing back
from you soon !

mike


mi ke mik emik emi k opinions expressed above
m i k e m i k e m are my own and not that
m i k e mikem i kem i k of 'big blue'
m i k e m ike m ike mike

ibm corp. , toronto , canada

from mbkolodn@unix.amherst.edu (michael brian kolodner)
subject how many israeli soldiers does it take to
organization amherst college
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl7
lines 2

boy that was really humorous. i'm impressed by your incredible senses of wit ,
sarcasm and propriety. mind if i post jokes about your mother \?

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject let the turks speak for themselves.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 95

in article 1993apr16.142935.535@cs.yale.edu karage@scus1.ctstateu.edu (angelos karageorgiou) writes

if turks in greece were so badly mistreated how come they
elected two , m not one but two , representatives in the greek government \?

pardon me \?

greece government rail roads two turkish ethnic deputies

while world human rights organizations scream , greeks
persistently work on removing the parliamentary immunity
of dr. sadik ahmet and mr. ahmet faikoglu.


dr. sadik ahmet , turkish ethnic member of greek parliament , visits us

washington dc , july 7 doctor sadik ahmet , one of the two ethnic
turkish members of the greek parliament visited us on june 24 through
july 5th and held meetings with human rights organizations and
high level us officials in washington dc and new york.

at his press conference at the national press club in washington dc ,
sadik ahmet explained the plight of ethnic turks in greece and stated
six demands from greek government.

ahmet said our only hope in greece is the pressure generated from
western capitals for insisting that greece respects the human rights.
what we are having done to ethnic turks in greece is exactly the same
as south african apartheid. he added what we are facing is pure
greek hatred and racial discrimination.

spelling out the demands of the turkish ethnic community in greece
he said we want the restoration of greek citizenship of 544 ethnic
turks. their citizenship was revoked by using the excuse that this
people have stayed out of greece for too long. they are greek citizens
and are residing in greece , even one of them is actively serving in
the greek army. besides , other non turkish citizens of greece are
not subject to this kind of interpretation at an extent that many of
greek americans have greek citizenship and they permanently live in
the united states.

we want guarantee for turkish minority 's equal rights. we want greek
government to accept the turkish minority and grant us our civil rights.
our people are waiting since 25 years to get driving licenses. the greek
government is not granting building permits to turks for renovating
our buildings or building new ones. if your name is turkish , you are
not hired to the government offices.

furthermore , we want greek government to give us equal opportunity
in business. they do not grant licenses so we can participate in the
economic life of greece. in my case , they denied me a medical license
necessary for practicing surgery in greek hospitals despite the fact
that i have finished a greek medical school and followed all the
necessary steps in my career.

we want freedom of expression for ethnic turks. we are not allowed
to call ourselves turks. i myself have been subject of a number of
law suits and even have been imprisoned just because i called myself
a turk.

we also want greek government to provide freedom of religion.

in separate interview with the turkish times , dr. sadik ahmet stated
that the conditions of ethnic turks are deplorable and in the eyes of
greek laws , ethnic greeks are more equal than ethnic turks. as an example ,
he said there are about 20 , 000 telephone subscribers in selanik (thessaloniki)
and only about 800 of them are turks. that is not because turks do not
want to have telephone services at their home and businesses. he said
that greek government changed the election law just to keep him out
of the parliament as an independent representative and they stated
this fact openly to him. while there is no minimum qualification
requirement for parties in terms of receiving at least 3 of the votes ,
they imposed this requirement for the independent parties , including
the turkish candidates.

ahmet was born in a small village at gumulcine (komotini) , greece 1947.
he earned his medical degree at university of thessaloniki in 1974.
he served in the greek military as an infantryman.

in 1985 he got involved with community affairs for the first time
by collecting 15 , 000 signatures to protest the unjust implementation
of laws against ethnic turks. in 1986 , he was arrested by the police
for collecting signatures.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re israeli terrorism
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 19

in article amoss.93apr25163327@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il amoss@shuldig.cs.huji.ac.il (amos shapira) writes
cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran) writes

the israelis
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters.

eh \? \? \? \? could you please give me details about an event where a neutral
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli soldier \?

amos

actually , i'm still trying to understand the self justifying rationale
behind the recent murder of ian feinberg ( \? ) in gaza.


tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from gfeygin@unicorn.eecg.toronto.edu (gennady feygin)
subject kol israel broacasts
organization electrical and computer engineering , university of toronto
lines 5

does anyone have a schedule of kol israel broadcasts in different
languages that could be posted or e mailed to me. your
assistance would be greatly appreciated

gf

from dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization brown university department of computer science
lines 21

cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons \? if so ,
could you provide any evidence \?

yes , israel has nuclear weapons. however

1) their use so far has been restricted to killing deer , by lsd addicted
cherrie soldiers.

2) they are locked in the cellar of the garinei afula factory , and since
the gingi lost the key , no one can use them anymore.

3) even if the gingi finds the key , the chief rabbis have a time lock
on the bombs that does not allow them to be activated on the sabbath
and during weeks which follow victories of the betar jerusalem soccer
team. a quick glance at the national league score table will reveal
the strategic importance of this fact.

danny keren.


from ohayon@jcpltyo.jcpl.co.jp (tsiel ohayon)
subject re israeli terrorism , anas the anus
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan
lines 20

anas omran writes in his earlier posting

anas a high rank israeli officer was killed during a clash whith a hamas
anas mujahid. the terrorist israelis chased and killed a young mujahid
anas using anti tank missiles. the terrorist zionists cut the mujahid 's
anas body into small pieces to the extend that his body was not recognized.
anas at leat ten houses were destroyed by these atni tank missiles.

if indeed israeli soldiers killed a hamas mujahid with an anti tank missile
then i'm almost sure that the terrorist zionists would not have been able
to cut up a body which was probably desintegrated by the missile.

stop polluting the net with you fantasies.

tsiel

8 8
tsiel ohayon@jcpl.co.jp if you do not receive this e mail , please let me
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible.
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing.

from jim@specialix.com (jim maurer)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization specialix inc.
lines 25

arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes

in article c5ut1s.3xa@bony1.bony.com jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni) writes
through private contributions on federal land . your hate mongering
article is devoid of current and historical fact , intellectual content
and social value. down the toilet it goes.....


and we all know what an unbiased source the nyt is when it comes to things
concerning israel.

neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to
recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax exmpt. in
otherwords , american taxpayers put up at least 30 of the money. and
finalyy , how does federal land mitigate the offensiveness of this alien
monument dedicated to perpetuating pitty and the continual flow of tax money
to a foreign entity \?

that federal land and tax money could have been used to commerate
americans or better yet , to house homeless americans.

the donations are tax deductible like any donations to a non profit
organization. i 've donated money to a group restoring streetcars
and it was tax deductible. why do n't you contribute to a group
helping the homeless if you so concerned \?

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject no muslim left alive not a single one historical armenian barbarism.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 326

in article 1993apr10.025031.24352@sol.ctr.columbia.edu halsall@murray.fordham.edu (paul halsall) writes

simple question serdar \?

anytime.

if the armenians killed so many turks in eastern anatolia ,
how come the area today is full of turks and muslim kurds and
not full of armenians \?

suffering from a severe case of myopia \? no muslim left alive not a
single one. leading the first armenian units who crossed the ottoman
border in the company of the russian invaders was the former ottoman
parliamentary representative for erzurum , karekin pastirmaciyan , who
assumed the revolutionary name armen garo. another former ottoman
parliamentarian , hamparsum boyaciyan , led the armenian guerrilla forces
who ravaged turkish villages behind the lines under the nickname murad ,
especially ordering that

'kill turks and kurds wherever you find them and in
whatever circumstances you find them. turkish children
also should be killed as they form a danger to the
armenian nation.' (hamparsum boyadjian 1914) 1

1 m. varandian , history of the dashnaktsutiun , p. 85.

another former member of parliament , papazyan , led the armenian
guerrilla forces that ravaged the areas of van , bitlis and mush.

in march 1915 , the russian forces began to move toward van. immediately ,
in april 11 , 1915 the armenians of van began a revolt , massacring all
the turks in the vicinity so as to make possible its quick and easy
conquest by russians. little wonder that czar nicholas ii sent a
telegram of thanks to the armenian revolutionary committee of van in
april 21 , 1915 , thanking it for its services to russia. the armenian
newspaper gochnak , published in the united states , also proudly
reported in may 24 , 1915 that

only 1 , 500 turks remained in van the rest having been slaughtered.

source hovannisian , richard g. armenia on the road to independence , 1918.
university of california press (berkeley and los angeles) , 1967 , p. 13.

the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the
area of transcaucasia to over 130 , 000 square miles. the estimated population
of the entire region in 1886 was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom 940 , 000 (20 percent) were
armenian , 1 , 200 , 000 (25 percent) georgian , and 2 , 220 , 000 (45 percent) moslem.
of the latter group , 1 , 140 , 000 were tatars. paradoxically , barely one third
of transcaucasia 's armenians lived in the erevan guberniia , where the
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds. erevan
uezd , the administrative center of the province , had only 44 , 000 armenians
as compared to 68 , 000 moslems. by the time of the russian census of 1897 ,
however , the armenians had established a scant majority , 53 percent , in the
guberniia it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent , or 670 , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000
inhabitants. this impressive change in the province 's ethnic character
notwithstanding , there was , on the eve of the creation of the armenian
republic , a solid block of 370 , 000 tartars who continued to dominate the
southern districts , from the outskirts of ereven to the border of persia.
(see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of
transcaucasia).

in 1920 , '0' percent turk.

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work
of extermination. our troops surrounded village after village.
little resistance was offered. our artillery knocked the huts
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border
into turkey. the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole
length of the borderland of russian armenia from nakhitchevan to
akhalkalaki from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of
tartar villages. they are quiet now , those villages , except for
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the
scattered bones of the dead.

ohanus appressian
men are like that
p. 202.

source stanford j. shaw , on armenian collaboration with invading russian
armies in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (volume
ii reform , revolution republic the rise of modern turkey , 1808 1975).
(london , cambridge university press 1977). pp. 315 316.

in april 1915 dashnaks from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city
of van , whose 33 , 789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population ,
closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire...leaving erivan
on april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during
the next two days while the small ottoman garrison had to retreat to the
southern side of the lake.

knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions ,
armenians looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their aims.
armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the first
world war with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuse
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other
invading russian armies. their hope was their participation in the russian
success would be rewarded with an independent armenian state carved out of
ottoman territories. armenian political leaders , army officers , and common
soldiers began deserting in droves.

with the russian invasion of eastern anatolia in 1914 at the beginning of
world war i , the degree of armenian collaboration with the ottoman 's enemy
increased drastically. ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks ,
armenian revolutionaries armed armenian civil populations , who in turn
massacred the muslim population of the province of van in anticipation of
expected arrival of the invading russian armies.


source stanford j. shaw , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey ,
vol ii. cambridge university press , london , 1979 , pp. 314 317.

...meanwhile , czar nicholas ii himself came to the caucasus to make final
plans for cooperation with the armenians against the ottomans , with the
president of the armenian national bureau in tiflis declaring in response

'from all countries armenians are hurrying to enter the ranks of the
glorious russian army , with their blood to serve the victory of russian
arms...let the russian flag wave freely over the dardanelles and the
bosporus. let , with your will , great majesty , the peoples remaining
under the turkish yoke receive freedom. let the armenian people of turkey
who have suffered for the faith of christ receive resurrection for a new
free life under the protection of russia.' 155

armenians again flooded into the czarist armies. preparations were made
to strike the ottomans from the rear , and the czar returned to st. petersburg
confident that the day finally had come for him to reach istanbul.

155 horizon , tiflis , november 30 , 1914 , quoted by hovannisian , road to
independence , p. 45 fo 2485 , 2484 46942 , 22083.

ottoman morale and military position in the east were seriously hurt , and
the way was prepared for a new russian push into eastern anatolia , to be
accompanied by an open armenian revolt against the sultan. 156

156 hovannisian , road to independence , pp. 45 47 bayur , iii 1 ,
pp. 349 380 w.e.d. allen and p. muratoff , caucasian battlefields ,
cambridge , 1953 , pp. 251 277 ali ihsan sabis , harb hahralaram , 2 vols. ,
ankara , 1951 , ii , 41 160 fo 2146 no. 70404 fo 2485 fo 2484 , nos.
46942 and 22083.

an armenian state was organized at van under russian protection , and it
appeared that with the muslim natives dead or driven away , it might be
able to maintain itself at one of the oldest centers of ancient armenian
civilization. an armenian legion was organized 'to expel the turks from
the entire southern shore of the lake in preparation for a concerted
russian drive into the bitlis vilayet.' 162 thousands of armenians from
mus and other major centers in the east began to flood into the new
armenian state...by mid july there were as many as 250 , 000 armenians
crowded into the van area , which before the crisis had housed and fed
no more than 50 , 000 people , muslim and non muslim alike. 163

162 hovannisian , road to independence , p. 56 fop 2488 , nos. 127223 and
58350.

163 bva , meclis i vukela mazbatalari , debates of august 15 17 , 1915
babi i ali evrak odasi , no. 175 , 321 , van ihtilali ve katl i ami ,
zilkade 1333 10 september 1915.

now wait , there is more.

from the diplomacy of imperialism , william l. langer , new york (alfred a.
knopf) , 1960 , pp. 157 160.

armenians watch their opportunity to kill turks and kurds , set fire
to their villages , and then make their escape into the mountains.

also , since the ottomans were such great tolerators , how come
the armenians were counted as part of the rum millet , i.e. forced
under the control of the greek orthodox patriarchate \?

are you people for real \? the main legal principles of the turkish state
are summarized in article 2 of the constitution

the republic of turkey is a democratic , secular and social state
governed by the rule of law bearing in mind the concepts of public
peace , national solidarity and justice respecting human rights
loyal to the nationalism of ataturk , and based on the fundamental
tenets set forth in the preamble of the constitution.

freedom of culture and religion prevailed during the ottoman empire , allowing
the many nations and races within its boundaries to remain autonomous. the
fact that the ottoman empire was the longest lived in recent history may be
attributed to these freedoms , despite the lack of any written constitution.
the first attempts to create a written constitution occurred in 1839 and 1856.
although the documents adopted during these two attempts remained in force
only temporarily , they provided the basic elements of a constitution.

the 1876 constitution was the first legal document to force a parliament and
the right of election to share the sovereignty of the emperor. the constitution
of 1906 placed some additional limitations on the emperor , while increasing
the power of the parliament and the government.

the first world war (1914 1918) brought the ottoman empire to an end. by the
occupation of istanbul , the parliament was dissolved and the constitution was
abolished. the members of parliament were sent to exile to an island by the
occupying forces.

during the independence war , the turkish grand national assembly held their
first meeting on april 23 , 1920 to serve as the legislative body of the new
turkish state. this assembly prepared the new legal structure of the turkish
republic. the new republic was proclaimed on october 29 , 1923 and the new
constitution was adopted in 1924. that constitution served as the legal
backbone of today 's modern turkish republic. in 1945 , turkey adopted a
multi party political system. the constitution of 1924 was replaced by
others in 1961 and 1982. all three constitutions of the republic have been
based on the principles of parliamentary democracy , human rights , national
sovereignty , division of powers , private ownership and secularization.

major principles of the constitution

the constitution (with 177 articles) establishes the structure of the republic
within the following principles

the turkish republic is a democratic , secular and social state governed by
law
it should be governed to maintain public peace , national solidarity , justice ,
human rights and the objectives of ataturk
the language of the state is turkish
sovereignty is vested in the nation without any conditions or restrictions.
sovereignty is exercised by organizations authorized by the nation
legislative power is carried by the parliament elected by the nation. this
power cannot be delegated (transferred) to any one else
executive power is exercised by the president , and council of ministers
judicial power is exercised by the independent courts on behalf of the
turkish nation
all individuals are equal , irrespective of language , race , religion , color ,
sex , or political beliefs
laws cannot be contradict those principles stated in the constitution.

structure of the state

in accordance with the constitution , the structure of the state is based on the
principle of division of power to create a balanced and self controlled
system. the power is divided into legislative power , executive power , and
judicial power , balanced to secure freedoms and powers to control each
other (self control).

a. legislative power

the turkish grand national assembly is a parliament with one house , elected
by the nation for a term of five years to exercise legislative power on
behalf of the nation. the basic functions of this assembly are

to adopt , to amend , or to repeal laws
to approve or to dismiss the council of ministers
to supervise and to question ministers or the council of ministers
to debate , to amend and to approve annual budgets
to ratify international agreements
to grant amnesty or pardons.

members of parliament do not have any liability for their words (either oral
or written) during the course of their legislative duties. the country is
divided into constituencies. the number of representatives of each is
calculated according to its population. every turkish citizen over the age
of twenty one can vote.

elections are supervised by the supreme council of elections , which solves
all disputes or appeals. in each province , the local board of election
runs and controls the election under the supervision and guidelines of the
supreme council. members of the council and boards are elected among
independent judges.

b. executive power

the president of the republic is the head of state (not the head of government
as in the unites states). the main functions of the president are

to represent the state and the country
to insure the implementation of the constitution
to coordinate legislative , judicial and executive functions
act as the supreme commander of the armed forces
to ratify laws and government decrees.

the president is elected by the grand national assembly for a period of seven
years. the president may ratify or return the laws for a second debate , may
call for a referendum.

executive power is exercised by the council of ministers , headed by the
prime minister. the prime minister is appointed by the president from the
members of parliament. the prime minister names the ministers for approval
by the president. the new government (council of ministers) reads their
program at the parliament and the vote of confidence follows. there are 21 ( \? )
ministers in the council.

ministers and other members of the administration can be sued in independent
administrative courts for their misuse of power , administrative errors or
functions against any law.

c. judicial power

judicial power is exercised by independent courts. no authority or power can
instruct the judges or public prosecutors of the courts. these cannot be
discharged , replaced or retired by executive authorities except for the
reasons clearly stated by the appropriate laws. there are three categories
of courts in the turkish judiciary system

courts of justice deal with legal , commercial and criminal cases. the
decisions of these courts may be reviewed by the supreme court of justice
upon the appeal of the parties involved.
the decisions or functions of the executive power (including the prime
minister and ministers or any governmental department) can be appealed in
administrative courts if these functions or decisions are against the law.
the decisions of these administrative courts may also be reviewed by the
high administrative court.

the laws and decisions of the grand national assembly can be examined by the
constitutional court if they contradict the constitution. if found
contradictory , this court may cancel the decisions or laws of the parliament.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 44

amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes

in article c5huba.cjo@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes
amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes

you know when israelis f16 (thanks to general dynamics) fly high in the sky
and bomb the hell out of some village in lebanon , where civilians including
babies and eldery getting killed , is that plain murder or what \?

if you arabs would n't position guerilla bases in refugee camps , artillery
batteries atop apartment buildings , and munitions dumps in hospitals , maybe
civilians would n't get killed. kinda like saddam hussein putting civilians
in a military bunker.

ed.

who is the you arabs here. since you are replying to my article you
are assuming that i am an arab. well , i'm not an arab , but i think you
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the
bombardment of civilian and none civilian areas in lebanon by israel is
very consistent with its policy of intimidation. that is the only
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in
the middle east !

what the hell do you know about israeli policy \? what gives you the fiat
to look into the minds of israeli generals \? has this 'policy of intimidation'
been published somewhere \? for your information , the actions taken by arabs ,
specifically the plo , were not uncommon in the lebanon campaign of 1982. my
brain is full of shit \? at least i do n't look into the minds of others and
make israeli policy for them !

i was merley pointing out that the other side is also suffering.
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a lebanese , you bet
i would defende my homeland against any invader by any means.

yeah , yeah , yeah. we all suffer. it 's too bad that civilians get killed but
i will blame their arab leaders who put them in positions of danger before i
will blame the israelis. just like palestinians who send their children into
warzones to throw rocks at armed israeli soldiers. what irresponsible parents !
as golda meir said , peace will only come when the arabs start loving their
children more than they hate the jews.

ed.


from hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
subject re islam borders. ( was israel misisipi to ganges)
originator hasan@lightning.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host lightning.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 26


in article 4805@bimacs.bitnet , ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes

hassan and some other seemed not to be a ware that jews celebrating on
these days thje passover holliday the holidy of going a way from the
nile.
so if one let his imagination freely work it seemed beter to write
that the zionist drean is from the misisipi to the nile .

the question is by going east or west from the misisipi. on either choice
you would loose palestine or broklyn , n.y.

i thought you 're gonna say fromn misisipi back to the misisipi !

by the way

what are the borders the islamic world dreams about \? \?

islamic readers , i am waiting to your honest answer.

let 's say let 's establish the islamic state first or let 's free our
occupied lands first . and then we can dream about expansion , mr. gideon


hasan

from cza@troy.cc.bellcore.com (c. akgun)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
nntp posting host troy.cc.bellcore.com
organization bcr , nj usa
lines 126

in article c5i6rk.l9i@news.cso.uiuc.edu msg7038@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (michalis syrimis) writes
...
any concentration labor camp in turkey (around 1974 or
later) for cypriot greeks (or any greeks) rather than talking
nonsense like above , i will be glad to read what they got.

how can you be in a position to know about any kind of concentration camps
akgun \?

living through those days at the age of 20 and following
the internal and external news gives me that knowledge
and position. in 1974 , turkey had a democratic goverment and free
press at that time. forget about internal news agencies , i have n't
heard anything from any international source about any
concentration camps with greek cypriot prisoners in turkey.
however , i heard adana pow camp. it was not secret and well
recognized pow camp.

as for all the registered prisoners to the red cross having returned to
their homes , this is your version of the story. there are cases in which
prisoners who were registered , some of them even sent messages to their
relatives , were not released. these are undeniable facts.

i see , they vanished in turkish labor camps. turks have
decided to acknowledge their existence first but later
changed their minds releasing them. is that it \? what do
you think happened to them \? i thought that mia 's are only the subject
of rambo and chuck noris movies. seems that i am wrong.


as for their treatment being according to what convention... \?
okay we believe you.

you do n't need to belive me. turkiye was never a clandestine state
in its history , it has been a respected and continuous member of un
since the inception of un. no body ever questioned the un membership of
turkey because of what had happened in 1974a and after. only a short
lived arms embargo was imposed unilaterally by usa to satisfy the
internal greek loby. i know what you would say next. let me answer it
before wasting anytime. yes ! un had a few condemning resolutions
against turkey because of handling the cyprus problem , especially after
the 1980 coup. well , us and israel had a few too. what can i say \?
i am sure during athens junta duruing 1960 74 , greeks had
their own share too.

closed matter today between turkish cypriots turks greeks greek
cypriots. there is no more any official demand from greek
cypriots about any missing greek cypriots.

where have you heard that there is no official demand regarding the
missing persons \?

have you looked at the latest un agenda for cyprus talks
mediated by gali \? there was no issue whatsoever about any
missing people among the negotiating parties. was there \?
i heard many times from denktas interviews by turkish and
international press. he keeps saying that this was no
longer an issue for peace talks. also , you do n't want
me fish for the greek cypriot politician 's words (that argic
had posted zillion times) describing missing peoples as
a greek cypriot myth. seems that there is a different opinions
among greek cypriots as well about missing people in turkish
custody.

..

your claim that the majority of the missing persons were infact killed
in the period between the coup d'eta and the invasion , 5 days , is simply
not true. all the cases of missing persons i know , and i know quite a
few , are cases of people who were either in the reserve forces and were lost
somewhere in the battlefield , or were civilians who were taken prisoners
in their villages by the turkish army.

i am not claiming anything. i just told you what was
given to greek cypriots as an answer by turkish
goverment turkish cypriots when they wanted to locate some
of their own between july 15 and the final cease fire in
late august , 1974. this answer seems to satisfy the international
community , the un , and the vasilu goverment (since he did not make it
an issue for the peace talks). also , i am not aware of any un
condemnation against turkey about any missing greek cypriot. are you \?

btw , do you mean that nicos sampson had a bloodless coup d'eta
and nobody got hurt in those events \?


as of the few photos which you refer to , there are more than a few. there are
photos not only of greek cypriot soldiers being rounded up , but also others
in the prison camp in turkey.

like i said before. there is even a different opinion among
greek cypriots for this myth. the officers in turkish army who
governed the adana pow camp must be hell of clever dudes
to cover up their tracks 8 ). i hope turkish army does't have
same type of morons for the security of turkiye. however , this must
a good subject for a movie script. one should inform oliver stone
about this.


of course , not. the justice was served well. if and when the bosnian
pleas are answered , who 's going to dare to ask what happens to those
masterminds behind the ethnic cleansing idea. they are known today
(as eoka b masterminds were known in 1974) to everybody and are doing
it openly even giving tv interviews. it may take same time as it was
for the eoka b case , however , the justice will be served again.

akgun , comparing the actions of the serbians in bosnian with the

actions of

turkey in cyprus is not something i would do if i were a turk.

i thought
that the serbians were the savages , the inhumane beasts etc etc.

c. akgun

michalis syrimis


if this is what you understood from the paragraph above ,
you better let your computer system administrator check
the character conversion tables in your system. if yours are
ok , i should inform mine 8 ).

c. akgun

from mkramer@world.std.com (mark w kramer)
subject re seventh century a.d. armenian math problems
keywords philosphy , greece , persians , math
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 5


a delightful message , interesting , and so kindly written. thanks.


prof. m. kramer , boston university

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 39

in article 1993apr26.172744.23230@colorado.edu perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman) writes
in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

...
the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.
the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

anyone who can repeate this choice piece of tripe without checking
his her sources does not deserve to be believed. the gaza strip does
not possess the highest population density in the world. in fact , it
is n't even close. just one example will serve to illustrate the folly
of this statement the city of hong kong has nearly ten times the
population of the gaza strip in a roughly comparable land area. the
centers of numerous cities also possess comparable , if not far higher ,
population densities. examples include manhattan island (ny city) , sao
paolo , ciudad de mexico , bombay , ...

need i go on \? the rest of mr. davidsson 's message is no closer to the
truth than this oft repeated statement is.

elias' initial statement certain is hot air. but it seems to be
almost standard procedure around here to first throw out an absurb ,
overstated image in order to add extra meaning to the posting 's
real point .

however , his second statement is quite real. the essential sealing off
of gaza residents from the possibility of making a living has happened .
certainly , the israeli had a legitimate worry behind the action they took ,
but is n't that action a little draconian \?



tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 67
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1483500349@igc.apc.org , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject ten questions about israel


ten questions to israelis


i would be thankful if any of you who live in israel could help to
provide
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are
indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by
people around me.

i lived there until july 1992 so i think that on the whole ,
my input is relevant.

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize
israeli nationality \? and that id cards , which israeli citizens
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or arabs , not as
israelis \?

those are two separate questions. obviously , israeli authorities do
recognize israeli nationality for some purposes , e.g. passports ,
consular services , etc... id cards have a field of nationality
which is a subdivision of the above. ostensibly , this field
is provided for sevices provided by the religious departments
of the gov't , though this is not the general case.

2. is it true that the state of israel has no fixed borders
and that israeli governments from 1948 until today have refused to
state where the ultimate borders of the state of israel should be
\?

from its onset , israel 's borders have been shaped and reshaped by both
war and peace. as such , the israeli gov't has always felt that defining
its borders is a step that is meaningful only after peace treaties have
been conluded with its neighbors. there is no plan for ultimate borders
(is this a game like ultimate frisbee \? ) extending into other countries.

3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons \? if so ,
could you provide any evidence \?

aside from what vaanunu provided , no.

4. is it true that in israeli prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?

if that is true , then by virtue of the question 's subject , it is
unanswerable. anyone who claims its validity. is claiming an oxymoron.
that having been said , i deny the above.

you go on to ask quite a number of questions that show an obvious
bias. questions of the sort is it true that you entered your
mother 's vagina \? which are based upon some kernel of truth , though
phrased in a way as to render them repugnant and cast aspersions
upon israel. incidentally , the answer to the above is usually yes ,
unless you were born via a c section.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research)
subject re from israeli press. madness.
lines 8
nf id r cdp 1483500342 cdp 1483500347 000 151
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 17 15 37 00 1993


before getting excited and implying that i am posting
fabrications , i would suggest the readers to consult the
newspaper in question.

tahnks ,

elias

from warren@nysernet.org (warren burstein)
subject re to be exact , 2.5 million muslims were exterminated by the armenians.
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 34

ac in 9304202017@zuma.uucp sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
pl linden@positive.eng.sun.com (peter van der linden)

pl 1. so , did the turks kill the armenians \?

ac so , did the jews kill the germans \?
ac you even make armenians laugh.

ac an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the
ac systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of
ac the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at
ac least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic. the
ac memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and
ac eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in
ac 1926 with the title 'men are like that.' other references abound.

typical mutlu. pvdl asks if x happened , the response is that y
happened. even if we grant that the armenians did do what cosar
accuses them of doing , this has no bearing on whether the turks did
what they are accused of.

while i can understand how an ai could be this stupid , i
ca n't understand how a human could be such a moron as to either let
such an ai run amok or to compose such pointless messages himself.

i do not expect any followup to this article from argic to do anything
to alleviate my puzzlement. but maybe i 'll see a new line from his
list of insults.


this article is supplied without longbox
and uses recycled 100 words , characters and ideas.
warren@
nysernet.org

from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject argic
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 6
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

hey serdar
man without a brain , yare such a loser ! ! !

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from isaac@etrog.se.citri.edu.au (isaac balbin)
subject re more on adl spying case
organization collaborative information technology research institute
lines 12

arens@isi.edu (yigal arens) writes

los angeles times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993. p. a1.

new details of extensive adl spy operation emerge

inquiry transcripts reveal nearly 40 years of espionage
by a man who infiltrated political groups

by richard c. paddock , times staff writer.

did they have a file on yigal too \?

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re while armenians destroyed all the moslem villages in the plain...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 48

in article 1pol62inna5u@cascade.cs.ubc.ca kvdoel@cs.ubc.ca (kees van den doel) writes

see , you are a pathological liar.

you got a crack in your record i think.

this is the point we seem to disagree about. not a chance.

i keep seeing that line over and over. that 's pathetic , even for
serdar argic !

well , arromdian of asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle
is a compulsive liar. now try dealing with the rest of what i wrote.

u.s. ambassador bristol

source u.s. library of congress 'bristol papers' general correspondence
container 34.

while the dashnaks were in power they did everything in the world to keep the
pot boiling by attacking kurds , turks and tartars by committing outrages
against the moslems by massacring the moslems and robbing and destroying
their homes ....during the last two years the armenians in russian caucasus
have shown no ability to govern themselves and especially no ability to
govern or handle other races under their power.

a kurdish scholar

source hassan arfa , the kurds , (london , 1968) , pp. 25 26.

when the russian armies invaded turkey after the sarikamish disaster
of 1914 , their columns were preceded by battalions of irregular
armenian volunteers , both from the caucasus and from turkey. one of
these was commanded by a certain andranik , a blood thirsty adventurer.
these armenian volunteers committed all kinds of excesses , more
than six hundred thousand kurds being killed between 1915 and 1916 in
the eastern vilayets of turkey.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from avi@duteinh.et.tudelft.nl (avi cohen stuart)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
originator avi@duteinh.et.tudelft.nl
nntp posting host duteinh.et.tudelft.nl
organization delft university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering
lines 35

from article 1993apr15.031349.21824@src.honeywell.com , by amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi)
in article c5huba.cjo@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes
amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes

you know when israelis f16 (thanks to general dynamics) fly high in the sky
and bomb the hell out of some village in lebanon , where civilians including
babies and eldery getting killed , is that plain murder or what \?

if you arabs would n't position guerilla bases in refugee camps , artillery
batteries atop apartment buildings , and munitions dumps in hospitals , maybe
civilians would n't get killed. kinda like saddam hussein putting civilians
in a military bunker.

ed.

who is the you arabs here. since you are replying to my article you
are assuming that i am an arab. well , i'm not an arab , but i think you
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the
bombardment of civilian and none civilian areas in lebanon by israel is
very consistent with its policy of intimidation. that is the only
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in
the middle east !

i was merley pointing out that the other side is also suffering.
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a lebanese , you bet
i would defende my homeland against any invader by any means.

tell me then , would you also fight the syrians in lebanon \?

oh , no of course not. they would be your brothers and you would
tell that you invited them.

avi.



from dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly...
organization brown university department of computer science
lines 47

dgannon@techbook.techbook.com (dan gannon) writes

gannon , why do n't you tell the readers of these newsgroups
how you hail nazism on your bbs , and post long articles
claiming non whites are inferior \?

the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake

the museum is entirely funded by private donations , but do n't
expect this fact to deter maynard .

btw , gannon 's ideological fathers also had a passion for constructing
museums and collections , some of which served to educate the
public about the racial supremacy of the aryans. one such
collection was that of skeletons , and there was no lack of these
around

letter from ss standartenfuehrer sievers to ss obersturmbannfuehrer
dr. brandt , november 2 1942
trial of the major war criminals , p. 520

dear comarade brandt ,

as you know , the reichsfuehrer ss has directed that
ss hauptsturmfuehrer prof. dr. hirt be supplied with everything
needed for his research work. for certain anthropological
researches i already reported to the reichsfuehrer ss on
them 150 skeletons of prisoners , or rather jews , are
required , which are to be supplied by the kl auschwitz.


however , the good doctor needed some more items to complete his
research

testimony of magnus wochner , ss guard at the natzweiler concentration
camp
the natzweiler trial , edited by anthony m. webb , p. 89

... i recall particularly one mass execution when about 90 prisoners
(60 men and 30 women) , all jews , were killed by gassing. this took
place , as far as i can remember , in spring 1944. in this case the
corpses were sent to professor hirt of the department of anatomy in
strasbourg.


danny keren.


from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject rejoinder. questions to israelis
nf id n cdp 1483500352 000 3446
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 22 17 29 00 1993
lines 71


from center for policy research cpr
subject rejoinder. questions to israelis


to shaig@think.com

subject ten questions to israelis

dear shai ,

your answers to my questions are unsatisfactory.

in the answer to my first question , concerning the nonexistence of
israeli nationality , your answer conflicts with information i have
received from other quarters , according to which there are two
distinct categories of classifying israelis citizenship
(ezrahut) and nationality (le'um). the former is used on passports
etc , and the later for daily identification in israeli society. i
am told that people in israel have to carry their id cards at all
times and present them at many public places , almost every day.
these id cards make clear who the holder is , a jew or an arab.
you maintain that this mainly because of religious services
provided. but do you really believe that this is the reason \?
could you provide evidence that this is the case and that it
serves no other purpose \?

in the answer to my second questions , concerning the fact that
israel has no fixed borders , you state that israel 's borders were
'shaped and reshaped by both war and peace'. according to what i
read , the first zionists in the beginning of the century , had
plans for the jewish state to extend into what is lebanon and into
transjordan (jordan). i also read that it was the express wish of
ben gurion to not declare israel 's borders , when israel was
established , as this might restrict israel 's opportunities for
later expansion. israel often claims it right of existence on the
fact that jews lived there 2000 years ago or that god promised the
land to them. but according to biblical sources , the area god
promised would extend all the way to iraq. and what were the
borders in biblical times which israel considers proper to use
today \? finally , if israel wants peace , why ca n't it declare what
it considers its legitimate and secure borders , which might be a
base for negotiations \? having all the above facts in mind , one
cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli expansionism , as a
number of wars have proved (1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1982).

your answer to my third question is typical of a stalinist public
official. i do n't think your answer is honest. you refer me to
vanunu 's revelations about israel 's nuclear arsenal without
evaluating the truthfullness of his revelations. now if he said
the truth , then why should he been punished , and if he lied , why
should he be punished \? i would appreciate more honesty.

somebody provided an answer to the fourth question , concerning
'hidden prisoners' in israeli prisons. he posted an article from
ma'ariv documenting such cases. it seems that such prisoners do
exist in israel. what do you think about that \?

you imply that my questions show bias and are formulated in such a
way to 'cast aspersions upon israel'. such terms have often been
used by the soviet union against dissidents they call the soviet
union into disrepute. if my questions are not disturbing , they
would not call forth such hysterical answers. my questions are
clearly provocative but they are meant to seek facts. i would be
very happy if you could convince me that what i am told about
israel were just fabrications , but alas you have failed to do so.
i suspect that you fear the truth and an open and honest
discussion. this is a sign of weakness , not of strength.

i hope you will muster the courage to seek the full truth.


from anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed)
subject re remember those names come election time.
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government
nntp posting host gs135.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 15

i said
in article c5u4qi.mz4@apollo.hp.com nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , liberia , angola , or
(it appears with the khmer rouge 's new campaign) cambodia. non whites
do n't count \?

hmm...some might say kuwaitis are non white. ooops , i forgot , kuwaitis are
oil rich , loaded with petro dollars , etc so they do n't count.

...and let 's not forget somalia , which is about as far from white as it
gets.

that 's two in a row , care to try for more \?

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject after all , armenians exterminated 2.5 million muslim people there.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 297

in article c5y56o.a62@news.cso.uiuc.edu hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian) writes

article. i have no partisan interests i would just like to know
what conversations between terpetrosyan and demirel sound like. )

very simple.

x soviet armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide
against 2.5 million muslims by admitting to the crime and making
reparations to the turks and kurds.

after all , your criminal grandparents exterminated 2.5 million muslim
people between 1914 and 1920.


c5yybt.5zo@news.cso.uiuc.edu
hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian)

to which i say
hear , hear. motion seconded.

you must be a new armenian clown. you are counting on asala sdpa arf
crooks and criminals to prove something for you \? no wonder you are in
such a mess. that criminal idiot and 'its' forged non existent junk has
already been trashed out by mutlu , cosar , akgun , uludamar , akman , oflazer
and hundreds of people. moreover , asala sdpa arf criminals are responsible
for the massacre of the turkish people that also prevent them from entering
turkiye and trnc. sdpa has yet to renounce its charter which specifically
calls for the second genocide of the turkish people. this racist , barbarian
and criminal view has been touted by the fascist x soviet armenian government
as merely a step on the road to said genocide.

now where shall i begin \?

from ahmet@eecg.toronto.edu (parlakbilek ahmet)
subject yalanci , liar davidian
keywords davidian , the biggest liar
message id 1991jan10.122057.11613@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu

following is the article that davidian claims that hasan mutlu is a liar

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
message id 1154@urartu.sdpa.org

in article 1991jan4.145955.4478@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu ahmet@eecg.toronto.
edu (ahmet parlakbilek) asked a simple question

ap i am asking you to show me one example in which mutlu , coras or any other
ap turk was proven to lie.i can show tens of lies and fabrications of
ap davidian , like changing quote , even changing name of a book , anna.

the obvious ridiculous armenians murdered 3 million moslems is the most
outragious and unsubstantiated charge of all. you are obviously new on this
net , so read the following sample not one , but three proven lies in one
day !

start yalanci.txt

some parts are deleted

in article 1990aug5.142159.5773@cbnewsd.att.com the usenet scribe for the
turkish historical society , hbm@cbnewsd.att.com (hasan.b.mutlu) , continues to
revise the history of the armenian people. let 's witness the operational
definition of a revisionist yalanci (or liar , in turkish)

yalanci according to leo 1
yalanci
yalanci the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks
yalanci and on the other side , peace loving armenians , both sides minding
yalanci their own affairs. then all was submerged in blood and fire. indeed ,
yalanci the war was actually being waged between the committee of
yalanci dashnaktsutiun and the society of ittihad and terakki a cruel and
yalanci savage war in defense of party political interests. the dashnaks
yalanci incited revolts which relied on russian bayonets for their success.
yalanci
yalanci 1 l. kuper , genocide its political use in the twentieth century ,
yalanci new york 1981 , p. 157.

this text is available not only in most bookstores but in many libraries. on
page 157 we find a discussion of related atrocities (which is title of the
chapter). the topic on this page concerns itself with submissions to the sub
commission on prevention of discrimination of minorities of the commission on
human rights of the united nations with respect to the massacres in cambodia.
there is no mention of turks nor armenians as claimed above.



vay sarsak , vay yobaz , vay yalanci ! vay turk milletinin yuz karasi mutlu vay !

the depth of foolishness the turkish historical society engages in , while
covering up the turkish genocide of the armenians , is only surpassed by the
ridiculous historical material publicly displayed !

david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org the life of a people is a sea , and

receiving this message , i checked the reference , l.kuper , genocide... and
what i have found was totally consistent with what davidian said.the book
was like voice of armenian revolutionists and although i read the whole book ,
i could not find the original quota.
but there was one more thing to check the original posting of mutlu.i found
the original article of mutlu.it is as follows

according to leo 1

the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks and on
the other side , peace loving armenians , both sides minding their own
affairs. then all was submerged in blood and fire. indeed , the war was
actually being waged between the committee of dashnaktsutiun and the
society of ittihad and terakki a cruel and savage war in defense of party
political interests. the dashnaks incited revolts which relied on russian
bayonets for their success.

1 b. a. leo. the ideology of the armenian revolution in turkey , vol ii ,

p. 157.


quato is the same , reference is different !

davidian lied again , and this time he changed the original posting of mutlu
just to accuse him to be a liar.

davidian , thank you for writing the page number correctly...

you are the biggest liar i have ever seen.this example showed me that tomorrow
you can lie again , and you may try to make me a liar this time.so i decided
not to read your articles and not to write answers to you.i also advise
all the netters to do the same.we can not prevent your lies , but at least
we may save time by not dealing with your lies.

and for the following line
vay sarsak , vay yobaz , vay yalanci ! vay turk milletinin yuz karasi mutlu vay !

i also return all the insults you wrote about mutlu to you.
i hope you will be drowned in your lies.

ahmet parlakbilek

from vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (vedat dogan)
message id 1993apr8.233029.29094@news.columbia.edu

in article 1993apr7.225058.12073@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
in article 1993apr7.030636.7473@news.columbia.edu vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
(vedat dogan) wrote in response to article 1993mar31.141308.28476@urartu.
11sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes


( source adventures in the near east , 1918 1922 by a. rawlinson ,
( jonathan cape , 30 bedford square , london , 1934 (first published 1923)
( (287 pages).

dd such a pile of garbage ! first off , the above reference was first published
dd in 1924 not 1923 , and has 353 pages not 287 ! second , upon checking page
dd 178 , we are asked to believe

vd no , mr.davidian ...

vd it was first published in 1923 (i have the book on my desk , now ! )
vd

vd and furthermore , the book i have does not have 353 pages either , as you
vd claimed , mr.davidian..it has 377 pages..any question \? ..

well , it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the
n crap posted by mr. ( !

o boy !

please , can you tell us why those quotes are crap \? ..because you do not
like them ! ! ! ...because they really exist...why \?

as i said in my previous posting , those quotes exactly exist in the source
given by serdar argic ..

you could n't reject it...


in addition , the author 's preface was written on january 15 , 1923 , but the book
was published in 1924.

here we go again..
in the book i have , both the front page and the author 's preface give
the same year 1923 and 15 january , 1923 , respectively !
(anyone can check it at her his library , if not , i can send you the copies of
pages , please ask by sct)


i really do n't care what year it was first published(1923 or 1924)
what i care about is what the book writes about murders , tortures , et..in
the given quotes by serdar argic , and your denial of these quotes..and your
groundless accussations , etc.


...

dd i can provide .gif postings if required to verify my claim !

vd what is new \?

i will post a .gif file , but i am not going go through the effort to show there
is some turkish modified re publication of the book , like last time !


i claim i have a book in my hand published in 1923(first publication)
and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published
in 1934(serdar argic 's reference) has..you could n't reject it..but , now you
are avoiding the real issues by twisting around..

let 's see how you lie ! ..(from 'non existing' quotes to re publication)

first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference..you
called serdar argic a liar ! ..
i said to you , no , mr.davidian , there exactly existed such a quote...
(i even gave the call number , page numbers..you could't reject it.)

and now , you are lying again and talking about modified , re published book
(without any proof how , when , where , by whom , etc..)..
(by the way , how is it possible to re publish the book in 1923 if it was
first published in 1924(your claim).i am sure that you have some 'pretty
well suited theories' , as usual)

and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who
wants to compare the fact and mr.davidian 's lies...i also give the call number
and page numbers again for the library use , which are
949.6 r 198

and the page numbers to verify the quotes 218 and 215




it is not possible that ( 's text has 287 pages , mine has 353 , and yours has
377 !

now , are you claiming that there ca n't be such a reference by saying it is
not possible... ..if not , what is your point \?

differences in the number of pages \?
mine was published in 1923..serdar argic 's was in 1934..
no need to use the same book size and the same letter
charachter in both publications , etc , etc.. does it give you an idea ! !

the issue was not the number of pages the book has..or the year
first published..
and you tried to hide the whole point..
the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about
how moslems are killed , tortured , etc by armenians..and those quotes given
by serdar argic exist ! !
it was the issue , was n't it \?

you were not able to object it...does it bother you anyway \?

you name all these tortures and murders (by armenians) as a crap ..
people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still
has so many craps in the 1993.

any question \?


c5wwqa.9wl@news.cso.uiuc.edu
hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian)

hmm ... turks sure know how to keep track of deaths , but they seem to
lose count around 1.5 million.

well , apparently we have another son of dro 'the butcher' to contend with.
you should indeed be happy to know that you rekindled a huge discussion on
distortions propagated by several of your contemporaries. if you feel
that you can simply act as an armenian governmental crony in this forum
you will be sadly mistaken and duly embarrassed. this is not a lecture to
another historical revisionist and a genocide apologist , but a fact.

i will dissect article by article , paragraph by paragraph , line by line ,
lie by lie , revision by revision , written by those on this net , who plan
to 'prove' that the armenian genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds is
nothing less than a classic un redressed genocide. we are neither in
x soviet union , nor in some similar ultra nationalist fascist dictatorship ,
that employs the dictates of hitler to quell domestic unrest. also , feel
free to distribute all responses to your nearest asala sdpa arf terrorists ,
the armenian pseudo scholars , or to those affiliated with the armenian
criminal organizations.

armenian government got away with the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men ,
women and children and is enjoying the fruits of that genocide. you , and
those like you , will not get away with the genocide 's cover up.

not a chance.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from ifaz706@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu (noam tractinsky)
subject re ten questions about israel
lines 66
nntp posting host taupe.cc.utexas.edu
organization university of texas @ austin
lines 66

in article 1483500349@igc.apc.org , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject ten questions about israel


ten questions to israelis


i would be thankful if any of you who live in israel could help to
provide
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are
indeed provocative questions but they are asked time and again by
people around me.

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize
israeli nationality \? and that id cards , which israeli citizens
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or arabs , not as
israelis \?


that 's true. israeli id cards do not identify people
as israelies. smart huh \?


3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons \? if so ,
could you provide any evidence \?

yes. there 's one warhead in my parent 's backyard in
beer sheva (that 's only some 20 miles from dimona ,
you know). evidence \? i saw it !


4. is it true that in israeli prisons there are a number of
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their
identities , the date of their trial and their imprisonment are
state secrets \?

yes. but unfortunately i ca n't give you more details.
that 's secret , you see.


...


thanks ,

elias davidsson iceland email elias@ismennt.is


you 're welcome. now , let me ask you a few questions , if you
do n't mind

1. is it true that the center for policy research is a
one man enterprise \?

2. is it true that your questions are not being asked
bona fide \?

3. is it true that your statement above , these are indeed
provocative questions but they are asked time and again by
people around me is not true \?


noam


subject re was go hezbollah ! !
from mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi)
organization calif state univ electronic information services
lines 43

stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes
even the most extemist , one sided (jewish israeli) postings (with which i
certainly disagree) , did not openly back plain murder. you do.

the 'lebanese resistance' you are talking about is a bunch of lebanese
farmers who detonate bombs after work , or is an organized entity of not
only lebanese well trained mercenaries \? i do not know , just curious.

i guess you also back the killings of hundreds of marines in beirut , right \?

what kind of 'resistance' movement killed jewish attlets in munich 1972 \?

you liked it , did n't you \?


you posted some other garbage before , so at least you seem to be consistent.

dorin

dorin ,
let 's not forget that the soldiers were killed not murdered. the
distinction is not trivial. murder happens to innocent people , not people
whose line of work is to kill or be killed. it just so happened that these
soldiers , in the line of duty , were killed by the opposition. and
resistance is different from terrorism. certainly the athletes in munich
were victims of terrorists (though some might call them freedom fighters).
their deaths cannot be compared to those of soldiers who are killed by
resistance fighters. do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the
nazi occupying forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the
hostile occupiers in wwii. diplomacy has not worked with israel and the
lebanese people are tired of being occupied ! they are now turning to the
only option they see as viable. (do n't forget that it worked in driving
out the us)

marc




some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with
both eyes.
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions.


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject the republic of turkey sold 400 tones of armenian bones in 1924.
keywords april 24 , 1993 , 78th anniversary of the turkish genocide of armenians
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 68

yarn of cargo of human bones 1

copyright , 1924 , by the new york times company
special cable to the new york times

paris , dec 22 , marseilles is excited by a weird story of the arrival in
that port of a ship flying the british flag and named zan carrying a
mysterious cargo of 400 tons of human bones consigned to manufacturers there.
the bones are said to have been loaded at mudania on the sea of marmora and
to be the remains of the victims of massacres in asia minor. in view of the
rumors circulating it is expected that an inquiry will be instigated.

reference

1 new york times , december 23 , 1924 , page 3 , column 2 (bottom)



on the 78th commemorative anniversary of the turkish genocide of the armenians ,
we remember those whose only crime was to be armenian in the shadow of an
emerging turkish proto fascist state. in their names we demand justice.

in april 1915 , the turkish government began a systematically executed
de population of the eastern anatolian homeland of the armenians through a
genocidal extermination. this genocide was to insure that turks exclusively
ruled over the geographic area today called the republic of turkey. the
result 1.5 million murdered , 30 billion dollars of armenian property stolen
and plundered. this genocide ended nearly 3 , 000 years of armenian civilization
on those lands. today , the turkish government continues to scrape clean any
vestige of a prior armenian existence on those lands. today 's turkish
governmental policy is to re write the history of the era , to manufacture
distortion and generate excuses for their genocide of the armenian people. in
the face of refutation ad nauseam , the turkish historical society and cronies
shamelessly continue to deny that any such genocide occurred. this policy
merely demonstrates that in the modern era , genocide is an effective state
policy when it remains un redressed and un punished. a crime unpunished is a
crime encouraged. adolf hitler took this cue less than 25 years after the
successful genocide of the armenians.

turkey claims there was no systematic deportation of armenians , yet...
armenians were removed from every city , town , and village in the whole of
turkey ! armenians who resisted deportation and massacre are referred to as
rebels .

turkey claims there was no genocide of the armenians , yet...turkish population
figures today show zero armenians in eastern turkey , the armenian homeland.

turkey claims armenians were always a small minority , yet...turkey claims
armenians were a threat .

in a final insult to the victims , the republic of turkey sold the bones of
approximately 100 , 000 murdered armenians for profit to europe.

today , the turkish government is enjoying the fruits of that genocide. the
success of this genocide is hangs over the heads of turkey 's kurdish
population.

the armenians demand recognition , reparation , return of armenian land and
property lost as a result of this genocide.

armenians demand justice ermeniler adalet istiyor



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org armenia has not learned a lesson in
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies anatolia and has forgotten the
p.o. box 382761 punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93
cambridge , ma 02238 late turkish president turgut ozal

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject cold blooded slaughter of muslim women and children by armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 91

in article 1993apr17.011112.27439@news.columbia.edu lasner@watsun.cc.columbia.edu (charles lasner) writes

hmm. maybe i 'll go rent midnight express tonight. i have n't seen that
scene in awhile i have to savor the moment all over again.

well , does it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920 ,
the fascist x soviet armenian government ordered , incited , assisted
and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because
of race , religion and national origin \?

as in the past in turkiye , and today in azerbaijan , for utopic and
idiotic causes the armenians brought havoc to their neighbors. a
short sighted and misplaced nationalistic fervor with a wrong agenda
and anachronistic methods the armenians continue to become pernicious
for the region. as usual , they will be treated accordingly by their
neighbors. nagorno karabag is a mountainous enclave that lies completely
within azerbaijan with no border or history whatsoever connected to
x soviet armenia. besides the geographical aspect , nagorno karabag is
the historic homeland and the 'cradle' of the artistic and literary
heritage of azerbaijan , which renders the armenian claims preposterous ,
even lunatic.

and we still demand

1. that the x soviet armenian government , as the heirs of the armenian
dictatorship , recognize the turkish genocide

2. that x soviet armenia return the historic homeland to the turkish and
kurdish people

3. that the x soviet armenian government make material reparations for their
heinous and unspeakable crime to the victims of the turkish genocide

4. that all world governments officially recognize the turkish genocide
and turkish territorial rights and refuse to succumb to all armenian
political pressure.

the awareness of the turkish people of the necessity of solidarity in the
efforts to pursue the turkish cause is seen by the victims of the first
genocide of the 20th century as a positive step.

now what would you do \?

source 'the sunday times , ' 1 march 1992 (a british weekly , written by
thomas goltz , from agdam , azerbaijan.)

armenian soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families.

the spiralling violence gripping the outer republics of the former
soviet union gained new impetus yesterday with cold blooded slaughter of
hundreds of women and children in war racked nagorno karabakh.
survivors reported that armenian soldiers shot and bayoneted more
than 450 azeris , many of them women and children , who were fleeing an
attack on their town. hundreds , possibly thousands , were missing and
feared dead.
the attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending
the women and children. they then turned their guns on the terrified
refugees. the few survivors later described what happened that 's when
the real slaughter began , said azer hajiev , one of three soldiers to
survive. the armenians just shot and shot. and then they came in and
started carving up people with their bayonets and knives.
they were shooting , shooting , shooting , echoed rasia aslanova , who
arrived in agdam with other women and children who made their way through
armenian lines. she said her husband , kayun , and a son in law were killed
in front of her. her daughter was still missing.
one boy who arrived in agdam had an ear sliced off.

the survivors said 2000 others , some of whom had fled separately ,
were still missing in the gruelling terrain many could perish from their
wounds or the cold.
by late yesterday , 479 deaths had been registered at the morgue in
agdam 's morgue , and 29 bodies had been buried in the cemetery. of the
seven corpses i saw awaiting burial , two were children and three were
women , one shot through the chest at point blank range.
agdam hospital was a scene of carnage and terror. doctors said they
had 140 patients who escaped slaughter , most with bullet injuries or deep
stab wounds.
nor were they safe in agdam. on friday night rockets fell on the city
which has a population of 150 , 000 , destroying several buildings and
killing one person.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian slaughter of more than 600 , 000 kurdish people in 1915.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 21

source hassan arfa , the kurds , (london , 1968) , pp. 25 26.

when the russian armies invaded turkey after the sarikamish disaster
of 1914 , their columns were preceded by battalions of irregular
armenian volunteers , both from the caucasus and from turkey. one of
these was commanded by a certain andranik , a blood thirsty adventurer.
these armenian volunteers committed all kinds of excesses , more
than six hundred thousand kurds being killed between 1915 and 1916 in
the eastern vilayets of turkey.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject the israeli press
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 20
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


andy beyer has claimed that the israeli press is a bit biased.
but the fact is that there are events shaping the politics of the
mideast that people who do not read the israeli press simply know
nothing about. many of these events are not even mentioned here.
i read the israeli press to learn of important events about which
you know nothing , because of your total reliance on western media
for your information on israel. since i read both american media
and israeli media , i can say with absolute certainty that anybody
who reliesx exclusively on the american press for knowledge about
israel does not have a true picture of what is going on.

as to the claim that israeli papers are biased , of course they
are. some may lean to the right or the left , just like the media
here in america. but they still report events about which people
here know nothing. i choose to form my opinions about israel and
the mideast based on more knowledge than does an average american
who relies exclusively on an american media which does not report
on events in the mideast with any consistency or accuracy.


from warren@itexjct.jct.ac.il (warren burstein)
subject re how many mutlus can dance on the head of a pin \?
article i.d. itexjct.2579
organization itex , jerusalem , israel
lines 23

in 1993apr5.211146.3662@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu jfurr@nyx.cs.du.edu (joel furr) writes

i dunno , warren. just the other day i heard a rumor that serdar argic
(aka hasan mutlu and ahmed cosar and zumabot) is not really a turk at all ,
but in fact is an armenian who is attempting to make any discussion of the
massacres in armenia of turks so noise laden as to make serious discussion
impossible , thereby cloaking the historical record with a tremendous cloud
of confusion.

but what is hasan b. multu 's middle name \? i'm not sure , but i heard
it was bibo . i also seem to recall that argic is azari for bites
the wax macedonian .

we do n't have a mail address , but how about finding a snail address \?
then instead of quashing shergold rumors , we could just redirect them
ahmed cosar is a seven year old greek boy with an incurable case of
crossposting. his wish is to get into the usenet book of world
records for having the highest noise to signal ratio.



warren@
nysernet.org

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 38
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


although i realize that principle is not one of your strongest
points , i would still like to know why do do not ask any question
of this sort about the arab countries.

if you want to continue this think tank charade of yours , your
fixation on israel must stop. you might have to start asking the
same sort of questions of arab countries as well. you realize it
would not work , as the arab countries' treatment of jews over the
last several decades is so bad that your fixation on israel would
begin to look like the biased attack that it is.

everyone in this group recognizes that your stupid 'center for
policy research' is nothing more than a fancy name for some bigot
who hates israel.

why do n't you try being honest about your hatred of israel \? i
have heard that your family once lived in israel , but the members
of your family could not cut the competition there. is this true
about your family \? is this true about you \? is this actually not
about israel , but is really a personal vendetta \? why are you not
the least bit objective about israel \? do you think that the name
of your phony baloney center hides your bias in the least \? get a
clue , mr. davidsson. have n't you realized yet that when you post
such stupidity in this group , you are going to incur answers from
people who are armed with the truth \? have n't you realized that a
piece of selective data here and a piece there does not make up a
truth \? have n't you realized that you are in over your head \? the
people who read this group are not as stupid as you would hope or
need them to be. this is not the place for such pseudo analysis.
you will be continually ripped to shreds , until you start to show
some regard for objectivity. or you can continue to show what an
anti israel zealot you are , trying to disguise your bias behind a
pompous name like the 'center for policy research.' you ought to
know that you are a laughing stock , your 'center' is considered a
joke , and until you either go away , or make at least some attempt
to be objective , you will have a place of honor among the clowns ,
bigots , and idiots of usenet.

from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 21

hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

tell me tim , what are these guerillas doing wrong \? assuming that they are using
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country \?

so , it 's okay to use civilians for cover if you 're attacking soldiers
in your country. (of course , many of those attacking claim that they
are n't lebanese , so it 's not their country.)

got it. i think. hmm. this is confusing.

could you perhaps repeat your rules explaining exactly when it is
permissible to use civilians as shields \? also please explain under
what conditions it is permissible for soldiers to defend themselves.
also please explain the particular rules that make it okay for
terrorists to launch missiles from lebanon against israeli civilians ,
but not okay for the israelis to try to defend themselves against
those missiles.


alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (john a absood)
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (john a absood)
organization columbia university
lines 14

mr. freeman

please find something more constructive to do with your time rather
than engaging in fantasy..... not that i have a particular affinty
to arafat or anything.

john



marlow ceased , and sat apart , indistinct and silent , in the pose of a
meditating buddha. nobody moved for a time...the offing was barred by
a black bank of clouds , and the tranquil waterway leading to the utter
most ends of the earth flowed sombre under an overcast sky seemed to

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject on the eve of 78th anniversary commemoration of the turkish holocaust.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 232

in article 1993apr20.214322.8698@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

oy henrik ( \? ) ,
oy your ignorance manifests itself in an awkward form of intransigence. i'm not
oy going to spend time to review with you the recent history of cyprus.

good ! ! go back to your references and read it over and over ...

i wish the fascist x soviet armenian government would do that. well ,
if you prefer to imagine that the american , european , jewish and armenian
scholars were trying to mislead 'arromdians' , be my guest.


source stanford j. shaw , on armenian collaboration with invading russian
armies in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (volume
ii reform , revolution republic the rise of modern turkey , 1808 1975).
(london , cambridge university press 1977). pp. 315 316.

in april 1915 dashnaks from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city
of van , whose 33 , 789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population ,
closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire...leaving erivan
on april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during
the next two days while the small ottoman garrison had to retreat to the
southern side of the lake.


source world alive , a personal story by robert dunn. crown publishers ,
inc. , new york (1952).
(memoirs of an american officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)

p. 361 (seventh paragraph) and p. 362 (first paragraph).

'the most are inside houses. come you and look.'
'no , dammit ! my stomach is n't '
'one is a turkish officer in uniform. him you must see.'
we were under those trees by the mosque , in an open space....
'i do n't believe you , i said , but followed to a nail studded door. the
man pushed it ajar , then spurred away , leaving me to check on the corpse.
i thought i should , this charge was so constant , so gritted my teeth and
went inside.

the place was cool but reeked of sodden ashes , and was dark at first , for
its stone walls had only window slits. rags strewed the mud floor around an
iron tripod over embers that vented their smoke through roof beams black
with soot. all looked bare and empty , but in an inner room flies buzzed. as
the door swung shut behind me i saw they came from a man 's body lying face
up , naked but for its grimy turban. he was about fifty years old by what
was left of his face a rifle butt had bashed an eye. the one left slanted ,
as with tartars rather than with turks. any uniform once on him was gone , so
i 'd no proof which he was , and quickly went out , gagging at the mess of his
slashed genitals.

p. 363 (first paragraph).

'how many people lived there \? '
'oh , about eight hundred.' he yawned.
'did you see any turk officers \? '
'no , sir. i was in at dawn. all were tartar civilians in mufti.'

the lieutenant dozed off , then i , but in the small hours a voice woke me
dro 's. he stood in the starlight bawling out an officer. anyone keelhauled
so long and furiously i 'd never heard. then abruptly dro broke into
laughter , quick and simple as child 's. both were a cover for his sense
of guilt , i thought , or hoped. for somehow , despite my boast of irreligion ,
christian massacring 'infidels' was more horrible than the reverse would
have been.

from daybreak on , armenian villagers poured in from miles around.....
the women plundered happily , chattering like ravens as they picked over
the carcass of djul. they hauled out every hovel 's chattels , the last
scrap of food or cloth , and staggered away , packing pots , saddlebags ,
looms , even spinning wheels.

'thank you for a lot , dro , ' i said to him back in camp. 'but now i must
leave.'...we shook hands , the captain said 'a bientot , mon camarade.' and
for hours the old molokan scout and i plodded north across parching plains.
like lot 's wife i looked back once to see smoke bathing all , doubtless in
a sack of other moslem villages up to the line of snow that was iran.'

p. 354.

at morning tea , dro and his officers spread out a map of this whole
high region called the karabakh. deep in tactics , they spoke russian ,
but i got their contempt for allied 'neutral' zones and their distrust
of promises made by tribal chiefs. a campaign shaped more raids on
moslem villages.

p. 358.

it will be three hours to take , dro told me. we 'd close in on three
sides.
the men on foot will not shoot , but use only the bayonets , merrimanov
said , jabbing a rifle in dumbshow.
that is for morale , dro put in. we must keep the moslems in terror.
soldiers or civilians \? i asked.
there is no difference , said dro. all are armed , in uniform or not.
but the women and children \?
will fly with the others as best they may.

p. 360.

the ridges circled a wide expanse , its floors still. hundreds of feet
down , the fog held , solid as cotton flock. 'djul lies under that , ' said
dro , pointing. 'our men also attack from the other sides.'

then , 'whee ee ! ' his whistle lined up all at the rock edge. bayonets
clicked upon carbines. over plunged archo , his black haunches rippling
then followed the staff , the horde nose to tail , bellies taking the
spur. armenia in action seemed more like a pageant than war , even though
i heard our utica brass roar.

as i watched from the height , it took ages for djul to show clear. a tsing
of machine gun fire took over from the thumping batteries cattle lowed ,
dogs barked , invisible , while i ate a hunk of cheese and drank from a snow
puddle. mist at last folded upward as men shouted , at first heard faintly.
the came a shrill wailing.

now among the cloud streaks rose darker wisps smoke. red glimmered about
house walls of stone or wattle , into dry weeds on roofs. a mosque stood in
clump of trees , thick and green. through crooked alleys on fire , horsemen
were galloping after figures both mounted and on foot.

'tartarski ! ' shouted the gunner by me. others pantomimed them in escape
over the rocks , while one twisted a bronze shell nose , loaded , and yanked
breech cord , firing again and again. shots wasted , i thought , when by
afternoon i looked in vain for fallen branch or body. but these shots and
the white bursts of shrapnel in the gullies drowned the women 's cries.

at length all shooting petered out. i got on my horse and rode down toward
djul. it burned still but little flame showed now. the way was steep and
tough , through dense scrub. finally on flatter ground i came out suddenly ,
through alders , on smoldering houses. across trampled wheat my brothers in
arms were leading off animals , several calves and a lamb.

p. 361 (fourth paragraph).

corpses came next , the first a pretty child with straight black hair ,
large eyes. she looked about twelve years old. she lay in some stubble
where meal lay scattered from the sack she 'd been toting. the bayonet
had gone through her back , i judged , for blood around was scant. between
the breasts one clot , too small for a bullet wound , crusted her homespun
dress.

the next was a boy of ten or less , in rawhide jacket and knee pants. he
lay face down in the path by several huts. one arm reached out to the
pewter bowl he 'd carried , now upset upon its dough. steel had jabbed
just below his neck , into the spine.

there were grownups , too , i saw as i led the sorrel around. djul was
empty of the living till i looked up to see beside me dro 's german speaking
colonel. he said all tartars who had not escaped were dead.

p. 358.

...more stories of armenian murdering turks when the czarist troops fled
north. my hosts told me of their duty here to keep tabs on brigands ,
turkish troop shifts , hidden arms , spies christian , red or tartar
coming in from transcaucasus. then they spoke of the hell that would
break loose if versailles were to put , as threatened , the six 'armenian'
vilayets of turkey under the control of erevan...

an armenia without armenians ! turks under christian rule \? his lips
smacked in irony under the droopy red moustache. that 's bloodshed just
smyrna over again on a bigger scale.


source u.s. library of congress 'bristol papers' general
correspondence container 34.

while the dashnaks were in power they did everything in the world to keep the
pot boiling by attacking kurds , turks and tartars by committing outrages
against the moslems by massacring the moslems and robbing and destroying
their homes ....during the last two years the armenians in russian caucasus
have shown no ability to govern themselves and especially no ability to
govern or handle other races under their power.


source k. gurun , the armenian file , (london , nicosia , istanbul , 1985).

many muslim villages have been destroyed by the soldiers of armenian troops
armed with cannons and machine guns before the eyes of our troops and the
people.....according to documented information , 28 muslim villages have
been destroyed...young muslim women have been taken to kars and gumru ,
hundreds of women and children who were able to flee their villages were
beaten and killed in the mountains...

source w. e. d. allen and paul muratoff , caucasian battlefields ,
cambridge university press , 1953 , p. 481.

as the armenians found support among the reds (who regarded the tartars
as a counter revolutionary elements) the fighting soon became a massacre
of the tartar population.


source general bronsart wrote as follows in an article in the july 24 ,
1921 issue of the newspaper deutsche allgemeine zeitung

since all the moslems capable of bearing arms were in the turkish army ,
it was easy to organize a terrible massacre by the armenians against
defenseless people , because the armenians were not only attacking the
sides and rear of the eastern army paralyzed at the front by the
russians , but were attacking the moslem folk in the region as well.

source quoted by general hamelin in a letter to the high commissioner ,
february 2 , 1919 , in the official history , les armees francaises
au levant , vol. 1 , p. 122.

they armenians burned and destroyed many turkish villages as punitive
measures in their advance and practically all turkish villages in their
retreat from marash.

source john dewey , the turkish tragedy , the new republic , volume 40 ,
november 12 , 1928 , pp. 268 269.

that they armenians boasted of having raised an army of one hundred
and fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at
least a hundred turkish villages and exterminated their population.

need i go on \?

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from enis@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (enis.surensoy)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization at t
lines 4

armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes

armenia does not have pot to piss in it let alone shooting
down modern war planes.

from jamshid@cgl.ucsf.edu (j. naghizadeh)
subject pr campaign against iran (pbs frontline)
organization computer graphics laboratory , ucsf
lines 51
originator jamshid@socrates.ucsf.edu

there have been a number of articles on the pbs frontline program
about iranian bomb. here is my 0.02 on this and related subjects.

one is curious to know the real reasons behind this and related
public relations campaign about iran in recent months. these include

1) attempts to implicate iran in the bombing of the new york trade
center. despite great efforts in this direction they have not
succeeded in this. they , however , have indirectly created
the impression that iran is behind the rise of fundamentalist
islamic movements and thus are indirectly implicated in this matter.

2) public statements by the secretary of state christoffer and
other official sources regarding iran being a terrorist and
outlaw state.

3) and finally the recent broadcast of the frontline program. i
suspect that this pr campaign against iran will continue and
perhaps intensify.

why this increased pressure on iran \? a number of factors may have
been behind this. these include

1) the rise of islamic movements in north africa and radical
hamas movement in the israeli occupied territories. this
movement is basically anti western and is not necessarily
fueled by iran. the cause for accelerated pace of this
movement is probably the gulf war which sought to return
colonial shieks and amirs to their throne in the name of
democracy and freedom. also , the obvious support of algerian
military coup against the democratically elected algerian
islamic front which clearly exposed the democracy myth.
a further cause of this may be the daily broadcast of the news
on the slaughter of bosnian moslems.

2) possible future implications of this movement in saudi arabia
and other us client states and endangerment of the cheap oil
sources from this region.

3) a need to create an enemy as an excuse for huge defense
expenditures. this has become necessary after the demise of
soveit union.

the recent pr campaign against iran , however , seems to be directed
from israel rather than washington. there is no fundamental conflict
of interest between iran and the us and in my opinion , it is in the
interest of both countries to affect reestablishment of normal
and friendly relations. this may have a moderating effect on the
rise of radical movements within the islamic world and iran .

jamshid

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re syria 's expansion
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 95

in article c5qhya.5gn@dscomsa.desy.de hallam@zeus02.desy.de writes

in article 1993apr18.212610.5933@das.harvard.edu , adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes

in article 18apr93.15729846.0076@vm1.mcgill.ca b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes

1) is israel 's occupation of southern lebanon temporary \?

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave lebanon when
the lebanese government can provide guarantees that israel will not be
attacked from lebanese soil , and when the syrians leave.

not acceptable. syria and lebanon have a right to determine if
they wish to return to the situation prior to the french invasion
where they were both part of the same mandate territory read
colony.

and lebanon has a right to make this decision without syrian
troops controlling the country. until syria leaves , and free
elections take place , its is rediculous to claim that the lebanese
would even be involved in determining what happens to their country.

israel has no right to determine what happens in lebanon. invading another
country because you consider them a threat is precisely the way that almost
all wars of aggression have started.

i expect you will agree that the same holds true for syria
having no right to be in lebanon \?

israel has already annexed areas taken over in the 1967 war.
these areas are not occupied , but disputed , since there is no
legitamate governing body. citizenship was given to those residents
in annexed areas who wanted citizenship.

the un defines them as occupied. they are recognised as such by every
nation on earth (excluding one small caribean island).

the un also thought zionism is racism. that fails to make it true.

the first reason was security. a large jewish presense makes
it difficult for terrorists to infiltrate. a jewish settlements also
act as fortresses in times of war.

theyu also are a liability. we are talking about civilian encampments that
would last no more than hours against tanks ,

they lasted weeks against tanks in '48 , and stopped those
tanks from advancing. they also lasted days in '73. there is little
evidence for the claim that they are military liabilities.

they evidence is there to show that when infiltrations take
place over the jordan river , the existance of large , patrolled
kibutzim forces terrorists into a very small area , where they are
usually picked up in the morning.

a second reason was political. creating settlements brought
the arabs to the negotiation table. had the creation of new towns and
cities gone on another several years , there would be no place left in
israel where there was an arab majority. there would have been no
land left that could be called arab.

do n't fool yourself. it was the gulf war that brought the israelis to the
negotiating table. once their us backers had a secure base in the gulf
they insrtructed shamir to negotiate or else.

nonsense. israel has been trying to get its neighbors to the
negotiating table for 40 years. it was the gulf war that brought the
arabs to the table , not the israelis.

the point is , there are many reasons people moved over the
green line , and many reasons the government wanted them to. whatever
status is negotiated for disputed territories , it will not be an all
or nothing deal. new boundaries will be drawn up by negotiation , not
be the results of a war.

unless the new boundaries drawn up are those of 48 there will be no peace.
araffat has precious little authority to agree to anything else.

nonsense. according to arafat , israel must be destroyed. he
has never come clean and denied that this is his plan. he always
waffles on what he means.

``when the arabs set off their volcano , there will only be arabs in
this part of the world. our people will continue to fuel the torch
of the revolution with rivers of blood until the whole of the
occupied homeland is liberated...''
yasser arafat , ap , 3 12 79




adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe)
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization european organization for nuclear research , cern
lines 84

in article c5vbnv.cj@blaze.cs.jhu.edu , arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes...
in article 22apr199300374349@vxcrna.cern.ch casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe) writes
i complained about the us taking the point in bosnia , when the europeans
should be doing it
ken says the bosnians are morally superior to the serbians...

this implies both sides are equal. true , it may sometimes be difficult or
impossible to determine which side is the victim , but that does not mean that
victims do not exist.

yes , victims exist. there are a staggering number of victims in the world and
more each day. i think on balance , intervention would create more victims ,
including american ones. since the first responsibility of the us government
is to protect americans , i think they serve that role best by staying away
from bosnia and other regional conflicts.

would you , in wwii have said that there were atrocities
on the sides of both the jews and the germans \?

of course not. the jews were not trying to carve a territory out of germany
either , and except for small scale resistance and a few larger uprisings , did
not have an army or a government.

these people have been butchering each other for centuries. when one
side wins and gets what it wants , it will stop.

yes , but both sides want different things. the muslims chiefly want to not
be ethnic cleansed . the serbians want to ethnic cleanse the muslims. it
is indeed true that each side will stop when it gets what it wants , but the
things that the two sides want are not equivalent.

i see the pattern of atrocities as a fairly often practiced tactic of a
colonizing power driving away and or eliminating the population of an
area they want to control. the us tried basically that in vietnam , the iraqis
in kuwait , the israelis in palestine , south africa , etc , etc , etc. it sucks ,
it 's ugly , and it 's saddening. but it is not genocide.

it is not my impression that the serbs want to eliminate every muslim in
yugoslavia. i still say the bosnians are getting their asses kicked they
should surrender and evacuate the areas they ca n't hold.

i said the fixation on bosnia is due to it being in a european country ,
rather than the third world

i recall , before we did anything for somalia , (apparent) left wingers saying
that the reason everyone was more willing to send troops to bosnia than to
somalia was because the somalis are third worlders who americans consider
unworthy of help. they suddenly shut up when the us decided to send troops to
the opposite place than that predicted by the theory.

i am a staunch republican , btw. the irony of arguing against military
intervention with arguments based on vietnam has not escaped me. i was opposed
to us intervention in somalia for the same reasons , although clearly it was
not nearly as risky.

for that matter , this theory of yours suggests that americans should want to
help the serbs. after all , they 're christian , and the muslims are not. if
the desire to intervene in bosnia is based on racism against people that are
less like us , why does everyone want to help the side that is less like us \?
especially if both of the sides are equal as you seem to think \?

well , one thing you have to remember is , the press likes a good story. good
for business , do n't you know. and btw , not everyone wants to help the
side that is less like us.

i never said the two sides were morally equivalent , i said neither one is
innocent.

there are just too many good reasons to stay away

1) the europeans are perfectly able to deal with this dispute on their borders
in any way we do it. put another way , we have no assistance to offer the
europeans which they do not already possess themselves. it is not good to
promote the idea in anyone 's mind that the united states is responsible
for cleaning up every bloody mess in the world.

2) clinton is not the man to lead this country into a military adventure. full
stop.

3) it is by no means clear what intervention would accomplish , nor that it
would necessarily help the victims. it is not clear what the goal is and
at what point any commitment could be ended.



from hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
subject re no land for peace no negotiatians
originator hasan@haley.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host haley.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 45


in article 1993apr5.175047.17368@unocal.com , stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes

alan stein writes

what are you talking about \? the rabin government has clearly
indicated its interest in a territorial compromise that would leave
the vast majority of the arabs in judea , samaria and gaza outside
israeli control.

(just an interrupting comment here) since early 1980 's , israelis said they are
willing to give up the adminstration rule of the occupied terretories to
palestineans. palestineans refused and will refuse such settlement that denies
them their right of self determination. period.

i know. i was just pointing out that not compromising may be a bad idea. and
there are , in israel , voices against negotiations. and i think there are many
among palestineans also against any negociations.

just an opinion

dorin

ok. i donot know why there are israeli voices against negotiations. however ,
i would guess that is because they refuse giving back a land for those who
have the right for it.

as for the arabian and palestinean voices that are against the
current negotiations and the so called peace process , they
are not against peace per se , but rather for their well founded predictions
that israel would not give an inch of the west bank (and most probably the same
for golan heights) back to the arabs. an 18 months of negotiations in madrid ,
and washington proved these predictions. now many will jump on me saying why
are you blaming israelis for no result negotiations.
i would say why would the arabs stall the negotiations , what do they have to
loose \?

arabs feel that the current negotiations is only for legitimizing the current
status quo and for opening the doors of the arab markets for israeli trade and
oranges . that is simply unacceptable and would be revoked.

just an opinion.

hasan

from ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed)
subject re desertification of the negev
originator ahmeda@ice.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host ice.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 23


in article 1993apr26.021105.25642@cs.brown.edu , dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren) writes
this is nonsense. i lived in the negev for many years and i can say
for sure that no beduins were moved or harmed in any way. on the
contrary , their standard of living has climbed sharply many of them
now live in rather nice , permanent houses , and own cars. there are
quite a few beduin students in the ben gurion university. there are
good , friendly relations between them and the rest of the population.

all the beduins i met would be rather surprised to read mr. davidson 's
poster , i have to say.

danny keren.


it is nonsense , danny , if you can refute it with proof. if you are citing your
experience then you should have been there in the 1940 's (the article is
comparing the condition then with that now).

otherwise , it is you who is trying to change the facts.

ahmed.

from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization unocal corporation
lines 68


hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes


i just thought that i would make it clear , in case you are not familiar with
my past postings on this subject i do not condone attacks on civilians.
hezbollah and other lebanese resistance fighters are skilled at precision
bombing of sla and israeli targets. i find such methods to be far more
restrained and responsible than the israeli method of shelling and bombing
villages with the hope that a hezbollah member will be killed along with
the civilians murdered. i do not consider the killing of combatants to be
murder. soldiers are trained to die for their country. three idf soldiers
did their duty the other day. these men need not have died if their government
had kept them on israeli soil.

is there any israeli a civilian , in your opinion \?

now , i do not condone myself bombing villages , any kind of villages.
but you claim these are villages with civilians , and iraelis claim they are
camps filled with terrorists. you claim that israelis shell the villages with the
'hope' of finding a terrorist or so. if they kill one , fine , if not , too bad ,
civilians die , right \? i am not so sure.

as somebody wrote , saddam hussein had no problems using civilians in disgusting
manner. and he also claimed 'civilians murdered'. let me ask you , is n't there
at least a slight chance that you (not only , and the question is very general ,
no insult) are doing a similar type of propaganda in respect to civilians in
southern lebanon \?

now , a lot people who post here consider 'israeli soil' kind of mediteranean sea.
how do you define israeli soil \? from what you say , if you do not clearly
recognize the state of israel , you condone killing israelis anywhere.

dorin , are you aware that the idf sent helicopters and gun boats up the
coast of lebanon the other day and rocketted a palestinian refugee north of
beirut. perhaps i should ask you what qualifies a person for murder \?

i do not know what was the pupose of the action you describe. if it was
to kill civilians (i doubt) , i certainly do not condone it. if civilians were
killed , i do not condone it.

that they are palestinian \?

that they are children and may grow up to be terrorists \?

that they are female and may give birth to little terrorists \?

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

mr. hernlem , it was you , not me , who was showing a huge satisfaction for 3
israelis (human beings by most standards , do n't know about your standards) killed.

if you ask me those questions , i will have no problem answering (not with a
question , as you did) no , nobody is qualified candidate for murder , nothing
justifies murder. i have the feeling that you may be able yourself to make
similar statements , maybe after eliminating all israelis , jews , \? am i wrong \?


now tell me , did you also condone saddam 's scuds on israeli 'soldiers' in , let 's
say , tel aviv \? from what i understand , a lot of palestineans cheered. what does
it show \? it does not qualify for freedom fighting to me \? but again , i may be
wrong , and the jewish controlled media distorted the information , and i am just
an ignorant victim of the media , like most of us.


dorin



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject while armenians destroyed all the villages from trabzon to erzurum...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 55

in article 1993apr4.231353.34562@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu pv02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (peter vorobieff) writes

disclaimer if there is anybody on usenet dumb enough to interpret
this posting as a serious and meaningful one , i want to assure this
entity that it was but a joke

still yelling at the telephone and the lawn mower \? people will think
you 're just some looney howling in the wires. now any comment \?


source documents volume i (1919).
document no 76 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 109 , drawer
no 3 , file no 346 , section no 427(1385) , contents no 3 , 52 53.
(to lt. colonel seyfi , general headquarters , second section ,
istanbul dr. stephan eshnanie)

'neues wiener tagblatt' vienna , 'pester lloyd' 'local anzliger' berlin ,
'algemeen handelsblat' amsterdam , 'vakit' istanbul.

i have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of russians and
armenians from turkish territories through armenia. although two months
have elapsed since the clearing of the territories of armenian gangs , i
have been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the armenians at
almost every step. all the villages from trabzon to erzincan and from
erzincan to erzurum are destroyed. corpses of turks brutally and cruelly
slain are everywhere. according to accounts by those who were able to
save their lives by escaping to mountains , the first horrible and fearful
events begun when the russian forces evacuated the places which were then
taken over by armenian gangs. the russians usually treated the people
well , but the people feared the intervention of the armenians. once these
places had been taken over by the armenians , however , the massacres begun.
they clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called the
armenian and kurdish land from the turks and thus , solve the nationality
problem. today i had the opportunity to meet austrian and german soldiers
who had escaped from russian prison camps and come from kars and
alexander paul (gumru leninakan)...russian officers tried to save the
turks and there were clashes between russian officers and armenian gangs.
i am now in erzurum , and what i see is terrible. almost the whole city is
destroyed. the smell of the corpses still fills the air. although there are
speculations that armenian gangs murdered austrian and german prisoners as
well , i could not get the supporting evidence in this regard , but there is
proof of murdering of turkish prisoners of war.

dr. stephan eshnanie

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
subject re go hezbollah ! !
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
organization columbia university
lines 50

in article 1993apr14.125813.21737@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

lebanese resistance forces detonated a bomb under an israeli occupation
patrol in lebanese territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and
two wounded. in retaliation , israeli and israeli backed forces wounded
8 civilians by bombarding several lebanese villages. ironically , the israeli
government justifies its occupation in lebanon by claiming that it is
necessary to prevent such bombardments of israeli villages ! !

congratulations to the brave men of the lebanese resistance ! with every
israeli son that you place in the grave you are underlining the moral
bankruptcy of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli
government 's policy of reckless disregard for civilian life.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)


ahhh , of course. israeli morality pales in the face of charming events
like the string of plo run skyjackings in the mid 80 's (remember those
twa jokes \? ) , and not to forget the achille lauro and however many airline
bombings they have committed , not to mention bombings on the streets of
israel (it 's gotten to a point where children are told not to go near any
bags or containers whose origins they do n't know , because they could be
bombs) , or last weeks katyusha rocket attack on northern israel by fatah ,
those wonderful mainstream moderates with whom israel is attempting
to negotiate.

let 's not forget the fact that more palestinians are killed by palestinians
than by israelis. ahh yes , those charming humanitarian death squads.
i 've actually seen a videotape of an interrogation (dsee the documentary
deadly currents very neutral and balanced seriously) it was rather
inquisition esque. essentially , to prove his loyalty to the cause of
whichever group it was that was interogating him , he had to turn in someone
else , or else face death in one of the many fun filled ways that the death
squads love so much beatings , dismemberment , acid , pouring melted plastic
on the face of the 'guilty party , ' and of course beheading , always my
favorite. did you catch the photos in the washington post a while back
the execution of a collaborator \? 3 photos
1) one palestinian leading another at gunpoint.
2) the collaborator on his knees , the gun pointed at his temple.
3) the executioner standing on the corpse of the collaborator
shouting about how this is what happens to collaborators.

wonderful justice system , and lots of regard for human rights.
remember black september \?
ok , so they just tried to take over jordan , big deal.

i'm rambling now , but are you getting what i'm saying \?

amir

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject re public service translation no.2
keywords effective greek armenian postings
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 36

in article 93332@hydra.gatech.edu gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu (gt1091a gt1091a
kaan , timucin) wrote

kaan who the hell is this guy david davidian. i think he talks too much..

i am your alter ego !

kaan yo , david you would better shut the f... up.. o.k \? \?

no , its' not ok ! what are you going to do \? come and get me \?

kaan i do n't like your attitute. you are full of lies and shit.

in the united states we refer to it as freedom of speech. if you do n't like
what i write either prove me wrong , shut up , or simply fade away !

kaan did n't you hear the saying don't mess with a turc ! ! ...

no. why do you ask \? what are you going to do \? are you going to submit me to
bodily harm \? are you going to kill me \? are you going to torture me \?

kaan see ya in hell..

wrong again !

kaan timucin.

all i did was to translate a few lines from turkish into english. if it was
so embarrassing in turkish , it should n't have been written in the first place !
do n't kill the messenger !


david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson)
subject freeman
organization utexas mail to news gateway
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

watch your language asshole ! ! ! !

proline cosmo@pro angmar
internet cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com
uucp uunet ! bu.edu ! alphalpha ! pro angmar ! cosmo

from cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 27
reply to cy779@cleveland.freenet.edu (anas omran)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) says

in article 1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or
palestinian news outlets , where do we go to understand , to learn \?
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another \?

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report
on the situation in the o.t. but , as most people used to see on tv , the
israelis do not allow them to go deep there in the o.t. the israelis
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters.
so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in palestine.
they do not allow fair and neutral coverage of the situation in palestine.

to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political
agenda , whether it is on or against our side .

tim

anas omran


from hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
subject re water on the brain (was re israeli expansion lust)
originator hasan@lightning.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host lightning.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 15


in article 1993apr15.055341.6075@nysernet.org , astein@nysernet.org (alan stein) writes
i guess hasan finally revealed the source of his claim that israel
diverted water from lebanon his imagination.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org
mr. water head ,
i never said that israel diverted lebanese rivers , in fact i said that
israel went into southern lebanon to make sure that no
water is being used on the lebanese
side , so that all water would run into jordan river where there
israel will use it ! head.

hasan

from dshal@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
subject re clintons views on jerusalem
organization c.c.s.o.
lines 10

it seems that president clinton can recognize jerusalem as israels capitol
while still keeping his diplomatic rear door open by stating that the parties
concerned should decide the city 's final status. even as i endorse clintons vie
w (of course) , it is definitely a matter to be decided upon by israel (and
other participating neighboring contries).
i see no real conflict in stating both views , nor expect any better from
politicians.

david shalhevet dshal@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu university of illinois
dept anim sci 220 pabl 1201 w. gregory dr. urbana , il 61801

from oz@ursa.sis.yorku.ca (ozan s. yigit)
subject re turkish government agents on usenet lie through their teeth !
in reply to dbd@urartu.sdpa.org 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 20 45 12 gmt
organization york u. student information systems project
lines 15

davidian babble

the turkish government feels it can funnel a heightened state of ultra
nationalism existing in turkey today onto usenet and convince people via its
revisionist , myopic , and incidental view of themselves and their place in the
world.

turkish government on usenet \? how long are you going to keep repeating
this utterly idiotic and increasingly saddening drivel \?

oz

life of a people is a sea , and those that look at it from the shore
cannot know its depths. armenian proverb


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject this year the turkish nation is mourning and praying again for...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 207

referring to notes from the personal diary of russian general l.
odishe liyetze on the turkish front , he wrote ,

on the nights 11 12 march , 1918 alone armenian butchers
bayoneted and axed to death 3000 muslims in areas surrounding
erzincan. these barbars threw their victims into pits , most
likely dug according to their sinister plans to extinguish
muslims , in groups of 80. my adjutant counted and unearthed
200 such pits. this is an act against our world of civilization.

on march 12 , 1918 lieut colonel griyaznof wrote (from an official
russian account of the turkish genocide) ,

roads leading to villages were littered with bayoneted torsos ,
dismembered joints and carved out organs of muslim peasants...
alas ! mainly of women and children.

source doc. dr. azmi suslu , russian view on the atrocities committed
by the armenians against the turks , ankara universitesi , ankara ,
1987 , pp. 45 53.
document no 77 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 10 , drawer
no 4 , file no 410 , section no 1578 , contents no 1 12 , 1 18.
(acting commander of erzurum and deveboynu regions and commander
of the second erzurum artillery regiment prisoner of war ,
lieutenant colonel toverdodleyov)

the things i have heard and seen during the two months , until the
liberation of erzurum by the turks , have surpassed all the
allegations concerning the vicious , degenerate characteristic of
the armenians. during the russian occupation of erzurum , no armenian
was permitted to approach the city and its environs.

while the commander of the first army corps , general kaltiyin remained
in power , troops including armenian enlisted men , were not sent to the
area. when the security measures were lifted , the armenians began to
attack erzurum and its surroundings. following the attacks came the
plundering of the houses in the city and the villages and the murder
of the owners of these houses...plundering was widely committed by
the soldiers. this plunder was mainly committed by armenian soldiers
who had remained in the rear during the war.

one day , while passing through the streets on horseback , a group of
soldiers including an armenian soldier began to drag two old men of
seventy years in a certain direction. the roads were covered with mud ,
and these people were dragging the two helpless turks through the mud
and dirt...

it was understood later that all these were nothing but tricks and
traps. the turks who joined the gendarmarie soon changed their minds
and withdrew. the reason was that most of the turks who were on night
patrol did not return , and no one knew what had happened to them. the
turks who had been sent outside the city for labour began to disappear
also. finally , the court martial which had been established for the
trials of murderers and plunderers , began to liquidate itself for
fear that they themselves would be punished. the incidents of murder
and rape , which had decreased , began to occur more frequently.

sometime in january and february , a leading turkish citizen haci bekir
efendi from erzurum , was killed one night at his home. the commander
in chief (odiselidge) gave orders to find murderers within three days.
the commander in chief has bitterly reminded the armenian intellectuals
that disobedience among the armenian enlisted men had reached its
highest point , that they had insulted and robbed the people and half
of the turks sent outside the city had not returned.

...we learnt the details this incident from the commander in chief ,
odishelidge. they were as follows

the killings were organized by the doctors and the employers , and the
act of killing was committed solely by the armenian renegades...
more than eight hundred unarmed and defenceless turks have been
killed in erzincan. large holes were dug and the defenceless
turks were slaughtered like animals next to the holes. later , the
murdered turks were thrown into the holes. the armenian who stood
near the hole would say when the hole was filled with the corpses
'seventy dead bodies , well , this hole can take ten more.' thus ten
more turks would be cut into pieces , thrown into the hole , and when
the hole was full it would be covered over with soil.

the armenians responsible for the act of murdering would frequently
fill a house with eighty turks , and cut their heads off one by one.
following the erzincan massacre , the armenians began to withdraw
towards erzurum... the armenian renegades among those who withdrew
to erzurum from erzincan raided the moslem villages on the road , and
destroyed the entire population , together with the villages.

during the transportation of the cannons , ammunition and the carriages
that were outside the war area , certain people were hired among the
kurdish population to conduct the horse carriages. while the travellers
were passing through erzurum , the armenians took advantage of the time
when the russian soldiers were in their dwellings and began to kill
the kurds they had hired. when the russian soldiers heard the cries
of the dying kurds , they attempted to help them. however , the
armenians threatened the russian soldiers by vowing that they would
have the same fate if they intervened , and thus prevented them from
acting. all these terrifying acts of slaughter were committed with
hatred and loathing.

lieutenant medivani from the russian army described an incident that
he witnessed in erzurum as follows an armenian had shot a kurd. the
kurd fell down but did not die. the armenian attempted to force the
stick in his hand into the mouth of the dying kurd. however , since
the kurd had firmly closed his jaws in his agony , the armenian failed
in his attempt. having seen this , the armenian ripped open the abdomen
of the kurd , disembowelled him , and finally killed him by stamping
him with the iron heel of his boot.

odishelidge himself told us that all the turks who could not escape
from the village of ilica were killed. their heads had been cut off
by axes. he also told us that he had seen thousands of murdered
children. lieutenant colonel gryaznov , who passed through the village
of ilica , three weeks after the massacre told us the following

there were thousands of dead bodies hacked to pieces , on the roads.
every armenian who happened to pass through these roads , cursed and
spat on the corpses. in the courtyard of a mosque which was about
25x30 meter square , dead bodies were piled to a height of 140
centimeters. among these corpses were men and women of every age ,
children and old people. the women 's bodies had obvious marks of
rape. the genitals of many girls were filled with gun powder.

a few educated armenian girls , who worked as telephone operators
for the armenian troops were called by lieutenant colonel gryaznov
to the courtyard of the mosque and he bitterly told them to be
proud of what the armenians had done. to the lieutenant colonel 's
disgusted amazement , the armenian girls started to laugh and giggle ,
instead of being horrified. the lieutenant colonel had severely
reprimanded those girls for their indecent behaviour. when he told
the girls that the armenians , including women , were generally more
licentious than even the wildest animals , and that their indecent
and shameful laughter was the most obvious evidence of their inhumanity
and barbarity , before a scene that appalled even veteran soldiers ,
the armenian girls finally remembered their sense of shame and
claimed they had laughed because they were nervous.

an armenian contractor at the alaca communication zone command
narrated the following incident which took place on february 20

the armenians had nailed a turkish women to the wall. they had cut
out the women 's heart and placed the heart on top of her head.
the great massacre in erzurum began on february 7... the enlisted men
of the artillery division caught and stripped 270 people. then they
took these people into the bath to satisfy their lusts. 100 people
among this group were able to save their lives as the result of
my decisive attempts. the others , the armenians claimed , were
released when they learnt that i understood what was going on.
among those who organized this treacherous act was the envoy to the
armenian officers , karagodaviev. today , some turks were murdered
on the streets.

on february 12 , some armenians have shot more than ten innocent
moslems. the russian soldiers who attempted to save these people were
threatened with death. meanwhile i imprisoned an armenian for
murdering an innocent turk.

when an armenian officer told an armenian murderer that he would
be hanged for his crime , the killer shouted furiously 'how dare
you hang an armenian for killing a turk \? ' in erzurum , the
armenians burned down the turkish market. on february 17 , i heard
that the entire population of tepekoy village , situated within
the artillery area , had been totally annihilated. on the same
day when antranik entered erzurum , i reported the massacre to
him , and asked him to track down the perpetrators of this horrible
act. however no result was achieved.

in the villages whose inhabitants had been massacred , there was a
natural silence. on the night of 26 27 february , the armenians deceived
the russians , perpetrated a massacre and escaped for fear of the
turkish soldiers. later , it was understood that this massacre had
been based upon a method organized and planned in a circular.
the population had been herded in a certain place and then killed
one by one. the number of murders committed on that night reached
three thousand. it was the armenians who bragged to about the details
of the massacre. the armenians fighting against the turkish soldiers
were so few in number and so cowardly that they could not even
withstand the turkish soldiers who consisted of only five hundred
people and two cannons , for one night , and ran away. the leading
armenians of the community could have prevented this massacre.
however , the armenian intellectuals had shared the same ideas with
the renegades in this massacre , just as in all the others. the lower
classes within the armenian community have always obeyed the orders
of the leading armenian figures and commanders.

i do not like to give the impression that all armenian intellectuals
were accessories to these murders. no , for there were people who
opposed the armenians for such actions , since they understood that
it would yield no result. however , such people were only a minority.
furthermore , such people were considered as traitors to the armenian
cause. some have seemingly opposed the armenian murders but have
supported the massacres secretly. some , on the other hand , preferred
to remain silent. there were certain others , who , when accused by
the russians of infamy , would say the following 'you are russians.
you can never understand the armenian cause.' the armenians had a
conscience. they would commit massacres and then would flee in fear
of the turkish soldiers.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from jfurr@nyx.cs.du.edu (joel furr)
subject re how many mutlus can dance on the head of a pin \?
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 16

in article 3456@israel.nysernet.org warren@nysernet.org writes
in c4xkbx.53f@polaris.async.vt.edu jfurr@polaris.async.vt.edu (joel furr) writes
how many mutlus can dance on the head of a pin \?

that reminds me of the armenian massacre of the turks.

joel , i took out sct , are we sure we want to invoke the name of he who
greps for mason kibo 's last name lest he include afu in his daily
rounds \?

i dunno , warren. just the other day i heard a rumor that serdar argic
(aka hasan mutlu and ahmed cosar and zumabot) is not really a turk at all ,
but in fact is an armenian who is attempting to make any discussion of the
massacres in armenia of turks so noise laden as to make serious discussion
impossible , thereby cloaking the historical record with a tremendous cloud
of confusion.

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject the orders for the turkish extermination of the armenians 17
summary to the children of genocide send them away into the desert
article i.d. urartu.1993apr6.115347.10660
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 145


the orders for the turkish extermination of the armenians 17
to the children of genocide send them away into the desert

this is part of a continuing series of articles containing official turkish
wartime (ww1) governmental telegrams , in translation , entailing the orders
for the extermination of the armenian people in turkey. generally , these
telegrams were issued by the turkish minister of the interior , talaat pasha ,
for example , we have the following set regarding children

to the government of aleppo.

november 5 , 1915. we are informed that the little ones belonging to
the armenians from sivas , mamuret ul aziz , diarbekir and erzeroum
hundreds of km distance from aleppo are adopted by certain moslem
families and received as servants when they are left alone through
the death of their parents. we inform you that you are to collect
all such children in your province and send them to the places of
deportation , and also to give the necessary orders regarding this to
the people.

minister of the interior ,

talaat 1

to the government of aleppo.

september 21 , 1915. there is no need for an orphanage. it is not the
time to give way to sentiment and feed the orphans , prolonging their
lives. send them away to the desert and inform us.

minister of the interior ,
talaat 2

to the general committee for settling and deportees.

november 26 , 1915. there were more than four hundred children in the
orphanage. they will be added to the caravans and sent to their
places of exile.

abdullahad nuri. 3


to the government of aleppo.

january 15 , 1916. we hear that certain orphanages which have been
opened receive also the children of the armenians. whether this is
done through the ignorance of our real purpose , or through contempt
of it , the government will regard the feeding of such children or
any attempt to prolong their lives as an act entirely opposed to it
purpose , since it considers the survival of these children as
detrimental. i recommend that such children shall not be received
into the orphanages , and no attempts are to be made to establish
special orphanages for them.

minister of the interior ,

talaat. 4

to the government of aleppo.


collect and keep only those orphans who cannot remember the tortures
to which their parents have been subjected. send the rest away with
the caravans.

minister of the interior ,

talaat 5

from the ministry of the interior to the government of aleppo.

at a time when there are thousands of moslem refugees and the widows
of shekid fallen soldiers are in need of food and protection , it is
not expedient to incur extra expenses by feeding the children left by
armenians , who will serve no purpose except that of giving trouble
in the future. it is necessary that these children should be turned
out of your vilayet and sent with the caravans to the place of
deportation. those that have been kept till now are also to be sent
away , in compliance with our previous orders , to sivas.

minister of the interior ,

talaat 6

in 1926 , halide edip (a pioneer turkish nationalist) wrote in her memoirs
about a conversation with talaat pasha , verifying and rationalizing this
ultra national fascist anti armenian mentality , the following

i have the conviction that as long as a nation does the best for
its own interest , and succeeds , the world admires it and thinks
it moral. i am ready to die for what i have done , and i know i
shall die for it. 7


these telegrams were entered as unquestioned evidence during the 1923 trial of
talaat pasha 's , assassin , soghomon tehlerian. the turkish government never
questioned these death march orders until 1986 , during a time when the world
was again reminded of the genocide of the armenians.

for reasons known to those who study the psychology of genocide denial , the
turkish government and their supporters in crime deny that such orders were
ever issued , and further claim that these telegrams were forgeries based on a
study by s. orel and s. yuca of the turkish historical society.

if one were to examine the sample authentic text provided in the turkish
historical society study and use their same forgery test on that sample , it
too would be a forgery ! . in fact , if any of the tests delineated by the
turkish historical society are performed an any piece of ottoman turkish or
persian arabic script , one finds that anything handwritten in such language is
a forgery.

today , the body of talaat pasha lies in a tomb on liberty hill , istanbul ,
turkey , just next to the yildiz university campus. the body of this genocide
architect was returned to turkey from germany during ww2 when turkey was in a
heightened state of proto fascism. recently , this monument has served as a
focal point for anti armenianism in turkey.

this monument represents the epitome of the turkish government 's pathological
denial of a clear historical event and is an insult to a people whose only
crime was to be born armenian.

references

1 the memoirs of naim bey , aram andonian , 1919 , pages 59 60

2 ibid , page 60

3 ibid , page 60

4 ibid , page 61

5 ibid , page 61

6 ibid , page 62

7 memoirs of halide edip , halide edip , the century press , new york (and
london) , 1926 , page 387



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject destroying ethnic identity turks of greece ( macedonians...)
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 145

in article c5yc1k.f84@news.cso.uiuc.edu ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis ) writes

sure your memory is weak.
let me refresh your memory (if that 's not to late)

first of all it is called istanbul.
let me even spell it for you i s t a n b u l

when my grandfather came in greece , the official name of the city was
constantinoupolis.

are you related to 'arromdian' of asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism
triangle \?

now , read carefully the following , and then speak
the recent helsinki watch 78 page report , broken promises torture and

ditto.

1

helsinki watch problems of turks in western thrace continue

ankara (a.a) in a 15 page report of the helsinki watch it is
stated that the turkish minority in western thrace is still faced
with problems and stipulated that the discriminatory policy being
implemented by the greek government be brought to an end.

the report on western thrace emphasized that the greek government
should grant social and political rights to all the members of
minorities that are equal to those enjoyed by greek citizens and
in addition they must recognize the existence of the turkish
minority in western thrace and grant them the right to identify
themselves as 'turks'.

newspot , may 1992

2

greece isolates west thrace turks

the xanthi independent mp ahmet faikoglu said that the greek
state is trying to cut all contacts and relations of the turkish
minority with turkey.

pointing out that while the greek minority living in istanbul is
called greek by ethnic definition , only the religion of the
minority in western thrace is considered. in an interview with
the greek newspaper ethnos he said i am a greek citizen of
turkish origin. the individuals of the minority living in western
trace are also turkish.

emphasizing the education problem for the turkish minority in
western thrace faikoglu said that according to an agreement
signed in 1951 greece must distribute textbooks printed in turkey
in turkish minority schools in western thrace.

recalling his activities and those of komotini independent mp dr.
sadik ahmet to defend the rights of the turkish minority ,
faikoglu said. in fact we helped greece. because we prevented
greece , the cradle of democracy , from losing face before european
countries by forcing the greek government to recognize our legal
rights.

on turco greek relations , he pointed out that both countries are
predestined to live in peace for geographical and historical
reasons and said that turkey and greece must resist the foreign
powers who are trying to create a rift between them by
cooperating , adding that in turkey he observed that there was
will to improve relations with greece.

newspot , january 1993

3

macedonian human rights activists to face trial in greece.

two ethnic macedonian human rights activists will face trial in
athens for alleged crimes against the greek state , according to a
court summons (no. 5445) obtained by mils.

hristos sideropoulos and tashko bulev (or anastasios bulis)
have been charged under greek criminal law for making comments in
an athenian magazine.

sideropoulos and bulev gave an interview to the greek weekly
magazine ena on march 11 , 1992 , and said that they as
macedonians were denied basic human rights in greece and would
field an ethnic macedonian candidate for the up coming greek
general election.

bulev said in the interview i am not greek , i am macedonian.
sideropoulos said in the article that greece should recognise
macedonia. the allegations regarding territorial aspirations
against greece are tales... we are in a panic to secure the
border , at a time when the borders and barriers within the eec
are falling.

the main charge against the two , according to the court
summons , was that they have spread...intentionally false
information which might create unrest and fear among the
citizens , and might affect the public security or harm the
international interests of the country (greece).

the greek state does not recognise the existence of a
macedonian ethnicity. there are believed to be between 350 , 000 to
1 , 000 , 000 ethnic macedonians living within greece , largely
concentrated in the north. it is a crime against the greek state
if anyone declares themselves macedonian.

in 1913 greece , serbia yugoslavia and bulgaria partioned
macedonia into three pieces. in 1919 albania took 50 macedonian
villages. the part under serbo yugoslav occupation broke away in
1991 as the independent republic of macedonia. there are 1.5
million macedonians in the republic 500 , 000 in bulgaria 150 , 000
in albania and 300 , 000 in serbia proper.

sideropoulos has been a long time campaigner for macedonian
human rights in greece , and lost his job as a forestry worker a
few years ago. he was even exiled to an obscure greek island in
the mediteranean. only pressure from amnesty international forced
the greek government to allow him to return to his home town of
florina (lerin) in northern greece (aegean macedonia) , where the
majority of ethnic macedonians live.

balkan watchers see the sideropoulos affair as a show trial in
which greece is desperate to clamp down on internal dissent ,
especially when it comes to the issue of recognition for its
northern neighbour , the republic of macedonia.

last year the state department of the united states condemned
greece for its bad treatment of ethnic macedonians and turks (who
largely live in western thrace). but it remains to be seen if the
us government will do anything until the presidential elections
are over.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re conventional proposales israel palestinians
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 69

the latest israeli proposal , first proposed in february of 1992 , contains
the following assumptions concerning the nature of any interim status
refering to the wb and gaza , the palestinians , implemented by negotiations.
it states that
israel will remain the existing source of authority until final status
is agreed upon
israel will negiotiate the delegation of power to the organs of the
interim self government arrangements (isga)
the isga will apply to the palestinian inhabitants of the territories
under israeli military administration. the arrangements will not have a
territorial application , nor will they apply to the israeli population
of the territories or to the palestinian inhabitants of jerusalem
residual powers not delegated under the isga will be reserved by israel
israelis will continue to live and settle in the territoriesd
israel alone will have responsibility for security in all its aspects
external , internal and for the maintenance of public order
the organs of the isga will be of an administrative functional nature
the exercise of powers under the isga will be subject to cooperation and
coordination with israel.
israel will negotiate delegation of powers and responsibilities in the
areas of administration , justice , personnel , agriculture , education ,
business , tourism , labor and social welfare , local police ,
local transportation and communications , municipal affairs and religious
affairs.

several question do come to mind concerning the success we all hope for
in the ongoing negotiation process. these arrangements certainly seem to
be essentially a rejection of any palestinian interim self control.
without exposing itself to unwarranted risks and creating irresversible
vulnerability , can israel reasonably put forward (at later points in the
negotiating process) more relaxed proposals for this interim period \?
how should proposals (from either side) be altered to temper their
maximalist approaches as stated above \? how can israeli worries , and
desire for some interim control , be addressed while providing for a
very real interim palestinian self governing entity \?

tim

later comment

there seem to be two perceptions that have to be addressed . the
first is that of israel , where there is little trust for arab groups , so
there is little support for israel giving up tangible assets in
exchange for pieces of paper , expectations , hopes , etc. the second
is that of the arab world palestinians , where there is the demand that
these tangible concessions be made by israel without it receiving
anything tangible back. given this , the gap between the two stances
seems to be the need by israel of receiving some tangible returns
for its expected concessions. by tangible is meant something that
1) provides israel with comparable protection (from the land it is to
give up) , 2) in some way ensures that the arab states and palestine
will be accountable and held actively (not just diplomatically)
responsible for the upholding of all actions on its territory (by citizens
or visitors ).

israel is hanging on largely because it is scared stiff that the minute
it lets go (gives lands back to arab states , no more buffer zone , gives
full autonomy to palestinians) , any and or all of the arab parties
could (and would , if not controlled somehow) easily return to the
traditional anti israel position. the question then is how to really
ensure that that will not happen.





tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine

from backon@vms.huji.ac.il
subject re from israeli press. torture.
distribution world
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem
lines 115

in article 1483500344@igc.apc.org , center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject from israeli press. torture.

written 4 41 pm apr 16 , 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc mideast.forum
from israeli press. torture.
from the israeli press.

newspaper ma'ariv date 18. december 1992 author avi raz

subject torture


sigh.

farwell la , donchin e. the truth will out interrogative polygraphy ( lie
detection ) with event related brain potentials. psychophysiology
1991 28 531 547

the research reported here was supported in part by contract number 87f350800
with the central intelligence agency. preliminary reports were presented at the
1986 , 1988 , and 1989 meetings of the society for psychophysiological research .

donchin happens to be an israeli.

do you really think that israel needs something as primitive as torture when it
has this as well as something brought over by a russian mathematician from the
lenningrad military hospital in 1979 (factor analysis of multiple unit
activity of the brain) \? \? \? surely you jest.

when israel sics trained dogs on arab prisoners the way it 's commonly done on
prison farms in mississippi or alabama , then you have a right to protest
against torture. when israeli security personnel beat arab prisoners the way
chicago police do , then you have a right to complain. since it does not
practice physical torture in any way , kindly refrain from using this word.

josh
backon@vms.huji.ac.il










title of article moderate physical pressure

several times in the course of the long hours in the interrogation
room in tulkarm prison , during which he says he was humiliated ,
beaten and tortured , omar daoud jaber heard his interrogator , a
shabak agent 'captain louis' , chatting on the phone with his wife.
at those moments , omar said , i felt that he was like a
humanbeing , but right after he finished talking , he would be beat
me and say , 'you listened to the conversation and enjoyed
yourself' and i understood that he was not really a human being .

in late october 1992 , after 38 days in detention at tulkarm
prison , omar jaber was released without charges. among the jews ,
as among the arabs , there are good people and bad people , he said
after his release , but there , in tulkarm , in the interrogations
rooms , you cannot find even one person about whom you can say that
he is a human being . although he left the detention installation
in tulkarm bruised and humiliated ( i sat at home for ten days. my
hands shook from nerves ) , one may consider omar jaber lucky he
got out , not so healthy , but entire , and even ultimately returned
to normal functioning , at the small solar heater plant he owns.

in contrast , hassan bader al zbeidi , for example , was released
seven weeks ago from detention in tulkarm after 33 days in the
shabak wing , cut off from his surroundings. he does n't speak or
react. mustafa barakat , aged only 23 , who was arrested in early
august and was brought to the tulkarm detention installation , left
it one day later dead. we have recently received an especially
large number of testimonies concerning cruel tortures employed at
the tulkarm detention installation by shabak interrogators , noted
dr. niv gordon , director of the association of israel and
palestinian physicians for human rights. (...)

the right to complain against the shabak does not excite anan
saber makhlouf , a 20 year old student. in fact , he was extremely
fearful about describing the manner in which he was interrogated
in tulkarm prison , in case the publication in the paper would
return him to detention and lead to renewed mistreatment.

(...follow description of tortures....)

omar , a tall bearded man , was silent. i do not want to talk about
it , he finally said , quietly. some time later , embarrased and
ashamed , he spoke sometimes he beats you and beats you until
you 'll kiss his hand , and not only his hand. even the hands of
another interrogator , and another , whom he calls into the room ,
and the last interrogator says now you are kissing my hand , and
later if i want , you will kiss my ass.

these things take place in an israeli army detention installation ,
located within the military government compound in tulkarm (west
bank). but the shabak interrogation wing is a separate kingdom. in
early march the idf allowed representatives of b'tselem , the
israeli information center for human rights in the territories , to
visit tulkarm prison , but denied them access to the interrogation
wing. the interrogation wing is shabak property , being solely
under shabak responsibility. all interrogations are performed by
it , said lieutnant sharon sho'an , the commander of the
installation , according to the internal report written by b'tselem
member , yuval ginbar , following the visit. major david pe'er ,
governing commander of the prison system in the central command ,
was quoted in the report there is an ethical problem here no
one can enter the interrogation wing .

transl. by i. shahak


from mrizvi@gfx.engga.uwo.ca (mr. mubashir rizvi)
subject re no humanity in bosnia
organization univ. western ontario , london ont. ca
keywords barbarism
nntp posting host cad8.gfx.engga.uwo.ca
lines 11

it is very encouraging that a number of people took so interest in my posting.i recieved a couple of letters too , some has debated the statement that events in bosnia are unprecedented in the history of the modern world.those who contest this statement present the figures of the world war ii.however we must keep in mind that it was a world war and no country had the power to stop it , today is the matter not of the power but of the will.it
seems to be that what we lack is the will.
second point of difference (which makes it different from the holocast(sp \? ) ) is that at that time international community
didnot have enough muscle to prevent the unfortunate event ,
today inspite of all the might , the international community is not just standing neutral but has placed an arms embargo which
is to the obvious disadvantage of the weeker side and therefore to the advantage of the bully.hence indirecltly and possibly
unintentionally , mankind has sided with the killers.and this , i think is unprecedented in the history of the modern world.

m.rizvi



from warren@itexjct.jct.ac.il (warren burstein)
subject re to be exact , 2.5 million muslims were exterminated by the armenians.
organization itex , jerusalem , israel
lines 33

ac in 9304202017@zuma.uucp sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
pl linden@positive.eng.sun.com (peter van der linden)

pl 1. so , did the turks kill the armenians \?

ac so , did the jews kill the germans \?
ac you even make armenians laugh.

ac an appropriate analogy with the jewish holocaust might be the
ac systematic extermination of the entire muslim population of
ac the independent republic of armenia which consisted of at
ac least 30 40 percent of the population of that republic. the
ac memoirs of an armenian army officer who participated in and
ac eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in
ac 1926 with the title 'men are like that.' other references abound.

typical mutlu. pvdl asks if x happened , the response is that y
happened. even if we grant that the armenians did do what cosar
accuses them of doing , this has no bearing on whether the turks did
what they are accused of.

while i can understand how an ai could be this stupid , i
ca n't understand how a human could be such a moron as to either let
such an ai run amok or to compose such pointless messages himself.

i do not expect any followup to this article from argic to do anything
to alleviate my puzzlement. but maybe i 'll see a new line from his
list of insults.



warren@
nysernet.org

from ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis )
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 60

tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan) writes

in article c5if8u.3ky@news.cso.uiuc.edu , ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos
tamamidis ) writes

(i have nothing against greeks but my problem is with fanatics. i have met
so many greeks who would n't even talk to me because i am turkish. from my
experience , all my friends always were open to greeks)

well , the history , wars , current situations , all of them do not help.

well , panos , mr. tamamidis \? , the way you put it it is only the turks
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
believe for somebody trying to be objective.

well , if you put things into historical perspective , the turks
moved into an area , which was inhabited by greeks. this is how the history
between the two nations started some centuries ago. since then , it has been
a continuous battle between the two nations. from my perspective i ca n't see
why i should say that greeks have been responsible for what has happened
between the two nations. of course , it would not be reasonable to argue that
the hostility should drag till we kick the turks out of this area. this is n't
going to happen , so the best would be to improve the relations between the two
countries. a golden oportunity exists with cyprus. if things ca n't work
there , there is n't any possible way that could work between our nations.

when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides.
what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway \?
do you think it was your right to be there \?

i always avoid to discuss such things. i consider it a waist of my time.
besides , as i said , i do not want to open a new flame.

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

i thought it was a smart move to receive more money from greek tourists.
i bet that this week there should be about 200 , 000 tourists from greece
in turkey. each one will leave at least 1 , 000 so go and figure what this
means to your economy. if you had kept the visa requirement , how many
greeks would bother to visit turkey \?

the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are educated
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person
because i am from turkey. politics is not my business , and it is
not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals
why the hatred \?

come on. do not extrapolate from your limited personal experience. you err
if you think you 'd get a reasonable conclusion.

tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

panos tamamidis

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 31

in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

other people have commented on most of this swill , i figured
i 'd add a few comments of my own.

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.

hong kong , and cairo both have higher population densities.

the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

there is no fundamental right to work in another country. and
the closing of the strip is not a punishment , it is a security measure
to stop people from stabbing israelis.


the only help given to gazans by israeli
jews , only dozens of people , is humanitarian assistance.

dozens minus one , since one of them was stabbed to death a few
days ago.

adam

adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of virginia
lines 22

tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu writes
since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or
palestinian news outlets , where do we go to understand , to learn \?
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another \? the only way
to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political
agenda , whether it is on or against our side .

tim
first let me correct myself in that it was goerbels and
not goering (airforce) who ran the nazi propaganda machine. i
agree that arab news sources are also inherently biased. but i
believe the statement i was reacting to was that since the
american accounts of events are not fully like the israeli
accounts , the americans are biased. i just thought that the
israelis had more motivation for bias.
the un has tried many times to condemn israel for its
gross violation of human rights. however the us has vetoed most
such attempts. it is interesting to note that the u.s. is often
the only country opposing such condemnation (well the u.s. and
israel). it is also interesting to note that that means
other western countries realize these human rights violations.
so maybe there are human rights violations going on after all.

from terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu)
subject re public service translation no.2
keywords effective greek armenian postings
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science

in article 1993apr16.225409.22697@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
in article 93332@hydra.gatech.edu gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu (gt1091a gt1091a
kaan , timucin) wrote

kaan who the hell is this guy david davidian. i think he talks too much..

i am your alter ego !

kaan yo , david you would better shut the f... up.. o.k \? \?

no , its' not ok ! what are you going to do \? come and get me \?

maybe he will. maybe he is working for the secret turkish service. you never
know.

kaan i do n't like your attitute. you are full of lies and shit.

in the united states we refer to it as freedom of speech. if you do n't like

no it is still called you are full of shit even in the us. )

kaan did n't you hear the saying don't mess with a turc ! ! ...

no. why do you ask \? what are you going to do \? are you going to submit me to
bodily harm \? are you going to kill me \? are you going to torture me \?

well , now you have. do n't worry turks do not turn to terrorist actions like
armenians have so you can be sure that you will not be killed. however , i
do not know about the torture part... timucin sounds like a tough guy so
watch out.

kaan see ya in hell..

wrong again !

kaan timucin.

all i did was to translate a few lines from turkish into english. if it was
so embarrassing in turkish , it should n't have been written in the first place !
do n't kill the messenger !

if you are going to translate , you have to do it consistently. if you
selectively translate things to serve your ugly purpose , people get
pisssssssssed offfffff.

in ottoman times messengers were usually killed by cutting their heads off and
sending it back to their country. but ottoman empire no longer exists (.
(darn ! )

esin.

david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992



from adams@bellini.berkeley.edu (adam l. schwartz)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
nntp posting host bellini.berkeley.edu
organization u.c. berkeley erl
lines 9

in article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu writes
what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of the muslim a
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what yitza
k shamir did forty or fifty years ago which is terrorize westerners much in the
way abdul nidal does today. seems isrealis are nowhere above arabs , so theref
ore they have a right to jerusaleum as much as isreal does.


what gives the united states the right to keep washington d.c. \?

from bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin)
subject clinton 's views on jerusalem
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
lines 15

i recently read that during bill clinton 's campaign , he stated
that if elected he would immediately recognize jerusalem as
israel 's capital. according to the article , mr. clinton
reaffirmed this after winning the presidency. however ,
during recent talks with president mubarak , secretary of
state christopher stated that the status of jerusalem
will be a final matter of discussion between the parties .

now i do n't want to start a big discussion over the status
of jerusalem. all i want to know is if anyone can
authenticate mr. clinton 's statements with dates , places , etc.

thank you.

ben.

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes (henrik)
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 93

in article 1993apr20.110021.5746@kth.se hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
responsed to henrik@quayle.kpc.com who wrote


h the armenians in nagarno karabagh are simply defending their rights
h to keep their homeland and it is the azeris that are invading their
h territorium...

he homeland \? first nagarno karabagh was armenians homeland today
he fizuli , lacin and several villages (in azerbadjan)
he are their homeland. ca n't you see the
he the great armenia dream in this \?

greater armenia would stretch from karabakh , to the black sea , to the
mediterranean , so if you use the term greater armenia use it with care.

he with facist methods like
he killing , raping and bombing villages. the last move was the
he blast of a truck with 60 kurdish refugees , trying to
he escape the from lacin , a city that was given to the kurds
he by the armenians.

it has always been up to the azeris to end their announced winning of karabakh
by removing the armenians ! when the president of azerbaijan , elchibey , came to
power last year , he announced he would be be swimming in lake sevan in
armeniaxn by july . well , he was wrong ! if elchibey is going to shell the
armenians of karabakh from aghdam , his people will pay the price ! if elchibey
is going to shell karabakh from fizuli his people will pay the price ! if
elchibey thinks he can get away with bombing armenia from the hills of
kelbajar , his people will pay the price.

it also seems other non azeri minorities in azerbaijan have understood they
are next in line in this process of forced azerification or deportation. just
look at the situation with the lezgians.

about the kurds...what kurds ! according to the azerbaijani government , there
are no kurds in azerbaijan. ca n't they make up their minds \? oh i see , there
are only kurds when the azeris want them to be kurds ! and anyway , this 60
kurd refugee story , as have other stories , are simple fabrications sourced in
baku , modified in ankara. other examples of this are armenia has no border
with iran , and the ridiculous story of the intercepting of armenian military
conversations as appeared in the new york times supposedly translated by
somebody unknown , from armenian into azeri turkish , submitted by an unnamed
special correspondent to the ny times from baku. real accurate !

h however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
h to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one
h that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
h (carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.
h

no , henrik , these turkish planes should be shot down with no questions asked.

he do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 american cargo planes
he were heading to armenia. when the turkish authorities
he announced that they were going to search these cargo
he planes 3 of these planes returned to it 's base in germany.
he 5 of these planes were searched in turkey. the content of
he of the other 3 planes \? not hard to guess , is it \? it was sure not
he humanitarian aid.....

your facts in error. shipments of all kinds that have transversed turkey
have been either searched , re routed or confiscated. some american planes
were searched , others were re routed , others were untouched. rail shipments
were held up last fall and last winter from entering armenian from turkey
for the purpose of aiding in the economic collapse of armenia. wheat was
confiscated , other shipments were exchanged with crap and dirt , then
shipped to armenia. u.s. planes do n't have to use turkish air bases. the u.s.
uses these bases to bomb iraq. anyway , u.s. planes can fly over georgia , which
they have found is easier than to endure unnecessary expressions of turkish
chauvinism through searches of cargo which to this day have not revealed
anything other than a paranoid turkish military.

he search turkish planes \? you do n't know what you are talking about.
he since it 's content is announced to be weapons \?

well , big mouth ozal said military weapons are being provided to azerbaijan
from turkey , yet demirel and others say no. no wonder you are so confused !

he turkey 's government has announced that it 's giving weapons
he to azerbadjan since armenia started to attack azerbadjan
he it self , not the karabag province. so why search a plane for weapons
he since it 's content is announced to be weapons \?

you are correct , all turkish planes should be simply shot down ! nice , slow
moving air transports !



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re israel 's expansion
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university

lines 31

because the usa is bankrupt and simply cannot afford to finance the
israeli ecconomy any more. there is no money for such an occupation.


do n't fool yourself. it was the gulf war that brought the israelis to the
negotiating table. once their us backers had a secure base in the gulf
they insrtructed shamir to negotiate or else.



phill hallam baker

oh , why do you expose your ignorance \? the us has been running on debt for
the past four generations and has still financed what it pleases.

and after the gulf war , israel could do whatever it wanted after
not decimating iraq after the scud attacks. it was encouraged , but
by no means forced , to negotiate.

mr. baker , to address all of your points would be impossible , but in a
nutshell , it is hypocritical for you to attack israel 's presence in
lebanon without attacking syria. syrian occupation has been hostile ,
and amounts to annexation. israel 's is clearly defensive. if it
were not defensive , you would see all of lebanon occupied , and governed by
israel. but that is not what israel wants.


pete




from maler@vercors.imag.fr (oded maler)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
nntp posting host pelvoux
organization imag , university of grenoble , france
lines 31

in article 1993apr15.152619.12664@src.honeywell.com , amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi) writes

the way i see it , israelis and arabs have not been able to achieve peace
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons

1) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or
dictators.

true , but maybe not the worst possible see algeria.


2) israeli government is arrogant and none comprising.


this was true (and i may add the adjective stupid ) until the intifada.
since then , no serious israeli leader (including shamir) really thinks
the the occupied territories worth the trouble. the only question became
the question of price and other quantitative detail. the best thing the
palestinians can do for themselves these days is to stop the intifada
and try to live as normally as possible (i know , it 's hard under occupation).
otherwise people might think that five years of stone throwing (as justified
as it may be) has caused the palestinians an irreversible damage that
prevents them from running a normal state when the time comes. currently
it serves no purpose and it 's just a waste of human life and economic
resources.


oded maler , lgi imag , bat d , b.p. 53x , 38041 grenoble , france
phone 76635846 fax 76446675 e mail maler@imag.fr


from zbib@bnr.ca (sam zbib)
subject re legality of the jewish purchase
nntp posting host 47.141.0.106
reply to zbib@bnr.ca
organization bell northern research
lines 67


(amir y rosenblatt) writes
sam zbib writes
no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and dignity.
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about
anti trust in the business world.

since we are debating the legality of a commercial
transaction , we must use the laws governing the guidelines
and ethics of such transactions. basic anti trust law says
that , while you can purchase ibm stocks for the purpose of
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those
shares with the intent or controlling ibm. you can do so
only if you make your intentions clear apriori . clearly ,
the jews who purchased properties from palastenians had some
designs , they were not buying a dwelling or a real estate.
they were establishing a bridgehead for the european jews.

the palastenians sold their properties to the jews in the
old tradition of arab hospitality. being a multi ethnic
multi religious society , accepting the jews as neighbours
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair
market value , etc... they did not know they were victims of
an international conspiracy. (i'm not a conspiracy theorist
myself , but this one is hard to dismiss).


right now , i'm just going to address this point.
when the jewish national fund bought most of its land ,
it did n't buy it from the palestinians themselves , because ,
for the most part , they were tenant farmers (fallahin) ,
living on land owned by wealthy arabs in syria and lebanon.
the jnf offered a premium deal , so the owners took advantage of
it. it 's called commerce. the owners , however , made no
provisions for those who had worked for them , basically shafting
them by selling the land right out from under them.
they are to blame , not the jews.



amir
why would you categorize the sale of land as shafting \? was
it because it was sold to jews \? was it fair to assume that the
fallahin would be mistreated by the jews \? is this the norm of
any commerce (read shafting) between arabs and jews \?

your claim that the lebanese syrian landlords sold palestine
(if true , even partially) omits the fact that the mandate
treaty put lebanon and syria under french rule , while
palestine under british. obiviously , any such landlord
would have found himself a foreigner in palestine and would
be motivated to sell , regardless of the price.

it is interesting though that you acknowledge that the
palestinians were shafted. do many israelis or jews share
your opinion \? do you absolve the purchaser from
any ethical commitments just because it was n't written down \?

all told , i did not see an answer in your response. the
question was whether the intent behind the purchase was
aimed at controlling the public assets (land ,
infra structure etc...). imho the palestinians have grounds
to contest the legality of the purchase , say in world court.

sam

my opinions are my own and no one else 's

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject turkey admits to sending arms to azerbaijan turkish pilot caught
summary oh , yes...neutral turkey
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 57

4 15 93 1242 turkey sends light weapons as aid to azerbaijan

by seva ulman

ankara , turkey (upi) turkey is arming azerbaijan with light weapons to help
it fight armenian forces in the struggle for the nagorno karabakh enclave ,
the newspaper hurriyet said thursday.

deputy prime minister erdal inonu told reporters in ankara that turkey was
responding positively to a request from azerbaijan for assistance.

we are giving a positive response to all requests from azerbaijan , within
the limits of our capabilities , he said.

foreign ministry spokesman vural valkan declined to elaborate on the nature
of the aid being sent to azerbaijan , but said they were within the framework
of the council for security and cooperation in europe.

hurriyet , published in istanbul , said turkey was sending light weapons to
azerbaijan , including rockets , rocket launchers and ammunition.

ankara began sending the hardware after a visit to turkey last week by a
high ranking azerbaijani official. turkey has however ruled out , for the second
time in one week , that it would intervene militarily in azerbaijan.

wednesday , inonu told reporters ankara would not allow azerbaijan to suffer
defeat at the hands of the armenians. we feel ourselves bound to help
azerbaijan , but i am not in a position right now to tell you what form (that)
help may take in the future , he said.

he said turkish aid to azerbaijan was continuing , and the whole world knows
about it.

prime minister suleyman demirel reiterated that turkey would not get
militarily involved in the conflict. foreign policy decisions could not be
based on street level excitement , he said.

there was no immediate reaction in ankara to regional reports , based on
armenian sources in yerevan , saying turkish pilots and other officers were
captured when they were shot down flying azerbaijani warplanes and
helicopters.

the newspaper cumhuriyet said turkish troops were digging in along the border
with armenia , but military sources denied reports based on claims by local
people that gunfire was heard along the border. no military action has
occurred , the sources said.

the latest upsurge in fighting between the armenians and azerbaijanis flared
early this month when armenian forces seized the town of kelbajar and later
positioned themselves outside fizuli , near the iranian border.



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from ilyess@ece.concordia.ca (ilyess bdira)
subject remember those names come election time.
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government
nntp posting host davinci.ece.concordia.ca
organization ece concordia university
lines 77

in article christopheru3ak245pe@clarinet.com clarinews@clarinet.com (sid balman jr.) writes
washington (upi) secretary of state warren christopher said tuesday
there are better ideas to stop the human slaughter in the balkans than
ordering american fighters to bomb the serbs , but a frustrated senator
told him to do just that.
``we 've not done a damn thing , '' sen. joseph biden , d del. , told
christopher at a hearing of the senate foreign relations committee.
``preventive diplomacy is not in your capability right now in bosnia
herzegovina.
biden chastised the administration and its republican predecessor for
what he characterized as a limp response to the serbian policy of
``ethnic cleansing'' of muslims , including rape and shelling of
civilians.
``the time has come for us and the world to stop bemoaning the fact
that all the options are bad ones , '' biden said. ``they are all bad ones
and we ought to pick a couple.''
biden also endorsed lifting an international arms embargo against the
former yugoslavia so the muslim dominated bosnian government might have
a chance to at least defend itself against the serbs.
christopher said this could give an opening role in the conflict to

the radical islamic government of iran.

o , i c !
biden endorsed bombing serbian heavy weapons around the besieged
eastern town of srebrenica.
``there 's not a military person...who will not tell you that they
could today , if you gave them the order , take out the heavy weaponry
around srebrenica , '' biden said.
``if you did nothing else , nothing else but that , you would have
saved hundreds of women and children who are being absolutely massacred
right now.''
military action ``is the only thing that 's going to change the
equation , '' biden said.
....................................
despite the frustrations and pressure , christopher had no enthusiasm
for american combat aircraft to strike serb positions in bosnia
herzegovina.
....................
``clearly we are at a turning point in the bosnia situation , ''
christopher said. ``air strikes are among those steps that are so
complex because they tend to interfere with the humanitarian endeavours.
i think there may be better options.''

humanitarian as in feeding them and let them get raped and killed.

political conflict. clinton vowed during the presidential campaign to
(then)
lift the arms embargo and to strike at serbian heavy weapons with u.s.
combat aircraft.
christopher said airstrikes would likely ``increase the level of
(now)
fighting and cause our allies to draw back'' or even ``pull out the
humanitarian effort.''
great britain and france have balked at foreign military intervention
in bosnia herzegovina for fear that their peacekeeping troops on the
ground may suffer serbian retribution.

why do n't they get the hell out of there , they ared doing nothing to
protect the victims anyway.. maybe becasue they have a different agenda.

sen. nancy kassebaum , r kan. , seemed to agree with christopher 's

assessment and stressed the need not to build up bosnian expectations
for heavy u.s. military intervention.
``it 's very important that expectations are n't raised high on the
part of the beleagured bosnians , '' she said.
air strikes might have made a difference eight months ago , she said ,
but the strategic significance of that step now is questionable. like
christopher , kassebaum said it might jeopardize the humanitarian relief
effort.

now that they made sure the bosnian (who were the only real subject of the
embargo last year , as everybody knows that the serbs had an unlimited supply
of arms) wre massacred without having a chance to defend themselves , now this
evil coldhearted snake is saying it is too late to save them , so let them die.


from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject peace talks ...
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 23


from israeline 4 14

today 's ma'ariv reports that yesterday , following egyptian
president hosni mubarak 's meeting with plo chief yasser arafat and
prominent palestinian faisal al husseini , the latter said that in
principle , the palestinians have decided to participate in the
peace talks. nonetheless , he noted that everything will be decided
upon at the meeting of the arab foreign ministers in damascus. the
newspaper also reports that threatening phone calls were recently
made to houses of several of the senior members of the palestinian
delegation to the peace talks. the threats , in arabic , demanded
that the delegates not go to washington to , sell out the
palestinian people. one caller threatened , should you go , you
will not find your family alive upon your return. the newspaper
states that such phone calls were received , as far as is known , at
the houses of faisal al husseini , hanan ashrawi and others.


naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject the hamas way of death
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 104


the hamas way of death

(following is a transcript of a recruitment and training
videotape made last summer by the qassam battalions , the military
arm of hamas , an islamic palestinian group. hamas figures
significantly in the middle east equation. in december , israel
deported more than 400 palestinians to lebanon in response to
hamas 's kidnapping and execution of an israeli soldier. a longer
version appears in the may issue of harper 's magazine , which
obtained and translated the tape.)

my name is yasir hammad al hassan ali. i live in nuseirat a
refugee camp in the gaza strip . i was born in 1964. i finished
high school , then attended gaza polytechnic. later , i went to work
for islamic university in gaza as a clerk. i'm married and i have
two daughters.
the qassam battalions are the only group in palestine
explicitly dedicated to jihad holy war . our primary concern is
palestinians who collaborate with the enemy. many young men and
women have fallen prey to the cunning traps laid by the israeli
security services.
since our enemies are trying to obliterate our nation ,
cooperation with them is clearly a terrible crime. our most
important objective must be to put an end to the plague of
collaboration. to do so , we abduct collaborators , intimidate and
interrogate them in order to uncover other collaborators and expose
the methods that the enemy uses to lure palestinians into
collaboration in the first place. in addition to that , naturally ,
we confront the problem of collaborators by executing them.
we do n't execute every collaborator. after all , about 70
percent of them are innocent victims , tricked or black mailed into
their misdeeds. the decision whether to execute a collaborator is
based on the seriousness of his crimes. if , like many
collaborators , he has been recruited as an agent of the israeli
border guard then it is imperative that he be executed at once.
he 's as dangerous as an israeli soldier , so we treat him like an
israeli soldier.
there 's another group of collaborators who perform an even
more loathsome role the ones who help the enemy trap young men
and women in blackmail schemes that force them to become
collaborators. i regard the isqat the process by which a
palestinians is blackmailed into collaboration of single person as
greater crime than the killing of a demonstrator. if someone is
guilty of causing repeated cases of isqat , than it is our religious
duty to execute him.
a third group of collaborators is responsible for the
distribution of narcotics. they work on direct orders from the
security services to distribute drugs as widely as possible. their
victims become addicted and soon find it unbearable to quit and
impossible to afford more. they collaborate in order to get the
drugs they crave. the dealers must also be executed.
in the battalions , we have developed a very careful method of
uncovering collaborators , we ca n't afford to abduct an innocent
person , because once we seize a person his reputation is tarnished
forever. we will abduct and interrogate a collaborator only after
evidence of his guilt has been established never before. if
after interrogation the collaborator is found guilty beyond any
doubt , then he is executed.
in many cases , we do n't have to make our evidence against
collaborators public , because everyone knows that they 're guilty.
but when the public is n't aware that a certain individual is a
collaborator , and we accuse him , people are bound to ask for
evidence. many people will proclaim his innocence , so there must be
irrefutable proof before he is executed. this proof is usually
obtained in the form of a confession.
at first , every collaborator denies his crimes. so we start
off by showing the collaborator the testimony against him. we tell
him that he still has a chance to serve his people , even in the
last moment of his life , by confessing and giving us the
information we need.
we say that we know his repentance in sincere and that he has
been a victim. that kind of talk is convincing. most of them
confess after that. others hold out in those cases , we apply
pressure , both psychological and physical. then the holdouts
confess as well.
only one collaborator has ever been executed without an
interrogation. in that case , the collaborator had been seen working
for the border guard since before the intifada , and he himself
confessed his involvement to a friend , who disclosed the
information to us. in addition , three members of his network of
collaborators told us that he had caused their isqat. with this
much evidence , there was no need to interrogate him. but we are
very careful to avoid wrongful executions. in every case , our
principal is the same the accused should be interrogated until he
himself confesses his crimes.
a few weeks ago , we sat down and complied a list of
collaborators to decide whether there were any who could be
executed without interrogation. an although we had hundreds of
names , still , because of our fear of god and of hell , we could not
mark any of these men , except for the one i just mentioned , for
execution.
when we execute a collaborator in public , we use a gun. but
after we abduct and interrogate a collaborator , we ca n't shoot him
to do so might give away our locations. that 's why collaborators
are strangled. sometimes we ask the collaborator , what do you
think \? how should we execute you \? one collaborator told us ,
strangle me. he hated the sight of blood.


naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from adams@bellini.berkeley.edu (adam l. schwartz)
subject re final solution in palestine \?
nntp posting host bellini.berkeley.edu
organization u.c. berkeley erl
lines 27

in article hm.93apr26143210@barney.cs.brown.edu hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes
in article 1993apr25.171003.10694@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed) writes

driving the jews into the sea \? !

i am sick and tired of this 'driving the jews into the sea' sentance attributed
to islamic movements and the plo it simply ca n't be proven as part of their
plan !


proven \? maybe not. but it can certainly be verified beyond a reasonable doubt. this
statement and statements like it are a matter of public record. before the six day war (1967)
i think nasser and some other arab leaders were broadcasting these statements on
arab radio. you might want to check out some old newspapers ahmed.


what hamas and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media ,
is an islamic state that protects the rights of all its inhabitants under koranic
law.

i think if you take a look at the hamas covenant (written in 1988) you might get a
different impression. i have the convenant in the original arabic with a translation
that i 've verified with arabic speakers. the document is rife with calls to kill jews
and spread islam and so forth.

adam schwartz


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re flame and a jewish home in palestine
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 41

in article c5rxh0.ljy@imag.fr maler@vercors.imag.fr (oded maler) writes
in article c5hjbc.1hc@bony1.bony.com , jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni) writes

typical arabic thinking. if we are guilty of something , so is
everyone else. unfortunately for you , nabil , jewish tribes are not
nearly as susceptible to the fratricidal murdering that is still so
common among arabs in the middle east. there were no killings
between the jewish tribes on the way.

i do n't like this comment about typical thinking. you could state
your interpretation of exodus without it. as i read exodus i can see
a lot of killing there , which is painted by the author of the bible
in ideological religious colors. the history in the desert can be seen
as an ethos of any nomadic people occupying a land. that 's why i think
it is a great book with which descendants arabs , turks and mongols can
unify as well.

you somehow missed nabil 's comments , even though you included it in
your followup

the number which could have arrived to the holy lands must have been
substantially less ude to the harsh desert and the killings between the
jewish tribes on the way..

i am not aware of killings between jewish tribes in the desert.

the point of typical thinking here is that while arabs still today
act in the manner you describe , like any nomadic people occupying a
land , killing and plundering each other with regularity , others have
somehow progressed over time. it is not surprising then that arabs
often accuse others (infidels) of things that they are quite familiar
with civil rights violations , religious discrimination , ethnic
cleansing , land theft , torture and murder. it is precisely this
mechanism at work that leads people to say that jewish tribes were
killing each other in the desert , even without support for such a
ludicrous suggestion.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from melons@vnet.ibm.com (mike magil)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
lines 48

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
newsgroups talk.politics.mideast
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
date 23 apr 1993 12 55 47 gmt
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)


although i realize that principle is not one of your strongest
points , i would still like to know why do do not ask any question
of this sort about the arab countries.

if you want to continue this think tank charade of yours , your
fixation on israel must stop. you might have to start asking the
same sort of questions of arab countries as well. you realize it
would not work , as the arab countries' treatment of jews over the
last several decades is so bad that your fixation on israel would
begin to look like the biased attack that it is.

everyone in this group recognizes that your stupid 'center for
policy research' is nothing more than a fancy name for some bigot
who hates israel.

why do n't you try being honest about your hatred of israel \? i
have heard that your family once lived in israel , but the members
of your family could not cut the competition there. is this true
about your family \? is this true about you \? is this actually not
about israel , but is really a personal vendetta \? why are you not
the least bit objective about israel \? do you think that the name
of your phony baloney center hides your bias in the least \? get a
clue , mr. davidsson. have n't you realized yet that when you post
such stupidity in this group , you are going to incur answers from
people who are armed with the truth \? have n't you realized that a
piece of selective data here and a piece there does not make up a
truth \? have n't you realized that you are in over your head \? the
people who read this group are not as stupid as you would hope or
need them to be. this is not the place for such pseudo analysis.
you will be continually ripped to shreds , until you start to show
some regard for objectivity. or you can continue to show what an
anti israel zealot you are , trying to disguise your bias behind a
pompous name like the 'center for policy research.' you ought to
know that you are a laughing stock , your 'center' is considered a
joke , and until you either go away , or make at least some attempt
to be objective , you will have a place of honor among the clowns ,
bigots , and idiots of usenet.

i could n't have said it better , mark !

mike.

from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re deriving pleasure from death
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university
lines 13


them. (by the way , i do not applaud the killing of any human being ,
including prisoners sentenced to death by our illustrious justice department)

peace.
marc


boy , you really are a stupid person. our justice department does
not sentence people to death. that 's up to state courts. again ,
get a brain.



from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject assistance to palest.people
nf id n cdp 1483500359 000 3036
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 24 15 00 00 1993
lines 78


from center for policy research cpr
subject assistance to palest.people


u.n. general assembly resolution 46 201 of 20 december 1991

assistance to the palestinian people

the general assembly

recalling its resolution 45 183 of 21 december 1990

taking into account the intifadah of the palestinian people in the
occupied palestinian territory against the israeli occupation ,
including israeli economic and social policies and practices ,

rejecting israeli restrictions on external economic and social
assistance to the palestinian people in the occupied palestinian
territory ,

concerned about the economic losses of the palestinian people as a
result of the gulf crisis ,

aware of the increasing need to provide economic and social
assistance to the palestinian people ,

affirming that the palestinian people cannot develop their
national economy as long as the israeli occupation persists ,

1. takes note of the report of the secretary general on assistance
to the palestinian people

2. expresses its appreciation to the states , united nations bodies
and intergovernmental and non governmental organizations that have
provided assistance to the palestinian people ,

3. requests the international community , the united nations system
and intergovernmental and non governmental organizations to
sustain and increase their assistance to the palestinian people ,
in close cooperation with the palestine liberation organization
(plo) , taking in account the economic losses of the palestinian
people as a result of the gulf crisis

4. calls for treatment on a transit basis of palestinian exports
and imports passing through neighbouring ports and points of exit
and entry

5. also calls for the granting of trade concessions and concrete
preferential measures for palestinian exports on the basis of
palestinian certificates of origin

6. further calls for the immediate lifting of israeli restrictions
and obstacles hindering the implementation of assistance projects
by the united nations development programme , other united nations
bodies and others providing economic and social assistance to the
palestinian people in the occupied palestinian territory

7. reiterates its call for the implementation of development
projects in the occupied palestinian territory , including the
projects mentioned in its resolution 39 223 of 18 december 1984

8. calls for facilitation of the establishment of palestinian
development banks in the occupied palestinian territory , with a
view to promoting investment , production , employment and income
therein

9. requests the secretary general to report to the general
the general assembly at its 47th session , through the economic and social
council , on the progress made in the implementation of the present
resolution.


in favour 137 countries (europe , canada , australia , new zealand ,
japan , africa , south america , central america and asia) against
united states and israel abstaining none



from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re the hamas way of death
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 28

in article 1993apr18.162427.17712@nntpd.lkg.dec.com alaa@peewee.unx.dec.com (alaa zeineldine) writes
tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

while you brought up the separate question of israel 's unjustified
policies and practices , i am still unclear about your reaction to
the practices and polocies reflected in the article above.

tim

not a separate question mr. clock. it is deceiving to judge the
resistance movement out of the context of the occupation.

alaa zeineldine

when the plo moved into lebanon and became , in parts of lebanon , an
occupying power itself , these same practices were common against
non palestinean and palestinean alike. they are simply standard
operating procedures among palestineans and have been for a very long
time. in fact , the greatest bloodbath of palestineans will happen
when they get self rule. can you possibly deny this \?

when the plo is the occupier , who are you now going to blame \?



jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject historical and traditional armenian barbarism and fascism.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 28

source men are like that by leonard ramsden hartill. the bobbs merrill
company , indianapolis (1926). (305 pages).
(memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)


p. 204 (first paragraph).

i was soon asleep. in the night i was awakened by the persistent crying of
a child. i arose and went to investigate. a full moon enabled me to make
my way about and revealed to me all the wreck and litter of the tragedy
that had been enacted. guided by the child 's crying , i entered the yard of
a house , which i judged from its appearance must have been the home of a
turkish family. there in a corner of the yard i found a women dead. her
throat had been cut. lying on her breast was a small child , a girl about a
year old.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from melons@vnet.ibm.com (mike magil)
subject re israeli terrorism
lines 33


anas omran writes in his earlier posting


a high rank israeli officer was killed during a clash whith a hamas

...and then his fantasy begins...

mujahid. the terrorist israelis chased and killed a young mujahid
using anti tank missiles. the terrorist zionists cut the mujahid 's
body into small pieces to the extend that his body was not recognized.
at leat ten houses were destroyed by these atni tank missiles.



anas omran




this clearly is a fantastic story , anas ! i am very curious as to who
(or what) your sources are for this grossly exaggerated account (if not ,
blatant lie). it surprises me that this story has not yet made it to
the front pages of the major newspapers (which love to make the state of
israel look as evil as humanly possible) ! such a story would be eaten up
by some of the papers over here. so please explain to me why i have never
seen nor heard of it before ! believe me , i'm not expecting a reply because
we both know where the story came from... your dreams ! ! ! !


michael zion magil
ibm canada laboratory


from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject arafat (re sampson)
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 61

in article 5897@copper.denver.colorado.edu aaldoubo@copper.denver.colorado.edu (shaqeeqa) writes
in article 1993apr10.182402.11676@colorado.edu perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman) writes

perhaps , though one can argue about whether or not the current
palestinian delegation represents the plo (i would hope it does not , as
the plo really does n't have that kind of legitimacy).

does it matter to you , naftaly , adam , and others , that arafat
advises the delegation and that the plo , overall , supports it \? does
it also matter that arafat , on behalf of the plo , recognizes israel
and its right to exist \? further , does israel 's new policy concerning
direct negotiations with the plo hold any substance to the situation
as a whole \?

no , he does not. arafat explicitly denies this claim.


from a libyan televison interview with yasser arafat 7 19 1991
q some people say that the palestinian revolution has many times changed
its strategies and tactics , something which has left its imprint on the
palestinian problem and on the palestinian liberation front. the
strategies and tactics have not been clear. the question is , is the
direction of the palestinian problem clear \? the palestinian leadership
has stopped , or at least this is what has been said in the media , this
happened on the way to the dialogue with the united states , the plo
recognized something called israel ...

a no , no , no ! we do not recognize the state of israel. we said
recognition when a palestinian state is established. it will then
decide if to recognize israel or not. when it is established , its
parliament will convene and decide.

policies which it can justify through occupation. because of this ,
you have the grassroot movements that reject israel 's authority and
disregard for human rights and , if israel was serious about peace , it
would abandon these policies.

and replace them with what \? if israel is to withdraw its
control of any territory , there must be two prerequsites. one is that
it leads to a reduction in deaths. the second is that it should not
weaken israels bargianing position with respect to peace talks.

leaving gaza unilateraly is a bad idea because it encourages
arabs to think they can get what they want by killing jews. the only
way israel should pull out of gaza is at the end of negotiations.
these negotiations should lead to a mutually agreeable solution with
security guarantees for both sides.

until arabs are ready to sit down at the table and talk again ,
they should not expect , or recieve more concessions.


adam




adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject re final solution for gaza \?
nf id r cdp 1483500354 cdp 1483500364 000 1767
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 26 17 36 00 1993
lines 38


dear folks ,

i am still awaiting for some sensible answer and comment.

it is a fact that the inhabitants of gaza are not entitled to a normal
civlized life. they habe been kept under occupation by israel since 1967
without civil and political rights.

it is a fact that gazans live in their own country , palestine. gaza is
not a foriegn country. nor is telaviv , jaffa , askalon , beersheba foreign
country for gazans. all these places are occupied as far as palestinians
are concerned and as far as common sense has it.

it is a fact that zionists deny gazans equal rights as israeli citizens
and the right to determine by themsevles their government. when zionists
will begin to consider gazans as human beings who deserve the same
rights as themselves , there will be hope for peace. not before.

somebody mentioned that gaza is 'foreign country' and therefore israel
is entitled to close its borders to gaza. in this case , gaza should be
entitled to reciprocate , and deny israeli civilians and military personnel
to enter the area. as the relation is not symmetrical , but that of a master
and slave , the label 'foreign country' is inaccurate and misleading.

to close off 700 , 000 people in the strip , deny them means of subsistence
and means of defending themselves , is a collective punishment and a
crime. it is neither justifiable nor legal. it just reflects the abyss
to which israeli society has degraded.

i would like to ask any of those who heap foul langauge on me to explain
why israel denies gazans who were born and brought up in jaffa to return
and live there \? would they be allowed to , if they converted to judaism \?
is their right to live in their former town depdendent upon their
religion or ethnic origin \? please give an honest answer.

elias


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject treatment of armenians in azerbaijan 1
summary prelude to events today
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 223


deposition of vitaly nikolayevich danielian 1


born 1972
attended 9th grade
middle school no. 17

resident at building 4 2 , apartment 25
microdistrict no. 3
sumgait azerbaijan

really , people in town did n't know what was happening on february 27. i came
home from school at 12 o'clock , being excused to leave before the last period
in order to go to baku. when we left , everything in town was fine. life was
the same as usual , a few groups of people were discussing things , soccer and
other things. then we got on the sumgait bus bound for baku for my first
cousin 's birthday , my father , my mother , and i. we spent the day in baku , and
on the 28th , somewhere around 6 00 p.m. , we got on the bus for home , figuring
that i 'd have enough time to do my homework for the next day.

when we were entering town , near the 12 story high rises , our bus was stopped
by a very large crowd. the crowd demanded that the armenians get off the bus.
the driver says that there are no armenians on board then everyone on the bus
begins to shout that there are no armenians on board. the group comes up to
the doors of the bus and has people get out one by one , not checking
passports , just going by the way people look. we get off the bus , but are not
taken for armenians.

we set out in the direction of home. at first we were going to go into an old
building where we knew there 'd be a place to hide , but the whole road was
packed with groups of people , all the way from block 41 to the 8th
microdistrict. these groups were emptying people 's pockets and checking
passports. people who did n't have passports with them were beaten as well.
then we decided to go home instead. near the 12 story high rises i saw burning
cars and a great many people standing around the driveways , yelling. death to
the armenians was written on the cars.

when we came into the courtyard we live in an l shaped building it was still
quiet. we went on upstairs , but did n't turn on any lights. we tried to call
baku to warn our relatives , who were due to arrive on wednesday , not to come.
then there was a knock at the door. it was our neighbors , who advised us to
come down to stay at their place. we went down to their place , and they led us
to the basement. they live on the first floor and have a basement which you
enter across the balcony. we sat in the basement while an armenian woman was
beaten she ran away naked. our neighbors' daughter said that that 's right ,
that 's what the armenians deserve , because in stepanakert , allegedly , people
were being killed , 11 girls from agdam had been raped. we did n't stay very
long in the basement. we tried to support one another as best we could ,
looking out the small window with the iron grating. papa watched and said
things now and then. he said that there was a fire near building 5 , probably a
car on fire. then one of the groups approached our driveway and demanded that
they be shown the apartments where armenians lived. the neighbors said that
there were n't any armenians here , and the group set out for the other wing of
the building. they appeared from the 5 2 side of the building , where , i later
found out , a woman had been murdered. the woman who ran away naked died. yuri
avakian was killed , too.

when the crowd left , the neighbors said that it was all over and we could go
home. we went back up to our place and again did n't turn on the light. we
started to gather up our things in order to leave sumgait for a while. we
tried to call a relative who lived in sumgait , but there was no answer. we
decided she had already left.

we sat at home. the phone rang , and the caller asked to speak with my
father. i called him to the phone. it was jeykhun mamedov , from my father 's
work brigade. he said he was disgusted by what was happening in our
town. he asked for our address and promised to get a car and help us get
out of the city. to be quite honest , papa did n't want to give him our address ,
but my mother got on the phone and told him. some 15 minutes after the
call a crowd ran into our entryway. bursting into the building , they broke
down the door and came into the apartment . . .

they came straight to our apartment , they knew exactly where the armenians
were. they came into our place. we tried to resist , but there was nothing we
could do. one of them took my parents' passports and began to read them. he
read the surname danielian , turned the page , read armenian , and that alone
was enough to doom us. he said that we should be moved quickly out into the
courtyard , where they would have done with us. another , standing next to him ,
pushed some of the keys on the piano and said your death has tolled. they
had knives and steel truncheons.

i had a knife in my hand. unfortunately , i did n't use it. i just knew that if
i did n't give up the knife things would be much worse. they struck my parents
and said that i should put the knife on the piano. then , one of them commanded
that we be taken outside. one person was giving orders. when we were taken
outdoors i went in the middle , and my mother was behind me. someone started to
push her so she 'd walk faster i let her go ahead of me , and fell in behind
her. when he tried to push me , i hit him , and at that moment they began
beating my parents i realized that resistance was completely useless.

we are taken out into the courtyard , and the neighbors are standing on their
balconies to see what will happen next. the crowd surrounds us. at first they
strike me , and i'm knocked out when i come to , they beat me again . . . i
lose consciousness often . . . i do n't see or hear my parents , since i was the
first one hit and was out cold. when i come to i try to pick them up they are
lying next to me. the crowd is gone , the only people around are watching from
their balconies. that 's it. i try to pick them up , but ca n't. my left arm is
broken. i start toward the drive , wanting to tell the neighbors to call an
ambulance. the bodies of my parents are still warm.

we were attacked at around 9 o'clock. i regain consciousness at about 11 and
try to make it up the stairs home . . . when i knock at the neighbors' door ,
they push me back and tell me to go away. i go up to the third floor , our
neighbor puts a damp cloth on my head and says she will call an ambulance she
sends her son off for one and takes me to our apartment. i often look out the
window to see if the ambulance has arrived , but i ca n't see very far as a
result of the blows , and it seems that my parents have already been taken
away. then i calm down and try to convince myself that they have been taken
away , and everything will be ok.

but they were still there. later , at 8 in the morning as i found out , the
ambulance picked them up , but they were already dead. if they received
attention on time , it is possible they would still be alive. later , around 12
o'clock on the 29th , policemen in civilian clothing come to our house with
some assistants. they call an ambulance , and 20 minutes later it arrives ,
and i am taken to the sumgait emergency hospital. there they stitch the wounds
on my head and rebind my arm. at 3 o'clock i and the other armenians who are
in the hospital are sent by ambulance to baku.

in my ward at the sumgait hospital there were five people , all of them
armenians. the hospital was nearly overflowing with armenians. the only
azerbaijanis there were those whose car had flipped over before the events ,
before the 27th.

then i was in the semashko hospital in baku. i was there 38 days. when i was
released , on the 40th day , i found out that my parents were dead. at first
they told me that they were in moscow being treated , but later i found out
that they were dead. my father 's older brother told me.

my father 's name was nikolai artemovich danielian. he was born in 1938. my
mother , born in 1937 , was seda osipovna danielian. papa worked at pmk 20 , the
leader of the roofing brigade mamma was a compressor operator.

they were also beaten on the head. the coroner 's report stated that their
heads were smashed open and bled profusely.

at the confrontation i met jeykhun mamedov , who had called. as it turned out
later , he had been the one who tipped the crowd off. he had called
specifically to find out if we were at home and to find out the exact address
and dispatch the group. he knew the phone number , but did n't know the address.
before the events i had never seen him , but had often spoken with him on the
phone , when he would ask to speak with my father. i knew him by name. he
denies that i was the one who answered the phone , saying that my father
answered it. he denies that he called from a public phone , saying that he
called from home , which also is n't true. i heard noise and the sounds of
automobiles. as i later found out , earlier he had been convicted , but had
never served any time he had received a suspended sentence. he was about 20
years old. i do n't know if he has since confessed or not. i am sure that he
was the one who tipped the crowd off. one hundred percent sure.

my parents were from karabagh. father was from the village of badar , and was
two years old when his family moved to baku , where his elder brothers were to
go to school. he was a student at the naval school , but never graduated. he
went off to work on the virgin lands one of the gigantic agricultural
projects instituted under khrushchev. when he returned he lived in baku , and
later moved to sumgait , helping with the town 's construction. mamma was from
the village of dagdagan , also from karabagh. she worked in sumgait , first in
a bookstore , and later , on a construction site.


my sister is older than i. she lives with her husband here in karabagh. i
always loved my parents. that was why i went on to 9th grade , because it
was their dream that i would continue my studies. i finished 8th grade and
wanted to enter the baku nautical school , and after that , the military
school. but later i changed my mind , or rather , my parents got me to recon
sider , saying that it would be better to finish the 10th grade and then join
the naval school. i was planning to be in the navy almost my whole life
long since childhood i had dreamed of being a sailor. my father wanted it
more than anything. he always recollected his youth , telling of the school ,
and he always said that he had made a big mistake in leaving it.

now i live in karabagh and never plan to leave here. i will stay at the home
of my grandfather , of my ancestors , till the end of my days.

while in the hospital in baku i learned the fates of many others who had
suffered as well , like ishkhan trdatov . he managed to hold them off at
their residence in microdistrict 3 , building 6 2 , apartment 6. for a long
time , lost his father gabriel , and by some miracle managed to survive. i
also learned of uncle sasha , from building 5 2 , whose daughter was raped

. . . besides them , valery i forgot his last name was in the hospital too ,
about a year younger than i , he went to school no. 14. he was riding with
his parents in the car. people were throwing rocks at them , he was hit , and
his parents brought him to the hospital , and he was in our ward. we even
came to be friends. before that we had just seen each other around town. but
in the hospital we got to know one another better. i learned of the fates of
others , those who had died , or who were befallen by misfortune . . .

today suren harutunian , the first secretary of the communist party of armenia ,
was shown on television. to be honest i am glad that armenia agreed to
recognize nagorno karabagh as part of the armenian soviet socialist republic.
i was repelled , no , revolted , to hear the baku announcer who read the decision
of the azerbaijani supreme soviet presidium against karabagh becoming part of
armenia.

after the events in sumgait and those in baku , the best solution is to give
karabagh to armenia , return it to armenia , since the people want to live
peacefully with the azerbaijanis , but everything has to be right before they
can do that.

i arrived in karabagh on april 11. i felt very bad. i had constant headaches.
after a while my strength returned. my older sister , suzanna , took me in. i
think that justice should prevail the people are demanding their due.

you ca n't take away what is their due. my parents and i often spoke of nagorno
karabagh , often visited here spent almost all of my vacations here. we had
even decided that if karabagh would be made part of armenia , we would move
here for sure. we always said that the armenian people had suffered much , and
that what had been done in 1921 removing nagorno karabagh from armenia was
wrong. sooner or later , mistakes should be corrected. and in order to correct
a mistake , it must not be repeated and the fate of all nagorno karabagh lies
in the hands of our government.

june 13 , 1988

stepanakert


david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu (gt1091a gt1091a kaan , timucin)
subject re lezgians astir in azerbaijan and daghestan
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 16

hello , shit face david , i see that you are still around. i dont want to
see your shitty writings posted here man. i told you. you are getting
itchy as your fucking country. hey , and dont give me that freedom
of speach bullshit once more. because your freedom has ended when you started
writing things about my people. and try to translate this ebenin donu
butti kafa david. .

bye , anacim hade.
timucin



kaan , timucin
georgia institute of technology , atlanta georgia , 30332
uucp ... ! decvax , hplabs , ncar , purdue , rutgers ! gatech ! prism ! gt1091a
internet gt1091a@prism.gatech.edu

from anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed)
subject who should be spied on...
keywords hypocritical pig
nntp posting host gs135.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 62

in article c5sdck.38n@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes
anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed) writes

in article 4815@bimacs.bitnet ehrlich@bimacs.bitnet (gideon ehrlich) writes
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents
of those files.
so it will be nice if yigal will tell us
1. why do american authorities consider yigal arens to be dangerous \?

adl authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including
the millions of americans of arab ancestry. perhaps you can answer
the question as to why the adl maintained files and spied on adc members
in california (and elsewhere \? \? ) \? friendly rivalry perhaps \?

come on ! most if not all arabs are sympathetic to the palestinian war
against israel. that is why the adl monitors arab organizations. that is
the same reason the us monitored communist organizations and soviet nationals
only a few years ago.


the adc is an organization of arab americans .

let me see...you 're saying that most if not all arab americans should be
spied on \? you 're also saying that most if not all arab americans
should be views as a national security threat to israel (and the us ,
as you gratuitously imply in your reference to the wtc bombing , in
which no arab americans were involved) \? by inference , can we assume
that you think that anyone of arab lineage anywhere in the world poses
a threat to israel and , therefore , should be spied on \?

perhaps , then , on the basis of pollard spy case (not to mention the
rosenbergs , etc.) you think that all jewish americans should be spied
on by the adc.

oh , never mind this whole spying case has obviously so
convoluted your sense of right or wrong in these matters that i have
no wish confuse you further.

perhaps yigal is a greenpeace member \? or the naacp \? or a reporter \?
or a member of any of the dozens of other political organizations ethnic
minorities occupations that the adl spied on.

all of these groups have , in the past , associated with or been a part of anti
israel activity or propoganda. the adl is simply monitoring them so that if
anything comes up , they wo n't be caught by surprise.

so the la times reporter who had information about him
sold to the south african government was involved in anti israel
activity or propaganda \? are we to infer that the simple act of
reporting an event in a newspaper constitutes anti israel
activity or propaganda \? or was it south africa \? the la
times reporter was based in south africa , after all.



gideon ehrlich
anwar
ed.



anwar again

from sgoldste@aludra.usc.edu (fogbound child)
subject re news you will miss , apr 15
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 27
nntp posting host aludra.usc.edu

arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes



yigal et al , sue adl


why do you title this news you will miss \?

there have been at least three front page stories on it in the l.a. times.

i would n't exactly call that a media cover up.


js



samuel
mossad special agent id314159
media spiking mind control division
los angeles offices

pratice safe .signature ! prevent dangerous signature virii !
guildenstern our names shouted in a certain dawn ... a message ... a
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning ,
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it.

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject israel does not kill reporters.
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 12
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


anas omran has claimed that , the israelis used to arrest , and
sometime to kill some of these neutral reporters. the assertion
by anas omran is , of course , a total fabrication. if there is an
once of truth iin it , i'm sure anas omran can document such a sad
and despicable event. otherwise we may assume that it is another
piece of anti israel bullshit posted by someone whose family does
not know how to teach their children to tell the truth. if omran
would care to retract this 'error' i would be glad to retract the
accusation that he is a liar. if he can document such a claim , i
would again be glad to apologize for calling him a liar. failing
to do either of these would certainly show what a liar he is.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re life and fall of wlodowa do not forget
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 36

in article 1993apr05.120108.6578@oneb.almanac.bc.ca kmcvay@oneb.almanac.bc.ca (ken mcvay) writes

remember and do not forget
sisha fuchs

never. i do n't know whether anybody formulated and proposed such an
index or criteria to determine the magnitude of a genocide as mentioned
and advised by toynbee. if one ever does you will easily see the magnitude
of the crime of genocide committed by the armenians , by massacring an alien
population under their rule which constituted about 40 of their total
population and they did it only within a time period of a little over
two years in which they enjoyed having full control over this population.

now i would like to ask you

is there any other genocide in the history of mankind similar to
this one \?

and again i would like to ask you

whether the silent and unmourned martyrdom of these hundreds of thousands
of turks of the republic of armenia who were exterminated as a final
solution to turco tartar problems in armenia is similar or not
to the martyrdom of six million jews in europe as a final solution to
jewish problems \?


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (todd j. dicker)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization cybernet bbs , boca raton , florida
lines 36

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu writes
ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

first of all i never said the holocaust. i said before the
holocaust. i'm not ignorant of the holocaust and know more
about nazi germany than most people (maybe including you).

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's
qualifications in an area. if you know something about nazi germany ,
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that.

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii
justifies the crimes commited by the israeli government. any
attempt to call civil liberterians like myself anti semetic is
not appreciated.

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were
tortured. we all suffered. second , the name calling was directed against
you , not civil libertarians in general. your name dropping of a fancy
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite qualifications
in order to obfuscate your glaring unpreparedness for this argument. go
back to the minors , junior.
all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many
others suffered physically. it is sad that people like you are
so blinded by emotions that they ca n't see the facts. thanks
for calling me names , it only assures me of what kind of
ignorant people i am dealing with. i included your letter since
i thought it demonstrated my point more than anything i could
write.


when you 're willing to actually support something you say with fact or
argument rather than covering up your own inadequacies with feigned
offense , let me know. otherwise , back to your own league , son.

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject center for anti israel propaganda
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 67
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


the 'center for policy research' writes...

from the israeli press

hadashot , 14 march 1993

the israeli police department announced on the evening of friday ,
march 12 that it is calling upon jewish israeli citizens with
gun permits to carry them at all times so as to contribute to
their security and that of their surroundings .

considering all the murders of innocent israelis at the hands
of arab death merchants , i see nothing wrong with the advice.

ha'aretz , 15 march 1993

yehoshua matza (likud) , chair of the knesset interior committee ,
stated that he intends to demand that the police department make
it clear to the public that anyone who wounds or kills
non jewish terrorists will not be put on trial.

as usual , the bias of the 'center for policy research' echoes
through this newsgroup. here we have an enraged likudnik who
is venting his spleen , and you portray it as if this is going
to become policy. you do n't say what the response to matza 's
suggestion was. do do not mention whether he was refering to
terrorists caught in the act , which could be a clear cut case
of self defence. would you care to elaborate on this , or was
this all you wanted to say on the matter. why do n't you give
up this 'center for policy research' crap , and just post your
biases without trying to legitimize them with a pompous name \?

ha'aretz , 16 march1993

today a private security firm and units from the idf southern
command will begin installation of four magnetic gates in the gaza
strip , as an additional stage in the upgrading of security
measures in the strip.

the gates will aid in the searching of non jewish gaza residents
as they leave for work in israel. they can be used to reveal the
presence of knives , axes , weapons and other sharp objects.

in addition to the gates , which will be operated by a private
civilian company , large quantities of magnetic card reading
devices are being brought to the inspection points , to facilitate
the reading of the magnetic cards these non jewish workers must
carry.

a laudable precaution.

every single thing you post about israel is posted to portray
israel as negatively as you can. deliberate omissions are an
integral part of the shtick. and it 's not only the incidents
that you do not mention , but even the stories you do post are
fraught with omissions , which change the entire meaning. the
absurdity of your respectable name cannot hide your bias.

in your effort to portray israel in an unfavorable light , you
have accomplished nothing , except to prove that a respectable
sounding label like the center for policy research is nothing
but a smoke screen for someone with a heavily biased attitude
against israel and the need to vent it.

this 'center for policy research' stuff is nonsense.


from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re no humanity in bosnia
keywords barbarism
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 47

in 1993apr15.135934.23814@julian.uwo.ca mrizvi@gfx.engga.uwo.ca (mr. mubashir rizvi) writes

it is very encouraging that a number of people took so interest in my posting.i recieved a couple of letters too , some has debated the statement that events in bosnia are unprecedented in the history of the modern world.those who contest this statement present the figures of the world war ii.however we must keep in mind that it was a world war and no country had the power to stop it , today is the matter not of the power but of the will.it
seems to be that what we lack is the will.

the idea of the u.s , or any other nation , taking action , i.e. , military
intervention , in bosnia has not been well thought out by those who
advocate such action. after the belligerants are subdued , it would require
an occupation force for one or two generations. if you will stop and
think about it , you will realize that these people have never forgotten
a single slight or injury , they have imbibed hatred with their mother 's
milk. if we stop the fighting , seize and destroy all weapons , they will
simply go back to killing each other with clubs. and the price for this
futility will be the lives of the young men and women we send there to
die. a price i am unwilling to even consider.

second point of difference (which makes it different from the holocast(sp \? ) ) is that at that time international community
didnot have enough muscle to prevent the unfortunate event ,

there is no valid comparison to the holocaust. all of the jewish people
that i have known as friends were not brought up to hate. to be wary of
others , most certainly , but not to hate. and except for the warsaw
uprising , they were unarmed (and even in warsaw badly out gunned).
it is very easy to speak of muscle when they are someone else 's muscles.
suppose we do this thing , what will you tell the parents , wives , children ,
lovers of those we are sending to die \? that they gave their lives in some noble cause \? noble cause , separating some mad dogs who will turn on them.

well , i will offer you some muscle. suppose we tell them that they have
one week (this will give foreign nationals time to leave) to cease
their bloodshed. at the end of that week , bring in the tomahawk firing
ships and destroy belgrade as they destroyed the bosnian cities. perhaps
when some of their cities are reduced to rubble they will have a sudden
attack of brains. send in missiles by all means , but do not send in
troops.

today inspite of all the might , the international community is not just standing neutral but has placed an arms embargo which

by all means lift the embargo.

is to the obvious disadvantage of the weeker side and therefore to the advantage of the bully.hence indirecltly and possibly
unintentionally , mankind has sided with the killers.and this , i think is unprecedented in the history of the modern world.

which killers \? do you honestly believe they are all on one side \?

m.rizvi

reb

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re was go hezbollah !
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 25

in article apr16.182858.51611@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes
in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

.....

your view of this entire matter is far too serenely one sided and
selectively naive.

oooh... now that hurts. i will not suffer you through more naive
and one sided views of mine. please skip my articles in the future
oh wise tim , and have a good day.

basil

what is the point in throwing out one sided viewpoints (which means
ignoring that the other side 's perspective and experience has any
legitimacy) while assuming that your side possesses no faults and
bears no responbility for any of the negative impacts of a particular
event \? is n't the former onesided \? is n't the latter naive \? if you feel
that my opinion is wrong then please tell me how. strategic withdrawal
under the cover of a snide remark seems to be the favored tactic on this
net but does n't accomplish anything.



from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject re final solution in palestine \?
in reply to ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu 's message of sun , 25 apr 93 17 10 03 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
1993apr25.171003.10694@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
lines 81

in article 1993apr25.171003.10694@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed) writes

in article hm.93apr24133027@angell.cs.brown.edu , hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes
in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

...

the jews in the warsaw ghetto were fighting to keep themselves and
their families from being sent to nazi gas chambers. groups like hamas
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help

these wnderful freedom fighters attain this ultimate goal.

maybe the freedom fighters will choose to spare the co operative jews.
is that what you are counting on , elias the pity of murderers.

you say your mother was jewish. how ashamed she must be of her son. i
am sorry , mrs. davidsson.

harry.

o.k. , its my turn

driving the jews into the sea \? !

i am sick and tired of this 'driving the jews into the sea' sentance attributed
to islamic movements and the plo it simply ca n't be proven as part of their
plan !

(pro israeli activists repeat it like parrots without checking its authenticity
since it was coined by bnai brith)

what hamas and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media ,
is an islamic state that protects the rights of all its inhabitants under koranic
law. this would be a reversal of the 1948 situation in which the jews in
palestine took control of the land and its (mostly muslim) inhabitants.

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity (torture , blowing up their
homes , murders , ...) must be treated and tried as a war criminal. the political
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the destintion of their choice.

as for the plo , i am at a loss to explain what is going inside arafat 's mind.

although their political thinking seems far fetched with israel acting as a true
super power in the region , the islamic movements are using the same weapon the
jews used to establish their state religion.


ahmed.

forget the syntax , ahmed , and focus on the semnatics. the fact is that
the plo does not recognize israel 's right to exist. this is perfectly
obvious from the plo covenant (cairo , 1968). the covenant calls for
the destruction of the zionist entity . as far as i know the
israel destruction clauses still exist in the document which specifies
the purpose for the existence of the plo. if you would like , i can
post the relevant caluses.

now the hamas ideal is far more radical , it seems. i know it has been
posted here several times , and while i do not have a copy of it , i am
sure that someone does and he (or she , of course) would be more than
happy to repost it.

regardless of phrasing , groups like hamas , and the hezbollah , and
even the newly moderate and politically correct plo , have at the very
heart of their ideologies the need for the destrcution of israel.

it just seems to me that mr. davidsson 's suggestion that jews support
people envolved in these organizations is not a particularly appealing
one to many jews.

harry.

from a1rodrig@vma.cc.nd.edu
subject what a hate filled newsgroup ! ! ! !
organization bullwinkle fan club
lines 5

is this group for real \? i honestly ca n't believe that most of you expect you
or your concerns to be taken remotely seriously if you behave this way in a
forum for discussion. does n't it ever occur to those of you who write letters
like the majority of those in this group that you 're being mind bogglingly
hypocritical \?

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject re about this 'center for policy resea
nf id r 1qu75d 256@usenet.ins.cwru.edu 1462127590 cdp 1483500350 000 1634
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 21 04 21 00 1993
lines 33


it seems to me that many readers of this conference are interested
who is behind the center for polict research. i will oblige.

my name is elias davidsson , icelandic citizen , born in palestine. my
mother was thrown from germany because she belonged to the 'undesirables'
(at that times this group was defined as 'jews'). she was forced to go
to palestine due to many cynical factors. i have meanwhile settled in
iceland (30 years ago) and met many people who were thrown out from
my homeland , palestine , because of the same reason (they belonged to
the 'indesirables'). these people include my neighbors in jerusalem
with the children of whom i played as child. their crime theyare
not jews. my conscience does not accept such injustice , period. my
work for justice is done in the name of my principled opposition to racism
and racial discrimination. those who protest against such practices
in arab countries have my support as long as their protest is based
on a principled position , but not as a tactic to deflect criticism
from israel. the struggle against discrimination and racism is universal.

the center for policy research is a name i gave to those activities
undertaken under my guidance in different domains , and which command
the support of many volunteers in iceland. it is however not a formal
institution and works with minimal funds.

professionally i am music teacher and composer. i have published
several pieces and my piano music is taught widely in europe.

i would hope that discussion about israel palestine be conducted in
a more civilized manner. calling names is not helpful.

elias davidsson
iceland


from rj3s@virginia.edu ( get thee to a nunnery..... )
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization university of virginia
lines 67

waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu writes
ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu writes
ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

first of all i never said the holocaust. i said before the
holocaust. i'm not ignorant of the holocaust and know more
about nazi germany than most people (maybe including you).

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's
qualifications in an area. if you know something about nazi germany ,
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that.

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii
justifies the crimes commited by the israeli government. any
attempt to call civil liberterians like myself anti semetic is
not appreciated.

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were
tortured. we all suffered. second , the name calling was directed against
you , not civil libertarians in general. your name dropping of a fancy
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite qualifications
in order to obfuscate your glaring unpreparedness for this argument. go
back to the minors , junior.
all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many
others suffered physically. it is sad that people like you are
so blinded by emotions that they ca n't see the facts. thanks
for calling me names , it only assures me of what kind of
ignorant people i am dealing with. i included your letter since
i thought it demonstrated my point more than anything i could
write.


when you 're willing to actually support something you say with fact or
argument rather than covering up your own inadequacies with feigned
offense , let me know. otherwise , back to your own league , son.
i have never seen such immaturity among semitophiles. this
andi beyer character shows no signs of anti semitism , yet
because he deviates from the norm of accepted opinion , you
attack him. why did not anyone venture to answer andi 's
question in an intelligent and unoffending manner \? the only
ones guilty here of not backing up there viewpoints with fact
are the israelophiles. now will we please start having some
intelligent conversation \? you all are an insult to you race !
assuming you are also semitic
now i have a comment concerning israeli terrorism
during the 1930 's and 1940 's. the hirgun , and other branch
off militant groups , did fight the british do get them out of
palestine. yet i fail to see how this israeli form of
terrorism was better than the terrorism practiced now by the
arabs. these jewish terrorist groups killed innocent british
soldiers , but not only thta also killed many jews who were in
favor of a compromise with the palestinians. in addition , they
massacred an entire palestinian village in 1948 , contributing
to the exodus of the frightened palestinians who feared their
very lives.
i mention this not because i'm anti semitic i'm part
jewish but because this self righteousness on the part of the
israelites pisses me off so. i'm not as critical of the
palestinians because they were indeed screwed over by the
jews. it 's a damn shame that the palestinians had to pay for
german and european anti semitism.

pissed off at immature ,
closeminded , self righteous
semites

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject more on center for anti irsael rhetoric
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 9
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


dear mr. davidsson ,

you claim that your purpose is to fight racism. but you do n't
seem to have any interest in injustice except that which may have
been committed by israel. the treatment of jews in arab nations ,
an injustice of staggerring proportions , is an injustice that you
do not seem to care the least bit about. why not \?


from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re anti zionism is racism
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 14

b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes

in re syria 's expansion , the author writes that the un thought
zionism was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct
the first time , zionism is racism and thankfully , the mcgill daily
(the student newspaper at mcgill) was proud enough to print an article
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail.

steve

just felt it was important to add four letters that steve left out of
his subject header.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 26
reply to cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu



ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

well i'm not sure about the story nad it did seem biased. what
i disagree with is your statement that the u.s. media is out to
ruin israels reputation. that is rediculous. the u.s. media is
the most pro israeli media in the world. having lived in europe
i realize that incidences such as the one described in the
letter have occured. the u.s. media as a whole seem to try to
ignore them. the u.s. is subsidizing israels existance and the
europeans are not (at least not to the same degree). so i think
that might be a reason they report more clearly on the
atrocities.
what is a shame is that in austria , daily reports of
the inhuman acts commited by israeli soldiers and the blessing
received from the government makes some of the holocaust guilt
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races
when they got power. it is unfortunate.

well said mr. beyer )


cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu
(
h a m z a ) foo i.e. most foo

from albert@olizei.aiva.lt (albert meltser)
subject re how many israeli soldiers... what are you ``joking'' dark so much for \?
distribution world
organization lithuanian israeli joint stock company olizei
reply to albert@olizei.aiva.lt
keywords ani ohev et kolkhem 'uhibbu kullukum i love you all
lines 32

q how many occupying israeli soldiers (terrorists) does it
take to kill a 5 year old native child \?

a four

two fasten his arms , one shoots in the face ,
and one writes up a false report.


.. .

..


1. there is a similar idea here in ex ussr about how many militioners it needs
to place a new electric lamp. the answer is nine one stays on a table and
holds the lamp , four hold the table and turn it and yet four run around the
table in opposite direction not to make the first feel bad (when being
turned). pitily , it lacks this kind of dark humour as nick 's msg does.
2. to my mind the signature should be smth like

.



albert


.. i .. ii
i ) i i ( ) i i i ii
) ' ) .


from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject reasons was re was go hezbollah ! !
organization unocal corporation
lines 35



hossien amehdi writes

i am not in the business of reading minds , however in this case it would not
be necessary. israelis top leaders in the past and present , always come across
as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the arabs.

the way i see it , israelis and arabs have not been able to achieve peace
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons .

1) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or
dictators.

2) israeli government is arrogant and none comprising.



it 's not relevant whether i agree with you or not , there is some reasonable
thought in what you say here an i appreciate your point. however , i would make 2
remarks

you forgot about hate , and this is not only at government level.
it 's not only 'arab' governments.

now , about taugh talk and arrogance , we are adults , are n't we \? do you listen
to tough talk of american politicians \? or switch the channel \?
i would rather be 'intimidated' by some dummy 'talking tough' then by a
bomb ready to blow under my seat in b747.



dorin


from hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam baker)
subject re israel 's expansion
lines 147
reply to hallam@zeus02.desy.de
organization desydeutsches elektronen synchrotron , experiment zeus bei hera


in article 1993apr18.212610.5933@das.harvard.edu , adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack) writes

in article 18apr93.15729846.0076@vm1.mcgill.ca b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes

1) is israel 's occupation of southern lebanon temporary \?

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave lebanon when
the lebanese government can provide guarantees that israel will not be
attacked from lebanese soil , and when the syrians leave.

not acceptable. syria and lebanon have a right to determine if
they wish to return to the situation prior to the french invasion
where they were both part of the same mandate territory read
colony.

israel has no right to determine what happens in lebanon. invading another
country because you consider them a threat is precisely the way that almost
all wars of aggression have started.


2) is israel 's occupation of the west bank , gaza , and golan
temporary \?

the three are very different issues. israel has stated
repeatedly that it will not give up the whole golan , but may be
willing to give part of it to syria as part of a peace agreement.

again territorial expansion by force.


israel has already annexed areas taken over in the 1967 war.
these areas are not occupied , but disputed , since there is no
legitamate governing body. citizenship was given to those residents
in annexed areas who wanted citizenship.

the un defines them as occupied. they are recognised as such by every
nation on earth (excluding one small caribean island).


israel should keep control of parts of the west bank , imho.
the parts that should be kept are the westernmost mountain ridge ,
which contain few arab towns , and many suburbs , as well as overlooking
the city of tel aviv. the eastern mountain ridge should be
abandonded. this is where most of the arabs live and it is less
militarily relevant. israel should also maintain a presence in the
jordan valley.

so the adam thinks that peace is possible with continued occupation and
a continued military presence \? that is a completely unsustainable situation
because the usa is bankrupt and simply cannot afford to finance the
israeli ecconomy any more. there is no money for such an occupation.


if so (for those of you who support it) , why were so
many settlers moved into the territories \? if it is not temporary ,
let 's hear it.

there are a number of reasons for people to move (they were
not moved , but chose to move) into disputed areas. note that since
these moves were made by free willed human beings , not settlers , i
will address two aspects of your question , why the government would
allow or encourage them to move , and second why they did move.

they were moved in as part of a deliberate policy to prevent the return
of the occupied territories. machiavelli described the reasoning in the
prince. the clear intention was to create a constituency which the likud
beleived could not be deprived of the land stolen from the indigenous
population.

the pretexts under which the settlers aquired land was through the
redefinition of much land used in common as public land . the assertion
that the village common on which the village depends for food belongs to
an invader simply because no individual has title is clearly an
excuse. when the land is used to build a condominium for aliens brought
in to occupy the land for a foreign power there is a clear breach of the
geneva convention which stipulates that land use in occupied territories
must not be changed.

no amount of self justifying on the part of likud and hard linner appologists
will change the fact that the majority of world governments , and all of
those that actually have any power have condemned this practice.


the government had a number of reasons for encouraging people
to move across the green line. they included security and politics.

the first reason was security. a large jewish presense makes
it difficult for terrorists to infiltrate. a jewish settlements also
act as fortresses in times of war.

theyu also are a liability. we are talking about civilian encampments that
would last no more than hours against tanks ,

a second reason was political. creating settlements brought
the arabs to the negotiation table. had the creation of new towns and
cities gone on another several years , there would be no place left in
israel where there was an arab majority. there would have been no
land left that could be called arab.

do n't fool yourself. it was the gulf war that brought the israelis to the
negotiating table. once their us backers had a secure base in the gulf
they insrtructed shamir to negotiate or else.

if the creation of settlements had gone on any longer the usa would have
cut the money supply.

the fact that there are a hundered thousands jews in place
changes the face of any peace settlement , and restricts what land can
be given away.

not at all. they can chose to live in an arab state or return to israel.

some of the communites created were religious. they built
their neighborhoods in areas where there were jews until the riots of
the 30 's and 40 's. there are communities like this in hebron , gaza ,
and all over. there are also communities built near religious sites.

the existence of a comunity does not give the right for another country
to annexe territory , not in bosnia , not in the west bank.

the point is , there are many reasons people moved over the
green line , and many reasons the government wanted them to. whatever
status is negotiated for disputed territories , it will not be an all
or nothing deal. new boundaries will be drawn up by negotiation , not
be the results of a war.

unless the new boundaries drawn up are those of 48 there will be no peace.
araffat has precious little authority to agree to anything else.


the real issue is not the land treaty but the trade treaty. since the
palestinians will remain heavily dependent on israel indefinitely it
is this that will be the guarantor of peace. another factor will be the
return of lands confiscated by the israeli state within israel and the
dismantling of the shadow structures which allow discrimination against
non jews within what is nominaly a secular state.

the irony is that in return for a guarantee that the palestinian state has
a non descrimination law in order to protect the remaining settlers the
israeli state is going to be forced inot the same position. this will mean
outlawing of discrimination such as that which prevents arabs from buying
or using much of the land.



phill hallam baker

from farzin@apollo3.ntt.jp (farzin mokhtarian)
subject re kh news 1026
originator sehari@vincent2.iastate.edu
organization ntt corp. japan
lines 23


i wrote

@ from kayhan havai 1026
@
@
@ o dr. namaki , deputy minister of health stated that infant
@ mortality (under one year old) in iran went down from 120
@ per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at
@ the end of 1371 (last month).
@
@ o dr namaki also stated that before the revolution only
@ 254f children received vaccinations to protect them
@ from various deseases but this figure reached 93at
@ the end of 1371.

something funny happens to the percent sign. in paragraph
above , the vaccination rate went from 25 percent to 93 percent.

farzin




from adams@bellini.berkeley.edu (adam l. schwartz)
subject danny rubenstein speaking tonight.
nntp posting host bellini.berkeley.edu
organization u.c. berkeley erl
lines 7


danny rubenstein , an israeli journalist , will be speaking tonight
(wednesday , 7 30 pm) on the messy subject of politics in israel.
he is speaking at hillel on the u.c. berkeley campus.

adam schwartz
adams@robotics.berkeley.edu

from rj3s@virginia.edu ( get thee to a nunnery..... )
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of virginia
lines 1

just kidding

from mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
nntp posting host herky.cs.uiowa.edu
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa
lines 16

from article 1qvgu5inn2np@lynx.unm.edu , by osinski@chtm.eece.unm.edu (marek osinski)

well , it did not take long to see how consequent some greeks are in
requesting that thessaloniki are not called solun by bulgarian netters.
so , napoleon , why do you write about konstantinople and not istanbul \?

marek osinski

thessaloniki is called thessaloniki by its inhabitants for the last 2300 years.
the city was never called solun by its inhabitants.
instabul was called konstantinoupolis from 320 ad until about the 1920s.
that 's about 1600 years. there many people alive today who were born in a city
called konstantinoupolis. how many people do you know that were born in a city
called solun.

napoleon

from nabil@ariel.yorku.ca (nabil gangi)
subject dear mr ajami
organization york university , toronto , canada
lines 20

i have read just today two articles dripping of hate and offence to
a great deal of people. i could find as much matching hatred in your
articles as i have found in some of the self righteous kill in the name
of god people.

i do n't know why you are so attcaking to everyone , is it a reaction to
the hatred calls on this newsgroup , or is it a reaction to hardships
you have seen and experienced from before...
i have learnt not to judge people by only what they say , but rather
try to put myself in their place and aspire to understand their
feelings.

i hope you would be able to do the same with everyone , starting by your
ownself , because only through that you could be able to understand your
feelings and act in a the manner you would aspire everyone to adopt.

thanks for your time

nabil


from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human rights violations in azerbaijan 013
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 339

accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 013
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh



i said that on february 27 , when those people were streaming down
our street , they were shouting , long live turkey ! and glory to
turkey ! and during the trial i said to that ismailov , what does
that mean , 'glory to turkey' \? i still do n't understand what turkey
has to do with this , we live in the soviet union. that turkey told
you to or is going to help you kill armenians \? i still do n't
understand why glory to turkey ! i asked that question twice and
got no answer . . . no one answered me . . .



deposition of emma setrakovna sargisian

born 1933
cook
sumgait emergency hospital

resident at building 16 13 , apartment 14
block 5
sumgait azerbaijan


to this day i ca n't understand why my husband , an older man , was killed. what
was he killed for. he had n't hurt anyone , had n't said any word he ought n't
have. why did they kill him \? i want to find out from here , from there , from
the government why my husband was killed.

on the 27th , when i returned from work it was a saturday my son was at home.
he does n't work. i went straight to the kitchen , and he called me , mamma , is
there a soccer game \? there were shouts from lenin street. that 's where we
lived. i say , i do n't know , igor , i have n't turned on the tv. he looked
again and said , mamma , what 's going on in the courtyard \? ! i look and see so
many people , it 's awful , marching , marching , there are hundreds , thousands ,
you ca n't even tell how many there are. they 're shouting , down with the
armenians ! kill the armenians ! tear the armenians to pieces ! my god , why is
that happening , what for \? i had known nothing at that point. we lived together
well , in friendship , and suddenly something like this. it was completely
unexpected. and they were shouting , long live turkey ! and they had flags ,
and they were shouting. there was a man walking in front well dressed , he 's
around 40 or 45 , in a gray raincoat. he is walking and saying something , i
ca n't make it out through the vent window. he is walking and saying something ,
and the children behind him are shouting , tear the armenians to pieces ! and
down with the armenians ! they shout it again , and then shout , hurrah ! the
people streamed without end , they were walking in groups , and in the groups i
saw that there were women , too. i say , my god , there are women there too !
and my son says , those are n't women , mamma , those are bad women. well we
did n't look a long time. they were walking and shouting and i was afraid , i
simply could n't sit still. i went out onto the balcony , and my azerbaijani
neighbor is on the other balcony , and i say , khalida , what 's going on , what
happened \? she says , emma , i do n't know , i do n't know , i do n't know what
happened. well she was quite frightened too. they had these white sticks ,
each second or third one had a white rod. they 're waving the rods above their
heads as they walk , and the one who 's out front , like a leader , he has a white
stick too. well maybe it was an armature shaft , but what i saw was white , i
do n't know.

my husband got home 10 or 15 minutes later. he comes home and i say , oh
dear , i'm frightened , they 're going to kill us i bet. and he says , what are
you afraid of , they 're just children. i say , everything that happens comes
from children. there had been 15 and 16 year kids from the technical and
vocational school. do n't fear , he said , it 's nothing , nothing all that
bad. he did n't eat , he just lay on the sofa. and just then on television they
broadcast that two azerbaijanis had been killed in karabakh , near askeran.
when i heard that i could n't settle down at all , i kept walking here and
there and i said , they 're going to kill us , the azerbaijanis are going to
kill us. and he says , do n't be afraid. then we heard from the central
square , there are women shouting near near the stage , well , they 're shouting
different things , and you could n't hear every well. i say , you speak
azerbaijani well , listen to what they 're saying. he says close the window
and go to bed , there s nothing happening there. he listened a bit and then
closed the window and went to bed , and told us , come on , go to sleep , it 's
nothing. sleep , what did he mean sleep \? my son and i stood at the window
until two in the morning watching. well he 's sick , and all of this was
affecting him. i say , igor , you go to bed , i'm going to go to bed in a minute
too. he went and i sat at the window until three , and then went to bed.
things had calmed down slightly.

the 28th , sunday , was my day off. my husband got up and said , come on , emma ,
get up. i say , today 's my day off , let me rest. he says , are n't you going
to make me some tea \? well i felt startled and got up , and said , where are
you going \? he says , i'm going out , i have to. i say , can you really go
outside on a day like today \? do n't go out , for god 's sake. you never listen to
me , i know , and you 're not going to listen to me now , but at least do n't take
the car out of the garage , go without the car. and he says , come on , close
the door ! and then on the staircase he muttered something , i could n't make it
out , he probably said coward or something.

i closed the door and he left. and i started cleaning . . . picking things up
around the house . . . everything seemed quiet until one o'clock in the after
noon , but at the bus station , my neighbor told me , cars were burning. i said ,
khalida , was it our car \? she says , no , no , emma , do n't be afraid , they
were government cars and zhigulis.'' our car is a gaz 21 volga. and i waited ,
it was four o'clock , five o'clock . . . and when he was n't home at seven i
said , oh , they 've killed shagen !

tires are burning in town , there 's black smoke in town , and i'm afraid , i'm
standing on the balcony and i'm all . . . my whole body is shaking. my god ,
they 've probably killed him ! so basically i waited like that until ten
o'clock and he still had n't come home. and i'm afraid to go out. at ten
o'clock i look out across from our building is a building with a bookstore ,
and from upstairs , from the second floor , everything is being thrown outside.
i'm looking out of one window and igor is looking out of the other , and i
do n't want him to see this , and he , as it turns out , does n't want me to see
it. we wanted to hide it from one another. i joined him. mamma , he says ,
look what they 're doing over there ! they were burning everything , and there
were police standing there , 10 or 15 of them , maybe twenty policemen standing
on the side , and the crowd is on the other side , and two or three people are
throwing everything down from the balcony. and one of the ones on the balcony
is shouting , what are you standing there for , burn it ! when they threw the
television , wow , it was like a bomb ! our neighbor on the third floor came out
on her balcony and shouted , why are you doing that , why are you burning those
things , those people saved with such difficulty to buy those things for their
home. why are you burning them \? and from the courtyard they yell at her , go
inside , go inside ! instead why do n't you tell us if they are any of them in
your building or not \? they meant armenians , but they did n't say armenians ,
they said , of them. she says , no , no , no , none ! then she ran downstairs to
our place , and says , emma , emma , you have to leave ! i say , they 've killed
shagen anyway , what do we have to live for \? it wo n't be living for me without
shagen. let them kill us , too ! she insists , saying , emma , get out of here ,
go to khalida 's , and give me the key. when they come i 'll say that it 's my
daughter 's apartment , that they 're off visiting someone. i gave her the key
and went to the neighbor 's , but i could n't endure it. i say , igor , you stay
here , i'm going to go downstairs , and see , maybe papa 's . . . papa 's there.

meanwhile , they were killing the two brothers , alik and valery albert and
valery avanesians see the accounts of rima avanesian and alvina baluian , in
the courtyard. there is a crowd near the building , they 're shouting , howling ,
and i did n't think that they were killing at the time. alik and valery lived
in the corner house across from ours. when i went out into the courtyard i saw
an azerbaijani , our neighbor , a young man about 30 years old. i say , madar ,
uncle shagen 's gone , let 's go see , maybe he 's dead in the garage or near the
garage , let 's at least bring the corpse into the house. he shouts , aunt
emma , where do you think you 're going \? ! go back into the house , i 'll look for
him. i say , something will happen to you , too , because of me , no , madar ,
i'm coming too. well he would n't let me go all the same , he says , you stay
here with us , i'm go look. he went and looked , and came back and said , aunt
emma , there 's no one there , the garage is closed. madar went off again and
then returned and said , aunt emma , they 're already killed alik , and valery 's
there . . . wheezing.

madar wanted to go up to him , but those scoundrels said , do n't go near him ,
or we 'll put you next to him. he got scared he 's young and came back and
said , i'm going to go call , maybe an ambulance will come , at least to take
alik , maybe he 'll live . . . they grew up together in our courtyard , they
knew each other well , they had always been on good terms. he went to call , but
not a single telephone worked , they had all been shut off. he called , and
called , and called , and called nothing.

i went upstairs to the neighbor 's. igor says , two police cars drove up over
there , their headlights are on , but they 're not touching them , they are still
lying where they were , they 're still lying there . . . we watched out the
window until four o'clock , and then went downstairs to our apartment. i did n't
take my clothes off. i lay on the couch so as not to go to bed , and at six
o'clock in the morning i got up and said , igor , you stay here at home , do n't
go out , do n't go anywhere , i'm going to look , i have to find papa , dead or
alive . . . let me go . . . i 've got the keys from work.

at six o'clock i went to the emergency hospital. the head doctor and another
doctor opened the door to the morgue. i run up to them and say , doctor , is
shagen there \? he says , what do you mean \? why should shagen be here \? ! i
wanted to go in , but he would n't let me. there were only four people in there ,
they said. well , they must have been awful because they did n't let me in. they
said , shagen 's not here , he 's alive somewhere , he 'll come back.

it 's already seven o'clock in the morning. i look and there is a panel truck
with three policemen. some of our people from the hospital were there with
them. i say , sara baji sister sara , term of endearment , go look , they 've
probably brought shagen. i said it , shouted it , and she went and came back
and says , no , emma , he has tan shoes on , it 's a younger person. now shagen
just happened to have tan shoes , light tan , they were already old. when they
said it like that i guessed immediately. i went and said , doctor , they 've
brought shagen in dead. he says , why are you carrying on like that , dead ,
dead . . . he 's alive. but then he went all the same , and when he came back
the look on his face was . . . i could tell immediately that he was dead. they
knew one another well , shagen had worked for him a long time. i say , doctor ,
is it shagen \? he says , no , emma , it 's not he , it 's somebody else entirely.
i say , doctor , why are you deceiving me , i 'll find out all the same anyway ,
if not today , then tomorrow. and he said . . . i screamed , right there in the
office. he says , emma , go , go calm down a little. another one of our
colleagues said that the doctor had said it was shagen , but . . . in hideous
condition. they tried to calm me down , saying it was n't shagen. a few minutes
later another colleague comes in and says , oh , poor emma ! when she said it
like that there was no hope left.

that day was awful. they were endlessly bringing in dead and injured
people.

at night someone took me home. i said , igor , papa 's been killed.

on the morning of the 1st i left igor at home again and went to the hospital
i had to bury him somehow , do something. i look and see that the hospital is
surrounded by soldiers. they are wearing dark clothes. hey , citizen , where
are you going \? i say , i work here , and from inside someone shouts , yes ,
yes , that 's our cook , let her in. i went right to the head doctor 's office
and there is a person from the city health department there , he used to
work with us at the hospital. he says , emma , shagen 's been taken to baku.
in the night they took the wounded and the dead , all of them , to baku. i
say , doctor , how will i bury him \? he says , we 're taking care of all that ,
do n't you worry , we 'll do everything , we 'll tell you about it. where did you
spend the night \? i say , i was at home. he says , what do you mean you
were at home \? ! you were at home alone \? i say , no , igor was there too. he
says , you ca n't stay home , we 're getting an ambulance right now , wait just
one second , the head doctor is coming , we 're arranging an ambulance right
now , you put on a lab coat and take one for igor , you go and bring igor here
like a patient , and you 'll stay here and we 'll se later what to do next ...
his last name is kagramanov. the head doctor 's name is izyat jamalogli
sadukhov.

the ambulance arrived and i went home and got igor. they admitted him as a
patient , they gave us a private room , an isolation room. we stayed in the
hospital until the 4th.

some police car came and they said , emma , let 's go. and the women , our
colleagues , then they saw the police car , became anxious and said , where are
you taking her \? i say , they 're going to kill me , too . . . and the
investigator says , why are you saying that , we 're going to make a positive
identification. we went to baku and they took me into the morgue . . . i
still ca n't remember what hospital it was . . . the investigator says , let 's
go , we need to be certain , maybe it 's not shagen. and when i saw the caskets ,
lying on top of one another , i went out of my mind. i say , i ca n't look , no.
the investigator says , are there any identifying marks \? i say , let me see
the clothes , or the shoes , or even a sock , i 'll recognize them. he says ,
is n't they 're anything on his body \? i say he has seven gold teeth and his
finger , he only has half of one of his fingers. shagen was a carpenter , he had
been injured at work . . .

they brought one of the sleeves of the shirt and sweater he was wearing , they
brought them and they were all burned . . . when i saw them i shouted , oh ,
they burned him ! i shouted , i do n't know , i fell down . . . or maybe i sat
down , i do n't remember. and that investigator says , well fine , fine , since
we 've identified that these are his clothes , and since his teeth . . . since
he has seven gold teeth . . .

on the 4th they told me emma , it 's time to bury shagen now. i cried , how ,
how can i bury shagen when i have only one son and he 's sick \? i should inform
his relatives , he has three sisters , i ca n't do it by myself. they say , ok ,
you know the situation. how will they get here from karabagh \? how will they
get here from yerevan \? there 's no transportation , it s impossible.

he was killed on february 28 , and i buried him on march 7. we buried him in
sumgait. they asked me , where do you want to bury him \? i said , i want to
bury him in karabagh , where we were born , let me bury him in karabagh , i'm
shouting , and the head of the burial office , i guess , says , do you know what
it means , take him to karabagh \? ! it means arson ! i say , what do you mean ,
arson \? do n't they know what 's going on in karabagh \? the whole world knows that
they killed them , and i want to take him to karabagh , i do n't have anyone
anymore. i begged , i pleaded , i grieved , i even got down on my knees. he
says , let 's bury him here now , and in three months , in six months , a year ,
if it calms down , i 'll help you move him to karabagh . . .

our trial was the first in sumgait. it was concluded on may 16. at the
investigation the murderer , tale ismailov , told how it all happened , but then
at the trial he . . . tried to wriggle . . . he tried to soften his crime.
then they brought a videotape recorder , i guess , and played it , and said ,
ismailov , look , is that you \? he says , yes. well look , here you 're
describing everything as it was on the scene of the crime , right \? he says ,
yes. and now you 're telling it differently \? he says , well maybe i
forgot ! like that.

the witnesses and that criminal creep himself said that when the car was going
along mir street , there was a crowd of about 80 people . . . shagen had a
volga gaz 21. the 80 people surrounded his car , and all 80 of them were
involved. one of them was this ismailov guy , this tale. they it 's unclear
who started pulling shagen out of the car. well , one says from the left side
of the car , another says from the right side. they pulled off his sports
jacket. he had a jacket on. well they ask him , what 's your nationality \? he
says , armenian. well they say from the crowd they shouted , if he 's an
armenian , kill him , kill him ! they started beating him , they broke seven of
his ribs , and his heart . . . i do n't know , they did something there , too
. . . it 's too awful to tell about. anyway , they say this tale guy . . . he
had an armature shaft. he says , i picked it up , it was lying near a bush ,
that 's where i got it. he said he picked it up , but the witnesses say that he
had already had it. he said , i hit him twice , he said , . . . once or twice
on the head with that rod. and he said that when he started to beat him
shagen was sitting on the ground , and when he hit him he fell over. he said ,
i left , right nearby they were burning things or something in an apartment ,
killing someone , he says , and i came back to look , is that shagen alive or
not \? i said , you wanted to finish him , right , and if he was still alive , you
came back to hit him again \? he went back and looked and he was already dead.
after that , that bastard tale said , after that i went home.

i said , you . . . you . . . little snake , i said , are you a thief and a
murderer \? shagen had had money in his jacket , and a watch on his wrist. they
were taken. he says he did n't take them

when they overturned and burned the car , that tale was no longer there , it was
other people who did that. who it was , who turned over the car and who burned
it , that has n't been clarified as yet. i told the investigator , how can you
have the trial when you do n't know who burned the car \? he said something , but
i did n't get what he was saying. but i said , you still have n't straightened
everything out , i think that 's unjust.

when they burned the car he was lying next to it , and the fire spread to him.
in the death certificate it says that he had third degree burns over 80
percent of his body . . .

and i ask again , why was he killed \? my husband was a carpenter he was a good
craftsman , he knew how to do everything , he even fixed his own car , with his
own hands. we have three children. three sons. only igor was with me at the
time. the older one was in pyatigorsk , and the younger one is serving in the
army. and now they 're fatherless...

i could n't sit all the way through it. when the procurator read up to 15
years' deprivation of freedom , i just . . . i went out of my mind , i did n't
know what to do with myself , i said , how can that be \? you , i said , you are
saying that it was intentional murder and the sentence is 15 years'
deprivation of freedom \? i screamed , i had my mind ! i said , let me at that
creep , with my bare hands i 'll . . . a relative restrained me , and there
were all those military people there . . . i lest. i said , this is n't a
soviet trial , this is unjust ! that 's what i shouted , l said it and left . . .

i said that on february 27 , when those people were streaming down our street ,
they were shouting , long live turkey ! and glory to turkey ! and during the
trial i said to that ismailov , what does that mean , 'glory to turkey' \? i
still do n't understand what turkey has to do with this , we live in the soviet
union. that turkey told you to or is going to help you kill armenians \? i still
do n't understand why glory to turkey ! i asked that question twice and got no
answer . . . no one answered me . . .

may 19 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 178 184



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 23

in article 1993apr19.192207.413@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on
in lebanon and try to see through the propaganda.

thank you , brad ali , for warning us about the dangers of propaganda.
it 's funny , though , coming from you.

there are no a priori
black and white hats but one sure wonders how the idf can bombard villages in
retaliation to pin point attacks on its soldiers in lebanon and then call the
lebanese terrorists.

who is it that executes these pin point attacks on israelis \? the
guys in the white hats or the ones in the black hats \? neither \? you
mean that they are just civilians , farmers , teachers , school children \?
well , maybe they are terrorists , after all \? and maybe that
propaganda was correct , too \? hmm \?


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re final solution for gaza \?
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 66

in article 1483500354@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject final solution for gaza \?

while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto ,

fete \? \? \? since this word both formally and commonly refers to
positive joyous events , your misuse of it here is rather unsettling.

they repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto
and attempt to starve the gazans.

i certainly abhor those israeli policies and attitudes that are
abusive towards the palestinians gazans. given that , however , there
is no comparison between the reality of the warsaw ghetto and in
gaza.

the right of the gazan population to resist occupation is
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of
justice.

just as international law recognizes the right of the occupying
entity to maintain order , especially in the face of elements
that are consciously attempting to disrupt the civil structure.
ironically , international law recognizes each of these focusses
(that of the occupied and the occupier) even though they are
inherently in conflict.

as israel denies gazans the only two options which are compatible
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish
society does not consider gazans full human beings.

israel certainly cannot , and should not , continue its present
policies towards gazan residents. there is , however , a third
alternative the creation and implementation of a jewish dhimmi
system with gazans palestinians as benignly protected citizens.
would you find that as acceptable in that form as you do with
regard to islam 's policies towards its minorities \?

whether they have some final solution up their sleeve \?

it is a race , then \? between israel 's anti palestinian gazan
final solution and the arab world 's anti israel jewish
final solution . do you favor one \? neither \?

i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever
they can to help the gazans regain their full human , civil and
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings.

since there is justifiable worry by various parties that israel
and arab palestinian final solution intentions exist , is n't it
important that both israeli and palestinian gazan rights
be secured \?

elias davidsson iceland




tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re the hamas way of death
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 15

in article 1993apr17.160731.3178@nntpd.lkg.dec.com alaa@peewee.unx.dec.com (alaa zeineldine) writes
nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer) writes

the hamas way of death

(following is a transcript of a recruitment and training
videotape made last summer by the qassam battalions , the military

alaa zeineldine

while you brought up the separate question of israel 's unjustified
policies and practices , i am still unclear about your reaction to
the practices and polocies reflected in the article above.

tim

from gd8f@kelvin.seas.virginia.edu (gregory dandulakis)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
organization university of virginia
lines 59

in article 93106.082650finaid5@auvm.american.edu finaid5@auvm.american.edu writes
message id 1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu mr.napoleon responds

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor
until 1923 someone had to protect them. if not us who \? \?


is that so \? or you were taking advantage of weakness of ottoman
empire to grab some land. as soon as you got green lights from
allied forces , you occupied izmir and other cities in western
turkey. you killed and raped millions people without any reason.
of course , you paid the price. mustafa kemal ataturk made
you swim in aegean sea but not far enough. your aggressions thru
turkey at anytime in the past did not get you any reward and shall
not get you anywhere.


do n't swallow propaganda as truth sir. british promised to venizelos
(greek pm) that mainly greek populated areas of the ottomans will be
given to greece , if he will agree to drag greece in the side of
the british during the wwi (because the greek king was progerman).
the british succeeded by bombarding athens (1916) , killing quite a few ,
forcing abdication of the king , division of greece into two separate
states (north south) , and finally laying the ground for the most disasterous
division between greeks for our century.(so do n't feel bitter that the
allies gave any green light because they liked us....)

anyway , the british succeed to establish venizelos , war starts at a second
front against the germans in the south while they were fighting the war
in the east against the russians , and finally the wwii came in an end.
after that the british (and french) forgot immediately their promises
(as usually). even though publicly they say that they support the greek
cause , practically they not only do nothing , but instead , using some usual
reasoning and other crap rhetoric as a pretext , they gradually
backup kemal (who had given now to the british water and bread that
he will dissolve the superethnic ottoman and contract it into a small
ethnic state). the main drive behind this british switch was the plan
to keep a muslim state in the region as buffer against a russian expansion
into warm water facilities. the greek empire being an orthodox christian
state was too prone to become russian client.

out of this intrigue , the current state of affairs was established on our
lands. while venizelos and kemal were promoted as true giants by the
british , since they worked to realize their goals in the region.
under the same plan , currently greece and turkey are recipients of big
military funds from the us both they are functioning as anti russian
buffers , while simultaneously both remain good clients of state dept. because
otherwise the use of terror of changing the balance of power in the aegean
will be used.

under the same exact rational you should see the cyprus problem.

gr

ps i do n't make any anti ...whatever rhetoric. this is the situation
in our region and needs to be said. the previously mentioned powers
are not anything special they are fucntioning the same way which
anyone else functions all throughout history. so i do n't selectively
single them out just they are relevant to our current afairs.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re the systematic genocide of the muslim population by the armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 99

in article 1993apr5.211146.3662@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu jfurr@nyx.cs.du.edu (joel furr) writes

i dunno , warren. just the other day i heard a rumor that serdar argic
(aka hasan mutlu and ahmed cosar and zumabot) is not really a turk at all ,
but in fact is an armenian

1 64th or 63 64th \?

i must congratulate your analytical and excellent
reportage about diana. from the writings of tye
biographers you quoted , i can perceive , maybe
chauvinistically , the remnants of her armenian
genes. even though she is only 1 64th armenian ,
she seems to have many of the strong
characteristics of armenian women. her armenian
ancestry is traced to eliza kewark (an armenian
from india) , who married the scottish merchant
thedore forbes. from the union was born kathleen
scott forbes , who married james crombie from
aberdeen. they had a daughter jane , who married
david littlejohn. their daughter ruth married
william gill. ruth silvia gill , the grandmother of
lady diana , married lord fermoy , and their
daughter , frances ruth burke roache , married the
eight earl of spencer , who was the father of lady
diana. it is noteworthy that eliza kewark was also
referred to as mrs. forbesian (a characteristic
armenian surname ending). an armenian scottish
gene mix is dynamite.

levon k. topuzian
assistant professor
northwestern university
skoie , illinois.

time , december 21 , 1992 'letters'

who is attempting to make any discussion of the
massacres in armenia of turks so noise laden as to make serious discussion
impossible , thereby cloaking the historical record with a tremendous cloud
of confusion.

you have set up straw horses and knocked them down. i'm not impressed.
anyway , the armenians tore apart the ottoman empire 's eastern provinces ,
massacred 2.5 million defenseless turkish women , children and elderly
people , burned thousands of turkish and kurdish villages and exterminated
the entire turkish population of the armenian dictatorship between
1914 1920. such outrageous sleight of hand that is still employed today
in armenia brings a depth and verification to the turkish genocide
that is hard to match. a hundred years ago armenians again thought
they could get whatever they wanted through sheer terror like the
russian anarchists that they accepted as role models. several armenian
terror groups like asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle
resorted to the same tactics in the 1980s , butchering scores of innocent
turks and their families in the united states and europe. it seems that
they are doing it again , at a different scale , in fascist x soviet armenia
today.


source stanford j. shaw , on armenian collaboration with invading russian
armies in 1914 , history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (volume
ii reform , revolution republic the rise of modern turkey , 1808 1975).
(london , cambridge university press 1977). pp. 315 316.

in april 1915 dashnaks from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city
of van , whose 33 , 789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population ,
closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire...leaving erivan
on april 28 , 1915 , armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during
the next two days while the small ottoman garrison had to retreat to the
southern side of the lake.

knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions ,
armenians looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their aims.
armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the first
world war with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuse
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other
invading russian armies. their hope was their participation in the russian
success would be rewarded with an independent armenian state carved out of
ottoman territories. armenian political leaders , army officers , and common
soldiers began deserting in droves.

with the russian invasion of eastern anatolia in 1914 at the beginning of
world war i , the degree of armenian collaboration with the ottoman 's enemy
increased drastically. ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks ,
armenian revolutionaries armed armenian civil populations , who in turn
massacred the muslim population of the province of van in anticipation of
expected arrival of the invading russian armies.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from ifaz706@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu (noam tractinsky)
subject go hizbollah ii !
lines 28
nntp posting host purple.cc.utexas.edu
organization university of texas @ austin
lines 28


from israel line , thursday , april 22 , 1993

today 's ha'aretz reports that three women were injured when a
katyusha rocket fell in the center of their community. the rocket
was one of several dozen fired at the communities of the galilee in
northern israel yesterday by the terrorist hizbullah organization ...


in article 1993apr14.125813.21737@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu
(brad hernlem) wrote

congratulations to the brave men of the lebanese resistance ! with every
israeli son that you place in the grave you are underlining the moral
bankruptcy of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli
government 's policy of reckless disregard for civilian life.


apparently , the hizbollah were encouraged by brad 's cheers
(good job , brad). someone forgot to tell them , though , that
brad asks them to place only israeli sons in the grave ,
not daughters. paraphrasing a bit , with every rocket that
the hizbollah fires on the galilee , they justify israel 's
holding to the security zone.

noam



from revans@euclid.ucsd.edu ( )
subject himmler 's speech on the extirpation of the jewish race
lines 42
nntp posting host euclid.ucsd.edu


washington a stark reminder of the holocaust a speech by nazi
ss leader heinrich himmler that refers to the extermination of the
jewish race went on display friday at the national archives.
the documents , including handwritten notes by himmler , are
among the best evidence that exists to rebut claims that the
holocaust is a myth , archivists say.
the notes give them their authenticity , said robert wolfe ,
a supervisory archivist for captured german records. he was
supposed to destroy them. like a lot of bosses , he did n't obey his
own rules.
the documents , moved out of berlin to what himmler hoped
would be a safe hiding place , were recovered by allied forces after
world war ii from a salt mine near salzburg , austria.
himmler spoke on oct.4 , 1943 , in posen , poland , to more than
100 german secret police generals. i also want to talk to you ,
quite frankly , on a very grave matter. among ourselves it should be
mentioned quite frankly , and yet we will never speak of it publicly.
i mean the clearing out of the jew , the extermination of the jewish
race. this is a page of glory in our history which has never been
written and is never to be written. emphasis mine rje
the german word himmler uses that is translated as
extermination is ausrottung .
wolfe said a more precise translation would be extirpation
or tearing up by the roots.
in his handwritten notes , himmler used a euphemism ,
judenevakuierung or evacuation of the jews. but archives
officials said extermination is the word he actually
spoke preserved on an audiotape in the archives.
himmler , who oversaw adolf hitler 's final solution of the
jewish question , committed suicide after he was arrested in 1945.
the national archives exhibit , on display through may 16 , is
a preview of the opening of the united states holocaust memorial
museum here on april 26.
the national archives exhibit includes a page each of
himmler 's handwritten notes , a typed transcript from the speech and
an offical translation made for the nuremberg war crimes trials.

from p.a10 of saturday 's l.a. times , 4 17 93
(associated press)

(revans@math.ucsd.edu)

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject zionism racism
nf id n cdp 1483500362 000 2842
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 25 05 27 00 1993
lines 76


from center for policy research cpr
subject zionism racism


diaspora 'a cancer'
by julian kossoff and lindsay schusman in
jewish chronicle , london , 22. dec. 1989

leading israeli author and cultural commentator , a.b. yehoshua ,
launched a ferocious attack on diaspora jewry at a zionist youth
council meeting in north london , last week.

the diaspora , he claimed , was the cancer connected to the main
tissue of the jewish people . he was scathing about its failure to
act before the holocaust.

he said the diaspora 's religious and secular leadership had
ignored the warning signs in the 1920s , and had fiercely opposed
zionism. consequently , he considered the holocaust , the failure
of judaism .

his talk , entitled diaspora a neurotic solution , covered 5 , 000
years of jewish history.

mr. yehoshua 's other targets included soviet jews who were , he
said not staying in israel , but running away , and all jews
outside israel who were using other people 's countries like
hotels .

the only conclusion he could draw was that the diaspora was
immoral , because it looked to israel for its identity but lived
elsewhere.

worse , it threatened israel itself , creating a distraction for her
citizens , who were leaving by the thousands.

mr. yehoshua , who described himself as a soldier for aliyah ,
ended by calling for the creation of a new total jew , living in
israel.

earlier , speaking at a meeting of jewish students on the
difficulties of forging a national identity in israeli literature ,
mr. yehoshua claimed that israeli writers were paralyzed by the
country 's political situation.

he said israel 's wars had once provided writers with a vital
source of inspiration. today , israeli writers avoided writing
directly about the arab israeli conflict. no major work had been
produced about the intifada.

instead , writers were tackling themes such as jewish identity ,
emigration from israel and personal and family issues.

mr. yehoshua admitted he also felt unable to write about the
israeli political situation. he could no longer step into an
israeli arab 's shoes and portray him as a real flesh and blood
character .

he claimed that after 40 years of statehood , the problem of
israeli identity had not been solved. he said jews remained too
pre occupied with the borders of identity between jew and non jew ,
and were not concerned with the nature of that identity.

jewish values in israel embraced every aspect of daily life ,
unlike in the diaspora , where jews had no responsibility for the
country they lived in , he said.

he warned that modern hebrew , a unifying force for the jewish
people , would have to struggle for its future , especially in
literary circles. it faced fierce competition from the english
language.





from clamen @cs.cmu.edu (stewart clamen)
subject re binyamin netanyahu on cnn tonight.
in reply to mkaye@world.std.com 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 13 56 58 gmt
originator clamen@byron.sp.cs.cmu.edu
nntp posting host byron.sp.cs.cmu.edu
reply to clamen @cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university
lines 15


in article c5j2qz.mne@world.std.com mkaye@world.std.com (martin kaye) writes

great interview with benjamin netanyahu on cnn larry king live (4 15 93)
this guy is knows what he is talking about. he is truely charismatic ,
articulate , intelligent , and demonstrates real leadership qualities.

i agree , but i wish i liked his politics.


stewart m. clamen internet clamen@cs.cmu.edu
school of computer science uucp uunet ! clamen@cs.cmu.edu
carnegie mellon university phone 1 412 268 2145
5000 forbes avenue fax 1 412 681 5739
pittsburgh , pa 15213 3891 , usa

from oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 38

in article 1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr17.185118.10792@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes

.. cancellum ...



let me clearify mr. turkish

armenia is not getting itchy . she is simply letting the world know that she
will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous
tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of
cypress while the world simply watched.



it is more appropriate to address netters with their names as they appear in
their signatures (i failed to do so since you did not bother to sign your
posting). not only because it is the polite thing to do , but also to avoid
addressing ladies with mr. , as you have done.

secondly , the island of which the name is more correctly spelled as cyprus has
never been greek , but rather , it has been home to a bi communal society formed
of greeks and turks. it seems that you know as little about the history and
the demography of the island , as you know about the essence of turkey 's
military intervention to it under international agreements.

be that as it may , an analogy between an act of occupation in history and what
is going on today on azerbaijani land , can only be drawn with the expansionist
policy that armenia is now pursuing.

but , i could agree that it is not for us to issue diagnoses to the political
conduct of countries , and promulgate them in such terminology as
itchy bitchy ...

onur yalcin



from melons@vnet.ibm.com (mike magil)
subject re israel does not kill reporters.
lines 26


anas omran has claimed that , the israelis used to arrest , and
sometime to kill some of these neutral reporters. the assertion
by anas omran is , of course , a total fabrication. if there is an
once of truth iin it , i'm sure anas omran can document such a sad
and despicable event. otherwise we may assume that it is another
piece of anti israel bullshit posted by someone whose family does
not know how to teach their children to tell the truth. if omran
would care to retract this 'error' i would be glad to retract the
accusation that he is a liar. if he can document such a claim , i
would again be glad to apologize for calling him a liar. failing
to do either of these would certainly show what a liar he is.

why retract your accusation that he 's a liar \? if omran retracts his verbal
diarrohea does n't that only prove the liar he really is \? a retraction
would be pointless ! giving this guy the opportunity to save face after
uttering such bullshit would just encourage him to do it again ! i must say
that your style is very impressive , mark. keep it up !

mike


mi ke mik emik emi k opinions expressed above
m i k e m i k e m are my own and not that
m i k e mikem i kem i k of 'big blue'
m i k e m ike m ike mike

from mucit@cs.rochester.edu (bulent murtezaoglu)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
in reply to henrik@quayle.kpc.com 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 23 24 49 gmt
nntp posting host vein.cs.rochester.edu
organization computer science department , university of rochester
mucit.93apr20144400@vein.cs.rochester.edu
1993apr20.232449.22318@kpc.com

in article 1993apr20.232449.22318@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article mucit.93apr20144400@vein.cs.rochester.edu , mucit@cs.rochester.edu (bulent murtezaoglu) writes
...
henrik country. turks and azeris consistantly want to drag armenia into the
henrik karabakh conflict with azerbaijan.

bm gimme a break. capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. it
bm seems to me that short sighted armenians are escalating the hostilities

henrik again , armenians in karabakh are simply defending themselves. what do
henrik want them to do. lay down their arms and let azeris walk all over them.

news reports i 've seen say otherwise both location and motives wise.
caps do n't change facts.

bm while hoping that turkey will stay out. stop and think for a moment ,
bm will you \? armenia does n't need anyone to drag her into the conflict , it
bm is a part of it.

henrik armenians knew from the begining that turks were fully engaged
henrik training azeris militarily to fight against karabakhi armenians.

so \? should i , at this point break into caps and start talking about
defense etc. \? i do n't know how 'fully engaged' turkey is was though.

henrik the karabakhi armenians who have lived in their homeland for 3000
henrik years (cut off from armenia and given to azeris by stalin) are the
henrik ones directly involved in the conflict. they are defending
henrik themselves against azeri aggression.

bm huh \? you did n't expect azeri 's to be friendly to forces fighting with them
bm within their borders \?

henrik well , history is sad. remember , those are relocated azeris into
henrik the armenian land of karabakh by the stalin regime.

so i hear. this justifies bloodshed n years after the fact \?

henrik at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the
henrik karabakh crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will never
henrik occur again.

bm you 're not playing with a full deck , are you \? where would turkey invade \?

henrik it is not up to me to speculate but i am sure turkey would have stepped
henrik into armenia if she could.

why would turkey do that \? do you not realize that this is a local clash
that turkey never wished to see happen \? turkey has other plans for region ,
like economic revival , co operation etc. good stuff in other words , i 'd
be happy to bicker with armenians over trade barriers and such on usenet
rather than 'who killed whom in what way' which i detest doing and would n't
do.

bm are you throwing the cyprus buzzword around with s.c.g. in the header
bm in hopes that the greek netters will jump the gun \?

henrik absolutely not ! i am merely trying to emphasize that in many
henrik cases , history repeats itself.

even if one buys into your implicit premise , the sane thing to do would
be to try not to provoke turkey as was done in '74. if there 'd been
a democratic government instead of a bunch of idiots in athens at the
time , everybody would have stayed home with their families. i have no
wish to go into the cyprus quarrel , but i suspect what i 've said is not
only accurate but also palatable to all parties involved

bm yes indeed turkey has the military prowess to intervene , what she wishes
bm she had , however , is the diplomatic power to stop the hostilities and bring
bm the parties to the negotiating table. that 's hard to do when armenians
bm are attacking azeri towns.

henrik so , let me understand in plain words what you are saying turkey
henrik wants a peaceful end to this conflict. not ! !

so what do you think we want \? war , death and destruction \?

henrik i will believe it when i see it.

no , if you allow yourself to believe it you just might see it.

henrik now , as far as attacking , what do you do when you see a gun pointing
henrik to your head \? do you sit there and watch or defend yoursef(fat chance) \?

this kind of childish rhetoric does n't help anthing.

henrik do you remember what azeris did to the armenians in baku \? all the
henrik barberian acts especially against mothers and their children. i mean
henrik burning people alive !

now , some azeri will come out and give a description of similar stuff
perpetrated by armenians. one should re hash stuff like this often to
keep the hatred alive , right \?

bm armenian leaders are lacking the statesmanship to recognize the
bm futility of armed conflict and convince their nation that a compromise that
bm leads to stability is much better than a military faits accomplis that 's
bm going to cause incessant skirmishes.

henrik armenians in karabakh want peace and their own republic. they are
henrik not asking much. they simply want to get back what was taken away
henrik from them and given to azeris by stalin.

well they obviously are n't getting anywhere with their current methods
of asking (not very peaceful i 'd say).

bm think of 10 or 20 years down the line both of the newly independent
bm countries need to develop economically and neither one is going to wipe
bm the other out. these people will be neighbors , would it not be better
bm to keep the bad blood between them minimal \?

henrik do n't get me wrong. i also want peaceful solution to the
henrik conflict. but until azeris realize that , the armenians in
henrik karabakh will defend themselves against aggresion.

i do n't know if you want a solution or just want to exchange slogans.
peace is n't what 's happening right now , furthermore what 's happening
right now is n't condusive to peace. you can spend days and nights
raving about how 'right' the armenian position is and i'm sure
there 'll be others who 'd be happy to talk to you by arguing the other
side. if entrenched positions lead to war , and if people want peace
than they should sit down and talk about a compromise. armenia is n't
strong enough to exercise the 'we think we 're right , and we have the
bombs , so we 'll do whatever we want , so there...' style of foreign
relations. yes you can type stalin in caps , and give one sided
atrocity stories etc. but for peace you need to be willing to talk to
the other side. you personally can choose not to do that of course ,
this being just usenet. the people in power should n't be so childish.


bm if you belong to the armenian diaspora , keep in mind that what strikes
bm your fancy on the map is costing the local armenians dearly in terms of
bm their blood and future.

henrik again , you are taking different turns. armenia has no intension
henrik to grab any land from azerbaijan. the armenians in karabakh
henrik are simply defending themselves until a solution is set.

azeri 's would disagree with you on this , and the maps i 've seen support
what they 'd be saying. it does n't seem likely that a solution will be
reached in this manner.

bm it 's easy to be comfortable abroad and propagandize
bm craziness to have your feelings about turks tickled. the armenians
bm in armenia and n k will be there , with the same people you seem to hate
bm as their neighbors , for maybe 3000 years more. the sooner there 's peace in
bm the region the better it is for them and everyone else. i 'd push for
bm compromise if i were you instead of hitting the caps lock and spreading
bm inflammatory half truths.

henrik it is not up to me to decide the peace initiative. i am absolutely
henrik for it.

it did n't look it when i read your posting. it would seem to me
that if you can spew mis information about a boogey man , you can also
talk about how one might avoid the nastiness. fair \?

henrik but , in the meantime , if you do not take care of yourself ,
henrik you will be wiped out. such as the case in the era of 1915 20 of
henrik the armenian massacres.

you do n't realize i can say the same thing about 'the turkish massacres.'
yes , boys and girls , let 's always talk about how bad and nasty things were.
let 's do that so we 're overwhelmed by anger , and let 's do that so our
kids will also be hateful. sounds crazy does n't it \? do n't do it then.

bm

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 17

in article 1993apr25.222120.3411@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
waldo@cybernet.cse.fau.edu writes

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who perished or were
tortured. we all suffered.

all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many
others suffered physically.

i'm just waiting for andi to tell us that african americans should
start paying compensation to white americans who suffered from being
slave owners.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from shaig@composer.think.com (shai guday)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 78
apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
nntp posting host composer.think.com
in reply to bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 17 53 34 gmt

in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan) writes
snip
in the first place the death of three soldiers on a patrol in occupied
lebanese terrritory is not an act of terrorism or murder. it is
disingeneous to compare their death to that of athletes in munich
or any other act of terrorism or mrder. this exercise is aimed
solely at diverting the issue and is far from the truth.

i agree that the death of three soldiers on a patrol etc... is
not terrorism. that having been said , lets continue.

snip
imagine \? \? \? \? it is not a terrorist camp as you and the israelis like
to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer
in the streets , women preparing lunch , men playing cards , etc.....

i would not argue that all or even most of the villages are terrorist
camps . there are however some which come very close to serving that
purpose and that is not to say that other did not function in that way
prior to the invasion.

some young men , usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of
the lebanese resistance. even the inhabitants of the village do not
know who these are , they are secretive about it , but most people often
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are
supported financially by iran most of the time. they sneak arms and
ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps
for israeli patrols. every time an israeli soldier is killed or injured
by these traps , israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians. once they
are back they announce that they bombed a terrorist hideout where
an 8 year old girl just happened to be.

some of the villages , and yours might well be among them , are as you
describe. not all are. there are a large number of groups in the area ,
backed by various organizations , with a wide range of purposes. hizbollah
and amal were two of the larger ones and may still be. as to retaliation ,
while mistakes may be made , that is still a far cry from indiscriminate
bombing , which would have produced major casualties.

israel 's retalliation policy is cold hearted , but a reality that
we have come to accept and deal with , the lebanese resistance
on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on occupying
israeli soldiers until they withdraw , this is the only real
leverage that they have to force israel to withdraw.

well , here we disagree. i think that israel would willingly withdraw if
the lebanese gov't was able to field a reliable force in the area to police
it and prevent further attacks.

this is the only realistic solution , it is time for israel to
realize that the concept of a buffer zone aimed at protecting
its northern cities has failed. in fact it has caused much more
israeli deaths than the occasional shelling of northern israel
would have resulted in.

actually that is not clear at all. i will agree that the death toll is no
longer civilian and now primarily military though.

there seems to be very little incentive for the syrian and lebanese
goovernment to allow hizbollah to bomb israel proper under such
circumstances , and now the lebanese government has proven that it is
capable of controlling and disarming all militias as they did
in all other parts of lebanon.

no , the syrian gov't is more than happy to have israel sink into another
lebanese morass. i could elaborate if necessary.

i agree , only in the case of the isareli soldiers their killing
cannot be qualified as murder , no matter what you say.

no , but it is regretable , as is the whole situation.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from pmm7@ellis.uchicago.edu (peggy boucher murphy (you had to ask \? ))
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
reply to pmm7@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 21

in article smith.93apr21183049@minerva.harvard.edu steven smith writes
dgannon@techbook.techbook.com (dan gannon) writes
the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake

by theodore j. o'keefe

holocaust revisionism

theodore j. o'keefe is an editor with the institute for historical
review. educated at harvard university . . .

according to the 1990 harvard alumni directory , mr. o'keefe failed to
graduate. you may decide for yourselves if he was indeed educated
anywhere.

(forgive any inaccuracies , i deleted the original post)
is n't this the same person who wrote the book , and was censured
in canada a few years back \?

peg


from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject h.r. violations by israel arab st.
nf id n cdp 1483500360 000 2383
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 24 16 07 00 1993
lines 48



many of you ask me whether i approve of severe human rights
violations by arab states becuse i focus on israeli human rights
violations.

let 's make things clear my opposition to h.r. violations in arab
states is total and without qualification. no arab state is and can
claim to be democratic. no arab state claims to be democratic.

i am born in palestine (now israel). i have family there. the lack of
peace and utter injustice in my home country has affected me all my life.
i am concerned by palestine (israel) because i want peace to come to
it. peace and justice.

if anybody has legitimate claims towards arab states , he should present
his claims and ask for support. jews who left arab states are fully
entitled to make claims and should do so , if they consider their case has
a merit. it is their basic right to return to these countries , if they
wish. if not , they should not complain and compare themselves to the
palestinians who have been struggling for the right of return since
israel was established and whose right is upheld by the united nations
quasi totally. if jews feel discriminated in arab countries , they have a
legitimate claim that any decent person can and should support.

human rights violations by arab states do n't justify , legitimate nor
are the cause for israeli breaches of international law and human rioghts.
israeli breaches stem from the zionist concept , which can only be
implemented by negating basic rights to palestinians.

israeli trights and palestinian rights are not symmetrical. the first
party has a state and the other has none. the first is an occupier and
the second the occupied. for any meaningful relationship to emerge , some
symmetry must be established. as long as israelis and jews do n't realise
the necessity of a change of perspective towards the palestinian people
and as long as israelis and jews do n't want to exorcise their own
past towards the palestinians (the naqba of 1948 , etc.) and refuse to
acknowledge that the creation of israel was dependent upon the removal
of most palestinian arabs , there will be no base for a real trust.

when i read the first time the list of the 383 arab villages
destroyed by the state of israel in and after 1948 , i got a shock.
i hope others will be touched by this discovery and think about the
meaning of such massive destruction and destitution.

elias davidsson
iceland


from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re fundamentalism again.
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 19

in article khan0095.734814178@nova khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan) writes
one of my biggest complaints about using the word fundamentalist
is that (at least in the u.s.a.) people speak of muslime
fundamentalists muslim
but nobody defines what a jewish or christan fundamentalist is.
i wonder what an equal definition would be..
any takers..

the american press routinely uses the word fundamentalist to
refer to both christians and jews. christian fundementalists are
often refered to in the context of anti abortion protests. the
american media also uses fundamentalist to refer to jews who live in
judea , samaria or gaza , and to any jew who follows the torah.

adam
adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from osinski@chtm.eece.unm.edu (marek osinski)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque
lines 12
distribution world
nntp posting host chtm.eece.unm.edu

in article 1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon) writes

compromise on what , the invasion of cyprus , the involment of turkey in
greek politics , the refusal of turkey to accept 12 miles of territorial
waters as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of
konstantinople , the ownership of the islands in the greek lake , sorry , aegean.

well , it did not take long to see how consequent some greeks are in
requesting that thessaloniki are not called solun by bulgarian netters.
so , napoleon , why do you write about konstantinople and not istanbul \?

marek osinski

from bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
summary an untried approach
lines 59

in article 1993apr20.114746.3364@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

in article 1993apr19.214300.17989@unocal.com , stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes

(brad hernlem writes


well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli
patrol inside lebanese territory while i was condemning the retaliatory
shelling of lebanese villages by israeli and israeli backed forces. my team ,
you see , was playing fair while the opposing team was rearranging the
faces of the spectators in my team 's viewing stands , so to speak.

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on
in lebanon and try to see through the propaganda. there are no a priori
black and white hats but one sure wonders how the idf can bombard villages in
retaliation to pin point attacks on its soldiers in lebanon and then call the
lebanese terrorists.

if the attack was justified or not is at least debatable. but this is not the
issue. the issue is that you were cheering death. ...

dorin

dorin , of all the criticism of my post expressed on t.p.m. , this one i accept.
i regret that aspect of my post. it is my hope that the occupation will end (and
the accompanying loss of life) but i believe that stiff resistance can help to
achieve that end. despite what some have said on t.p.m. , i think that there is
a point when losses are unacceptable. the strategy drove u.s. troops out of
lebanon , at least.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

hi brad ,

i have two comments regarding your hope that the occupation will end...
belive that stiff resistance..etc. how about an untried approach , i.e. ,
peace and cooperation. i ca n't help but wonder what would happen if all
violence against israelis stopped. hopefully , violence against arabs
would stop at the same time. if a state of non violence could be
maintained , perhaps a state of cooperation could be achieved , i.e. ,
greater economic opportunities for both peoples living in the
territories .

of course , given the current leadership of israel , your way may work
also but if that leadership changes , e.g. , to someone with ariel
sharon 's mentality , then i would predict a considerable loss of life ,
i.e. , no winners.

secondly , regarding your comment about the u.s. troops responding
to stiff resistance the analogy is not quite valid. the u.s.
troops could get out of the neighborhood altogether. the israelis
could not.

just my .02 worth , no offense intended.

respectfully ,

ben.

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject the armenian architect of the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 55

in article 1993apr15.160145.22909@husc3.harvard.edu verbit@germain.harvard.edu (mikhail s. verbitsky) writes

my personal problem with romanian culture is that i am
not aware of one. there is an anecdote about armenians

troglodytism does not necessarily imply a low cultural level.
the image conscious armenians sorely feel a missing glory in
their background. armenians have never achieved statehood and
independence , they have always been subservient , and engaged
in undermining schemes against their rulers. they committed
genocide against the muslim populations of eastern anatolia
and armenian dictatorship before and during world war i and
fully participated in the extermination of the european jewry
during world war ii. belligerence , genocide , back stabbing ,
rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the
armenian history. to obliterate these episodes the armenians
engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims. in this zeal
they tried to cover up the cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million
turks and kurds before and during world war i.

and , you do n't pull nations out of a hat.


source walker , christopher armenia the survival of a nation.
new york (st. martin 's press) , 1980.

this generally pro armenian work contains the following information
of direct relevance to the nazi holocaust

a) dro (the butcher) , the former dictator of the armenian dictatorship and
the architect of the genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds , the most
respected of nazi armenian leaders , established an armenian provisional
republic in berlin during world war ii

b) this 'provisional government' fully endorsed and espoused the social
theories of the nazis , declared themselves and all armenians to be members
of the aryan 'super race '

c) they published an anti semitic , racist journal , thereby aligning themselves
with the nazis and their efforts to exterminate the jews and ,

d) they mobilized an armenian army of up to 20 , 000 members which fought side
by side with the wehrmacht.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
subject re 18 israelis murdered in march
originator hasan@haley.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host haley.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 189


in article flax.93apr5224449@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes
in article 1993apr5.125419.8157@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes
in article flax.93apr4151411@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes

in article 1993apr3.182738.17587@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

in article flax.93apr3142133@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes

i get the impression hasan realized he goofed and is now
trying to drop the thread. let him. it might save some
miniscule portion of his sorry face.

not really. since i am a logical person who likes furthering himself
from any name calling , i started trashing any article that contains
such abuses without responding to , and sometimes not even reading articles
written by those who acquired such bad habits from bad company !

deleted stuff
well , ok. let 's see what master of wisdom , mr. jonas flygare ,
wrote that can be wisdomely responded to

are you calling names , or giving me a title \? if the first , read your
paragraph above , if not i accept the title , in order to let you get into the
um , well , debate again.

i didnot know that master of wisdom can be name clling too ,
unless you consider yourself deserve less !

master of wisdom writes in 1993mar31.101957@frej.teknikum.uu.se

hasan
flax
hasan

in case you didnot know , palestineans were there for 18 months.
and they are coming back
when you agree to give palestineans their human rights.

afterall , human rights arenot negotiable.

correct me if i'm wrong , but is n't the right to one 's life also
a 'human right' \? \? or does it only apply to palestinians \?

no. it is everybody 's right. however , when a killer kills , then he is giving
up willingly or unwillingly his life 's right to the society.
the society represented by the goverment would exercise its duty by
depriving the killer off his life 's right.

so then it 's all right for israel to kill the people who kill israelis \?
the old 'eye for an eye' thinking \? funny , i thought modern legal systems
were made to counter exactly that.

so what do you expect me to tell you to tell you , master of wsidom ,


if you insist on giving me names titles i did not ask for you could at
least spell them correctly. sigh.

that was only to confuse you ! (ha ha ha hey )

when you are intentionally neglecting the most important fact that
the whole israeli presence in the occupied territories is illegitimate ,
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on
the ground of occupied territories.

no , i am not neglecting that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance
of israeli citicens in the wb or in gaza invalidates those individuals right
are you trying to retaliate and confuse me here.
to live , a (as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have
not adressed my question if the israelis also have human rights.


first , my above statement doesnot say that the existence of israeli citizens
in the wb revoke their right of life but it says the israeli occupation
of the wb revoke the right of life for some most its citizens basically
revokes the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an
undeclared war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate.

secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but they ask their goverment to
protect it by withdrawing from the occupied terretories , not by further oppressing
palestinean human rights.


what do you expect me to tell you , master of wisdom , when i did explain my
point in the post , that you responded to . the point is that since israel
is occupying then it is automatically depriving itself from some of its rights
to the occupied palestineans , which is exactly similar the automatic
deprivation of a killer from his right of life to the society.

if a state can deprive all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all \?


because not all states are like israel , as oppressive , as ignorant , or as tyrant.


what kind of rights and how much would be deprived is another issue \?
the answer is to be found in a certain system such as international law ,
us law , israeli law , ...
deleted , jonas was throwing up not for real so you can stick to the screen
it seems that the us law represented by us state dept in this case
is looking to the other way around when violence occurs in occupied territories.
anyway , as for hamas , then obviously they turned to the islamic system.

and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem \?

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why \? because
any system can solve it.
the laws of minister sharon says kick palestineans out of here (all palestine).

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for

all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that
mistake. now that i have straightened that out , i'm eagerly awaiting your
reply.

so you agree that that an israeli solution wouldnot preserve human rights.
(i am understanding this from your first statement in this paragraph).

joseph weitz (administrator responsible for jewish colonization)
said it best when writing in his diary in 1940
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both
peoples together in this country.... we shall not achieve our goal

of being an independent people with the arabs in this small country.
the only solution is a palestine , at least western palestine (west of
the jordan river) without arabs.... and there is no other way than
to transfer the arabs from here to the neighbouring countries , to
transfer all of them not one village , not one tribe , should be
left.... only after this transfer will the country be able to
absorb the millions of our own brethren. there is no other way out.
davar , 29 september , 1967
( courtesy of marc afifi)

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both plo covenant and hamas
charter (that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to
a private paper even older \? i'm not going to get into the question if he
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have
their share of fanatics. guess what.. \? those are not the people that will
make any lasting peace in the region. more deleted stuff

exactly , you are right. i guess that the problem is that the israeli goverment
is full with men like joseph weitz.


we and our either refers to zionists or jews (i donot know which).

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the
imperialist israeli system for solving the me problem !

i think that is fair enough .

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction.

above you wrote that you understood what i meant (underlined by )
any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would
resolve it justly.

guess where that takes your logic \? to never never land.

you are proving yourself as a . first you understood what i meant , but then
you claim you didnot so to claim a contradiction in my logic. too bad for you ,
the master of wisdom.


the greatest problem of zionism is arab children .
rabbi shoham.

oh , and by the way , let me add that these cute quotes you put at the end are
a real bummer , when i try giving your posts any credit.

why do you feel ashamed by things and facts that you believe in , if you were a
zionists. if you believe in zionist codes and acts , well i feel sorry for you ,
because the same rabbi shoham had said yes , zionism is racism .
if you feel ashamed and bothered by the zionist codes , then drop zionism.
if you are not zionist , why are you bothered then. you should join me in
condemning these racist zionist codes and acts.

hasan



jonas flygare ,

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re gaza and separation from israel
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 33

in article 1483500357@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

the israeli left 's inability to cope with the challenges it is
presented with by reality becomes obvious at those moments when
the reality does not line up with the expectations of the left. we
were able to see this clearly during the gulf war. because of the
palestinian 's popular solidarity with iraq , yossi sarid
currently minister of the environment made his infamous
statement you look for me ! , i.e. , i'am not making any more
efforts to speak with you. from yossi sarid 's point of view ,
palestinian reality during the gulf war was not the lengthy curfew
or the danger of hunger it brought with it , but whether or not the
palestinians accepted what was acceptable to the party. similarly
meretz , mk deddi tzuker , recently faced with criticism from
residents of the west bank town of beit sahour over his
government 's and his party 's lack of action for human rights and
peace , responded by asking those present at the discussion whether
they would rather have a likud government. from the leftists'
perspective this is the best government because it is their
government , regardless of what it does.

these members of the israeli left have already decided how the
future of the occupied territories will look , and they want to
dictate to the palestinians how to get there.

when someone starts criticizing the leftists for not being leftist
enough , we get a pretty clear idea of what they believe to be normal.
i hope that your not still calling yourself fair and unbiased , elias.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes (henrik)
lines 95
nntp posting host viktoria.dsv.su.se
reply to hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , stockholm university




the student of regional killings alias davidian (not the davidian religios sect) writes


greater armenia would stretch from karabakh , to the black sea , to the
mediterranean , so if you use the term greater armenia use it with care.


finally you said what you dream about. mediterranean \? \? \? \? that was new....
the area will be greater after some years , like your holocaust numbers......




it has always been up to the azeris to end their announced winning of karabakh
by removing the armenians ! when the president of azerbaijan , elchibey , came to
power last year , he announced he would be be swimming in lake sevan in
armeniaxn by july .

is't july in usa now \? \? \? \? \? here in sweden it 's april and still cold.
or have you changed your calendar \? \? \?


well , he was wrong ! if elchibey is going to shell the
armenians of karabakh from aghdam , his people will pay the price ! if elchibey

is going to shell karabakh from fizuli his people will pay the price ! if

elchibey thinks he can get away with bombing armenia from the hills of
kelbajar , his people will pay the price.



nothing of the mentioned is true , but let say it 's true.

shall the azeri women and children going to pay the price with

being raped , killed and tortured by the armenians \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \?

have you hearded something called geneva convention \? \? \? \? \? \? \?
you facist ! ! ! ! !



ohhh i forgot , this is how armenians fight , nobody has forgot
you killings , rapings and torture against the kurds and turks once
upon a time !



and anyway , this 60
kurd refugee story , as have other stories , are simple fabrications sourced in
baku , modified in ankara. other examples of this are armenia has no border
with iran , and the ridiculous story of the intercepting of armenian military
conversations as appeared in the new york times supposedly translated by
somebody unknown , from armenian into azeri turkish , submitted by an unnamed
special correspondent to the ny times from baku. real accurate !

ohhhh so swedish redcross workers do lie they too \? what ever you say
regional killer , if you do n't like the person then shoot him that 's your policy.....l


he search turkish planes \? you do n't know what you are talking about.
he since it 's content is announced to be weapons \? i
i
well , big mouth ozal said military weapons are being provided to azerbaijan i
from turkey , yet demirel and others say no. no wonder you are so confused ! i
i
i
confused \? \? \? \? \? i
you facist when you delete text do n't change it , i wrote i
i
search turkish planes \? you do n't know what you are talking about. i
turkey 's government has announced that it 's giving weapons i
to azerbadjan since armenia started to attack azerbadjan
it self , not the karabag province. so why search a plane for weapons
since it 's content is announced to be weapons \?

if there is one that 's confused then that 's you ! we have the right (and we do)
to give weapons to the azeris , since armenians started the fight in azerbadjan !


you are correct , all turkish planes should be simply shot down ! nice , slow
moving air transports !

shoot down with what \? armenian bread and butter \? or the arms and personel
of the russian army \?




hilmi eren
stockholm university

from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject re happy birthday israel !
in reply to eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 17 57 50 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 6

in article c63r8f.76s@news.cso.uiuc.edu eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf) writes

israel happy 45th birthday !

may you and your neighbors know peace even before you see 46.


from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 169
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1483500352@igc.apc.org , center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject rejoinder. questions to israelis


to shaig@think.com

subject ten questions to israelis

dear shai ,

in the answer to my first question , concerning the nonexistence of
israeli nationality , your answer conflicts with information i have
received from other quarters , according to which there are two
distinct categories of classifying israelis citizenship
(ezrahut) and nationality (le'um). the former is used on passports
etc , and the later for daily identification in israeli society. i
am told that people in israel have to carry their id cards at all
times and present them at many public places , almost every day.
these id cards make clear who the holder is , a jew or an arab.
you maintain that this mainly because of religious services
provided. but do you really believe that this is the reason \?
could you provide evidence that this is the case and that it
serves no other purpose \?

a number of points. you are making assumptions about the manner
in which the cards are used. true , by law , all residents , citizens ,
and tourists must carry a form of identification with them. for
citizens , the standard id is the id card. the purpose this serves
on a daily basis , wherein they are presented at public places ,
is for the purpose of identifying the bearer. this takes place
in banks (cashing checks) , post offices (registered mail and such) , etc...
quite frankly , it was rare that i ever had to present my id card
for such activities more than once per week. there is no law or
requirement that forces people to wave their id cards in public.
furthermore , none of the services i outlined discriminate against
the bearer in any manner by having access to this information.

the only case that i can think of in which the le'um field might
be taken into account is during interaction with the police ,
based upon the scenario. in general though , arab citizens are
clearly recognizable , as are non arabs. your argument therefore
becomes moot unless you can provide an example of how this field
is being used to discriminate against them officially.


in the answer to my second questions , concerning the fact that
israel has no fixed borders , you state that israel 's borders were
'shaped and reshaped by both war and peace'. according to what i
read , the first zionists in the beginning of the century , had
plans for the jewish state to extend into what is lebanon and into
transjordan (jordan). i also read that it was the express wish of
ben gurion to not declare israel 's borders , when israel was
established , as this might restrict israel 's opportunities for
later expansion. israel often claims it right of existence on the
fact that jews lived there 2000 years ago or that god promised the
land to them. but according to biblical sources , the area god
promised would extend all the way to iraq. and what were the
borders in biblical times which israel considers proper to use
today \? finally , if israel wants peace , why ca n't it declare what
it considers its legitimate and secure borders , which might be a
base for negotiations \? having all the above facts in mind , one
cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli expansionism , as a
number of wars have proved (1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1982).

i take issue with your assertions. i think that arab countries
do know that they have nothing to fear from israeli expansionism .
militarily , israel is not capable of holding onto large tracts of
land under occupation to a hostile , armed , and insurgent population for a
sustained period of time. as is , the intifada is heavily taxing
the israeli economy. proof of this can be seen in the israeli
withdrawal from lebanon. israeli troops pulled back from the
awali , and later from the litani , in order to control the minimal
strip needed to keep towns out of range of katyusha missile fire.
public opinion in israel has turned towards settling the intifada
via territorial concessions. the israel public is sufferring from
battle fatigue of sorts and the gov't is aware of it.

with regards to borders , let me state the following. i may not agree
with the manner in which negotiations are being held , however the crux
of the matter is that everyone either makes or refrains from stating
a starting position. the arab parties have called for total withdrawal
and a return to pre 48 borders. if israel were to state large borders ,
the negotiations might never get under way. if israel were to state
smaller borders , then the arab countries might try and force even smaller
borders during the negotiations. i think that leaving the matter to be
settled by negotiations and peace treaties is infinitely more realistic
and sensible.

your answer to my third question is typical of a stalinist public
official. i do n't think your answer is honest. you refer me to
vanunu 's revelations about israel 's nuclear arsenal without
evaluating the truthfullness of his revelations. now if he said
the truth , then why should he been punished , and if he lied , why
should he be punished \? i would appreciate more honesty.

your statement is typical of the simple minded naivety of a center for
policy research . whether or not all of vanunu 's revelations were true has no
bearing on the fact that some were. for disclosing state secrets
after having signed contracts and forms with the understanding that
said secrets are not to be made public , one should be punished.
as to which were and which were n't , i am under no moral obligation
to disclose that quite the reverse in fact.
he was taken to court , tried , and found guilty. you may take issue
with a number of things but clearly you have no understanding of the
concept of secrets of state , something which every democratic govt
has.

somebody provided an answer to the fourth question , concerning
'hidden prisoners' in israeli prisons. he posted an article from
ma'ariv documenting such cases. it seems that such prisoners do
exist in israel. what do you think about that \?

i noticed that he was documenting the fact that such prisoners could exist
more than he documented the fact that they do exist. the clu noted ,
which you evidently did not pay attention to , that they know of no such
reports or cases. i am sorry to tell you but in a country of 4 mill ,
as tightly knit as israel , even if the matter of the arrest was not
made public , within a relatively short time frame , most people would know
about it. my own feelings are that the matter of the arrest should be
made public unless a court order is issued allowing a delay of x hours.
this would be granted only if a judge could be convinced that an
announcement would cause irreparable harm to the ongoing investigation.

you imply that my questions show bias and are formulated in such a
way to 'cast aspersions upon israel'. such terms have often been
used by the soviet union against dissidents they call the soviet
union into disrepute. if my questions are not disturbing , they
would not call forth such hysterical answers. my questions are
clearly provocative but they are meant to seek facts. i would be
very happy if you could convince me that what i am told about
israel were just fabrications , but alas you have failed to do so.
i suspect that you fear the truth and an open and honest
discussion. this is a sign of weakness , not of strength.

well , i am sorry to say that your questions are slanted. such
questions are often termed tabloid journalism and are not
disturbing because they avoid any attempt at objectivity.
such questions were often used during the mccarthy era as
a basis for the witch hunts that took place then. to use
your own example , these questions might have been lifted
from the format used by stalinist prosecutors that were looking
for small bits of evidence that they could distort and portray
as a larger and dirtier picture.

my answers were not any more hysterical than the questions
themselves. the problem is not that the q 's were provocative ,
it was that they were selective in their fact seeking. you
fall into the same category of those who seek yes no answers
when the real answer is of sorts .
i suspect that as long as the answers to these questions is not an
unequivocal no , you would remain unsatified and choose to interprete
them as you see fit. a sign of strength is the ability to look
you remind me of those mistaken environmentalists who once advocated
culling wolves because of the cruelty to deer , only to find that they
had broken the food chain and wreaked havoc upon the very environment
they sought to protect. the color blindness you exhibit is a true
sign of weakness.

i hope you will muster the courage to seek the full truth.

ditto.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninja of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science

in article 1993apr16.195452.21375@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
04 16 93 1045 armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes


ermenistan kasiniyor...

let me translate for everyone else before the public traslation service gets
into it armenia is getting itchy.

esin.


from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re kol israel broacasts
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 9

in article 1993apr16.174056.13368@jarvis.csri.toronto.edu gfeygin@unicorn.eecg.toronto.edu (gennady feygin) writes
does anyone have a schedule of kol israel broadcasts in different
languages that could be posted or e mailed to me. your
assistance would be greatly appreciated

gf


try thr rec.radio.shortwave newsgroup.

from anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
nntp posting host gs135.sp.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 22

in article 1483500353@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject rejoinder. questions to israelis


dear josh

i appreciate the fact that you sought to answer my questions.

having said that , i am not totally happy with your answers.

1. you did not fully answer my question whether israeli id cards
identify the holders as jews or arabs. you imply that u.s.
citizens must identify themselves by race. is that true \? or are
just trying to mislead the reader \?

i think he is trying to mislead people. in cases where race
information is sought , it is completely voluntary (the census
possibly excepted).

anwar

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re nazi eugenic theories circulated by cpr (unconventional peace)
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 15

in article 1qvi7s b1o@usenet.ins.cwru.edu bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman) writes

first this man promotes the dissolution of the jews through an
intermarriage process , and then says that it will be just a bunch
of 'fundamentalist' jews who will object.

or does he simply mean to insult the orthodox by using the word
'fundamentalist \? '

it 's irritating when someone mis labels us as fundamentalists ,
is n't it \? this sort of thing may help us understand why some muslims
rather resent being put under this label.

tim


from francesca m. benson@fourd.com
subject serdar
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 7
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

hey serdar ,
what are you retarded \?


system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry


from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re hamza salah , the humanist
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 16

dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren) writes

cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah) writes

well said mr. beyer )

he he. the great humanist speaks. one has to read mr. salah 's posters ,
in which he decribes jews as sons of pigs and monkeys , keeps
promising the final battle between muslims and jews (in which the
stons and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the
jews hiding behind them ) , makes jokes about jews dying from heart
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved.

humanist , or sub humanist \? )

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 25


in article 1483500352@igc.apc.org , center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr
subject rejoinder. questions to israelis


to shaig@think.com

subject ten questions to israelis

dear shai ,

your answers to my questions are unsatisfactory.



so why do n't ypu sue him.



naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from chrism@cirrus.com (chris metcalfe)
subject re conventional proposales israel palestinians
organization cirrus logic inc.
lines 6

the fact that israel is already discussing with some palestinians what the composition
of the armed palestinian police force in the territories will be during the transition
phase indicates some real solid concessions and liberal thinking on the part of the
israeli side.

chris metcalfe

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject from israeli press. torture.
nf id n cdp 1483500344 000 3833
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 16 16 50 00 1993
lines 78


from center for policy research cpr
subject from israeli press. torture.

written 4 41 pm apr 16 , 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc mideast.forum
from israeli press. torture.
from the israeli press.

newspaper ma'ariv date 18. december 1992 author avi raz

subject torture

title of article moderate physical pressure

several times in the course of the long hours in the interrogation
room in tulkarm prison , during which he says he was humiliated ,
beaten and tortured , omar daoud jaber heard his interrogator , a
shabak agent 'captain louis' , chatting on the phone with his wife.
at those moments , omar said , i felt that he was like a
humanbeing , but right after he finished talking , he would be beat
me and say , 'you listened to the conversation and enjoyed
yourself' and i understood that he was not really a human being .

in late october 1992 , after 38 days in detention at tulkarm
prison , omar jaber was released without charges. among the jews ,
as among the arabs , there are good people and bad people , he said
after his release , but there , in tulkarm , in the interrogations
rooms , you cannot find even one person about whom you can say that
he is a human being . although he left the detention installation
in tulkarm bruised and humiliated ( i sat at home for ten days. my
hands shook from nerves ) , one may consider omar jaber lucky he
got out , not so healthy , but entire , and even ultimately returned
to normal functioning , at the small solar heater plant he owns.

in contrast , hassan bader al zbeidi , for example , was released
seven weeks ago from detention in tulkarm after 33 days in the
shabak wing , cut off from his surroundings. he does n't speak or
react. mustafa barakat , aged only 23 , who was arrested in early
august and was brought to the tulkarm detention installation , left
it one day later dead. we have recently received an especially
large number of testimonies concerning cruel tortures employed at
the tulkarm detention installation by shabak interrogators , noted
dr. niv gordon , director of the association of israel and
palestinian physicians for human rights. (...)

the right to complain against the shabak does not excite anan
saber makhlouf , a 20 year old student. in fact , he was extremely
fearful about describing the manner in which he was interrogated
in tulkarm prison , in case the publication in the paper would
return him to detention and lead to renewed mistreatment.

(...follow description of tortures....)

omar , a tall bearded man , was silent. i do not want to talk about
it , he finally said , quietly. some time later , embarrased and
ashamed , he spoke sometimes he beats you and beats you until
you 'll kiss his hand , and not only his hand. even the hands of
another interrogator , and another , whom he calls into the room ,
and the last interrogator says now you are kissing my hand , and
later if i want , you will kiss my ass.

these things take place in an israeli army detention installation ,
located within the military government compound in tulkarm (west
bank). but the shabak interrogation wing is a separate kingdom. in
early march the idf allowed representatives of b'tselem , the
israeli information center for human rights in the territories , to
visit tulkarm prison , but denied them access to the interrogation
wing. the interrogation wing is shabak property , being solely
under shabak responsibility. all interrogations are performed by
it , said lieutnant sharon sho'an , the commander of the
installation , according to the internal report written by b'tselem
member , yuval ginbar , following the visit. major david pe'er ,
governing commander of the prison system in the central command ,
was quoted in the report there is an ethical problem here no
one can enter the interrogation wing .

transl. by i. shahak


from ohayon@jcpltyo.jcpl.co.jp (tsiel ohayon)
subject hamza does it again.
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan
lines 18

hamza answers one of my articles

to if indeed israeli soldiers killed a hamas mujahid with an anti tank
to missile then i'm almost sure that the terrorist zionists would not
to have been able to cut up a body which was probably desintegrated by the
to missile.

hamza maybe the missile did n't hit directly such that his body
hamza gets desintegrated. of course , destroying 10 houses to
hamza kill someone is not a surgical operation , or is it \?

well done hamza. you edited my answer to anas omran , took everything out
of context and then replied to it the way you wanted.
now i really understand why the peace process is not making any progress.

you guys ai n't listening , just babbling away to your same old rhetoric.

tsiel

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re israeli terrorism
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 18

in article 1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering
reported accurately on what was happening in germany. it is
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda.

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or
palestinian news outlets , where do we go to understand , to learn \?
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another \? the only way
to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political
agenda , whether it is on or against our side .

tim

tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from bob1@cos.com (bob blackshaw)
subject re mossad unchecked girls faint in masse in egypt
organization corporation for open systems
distribution world
lines 31

in 1993apr13.145325.15806@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes


in article eldar.734672326@sfu.ca , eldar@fraser.sfu.ca (danny eldar) writes

i just heard it on the radio cknw in vancouver , bc. girls are fainting in
masse in egypt. nobody knows why , but the movement started in nothern egypt
and spread throught all egypt.


i think that the mossad , after the obvious involvement in wtc bombing ,
tries to reestablish its reputation. what better way than making egyptian
schhol girls go bezerk.

maybe hassan will share the light on this.

i am happy to annouce tii 's second positive identifiaction.

congragulations danny.

hasan

as one who was born in quebec and worked in montreal , i feel i must
defend the reputation of mcgill university. it is a fine , old ,
creditable institution of higher learning.

thus , i can only assume that some under graduate student left his her
terminal on line and the janitor has been getting access to it.

reb


from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 21

in article c5i7j7.f7a@eis.calstate.edu mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi) writes

diplomacy has not worked with israel

of course , it has n't. besides egypt , the rest of the arab world still
officially denies that israel exists.

and the
lebanese people are tired of being occupied ! they are now turning to the
only option they see as viable.

kick out syria \?

(do n't forget that it worked in driving out the us)

american occupied lebanon \? that 's a new one on me !


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from francesca m. benson@fourd.com
subject get a life
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 11
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

hey serdar ,
what nationality are you anyway \? you are the supreme geek of
geekdom of the usenet. you are laeding a totally useless and futile life on
your computer mr. wimpy. you are the epitamy of a coward.i can predict that
you will spend the rest of your useless , wastefull and pitifull life on the
usenet. what a wasted life.

system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry



from mvp@netcom.com (mike van pelt)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization netcom online communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 17

in article 1r64pb nkk@genesis.mcs.com arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes
neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to
recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax exmpt. in
otherwords , american taxpayers put up at least 30 of the money.

dammit , how did arfarf 's latest excretion escape my kill file \?

oh , he changed sites. again. sigh ok , i assume no other person
on this planet will ever use the login name of arf.

arf@ ak j


mike van pelt mvp@netcom.com
... local prohibitions cannot block advances in military and commercial
technology.... democratic movements for local restraint can only restrain
the world 's democracies , not the world as a whole. k. eric drexler

from aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
subject re israeli expansion lust
reply to aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 24


in a previous article , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (m. hasan alhafez) says

so the wars of 1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1968 (karama) , 1978 , and 1982 were
all started by arabs.

the wars of 1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1978 were definitely started by the arabs.
the war in 1982 was instigated by the arabs who continually murdered
israeli children with their rocket attacks. israel was only trying to
stop this.
last what the heck are you talking about with 1968 (karama) \? there was
no war in 1968 !

steve


internet aa229@freenet.carleton.ca fidonet 1 163 109.18
mossad@qube.ocunix.on.ca
my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head.

from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 yr old child \?
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 40


in article 1993apr13.164305.701@bernina.ethz.ch , nadeem@p.igp.ethz.ch (nadeem malik) writes


actually , if can remember correctly , was it not reported and even on camera
some time during the israeli invasion of lebanon , or when the itifada began ,
that cnn caught regular uniformed israeli soldiers breaking the arms of
some arab youngsters in a very professional and brutal manner , (someone
please give full details if they can remember).

so was it on cnn or not \?

this is one of the few
occassions on which such a scene has been transmitted to the west and
in the usa ... it caused uproar and was one of the factors that has significantly
changed the preception of the israeli army 's role in the mid east.

so there is proof for you !


what proof. you said above was it not reported... and someone please give
full details if they can remember . hear say is not proof.


it is obvious that is a systematic policy of the
israelis which must be occurring on a massive scale behind the scenes.

yes , like the 700 or more palestinians brutally murdered by their brothers.



nadeem




naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
reply to aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 34


in a previous article , cpr@igc.apc.org (center for policy research) says

today \? finally , if israel wants peace , why ca n't it declare what
it considers its legitimate and secure borders , which might be a
base for negotiations \? having all the above facts in mind , one
cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli expansionism , as a
number of wars have proved (1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1982).

oh yeah , israel was really ready to expand its borders on the holiest day
of the year (yom kippur) when the arabs attacked in 1973. oh wait , you
chose to omit that war...perhaps because it 100 supports the exact
opposite to the point you are trying to make \? i do n't think that it 's
because it was the war that hit israel the hardest. also , in 1967 it was
egypt , not israel who kicked out the un force. in 1948 it was the arabs
who refused to accept the existance of israel based on the borders set
by the united nations. in 1956 , egypt closed off the red sea to israeli
shipping , a clear antagonistic act. and in 1982 the attack was a response
to years of constant shelling by terrorist organizations from the golan
heights. children were being murdered all the time by terrorists and israel
finally retaliated. nowhere do i see a war that israel started so that
the borders could be expanded.

steve


internet aa229@freenet.carleton.ca fidonet 1 163 109.18
mossad@qube.ocunix.on.ca
my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head.

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re h.r. violations by israel arab st.
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 37

in article 1483500360@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

i am born in palestine (now israel). i have family there. the lack of
peace and utter injustice in my home country has affected me all my life.

bullshit. you 've been in iceland for the past 30 years. you told us
so yourself. it had something to do with not wanting to suffer the
fate of your mother , who has lived with jews for a long time or
somesuch. sounded awful.

i am concerned by palestine (israel) because i want peace to come to
it. peace and justice.

are you as concerned about peace and justice in palestine (jordan) \?

israeli trights and palestinian rights are not symmetrical. the first
party has a state and the other has none. the first is an occupier and
the second the occupied.

let 's say that israel grants the plo everything they ever asked for .
that israel goes back to the 1967 borders. what will the palestinean
arabs in tel aviv call themselves \? the palestineans in west
jerusalem \? in haifa \? will they still claim to be occupied \?

or do you suggest that israel expell or kill off any remaining arabs ,
much as the arabs did to their jews \?

indeed , there is much which is not symmetrical about the conflict in
the m.e. and most of this lack of symmetry does not favor israel.

elias davidsson
iceland


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
organization ncsu chem eng
lines 128


in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

it is not a terrorist camp as you and the israelis like
to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer
in the streets , women preparing lunch , men playing cards , etc.....
some young men , usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of
the lebanese resistance. even the inhabitants of the village do not
know who these are , they are secretive about it , but most people often
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are
supported financially by iran most of the time. they sneak arms and
ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps
for israeli patrols. every time an israeli soldier is killed or injured
by these traps , israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians.

this a tried and true method utilized by guerilla and terrorists groups
to conduct operations in the midst of the local populace , thus forcing the
opposing state to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or ,
in order to avoid the deaths of civilians , abandon the search. certainly the
people who use the population for cover are also to blaim for dragging the
innocent civilians into harm 's way.

are you suggesting that , when guerillas use the population for cover , israel
should totally back down \? so...the easiest way to get away with attacking
another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the other respects
innocent lives \?

tell me tim , what are these guerillas doing wrong \? assuming that they are using
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country \? if the
buffer zone is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working \? why is it
further neccessary for israeli guns to pound lebanese villages \? why not just
kill those who try to infiltrate the buffer zone \? you see , there is more to
the shelling of the villages.... it is called retaliation... getting back
... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the villages. the least
it shows is a reckless disregard by the israeli government for the lives of
civilians.


if israel insists that
the so called security zone is necessary for the protection of
northern israel , than it will have to pay the price of its occupation
with the blood of its soldiers.

if israel is interested in peace , than it should withdraw from our land.

what \? so the whole bit about attacks on israel from neighboring arab states
can start all over again \? while i also hope for this to happen , it will
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the
responsibility and the duty to stop guerilla attacks on israel from their
soil. they have to prove it (or provide some guaratees ) , there is no way
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of
tolerance towards anti israel guerillas in residence .

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has
no business wasting others' time coming to the peace talks.


i have written before on this very newsgroup , that the only
real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace
settlement whereby israel withdraws to its own borders and
peace keeping troops are stationed along the border to insure
no one on either side of the border is shelled.

good lord , brad. ....

no , i am not basil. i think basil is a very intelligent person and i
respect what he writes. basil is a person that i would gladly call
a friend. he is , however , not me. nor am i lebanese , as some seem to
suspect.

this is the only realistic solution , it is time for israel to
realize that the concept of a buffer zone aimed at protecting
its northern cities has failed. in fact it has caused much more
israeli deaths than the occasional shelling of northern israel
would have resulted in.

perhaps you are aware that , to most communities of people , there is
the feeling that it is better that many of us die fighting
against those who attack us than for few to die while we silently
accept our fate. if , however , you call on israel to see the sense of
suffering fewer casualties , i suggest you apply the same to palestinian ,
arab and islamic groups.

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in lebanon have been
disarmed. hezbollah remains the only independent militia. hezbollah does
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the idf burned up
sheikh mosavi , his wife , and young son. of course , if israel would withdraw
from lebanon and stop assassinating people and shelling villages they would n't
make the lebanese so mad as to do that. furthermore , with hezbollah
subsequently disarmed , it would not be possible.

and now the lebanese government has proven that it is
capable of controlling and disarming all militias as they did
in all other parts of lebanon.

basil

it has not. without the support , and active involvement , of syria ,
lebanon would not have been able to accomplish all that has occurred.
once syria leaves who is to say that lebanon will be able to retain
control \? if syria stays thay may be even more dangerous for israel.

tim , when is the last time that you recall any trouble on the syrian border \?
not lately , eh \?

israel knows very well that the syrians are able to restrain all who would use
territory under their control to attack israel. while lebanon would be better
off with syria and israel out of its borders , the presence of syrian troops
in lebanon has meant a sharp decrease in attacks on israeli territory (not on
israeli troops in lebanon , however. please note the distinction) in the
past two years.


tim

your view of this entire matter is far too serenely one sided and
selectively naive.

i disagree , basil has always seemed to me to be a cool headed person , slow
to anger (certainly more so than i). what is most important is that he is an
actual witness to things from the other end of the israeli guns. if only the
israeli government would remember what it was like when the roles were
reversed perhaps they would moderate their retaliation .

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
news software vax vms vnews 1.41
organization university of tennessee computing center
lines 293

dear friends ,

i am a graduate student in education at the university of tennessee. as part of
the requirements for a research class in music education i designed a
questionnaire to colect data for my research project. the study intends to
determine which techniques (if any) have been used to teach music for the deaf.

if you have any experience in music education for the deaf and would like to
help me with this project , your help would be very much appreciated.

if you also want to exchange some ideas about the subject matter , feel yourself
welcome. i have been working in this area for a while (in brazil by the way ,
i am brazilian and also in us) and i am very pleased with the results.

i hope that this inquiry will not cause too many inconveniences. thank you for
or time and consideration.


questionnaire
teaching music for deaf children.

name
address e mail
employing institution
years of experience grade level(s)
educational background bachelor masters doctorate
professional field special educ. music educ. other
if you checked other , please indicate your major

some school systems require music to be taught to deaf children , other
school systems have not thought of the possibility to teach music for children
with hearing limitations. the following questionnaire was designed to find out
how teachers face the issue of teaching or not teaching music for the deaf.
also , a part of this study is to determine teachers attitudes towards music
programs for deaf children.

directions
read the following questions and circle the number that best describes
your attitude towards music for deaf children (left column) , and circle the
appropriate yes , no or not applicable , whether you do the task (right
column).

sd strongly disagree y yes
dis disagree n no
neu neutral n a not applicable
ag agree
sa strongly agree

sd dis neu ag sa competencies y n n a

1 2 3 4 5 1.deaf children can be educated in y n n a
music.
1 2 3 4 5 2.deaf children should have regular y n n a
music classes.
1 2 3 4 5 3.a special music teacher must posses y n n a
an appropriate training in a variety
of communication methods to use with
deaf children.
1 2 3 4 5 4.in preparing the lessons the teacher y n n a
must keep in mind that deaf children
may present special needs in order to
participate in musical activities.
1 2 3 4 5 5.deaf and normal hearing children y n n a
should have music classes together.
1 2 3 4 5 6. 80 of a succesful music experience y n n a
by a deaf child depends upon the
teacher 's creativity and commitment
with the subject matter.
1 2 3 4 5 7.deaf children can learn to appreciate y n n a
music but they will never be a musician
or a performer.
1 2 3 4 5 8.deaf children are not able to y n n a
discriminate and recognize sounds.
1 2 3 4 5 9.deaf children can not distinguish y n n a
among loud and soft sounds.
1 2 3 4 5 10.deaf children can never match the y n n a
music in their head to a note on a
musical instrument.
1 2 3 4 5 11.the most appropriate material to y n n a
start music classes for the deaf
would be the folk songs said he would be replaced by the military commandant of
baku , police major general abdullah allakhverdiyev. there was no official
confirmation.



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject method employed by the armenians in 'genocide of the muslim people'.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 28

source men are like that by leonard ramsden hartill. the bobbs merrill
company , indianapolis (1926). (305 pages).
(memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)


p. 133 (first paragraph)

in this movement we took with us three thousand turkish soldiers who
had been captured by the russians and left on our hands when the russians
abandoned the struggle. during our retreat to karaklis two thousand of
these poor devils were cruelly put to death. i was sickened by the
brutality displayed , but could not make any effective protest. some ,
mercifully , were shot. many of them were burned to death. the method
employed was to put a quantity of straw into a hut , and then after
crowding the hut with turks , set fire to the straw.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from eshneken@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (edward a shnekendorf)
subject zionism
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 24

the following flyer was distributed at aipac 's 34th annual policy conference

because when we 're not in israel , we 're told to go back where we came from and
when we come back to israel we 're told to go back to where we came from and
when we 're vocal we have too much influence and when we are quiet we can afford
to be because we we control everything anyway and when we buy something we can
afford to because jews are so rich and when we do n't buy something it 's because
we 're cheap and because when we are poor we 're called dirty jew and ignorant
and when we 're not we 're called called rich jew and jap and when we are visibly
organized it 's because there is a secret jewish conspiracy and when we 're not it
is because there is a secret jewish conspiracy and because we 're told we 're not
a people and when we say we are we 're still told that we 're not and when we
marry our own people we 're called racist and we do n't we 're contaminating
someone else 's race and because we 're under fire from the left and from the
right and because there are whites who hate us for not being white and because
there are non whites who hate us for being white and because anti semitic
incidents are rising every year but we 're told that anti semitism does n't
exist or that we 're paranoid and because we 're told to shut up about the
holocaust and yet holocaust revisionism is risng every year and when we are
obnoxious we 're called japs and when we are nice we 're told we do n't act
jewish and because anti semitism is now world wide and because our people is
not yet free and because we do not have to complete the work but neither are
we free to desist from it for these reasons and many many more we are part of
the jewish national liberation movement zionism.

from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject re no land for peace no negotiatians
organization unocal corporation
lines 52



hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes


ok. i donot know why there are israeli voices against negotiations. however ,
i would guess that is because they refuse giving back a land for those who
have the right for it.

sounds like wishful guessing.


as for the arabian and palestinean voices that are against the
current negotiations and the so called peace process , they
are not against peace per se , but rather for their well founded predictions
that israel would not give an inch of the west bank (and most probably the same
for golan heights) back to the arabs. an 18 months of negotiations in madrid ,
and washington proved these predictions. now many will jump on me saying why
are you blaming israelis for no result negotiations.
i would say why would the arabs stall the negotiations , what do they have to
loose \?


'so called' \? what do you mean \? how would you see the peace process \?

so you say palestineans do not negociate because of 'well founded' predictions \?
how do you know that they are 'well founded' if you do not test them at the
table \? 18 months did not prove anything , but it 's always the other side at
fault , right \?

why \? i do not know why , but if , let 's say , the palestineans (some of them) want
all israel , and these are known not to be accepted terms by israelis.

or , maybe they (palestinenans) are not yet ready for statehood \?

or , maybe there is too much politics within the palestinean leadership , too many
fractions aso \?

i am not saying that one of these reasons is indeed the real one , but any of
these could make arabs stall the negotiations.

arabs feel that the current negotiations is only for legitimizing the current
status quo and for opening the doors of the arab markets for israeli trade and
oranges . that is simply unacceptable and would be revoked.

i like california oranges. and the feelings may get sharper at the table.



regards ,

dorin

from hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes (henrik)
lines 53
nntp posting host alban.dsv.su.se
reply to hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , stockholm university



henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes


the armenians in nagarno karabagh are simply defending their rights
to keep their homeland and it is the azeris that are invading their
territorium...


homeland \? first nagarno karabagh was armenians homeland today
fizuli , lacin and several villages (in azerbadjan)
are their homeland. ca n't you see the
the great armenia dream in this \? with facist methods like
killing , raping and bombing villages. the last move was the
blast of a truck with 60 kurdish refugees , trying to
escape the from lacin , a city that was given to the kurds
by the armenians.


however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one
that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
(carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.


do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 american cargo planes
were heading to armenia. when the turkish authorities
announced that they were going to search these cargo
planes 3 of these planes returned to it 's base in germany.
5 of these planes were searched in turkey. the content of
of the other 3 planes \? not hard to guess , is it \? it was sure not
humanitarian aid.....

search turkish planes \? you do n't know what you are talking about.
turkey 's government has announced that it 's giving weapons
to azerbadjan since armenia started to attack azerbadjan
it self , not the karabag province. so why search a plane for weapons
since it 's content is announced to be weapons \?






hilmi eren
dept. of computer and systems sciences , stockholm university
sweden
hilmi er@dsv.su.se





from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject accounts of anti armenian human rights violations in azerbaijan 007
summary prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 821

accounts of anti armenian human rights violations in azerbaijan 007
prelude to current events in nagorno karabakh




they grab papa , carry him into one room , and mamma and me into another.
they put mamma on the bed and start undressing her , beating her legs.
they start tearing my clothes , right there , in front of mamma. i do n't
remember where they went , what they did , or how much time passed. i had
the feeling that they beat me on the head , on my body , and tore my
clothes , all at the same time , i do n't even know what i said. the
atrocities started. i was savagely raped in that room. they argued among
themselves who would go first.




deposition of karine (karina) grigorevna m. 1

born 1964
secretary typist
azsantekmontazh trust
sumgait construction and installation administration
secretary of the smu komsomol organization

resident at building 17 33b , apartment 15
microdistrict no. 3
sumgait azerbaijan


on the 27th my sister marina and i went to the movies the seven o'clock show ,
at the theater that is across from the city party committee , about 50 yards
away. the sk theater. they were showing an argentinian film , the abyss.
before the film we noticed about 60 to 70 people standing near the podium at
the city party committee , but they were silent , there 's no conversation
whatsoever , and we could n't figure out what was going on. that is , we knew it
was about karabagh , but what it was exactly , what they were talking about , if
someone gave a speech or not , we did n't know. we bought our tickets. there
were 30 or 40 people in the theater. this was a very small number for that
large movie theater. the film started. about 30 minutes later they stopped the
film. a crowd burst in. about 60 people. they came up onto the stage. well
mostly they were young people , from 16 to 23 years old. they demanded that an
armenian woman come up onto the stage. they used foul language and said that
they were going to show what azerbaijanis were capable of , what they could do
to armenian girls. i thought that 's what they meant because they had demanded
a girl specifically. marina and i were sitting together. i told her to move
over , there were some russian girls sitting nearby. so that if someone
recognized me or if something happened , they would take me , and not marina.
it got quiet , 2 or 3 girls jumped up to run out , but the door was closed it 's
only opened at the end of the show and they returned to their seats.
everyone in the theater was looking at one another , russians , azerbaijanis ,
people of various nationalities. but no one reacted at all , no one in the
auditorium made a sound. they were silent , looking at one another , and
gradually started to leave. some guy , a really fat one , says , ok , we 've
scared them enough , let 's leave. they leave slowly , pompously. it seemed to
me that those people were not themselves. either they had smoked a bunch of
anasha , or had taken something else , because they all looked beastly , like
they were ready to tear anyone apart. then it was all over , as though nothing
had happened at all. the film started up again , it was one of those cheerful
films which should have only brought pleasure , made you happy to be alive. we
could barely sit to the end. so it had started at seven it was over by nine ,
and it was dark . . .

marina and i were walking home , lenin street , that 's the center of town. lenin
street was packed , just packed with young people. they were shouting ,
something about karabagh and something about armenians. we were n't especially
listening , because the way we were feeling we did n't know if we were going to
make it home or not , and just what had happened anyway \? public transportation
was n't running. incidentally , when we came out of the theater we saw police ,
policemen standing there. the director of the movie theater was looking at the
doors , because when they were leaving they had broken the glass , the doors
there are basically all glass. everything was broken. he stood there grief
stricken , but looking as though nothing really big had happened , like some
naughty boys had just broken them quite by accident , with a slingshot. well ,
since he looked more or less calm i decided that , nothing all that super
serious had happened. we went out very slowly we wanted to catch a bus , we
live literally one stop away. we did n't want to go on foot , not because it was
dark , but because something might happen. we flagged down a cab , but the
driver did n't want to take us. we told him we live near the bus station , and
he said he 'd take us to the bus station and not a yard farther. i said , well ,
ok . . .

so we got into the cab and managed to get there. something incredible was
happening at the bus station. there was a traffic jam. public transportation
was at a standstill and everyone was shouting ka ra bagh , they 're not going
to give up karabagh. i go home and tell my family what 's going on , and there 's
immediate panic in the house. mamma says , what should we do \? like the end had
come , they were going to come , kill us , that 's it . . . somehow we managed to
cheer ourselves up nothing that bad could happen. where are we living anyway ,
just what kind of social order do we have \? somehow we manage to calm mamma
down. and we went to bed. but no one could sleep. everyone made as though
nothing had happened.

that was on saturday. in short , the day went by. we did n't go anywhere and
did n't call our relatives. no one did anything. because . . . life goes on.
that day i realized something was approaching , but what exactly , i could n't
guess.

on the 28th everything was like it was supposed to be , we lived like we always
had. there were five of us at home mamma , papa and us , three sisters lyuda ,
marina , and i. my sister lyuda was in yerevan at the time. we sat at home and
no one went out. later we learned that a demonstration had started that
morning. it all started . . . they were smashing up stores. we were sitting at
home and did n't know anything about it. then a girlfriend of mine , lyuda
zimogliad , came by at around three o'clock i think. we worked together , we did
our apprenticeships together , she 's a russian girl. she said that something
awful was happening in town. i asked , do n't they want armenians \? well what
are they after , if they 're already in that state \? she says , no , nothing like
that , it 's just a demonstration , but it 's awful to watch it. somehow , it feels
like a war has broken out. public transportation has been stopped . . . the
cabs , the buses , well it 's just a nightmare.

then papa decides to go to the drugstore , my mother was having allergy
problems at the time . . . he left the house and our neighbor , aunt vera ,
asked him , where are you going \? stop ! there are such terrible things going
on in the courtyard are n't you afraid to go out \? papa did n't know what she
was talking about. she simply pushed him back into the entryway. he came home
and told mamma. mamma said , well , if aunt vera was talking like that it means
that something is really going on. but we did n't go see her , she 's a russian ,
she lives across from us. i had to see my friend out. around five o'clock i
tell lyuda , ok , look , it 's time for you to go , it 's late already , i 'll see
you out. mamma says , you do n't need to go , it 's too late already , you can
see what the situation in town is. so we decided to stay home. dinner was
ready. mamma says , let her eat with us , then she can go. we sat down at the
table. but no one was hungry , no one was in the mood , we just put everything
out on the table to calm ourselves down , and make it appear that we 're eating.
we turned on the television , and the show in fairy tale land was coming on.
we cleared the table.

we hear some noise out in the courtyard. i go out on the balcony , but i ca n't
see what 's going on , because the noise is coming from the direction of the bus
station , and there is a 9 story building in the way. there is mob of people
. . . i ca n't figure out what 's happening. they 're shouting something , looking
somewhere , i ca n't make out what is going on. i go down to a neighbor , she 's
an azerbaijani we 've been friends of her family for about 25 years. i go down
to look from their place. i see people shouting , looking at the 5 and 9 story
buildings near the bus station. just then soldiers set upon them , about 20
people , with clubs. the mob runs off in different directions. i even see
several people from our building. they are looking and laughing . . . i decide
that means it 's not all that bad if they are laughing it means they 're not
killing anyone. but now the crowd suddenly dashes toward the soldiers. one of
the soldiers cannot manage to get away , they start stomping on him with their
feet , everyone 's kicking him . . . i become ill and go home , and explain in
general terms that horrible things are going on out there . . . ca n't speak
. . . well , they 've probably killed that soldier , the way that crowd is . . .
if each of them kicked him just once . . . they took his club away from him
and started to beat him with it. but it was far away and i could n't see if he
got up and left or not.

i become terrified and go home and say , lyuda , do n't go anywhere , stay at our
place , because if you go out they could kill you or . . . then the crowd
runs over closer toward our building and stands at the 12 story building and
starts shouting something. we go out onto the balcony. all of our neighbors
are also out on theirs , too. everyone is standing , staring. the mob is
shouting and about 5 minutes later comes running toward our building. as it
turns out , at the 12 story building the azerbaijani neighbors went down and
kept them from coming in. there 's only one entryway there , they could stop
them.

they all run up to our building. mamma immediately starts closing the windows ,
afraid that they might throw stones. they have stones and they break the
windows , all of them. there are very many people. we have a large courtyard ,
and it 's packed with people. they spill up to the first floor so they do n't
crush each other. they crawl up on trees , posts , and garages. it 's just a huge
cloud of people. they break and burn the motorcycle of the armenian sergey
sargisian , from our building. we close the windows and immediately hear
tramping in our entryway. they come up to our fifth floor with a tremendous
din and roar. it 's incomprehensible. mamma told me later that they were
shouting father 's name , grisha , open the door , we 've come to kill you ! , or
something like that. i do n't remember that , i was spaced out , kind of. mamma
says , into the bedroom , quickly ! in the bedroom we have two tall beds , part
of our dowry mamma says , hide there , they probably wo n't come in there ,
they 'll ask something , say something , and leave. she says , we 'll tell them
that we live alone here. i ca n't imagine that my parents will stand out in
the hall alone talking with some sort of beasts . . . i go to them and say
that i 'll stand together with them , i 'll talk with them if they come , maybe i
can find a common language with them , all the more so if they know me i speak
azerbaijani more or less , and i can find out what they want. i told marina and
lyuda to hide under the bed , and my sister lyuda , i ca n't remember if i told
her anything or not.

then . . . they open the door it 's like they blew on it and it broke and fell
right into the hall. the crows bursts in and starts to shout get out of here ,
leave , vacate the apartment and go back to your armenia things like that. i
tell them , what has happened , speak calmly. one of you , tell me , calmly , what
has happened. in azerbaijani , they say , get out of the apartment , leave. i
say , ok. go downstairs. we 'll gather everything we need and leave the
apartment. i realize that it is senseless to discuss any sort of rights with
them , these are animals. they must be stopped. the ones standing in the
doorway , the young guys , say , there are old people and one girl with them.
too bad ! they take two or three steps back. it seems as though i have
pacified them with our exchange. then someone in the courtyard shouts ,
commanding them do n't you understand what you are saying \? kill them \?

and that was it ! that was all it took. they grab papa , carry him into one
room , and mamma and me into another. they put mamma on the bed and start
undressing her , beating her legs. they start tearing my clothes , right there ,
in front of mamma. i do n't remember where they went , what they did , or how
much time passed. i had the feeling that they beat me on the head , on my body ,
and tore my clothes , all at the same time , i do n't even know what i said. the
atrocities started. i was savagely raped in that room. they argued among
themselves who would go first.

later , i remember , i came to. i do n't know if i'm dead or alive. someone comes
in , someone tall , i think , clean shaven , in an eskimo dogskin coat , balding.
he looks around at what 's happening. at that instant everything stops. it
seems to me that he is either their commander or . . . that somehow everything
depends on him. he looks and says , well , we 're done here. they are beating
mamma on the head. they break up the chairs and beat her with the chair legs
. . . she loses consciousness , and they decide that she 's dead. papa . . . was
out cold. they want to throw lyuda off the balcony , but they ca n't get the
window open. apparently the window frames are stuck after the rain and the
windows ca n't be opened. they leave her next to the window. she was thinking
about being thrown out the window and passed out. she 's not a real strong
person anyway . . . he looks at me and sees that i'm saying something , that
i'm still twitching. well , i start saying the opposite of what i should be ,
which is humbling myself and pleading. i start shouting , cursing . . . they
do n't get any entreaty out of me. i already know that i'm dead , why would i
humble myself before anyone \? and he says that if that 's what i think , since my
tongue is so long . . . maybe he thinks that i still look quite appealing
. . . in short , he commands that i be taken outside.

i no longer saw or remembered what was happening to marina and lyuda , i do n't
know if they are alive or not. they take me outside. they are dragging me by
my arms , by my legs. they are hitting me against the wall , the railings ,
something metal . . . while they are carrying me someone is biting me , someone
else is pinching me . . .i do n't even know. i think , my god , when will death
come \? if only it were sooner . . . then . . . they carry me out , throw me near
the entryway . . . and start kicking me. i lose consciousness . . . what
happened after that , how many people there were , i do n't remember.

i come to after a while , i do n't remember how long. a neighbor is bringing me
clothing. i'm entirely covered with blood , she puts a dress on me. i remember
that i said the same words over and over again mamma , what happened , mamma ,
what have they done to us , where are we , whose house are we at \? i ca n't make
sense out of anything. there is a guy standing over me , i sort of know him , he
served in afghanistan , his name is igor , he brought me indoors. when they all
went to the third entryway and killed a person there , igor gathered his
courage , took me into his arms , and brought me to the neighbors' , even though
he 's small minded , he put himself at risk. igor agayev is azerbaijani he
served in afghanistan. there are three brothers. the older brother also served
there , i think now he 's stationed here , on the border , in armenia. igor
brought me to the neighbors' , and then helped me come to my senses , saying ,
karina , i know you , calm down , i'm not one of them. how do i know who 's who
and what 's what \? i come to , and they clean me up. i was covered in blood. then
papa . . . i saw papa , i saw mamma. and marina , too . . . igor was there when
they dragged marina and lyuda out from under the bed . . . marina . . . lyuda
said that she was russian , they said , we 'll let you go , we are n't touching the
russians , go. and while they are dragging marina out she decides she 's going
to tell them she 's azerbaijani. igor immediately grabs marina 's and lyuda 's
hands , because he knows marina , and knows that she is armenian and is our
sister , and takes her to the second floor to a neighbor 's and starts pounding
on the door so she will open up. she opens the door and igor pushes them in
there. so they survived.

my sister lyuda lost consciousness after the bandits started stealing things.
while they were going downstairs , taking things downstairs , then coming back
up again , lyuda seized the opportunity and crawled under the bed and stayed
there. then , when she was herself again , she found a torn night shirt and put
it on , and some sort of robe and went to a neighbor 's on the fourth floor , the
one whose apartment i had watched the crowd from , the friend of ours , and
knocked on the door. the neighbor opened and said , i'm not going to let you
in the apartment because i'm afraid of them. but i 'll give you some stockings
and we 'll leave the building. lyuda says , i 'll stay at your place because of
what 's going on , they keep going up and down the stairs. it was just for a
moment , just a moment in life , but the neighbor would n't consent. lyuda came
back to our place and lay under the bed . . .

i came to. mother was there. i ca n't remember my supervisor 's telephone
number , but something had to be done. somehow i remembered and called , and he
came to get us. he did n't have any idea what was going on. he thought we were
simply afraid , he did n't know that they were killing us and that we had passed
between life and death. he came and got us and took us to the police precinct.
there they looked us over. i was having trouble walking , my lungs hurt badly ,
it was hard to breathe . . .

my supervisor 's name is urshan feyruzovich mamedov. he 's the head of our
administration. they took us there. when we were leaving , i saw a great number
of buses full of soldiers at the entrance to town. the buses were ordinary
passenger buses. there were very many soldiers. we left around eleven , right
after eleven. if these people could stop what was happening they could save a
great many lives . . . because the crowd was moving on , toward the school , and
what was going on there . . . i think everyone know not only in sumgait , not
only in yerevan. because there they murdered them all one after the next ,
without stopping. after us.

i think 14 people died in microdistrict no. 3 , and 10 to 12 of them were from
buildings 4 , 5 , and 6. in our building one person died , and one old woman died
from building 16 , that 's the building in front of ours. there young
azerbaijani men stopped the mob and would n't let it into their building.
incidentally , when we were at the neighbors' , marina called our relatives
to warn them , so they would all know what was happening. i called a aunt in
microdistrict no. 5. they have three neighbors who are armenians. i said , run
quickly , i ca n't explain what 's going on hide , do what you can , just stay
alive. hide at azerbaijanis' , ones who wo n't give you away. at that moment
three people came in , policemen. i think they were azerbaijanis. i was in such
awful condition , my face was completely distorted my lips were puffed up ,
there was blood , my eye was swollen , no one thought i would ever see anything
out of that eye again . . . my forehead was badly cut , and one half of my face
was pushed out forward. no one would have thought that i would survive , get my
normal appearance back , and be able to grasp anything at all. i started to
scream at those people , why did you come , who sent you here , no one wants you
here , have n't you killed people people yet , what are you doing here \? one of
the soldiers said , do n't scream at us. we 're muslims , but we 're not from the
sumgait police. they called in from daghestan. so at that point the
daghestan police were there.

when we got to the police precinct there were an awful lot of police there ,
there were soldiers , police with dogs , ambulances , firemen . . . i do n't know ,
maybe they were waiting for people to bring them the goners and the seriously
injured to treat them there in the police precinct. i do n't know what they
were there for. there were also doctors from baku there. they examined lyuda
and me and said , these women need to go to the maternity home , but we do n't
know what to do with the rest.

so they took us , and i lost contact with my parents , my boss , everyone. my
boss said , do n't worry , i 'll find you , no matter where you are , no matter
what happens. we went to the hospital. there we were examined by a department
head from the sumgait maternity home , pashayeva , i think her name was. she
examined us. the ambulance was from baku i figured out that the sumgait
ambulances had n't done anything , they did n't respond to any calls. people
called and neither the police nor the ambulances showed any sign of life.

that doctor looked me over and i could tell from her behavior that something
very good had happened , for she became quite glad. i even thought to myself ,
god , can it be that nothing all that bad is wrong \? she looks me over and
says , now why are you suffering so \? you do n't know what your people have been
doing , your people did even worse things. and i think , great , i have to deal
with her . . . and i felt so bad , i thought , why do n't i just die so as not to
have to hear more stuff like this from people like her \? here i am in this
condition and being told about something that our people did. i just did n't
have the energy to say , how could our people possibly be smart enough to
think of something that yours have n't already done \? i stayed there. then they
brought in another woman , ira b. , she was married , and she was raped in her
own apartment , too. there were three of us , ira , lyuda , and 1. the next
morning they took lyuda and ira away. they did n't do anything to help us. this
was in the old maternity home , in the combined block. they did n't do anything
more than examine me , that was it. i did n't want any shots or tranquilizer ,
nothing. what shots could have calmed me down \? i did n't even want to look at
them.

i lay in the ward. either it just worked out that way or they did it on pur
pose , but i was alone. i was alone even though the wards were packed. that
same evening a woman came by and asked me what was wrong with me , that my face
was disfigured. she asked what had happened to me , and i said , better to ask
your brother what happened , there 's no point in asking me , your brother can
better explain what happened. she fell into a faint. all the doctors threw
themselves at her , and the doctor categorically forbade anyone to come into my
ward.

then people from work came to see me , my boss , his daughter they brought me
clothing , because i was literally naked. the only thing i had on was a dress ,
but the woman who gave it to me was very short , and the dress was way up
above my knees , and the woman orderly said , i ca n't believe you put on such a
short dress , who are you showing off your legs to here \? i went back to my
ward thinking , just one more thing from something. people from work came and
brought me something in a sack , apples , i think , three or four pounds , but i
could n't take them. i had become so weak that it was just embarrassing. i said
that i could n't take the apples , and really did n't have any appetite. no one
had to bring me anything. some woman took the sack . . . and , oh yes ! . . .
then i heard that the head doctor tell a nurse that my medical history should
be hidden or torn up completely so that no one would know that i was an
armenian , maybe they would n't figure it out from looking at me. so they must
have been thinking that there would be some kind of attack , that something
else would happen. that it would be worse. or , perhaps , someone was outside on
the street , i do n't know. in any case , i did n't sleep a wink that night.

the next morning they picked me up , a whole police detail , put me in a bus ,
and off we went. i did n't even know where they were taking me. they took me to
the club where the troops were , the very one i was in that ill fated evening.
i got off the bus. near the city party committee there were a great many
troops , tanks , armored personnel carriers the whole scene was terrible. i saw
a few people i knew there , and that calmed me a little. i had already thought
that i was the only one left. so there were five or six of us left in sumgait
after that night. i still did n't know what happened to my parents , they did n't
come to see me in the hospital , and my boss told me that everything was fine.
i did n't know whether to believe him or not. maybe he was just trying to calm
me down , maybe something happened on the way. then i went to the club and saw
a lot of people i knew. they all knew one another , they were all kissing each
other and asking , what happened , what went on \? two days later they came to
see me from work. they were there all the time. each day they came , showed
interest , and were constantly bringing me money. they did everything they
could. of course i'm most thankful to my boss , the only one of my colleagues
who did n't lose his presence of mind and who did n't change his opinions ,
neither before , nor after , nor in the heat of the moment , no matter what
happened. he constantly took an interest. a sincere interest , from the heart
. . . then , about two days later , the secretary of the party committee came ,
not from our party organization , but from the first trust , which ours is part
of , comrade kerimov , a very important figure in our town. he made arrangements
with the emergency medical personnel to take me away , because if i sat down by
myself i could n't get up or lie down again. there was something wrong with my
lungs , it was hard to breathe. they examined me there several times , there i
lay were several doctors , they all thought that . . . that it must just be
from all the blows , i do n't know. they did n't diagnose anything in particular.
when i was in the maternity home i even asked . . . i made it a point of
insisting that they take me to the trauma section because i felt so awful.
there was no way something inside was n't broken , my ribs . . . well they took
me there and took x rays and said that everything was fine. there were
emergency medical workers on duty in the club. the mother of one of marina 's
friends was there. she was the head doctor at the sumgait children 's clinic.
they had every kind of antifever agent in the world , which was exactly what i
needed at that moment , i thought. i said that i was having great difficulty
breathing , i could n't seem to get enough air , something was wrong with me.
they put tight bandages around my chest and waist. later i overheard some
people saying that i had been cut all over. i think they just saw me being all
bandaged up and decided that my breasts and face had been cut . . . but i
was n't cut.

they took us to the khimik boarding house. we lived there a long time. soon
appeared representatives . . . they were agitating. at first people would not
talk to them , and drove them off. one of the armenian women shouted , we
demand that seidov come ! the response was , it 's seidov who sent us. seidov
is the chairman of the azerbaijani council of ministers. the woman said ,
we 'll only see seidov 's daughter , have her come here , we 'll do the same
things to her that they did to our daughters , and then we 'll deal with you
agitators. and so on. more of them said , have seidov himself come. this
went on day in , day out. the agitators kept coming and coming , this drove us
out of our wits. then people gradually started departing for yerevan because
they realized it was senseless to stay. everything got on our nerves the
smell , the small children. there were children at the sk club , children who
had literally just come out of the maternity home. what were they doing in a
club that did n't even have running water all the time \? at first we had to pay
to eat there. they even overcharged us , as it turned out. on the second day
someone told us that they would bring us food for free. the children were ill.
everything stank there. well imagine about 3 , 000 people in a small movie
theater with seating for no more than 500. you could n't sit or lie down , it
was impossible to even move. the stench was awful. even the smallest infants
took ill overnight there. i heard that they were arriving seriously ill in
yerevan , the infants. they have to be washed , they have to be bathed , not to
mention that we , the adults , were ill and needed care. people were fainting
right and left. i just do n't know , everyone was crying , everyone . . . only
the young people , the men , somehow managed to keep it together. but the women
were in a constant state of panic. it seemed to everyone that they would come
any minute and kill and stab. it seemed clear that we had been gathered
together purposely , like during the war , so that they could burn the movie
theater and there would n't be a single armenian left. then people went up to
the attic. i did n't see them , i only heard them , because i was lying down and
could n't get up. i lay right on the stage , we had some room there. apparently
they caught two people with either oil or gas. i think they wanted to burn the
theater. maybe someone saw them , i did n't. i was in no condition to open my
eyes.

everyone was suspicious of everyone else. they would ask , are n't you an
azerbaijani \? i think i saw you somewhere , i think you 're an azerbaijani. they
led out all the men and started letting them back in by checking their
passports , relatives might be covering for each other. half of the people did
not have any documents. there were people who had run out of their homes in
nothing but a pair of pants and slippers , or wearing just a shirt , not like
they should have , with their ids.

so on the 28th , on sunday , i think , the police did nothing to help us. on
monday everything resumed where it had left off on block 41a. they did n't
spare a soul there not children , not pregnant women , nobody. they killed ,
they burned , they hacked with axes , just everything possible. they murdered
the melkumian family whom i knew , my mother worked with them. their daughter
in law went to school with my older sister. they were brutally murdered. only
the two daughters in law survived. by a miracle one was able to save herself ,
she ran away , the neighbors would n't take her in , so she ran about the
building until she found refuge. she was pregnant and had two small children.
this all continued on monday in block 41a , on the 29th , when the troops were
already in the city.

they murdered people , they overturned automobiles , and they burned entire
families. they say they did n't even know for sure if the people were armenians
or not. i heard that the lezgins suffered , too. i'm not sure myself , i did n't
see any lezgins who had been injured. they burned cars so it 's very difficult
now to say exactly who died and who did n't. it was very difficult to identify
the corpses , or rather , what remained of the corpses after they were doused in
gasoline and burned . . . it 's all very hard to imagine , of course i heard
that many people disappeared without a trace , from the btz plant two people ,
including a woman who worked the night shift , aunt razmella , who also lived in
microdistrict 3.

they were stopping buses between baku and sumgait. in the evening people who
had been visiting baku were returning to sumgait , and people from baku were
going home from sumgait , and there were students , too. they were simply
savagely murdered. they were stopping the buses , the drivers immediately did
what they were told because there was just no other way to deal with that
hoard of brutally minded people. they stopped the buses , dragged the armenians
out and killed them on the spot. i did n't see it myself , but i heard that they
put them all in a pile so as to burn them. later it was hard to discern from
the corpses , well you ca n't call them corpses , you had to figure out from the
ashes who it was. l heard that two fellows saved two women , one a student , ira
g. , if i'm not mistaken. she was in the hospital a long time after that , and
she still ca n't figure out who saved her. she was also brutally raped and
beaten and thrown onto a pile of corpses. the fellow pulled her out of that
whole pile of corpses , put his coat on her , took her into his arms , and
carried her to the city. i still ca n't imagine how he managed to do that.

i heard that from engels grigorian. he knows her , apparently. well a lot of
people went to that hospital anyway. she was in the hospital and singing a
song in armenian , and they wrote the words down , and , i think he still has
that piece of paper , because he says that a lot of people now have that song ,
the one she sang in the hospital where she lay in such bad shape. they
could n't find the guy who saved her. he left her in someone 's apartment and
called the ambulance , she was in such awful shape that , probably , like me ,
she could n't remember anyone 's face.

i think that i knew one of the people who broke into our house , maybe i had
talked with him once. but i received so many blows everything was just knocked
out of my head. i ca n't remember to this day who he was. then , it seems , i saw
the secretary of the directorate 's party organization , where marina works. she
goes to school and works , she goes to night school at azi , and works by day at
the khimzashchita construction and installation administration. i'm the
secretary of the komsomol organization at our administration and often met
with the secretaries of party and komsomol organizations. we had joint
meetings. i know them all , i 've even talked with them , and he , i know , is from
armenia. an azerbaijani , but from armenia. it became obvious that many of
those people were azerbaijanis born in armenia.

they took me to various police stations , to the police precinct , and to the
procuracy , because the ussr procuracy got involved in the case , and i iden
tified the photographs of people who i could more or less recognize. they
showed me the people who were in our apartment , they 're working on our
case , but i ca n't even recognize them , although it was proved that they were
the ones , they 're processing it somehow. they tell me that they know that
someone held me by the arm and someone else held me by the leg when they were
dragging me. there was someone else in our apartment who did not even touch
me , he just stole a blanket and an earring or something like that. all these
people , all of them , as much as i 've heard about them and seen them , they were
all from kafan.

the secretary of the party organization is named najaf , najaf rzayev. he was
there when everything started. it must have been him because i did n't
recognize anyone else in the crowd whom i knew besides him. all the more since
i told him , listen , you do something , because you know me. he turned away
and went toward the bedroom , where marina was. well you could n't see marina
anyway. there was such a noisy confusion of people that you could n't make out
anyone. all of it flew right out of my head , and then gradually i became
myself again , at the city party committee . . . there were military people
there. i told them what went on , and they wrote it all down. i told them his
name. on march 8 the secretary of our first trust party organization , the one
we 're part of , came to see us , his name is najaf rzayev. i tell mamma , if
he 's here despite the fact that i gave his name , it means that either his
alibi has been confirmed or , probably , that they think i'm crazy , not
responsible for my words. he said , what did they do to you , how awful ,
myself , i hid an armenian family. then after some time goes by he comes back
again and says something entirely different i was n't at home , my family and
i went to baku. i said , marina , what is he saying \? he said something totally
different before. after that i did n't go to see our procurator , our case is
being handled by a procurator from voronezh , fedorov by name. fedorov told me
that rzayev 's case had just gotten to him , and there were so names involved.
what are they doing with rzayev \?
did he prove his alibi or not \? they just think that since i was hit in the
head i ca n't say anything for sure , whether it was him or not. it will be an
insult if he was in our apartment and does n't have to pay for it , but at the
same time

i'm afraid to say i'm a hundred percent sure that it was he. because no mat
ter who i name , they tell me , no , you 're wrong , he did n't do that , that one
was n't there. all the faces have gotten mixed up in my mind. who did what
exactly i ca n't say.

when they took me outside there was a whole crowd there , but i did n't see it ,
because i had my eyes closed all the time. it seemed to me that i always got
it because of my eyes , people were always hassling me , for some reason it
always seemed to me that my eyes are responsible. when they were beating my
face i thought they were trying to put my eyes out. so i had my eyes closed ,
they took me outside and started to beat me. a young guy , 22 , held my arms , he
works at the btz plant. and right nearby , across the road from us , block 41 ,
is where all this was going on. right across the road from us. the btz
dormitory is over there , that 's where he lives. now he 's in custody , they even
have proved , as far as i know , that it was he who killed shurik gambarian , the
clarinet player from the third entryway of our building. one person in our
building was killed , it was that man.

a guy comes by who shared a room with the guy who was holding me. he saw that
he was holding me by the arms and that he was beating me , but he did n't come
over , he just looked and then went into the dormitory. a while after it was
all over , people started making announcements in town saying that
investigators had been summoned. that guy went and told them everything. now
they 've caught him , everything 's been proved. now , evidently , they 've been
beating him , i do n't know what they 're doing with them over there , but he
himself said that he was working the night shift at the plant. some young guy
came to the plant and said , everyone who wants to kill armenians come to the
bus station on saturday at ten. that was it. he said , the ones who wanted to ,
went. this was at the btz plant , during the night shift , probably , late friday
night. it was at night , they were at the sauna together. and he said , what do
you mean , do you understand what you are saying \? the others were silent ,
probably , in their hearts they were thinking , i'm going to go. but they did n't
say anything to one another. he said that he thought it important to to go ,
because he had heard a lot about what had happened in kafan , that they had
killed their azerbaijani sisters , their mothers , burned villages , and all of
that. that guy was also born in kafan. that is certain. and marina says that
the secretary of the party organization is from armenia , too. from

i 've participated in the investigation a couple of times. i'm satisfied with
them thus far. they summoned us and asked about what happened , and every word
i said was recorded. i met some guy there . . . by the way , he was an
armenian. i said that he was in our apartment , but what he did , i do n't know.
his last name was grigorian , eduard grigorian. he s from sumgait , from
microdistrict 1. he was sentenced i think , to five years , not his first time.
his mother is russian. i met with him at the kgb in baku , at the azerbaijani
kgb. they took us there and showed me photographs. there were so many
photographs , i think they even photographed those people who were caught at
curfew , and i 've got them all confused. i say , the face was about like this ,
the guy in the white coat with the red clasps. but he could take that coat off
and burn it somewhere , and it would be like looking for a needle in a
haystack. well. this guy , grigorian , i said , he was in our apartment , but he
is so light complected that he looks like a lezgin. i do n't know what he did ,
i ca n't remember. maybe he beat me or raped me. but he was in our apartment.
at the kgb he started asking me , pleading with me , there 's no need for this ,
all this stuff , look me in the eyes , you 're like a sister to me. i took a look
at him and thought , my god , heaven forbid that i should have a brother like
you. but they were satisfied with my responses , because i said everything
without great certainty. i was there with mamma. then lyuda came in , but when
she came in she got sick immediately. she wanted to kill him , she crawled over
the table at him. she recognized him. when she came to , lyuda was lying on the
balcony , the mob threw her there and all of them ran into the bedroom. we had
all kinds of boxes with dishes in them , the dowries for all three sisters.
they stole everything in the apartment , leaving only small things. at that
moment lyuda came to and started remembering everything. well , seeing the
faces , hearing the voices . . . two people were saying they could burn the
apartment. another says , why burn the apartment when i 've got three kids and
no place to live. so this guy was in temporary housing , he did n't have
anywhere to live , he was from sumgait. they were sure that they would get the
apartment. besides , the neighbors were azerbaijani. why should they burn the
apartment , they might burn azerbaijanis. that 's what they said. how did they
know there were azerbaijanis there , if they just picked a place , thinking that
armenians lived there \? we have a list of the residents for our part of the
building , our name is in there , but how could they know that azerbaijanis
lived on the other side of the wall from us \? so they did n't set fire to our
apartment.

i do n't know , i was in such bad shape that if all of it had come to a halt
when i was outside , if someone had asked me what was happening , i would
have said that a civil war was going on. well , maybe not civil . . . but
probably civil , because when they were beating me i opened my eyes and saw
that all the neighbors were standing on their balconies and watching , like at
a free horror film. so a civil war was going on , and only the armenians were
being fought. if it were a world war or something like that , they would have
been fighting everyone. but they only fought us. then i met some women from
our building , some azerbaijanis. they are crying , they tell me , karina , we
saw all of it , how could it happen \? they 're asking me ! well i just do n't know
what to call it if a normal girl can stand there and watch what happened to
me. i think that if it were the other way around either i would n't have been
able to take it , or i would have tried to avert it , like that one azerbaijani
woman did in front of our building. a woman lives there , an awful , dissipated
woman , if you can call her a woman , the dissipated life she leads. two
armenian families live there , in her part of the building. she came out on the
balcony and saw what was happening to me and started to scream and curse. she
came down to the entryway and said , you 'll come in this entryway over my dead
body. so not one of them took it in his head to go in that entryway. some
folks were saying that those people were so out of control that they did n't
even know what they were doing. i do n't think that 's true. they knew very well
what they were doing if they did n't even lift a hand against that woman. they
could n't have cared less about her , but the fact that she was an azerbaijani
stopped them.

they were just beasts , they had smoked so much. when they came to our place
they were all chewing something. i noticed everyone who came into the
apartment was chewing something. i think , my god , maybe i just think that \?
maybe i'm losing my mind \? but no , they 're all chewing something. maybe it is
some kind of drug , it must be , because . . . at first glance they all seemed
to be such normal people , young , clean shaven , looking exactly as if they had
come to some sort of celebration. but they were shouting something. they
did n't talk , they shouted , as though there were deaf people there. they
screamed and screamed yeah , killing , killing , we 're killing the armenians !
only they did n't shout kill , they shouted gurun ermianlary. gurun
literally means kill , or destroy.

that 's how it was ! i 'll continue. we hid in a captain 's apartment , he 's an
azerbaijani , his wife is a tatar. we were sitting in their apartment , their
kids were out in the yard. their kids knew a whole lot. this was in our part
of the building , on the third floor. when mamma came to and could n't find
lyuda she took papa 's hand , this was while the looters were stealing things ,
but they did n't pay attention because they were stealing things. apparently
they had already ceased killing and switched to stealing. mamma found the
courage to . . .

a boy said to my mother where 's the gold \? mamma said he must have been 12
to 14 years old. he even looked russian , he was so fair skinned. but the
azerbaijanis from armenia are fair skinned. i noticed they were all on the
fair side. he shouted , they were all smashing things , and he asks mamma where
the gold is. we kept our gold in the wardrobe with our important papers. in a
little black bag , we kept everything in there. mamma does n't really like to
wear gold. she probably never even wore those things from the time they were
bought for her. they took everything that was lying on the cheval glass. mamma
thinks that the gold saved us. because they threw themselves at the gold , and
mamma grabbed papa , who was trying to breathe. they had closed his mouth ,
bound his hands , and put a pillow and a chair on his face . . . they had
shoved something into his mouth so he would suffocate. mamma grabbed him and
tore all that stuff off . . . he had something in his mouth , he was having
trouble breathing , his nose was filled with blood. mamma grabbed him and
started running from the fifth down to the first floor because no one wanted
to open their doors to them. mamma said that by accident , completely by
accident that person opened his door , he was sleeping , and said , half awake ,
what 's happened \? he sees that they are bloody. mamma said , at least go and
find out what 's happening to my daughters , even if they 've burned them or
murdered them , at least bring the corpses. he went looking for us. at that
moment lyuda was under the bed. she says that after they left it seemed that
someone was calling her name. when he quietly called her she could n't get out
from under the bed. she wanted to get out and was calling softly. she thought
she was shouting , but in fact she was either silent or was only talking to
herself , it just seemed to her that she was shouting. when she got out from
under the bed everyone was gone. and again . . . she thought that she had lost
her mind. i 'll never leave here , never ! to hell with it ! it just seems that
way to me , i 'll come to eventually. but then , when everything had settled
down , stopped , that mall brought lyuda down , and igor carried me in from
outside. or first i was brought in , then lyuda , i do n't remember what order it
happened in.

and mamma said , listen , they 're all running around down there , shouting
something or other , and running toward the other building. it had more or
less calmed down where we were. who 's dead , who 's alive , we do n't know. i
tried to call my girlfriend. i had basically come to. mamma says , listen
let 's go upstairs , at least get a mattress or something. we do n't know how
long we 'll be here. maybe they did n't burn everything. i do n't get it , all
women have that feeling , they want to get something from their homes , maybe
not everything was taken \? i tell mamma , mamma , what do you need any of that
for \? to hell with it ! we 're alive , forget the rest of it , all of it ! she
says , no , let 's go get at least something. maybe we 'll leave here , spend the
night at someone else 's. mamma went upstairs , and their little boy , their son
alik , was standing on the lookout. lie was standing there to see if they were
coming. they only managed to run up there and grab something one time. he
shouts , come back , they 're coming ! they did n't have enough time to get a
lot , mattresses from one apartment , a blanket from another . . . mamma got my
knitting . . . someone managed to grab our old things , the ones we never wore ,
out of the hall . . . someone took father 's old coveralls. the neighbor , his
wife , mamma and papa . . . marina went with them. i was in no condition to
leave. neither was lyuda. we just sat. they ran out and we closed the door and
just then we hear that the mob is on its way toward our place upstairs ,
they 're dragging something again. they were going toward the other building ,
maybe over by the school , or . . . there was an unfinished building over
there , people said they were going toward the basement or the unfinished
building , they could gradually carry everything over there. then things more
or less calmed down. i tried to call my boss.

later there was more noise. we were on the third floor , in a one bedroom
apartment , and a woman lives in the one bedroom place on the second floor ,
asya dallakian. she 's an old woman , retired. she was n't at home , at that
time she was usually in the country , she has a married daughter there , and
her grandson is in the army. she is only very rarely in town she gets her
retirement money and the apartment is essentially vacant. they started
pounding on her door and broke it down. she had two or three beds in there ,
something like that , she 's a 60 to 70 year old woman who really does not even
live there. probably she had some pots , a couple of metal bed frames and
mattresses , and a television. when her grandson came she bought a television.
they started wrecking everything. i started getting sick again. i think , my
god , what is going on around here \? when will this end \? we turned off the
lights and sat. as it turns out the people who were n't afraid , the ones who
knew what was going on , knew not to turn off the lights. we did n't know , but
they did n't come to where we were all the same. they all knew very well that
he was a captain. he went out and closed the door , and we sat in his
apartment. his last name was kasumov. he 's an exserviceman , retired , works up
at the fire station at some plant or other. he went out and stood at his door.
they tell him , comrade captain , do n't worry , we wo n't harm you , you 're one of
us. he went upstairs , and they say , are n't you taking anything from this
apartment \? he says , i do n't need anything. and the women who were standing
in the yard . . . we have a basement , full of water . . . the women who were
standing in the yard saw. those guys , they left everything they stole on the
first floor and ran upstairs again. the women threw everything they had time
to into the basement , to save our property. some things were left dirty
pillows , two or three other things and a rug. a guy came downstairs , really
mad , and he says , where 's the rug \? i just put it right here ! they tell him ,
some guy came and took it and went off toward the school. he ran off in that
direction.

oh ! i forgot the most important point. when igor picked me up in his arms ,
there were women standing there who saw everything that was going on. they
just did n't tell me about it for a long time. the wife of that military man ,
she did n't want to kill my spirit , i was already dead enough. later she told
me , that after they murdered uncle shurik in the third entryway one of them ,
the ringleader , apparently a young man , said , where 's the girl who was here \?
and he became furious. the woman tells him , she came to . . . she did n't
know what to say think something up \? someone carried her off \? then they would
comb the whole house and find me and our whole family. so the woman says , she
came to and went to the basement. now , our basement is full of water. so the
whole mob dashes off to the basement to look for me or my corpse. they took
flashlights they were up to their waists in water , water which had been
standing there for years , and soot , and fuel oil. they climbed down in there
to get me. then one of them said , there 's so much water down there , she
probably walked and walked and then passed out and died. she met her death in
the basement. that 's it , we can leave , no problem ! i did n't know that , and
when i was told , i felt worse. two times worse. a lot worse ! so they did n't
just want to pound me flat , something more awful was awaiting me . . .

after that we of course did n't want to live in sumgait any longer. we really
did n't want to go back to our apartment. when we moved , i went up there and
started to quiver and shake all over , because i started remembering it all.
although the neighbors all sobbed , it was all . . . so cheap . . . the people
who sat in their apartments and did n't help us at a time like that. i think
that they could have helped ! i do n't think that they were obligated to , but
they could have helped us ! because that one woman was able to stop that whole
brutal crowd by herself. that means they could have , too. it would have been
enough foe one man or women to say , what do you think you 're doing \? that 's
all ! that would have done it. there were 60 apartments in our building. not
one person said it ! when i was lying on the ground and all those people were
standing on their balconies i did n't hear anyone 's voice , no one said what are
you doing , leave her alone . . . mamma even told one of the neighbor women
that if it had been an azerbaijani woman in my place they would have dropped a
bomb if it would have killed even one armenian. they would have stood up for
one of their own. true , they say that our neighbor from the fourth entryway ,
an old sick woman tried to stop the pogrom. the azerbaijanis have a custom
if a woman takes her scarf and throws it on the ground , the men are supposed
to stop immediately. the old woman from the fourth entryway did that , but they
stomped her scarf into the ground , pushed her off to the side , and said , if
you want to go on living , you 'll disappear into your apartment. so she left.
that trick did n't work on them.

even the neighbors who helped us move told me , ok , fine , calm down , forget
that it happened. i said i 'd only forget it if i told them right then that it
had happened to their daughter and if that did n't have any effect on them ,
then i would forget everything , too. imagine that it happened to your sister.
and no one did anything. anything.

april 25 , 1988
yerevan

reference

1 the sumgait tragedy pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan ,
volume i , eyewitness accounts , edited by samuel shahmuradian , forward by
yelena bonner , 1990 , published by aristide d. caratzas , ny , pages 93 109


david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 30

in article 1993apr25.182253.1449@virginia.edu ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes
i have just started reading the articles in this news
group. there seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet
other members with scare tactics. i believe one posting said
that all postings by one person are being forwarded to his
server who keeps a file on him in hope that appropriate action
might be taken .
i do n't know where you guys are from but in america
such attempts to curtail someones first amendment rights are
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind
regardless of how we feel about it. take your fascistic
repressive ideals back to where you came from.

it would be nice if , as you rightly point out the inherent value of
freedom of speech , discussion would also deal with the all to
frequent ritualized abuses and distortions of that freedom that do
occur. there are situations where a few extremely vocal , and
usually radical , people do drive people away , effectively stifle
all other ( opposing ) views and generally take over . clearly ,
the purpose behind such actions is to deprive others of their
freedom of speech through overt and covert coercion and domination of
the media form in question. while freedom of speech is to be valued ,
this is not. how would you suggest that this sort of reoccuring problem be
alleviated \? more particularly , how can this be controlled within the
structure of these newsgroups \?

tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
subject re israeli expansion lust
reply to aa229@freenet.carleton.ca (steve birnbaum)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 24


in a previous article , zbib@bnr.ca (sam zbib) says

imho , it does not really matter who started any individual battle within
the arabs isreal war context. the real question is who what started the
war. does anyone have any doubts it was the creation of israel on arab
land \?

where the hell do you get off calling it arab land \? jews have been
living there for a long time. jews did n't just start arriving in 1900 ,
they 've been living there for thousands of years , except for periods when
they were expelled but they always returned home.

steve


internet aa229@freenet.carleton.ca fidonet 1 163 109.18
mossad@qube.ocunix.on.ca
my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head.

from arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee)
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton
organization johns hopkins university cs dept.
lines 30

in article 22apr199300513566@vxcrna.cern.ch casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe) writes
are you aware that there is an arms embargo on all of what is was
yugoslavia , including bosnia , which guarantees massive military
superiority of serbian forces and does not allow the bosnians to
try to defend themselves \?
should we sell weapons to all sides , or just the losing one , then \?

ending an embargo does not we must sell anything at all.

if the europeans want to sell weapons to one or both sides , they are welcome
as far as i'm concerned.

you seem to oppose ending the embargo. you know , it is difficult for europeans
to sell weapons when there is an embargo in place.

i do not automatically accept the argument that bosnia is any worse than
other recent civil wars , say vietnam for instance. the difference is it is
happening to white people inside europe , with lots of tv coverage.

but if this was the reason , and if furthermore both sides are equal , would n't
all us racist americans be favoring the good christians (serbs) instead
of the non christians we really seem to favor \?

on the first day after christmas my truelove served to me... leftover turkey !
on the second day after christmas my truelove served to me... turkey casserole
that she made from leftover turkey.
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming turkey wings ! ...
pizza hut commercial (and m tlu a gic bait)

ken arromdee (arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu)

from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 57

in article c5qu5h.1if@news.iastate.edu , oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin) writes
in article 1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr17.185118.10792@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes

.. cancellum ...



henrik let me clearify mr. turkish
henrik armenia is not getting itchy . she is simply letting the world know
henrik that she will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with
henrik their famous tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish invasion
henrik of the greek island of cypress while the world simply watched.

onur yalcin it is more appropriate to address netters with their names as
onur yalcin they appear in their signatures (i failed to do so since you did
onur yalcin not bother to sign your posting). not only because it is the
onur yalcin polite thing to do , but also to avoid addressing ladies with
onur yalcin mr. , as you have done.

fine. please , accept my opology !

onur yalcin secondly , the island of which the name is more correctly spelled
onur yalcin as cyprus has never been greek , but rather , it has been home to
onur yalcin a bi communal society formed of greeks and turks. it seems that

onur yalcin you know as little about the history and the demography of the
onur yalcin island , as you know about the essence of turkey 's
onur yalcin military intervention to it under international agreements.

bi communal society \? then why did not greece invade cyprus \?

onur yalcin be that as it may , an analogy between an act of occupation in
onur yalcin history and what is going on today on azerbaijani land , can only
onur yalcin be drawn with the expansionist policy that armenia is now pursuing.

buch of crap and you know it. nagarno karabagh has always been part
of armenia and it was stalin who gave it to the azeris. go back and
review the history.

the armenians in nagarno karabagh are simply defending their rights
to keep their homeland and it is the azeris that are invading their
teritory.

onur yalcin but , i could agree that it is not for us to issue diagnoses to
onur yalcin the political conduct of countries , and promulgate them in such
onur yalcin terminology as itchy bitchy ...

i was not the one that stated it.

however , i hope that the armenians will force a turkish airplane
to land for purposes of searching for arms similar to the one
that happened last summer. turkey searched an american plane
(carrying humanitarian aid) bound to armenia.




from tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
reply to tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
organization iowa state university
lines 81

in article 1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu , mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau
napoleon) writes
from article 1993apr15.092101@iastate.edu , by tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t
atan)
well , panos , mr. tamamidis \? , the way you put it it is only the turks
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
believe for somebody trying to be objective.
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides.
what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway \?
do you think it was your right to be there \?

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor until 1923.
someone had to protect them. if not us who \? \?

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

compromise on what , the invasion of cyprus , the involment of turkey in
greek politics , the refusal of turkey to accept 12 miles of territorial
waters as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of
konstantinople , the ownership of the islands in the greek lake , sorry , aegean.

there are some things on which there can not be a compromise.


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are educated
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person
because i am from turkey. politics is not my business , and it is
not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals
why the hatred \?

any person who supports the policies of the turkish goverment directly or
indirecly is a bad person.
it is not your nationality that makes you bad , it is your support of the
actions of your goverment that make you bad .
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish goverment and
as a such you must pay the price.

so that makes me think that there is some kind of
brainwashing going on in greece. after all why would an educated person
treat every person from a nation the same way \? can you tell me about your
history books and things you learn about greek turkish
encounters during your schooling.
take it easy !


tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks. just talk to
greeks , arabs , slavs , kurds and all other people who had the luck to be under
turkish occupation.
they will talk to you about murders , rapes , distruction.

you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about them from
people who experienced first hand turkish friendliness.

napoleon


well , napoleon. it is your kind of people who are preventing peace
on the world. first of all , you did n't answer the question i asked
at the end of my posting. and then you told me some bullshit
throughout your posting which had no positive point about the issue ,
filled with hatred , and filled with emotions. why am i doing this \?
forget it , i do n't think you are worth it to discuss the issue.



tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !

from bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay)
subject re dir yassin (was re no free man propaganda machine freeman , with blood greetings from israel)
nntp posting host virginia
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny
lines 123

in article hm.93apr17144348@yoda.cs.brown.edu hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes
in article 1993apr13.141518.13900@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

check menahem begin dairies (published book) you 'll find accounts of the
massacres there including deir yassen ,
though with the numbers of massacred men , children and women are
greatly minimized.

there is no known writing directly attributable to menachem begin
which admits a massacre at deir yassin. thus , hasan is wrong.

as per request of hasan

from the revolt , by menachem begin , dell publishing , ny , 1977

pp. 225 227

apart from the military aspect , there is a moral aspect to the
story of dir yassin. at that village , whose name was publicized
throughout the world , both sides suffered heavy casualties. we had
four killed and nearly forty wounded. the number of casualties was
nearly forty percent of the total number of the attackers. the arab
troops suffered casualties neraly three times as heavy. the fighting

the word troops is unjustified. there has never been any evidence
that there were any regular or irregular arab forces in the village
apart from the villagers defending themselves. according to the
haganah observer pa'il , the irgun lehi forces suffered a lot of
casualties because they were incompetent soldiers. when they ran
into trouble securing the central part of the village , a small group
of palmach soldiers came and took it without a single casualty.
begin 's failure to even mention the palmach is only one of the
major inaccuracies (to use a kind word) in his account.

incidentally , three times as heavy may be correct , as there is
serious evidence that the arab loss was closer to 120 lives than
to the oft quoted 250 lives. however , note that begin compares
wounded jews to dead arabs. he fails to mention the number of
wounded arabs. guess why.

was thus very severe. yet the hostile propaganda , disseminated
throughout the world , deliberately ignored the fact that the civilian
population of dir yassin was actually given a warning by us before the
battle began. one of our tenders carrying a loud speaker was stationed
at the entrance to the village and it exhorted in arabic all women ,
children and aged to leave their houses and to take shelter on the
slopes of the hill. by giving this humane warning our fighters threw
away the element of complete surprise , and thus increased their own
risk in the ensuing battle.

as is thoroughly established by many sources , the loudspeaker truck
got stuck in a ditch too far from the village for it to provide a
usueful warning.

a substantial number of the inhabitants
obeyed the warning and they were unhurt. a few did not leave their
stone houses perhaps because of the confusion. the fire of the enemy
was murderous to which the number of our casualties bears eloquent
testimony. our men were compelled to fight for every house to
overcome the enemy they used large numbers of hand grenades. and the
civilians who had disregarded our warnings suffered inevitable
casualties.

the education which we gave our soldiers throughout the years of
revolt was based on the observance of the traditional laws of war. we
never broke them unless the enemy first did so and thus forced us , in
accordance with the accepted custom of war , to apply reprisals. i am
convinced , too , that our officers and men wished to avoid a single
unnecessary casualty in the dir yassin battle. but those who throw
stones of denunciation at the conquerors of dir yassin 1 would do
well not to don the cloak of hypocrisy 2 .

in connection with the capture of dir yassin the jewish agency
found it necessary to send a letter of apology to abdullah , whom mr.
ben gurion , at a moment of great political emotion , called 'the wise
ruler who seeks the good of his people and this country.' the 'wise
ruler , ' whose mercenary forces demolished gush etzion and flung the
bodies of its heroic defenders to birds of prey , replied with feudal
superciliousness. he rejected the apology and replied that the jews
were all to blame and that he did not believe in the existence of
'dissidents.' throughout the arab world and the world at large a wave
of lying propaganda was let loose about 'jewish attrocities.'

the enemy propaganda was designed to besmirch our name. in the
result it helped us. panic overwhelmed the arabs of eretz israel.
kolonia village , which had previously repulsed every attack of the
haganah , was evacuated overnight and fell without further fighting.
beit iksa was also evacuated. these two places overlooked the main
road and their fall , together with the capture of kastel by the
haganah , made it possible to keep open the road to jerusalem. in the
rest of the country , too , the arabs began to flee in terror , even
before they clashed with jewish forces. not what happened at dir
yassin , but what was invented about dir yassin , helped to carve the
way to our decisive victories on the battlefield. the legend of dir
yassin helped us in particular in the saving of tiberias and the
conquest of haifa.

it is worth noting how begin disputes the standard myth that the
palestinian arabs fled as part of a calculated plan.

1 (a footnote from the revolt , pp.226 7.) to counteract the loss
of dir yassin , a village of strategic importance , arab headquarters at
ramallah broadcast a crude atrocity story , alleging a massacre by
irgun troops of women and children in the village. certain jewish
officials , fearing the irgun men as political rivals , seized upon this
arab gruel propaganda to smear the irgun. an eminent rabbi was induced
to reprimand the irgun before he had time to sift the truth. out of
evil , however , good came. this arab propaganda spread a legend of
terror amongst arabs and arab troops , who were seized with panic at
the mention of irgun soldiers. the legend was worth half a dozen
battalions to the forces of israel. the `dir yassin massacre' lie
is still propagated by jew haters all over the world.

apparently 90 of israeli historians are jew haters.

2 in reference to denunciation of dir yassin by fellow jews.

i have previously posted quotations by irgun participants that
totally destroys begin 's whitewash. i have no particular desire
to post it yet again.

brendan.
(normally bdm@cs.anu.edu.au)

from ma170saj@sdcc14.ucsd.edu (system operator)
subject a moment of silence
organization university of california , san diego
lines 14
nntp posting host sdcc14.ucsd.edu


april 24th is approaching , and armenians around the world
are getting ready to remember the massacres of their family members
by the turkish government between 1915 and 1920.
at least 1.5 million armenians perished during that period ,
and it is important to note that those who deny that this event
ever took place , either supported the policy of 1915 to exterminate
the armenians , or , as we have painfully witnessed in azerbaijan ,
would like to see it happen again...
thank you for taking the time to read this post.

helgge



from hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu
subject re 18 israelis murdered in march
originator hasan@fangorn.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host fangorn.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 206


sorry guys for this long article , but in fact it is mostly quotings..

in article flax.93apr6125933@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes

when you are intentionally neglecting the most important fact that
the whole israeli presence in the occupied territories is illegitimate ,
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on
the ground of occupied territories.

no , i am not neglecting that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance
of israeli citicens in the wb or in gaza invalidates those individuals
right
to live , a (as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have
not adressed my question if the israelis also have human rights.


first , my above statement doesnot say that the existence of israeli citizens
in the wb revoke their right of life but it says the israeli occupation
of the wb revoke the right of life for some most its citizens basically
revokes the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an
undeclared war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate.

ok , let me re phrase the question. i have repeatedly asked you if the
israelis have less human rights than the palestinians ,

well , if you just waited for 5 more lines you would have read my statement
secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but ...

and if so , why.

because they belong to the human race , or do you disagree on that too \?

from your posting (where you did not directly adress my question) i inferred
that you thought so. together with the above statement i then assumed that the
reason was the actions of the state of israel. re your statement of
occupation i 'd like you to define the term , so i do n't have to repeat this
'drag the answer out of hasan' procedure more than neccesary.

secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but they ask their goverment to
protect it by withdrawing from the occupied terretories , not by further oppressing
palestinean human rights.

i'm sorry , but the above sentence does not make sense. please rephrase it.

i donot know about you , but it makes full sense to me.
israelis are being killed because israel is occupying , let israel withdraw
and israeli blood will be saved. it isnot the palestineans who undermined
the right of life of israelis , but it is israel which occupied and exposed
the life of its citizens to the the unconcluded war of 1967 !

more generally , the violence in the occupied terretories is part of the intifada ,
and i had previously posted a long article about this issue , whom i finished
by an open question
suppose the intifada stops , what is the motive for israel to withdraw \?
donot tell hope for peace and this bullshit. everybody in the world looks
and hopes for peace , so why isnot there any. hope of peace is necessary
but not sufficient motive.


if a state can deprive all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all \?


because not all states are like israel , as oppressive , as ignorant , or as tyrant.

oh , ok. so how about the human rights of the syrians , iraqis and others \?
does the name of hama sound familiar \? or how about the kurds in iraq and
turkey \?
how about the same in sweden (ok , maybe a bit farfetched..) the russians in
the baltic states or the moslem in the old ussr and yugoslavia \?
do the serbs have any human rights remainaing , according to you \?

as for the arabian countries , their problems are an arabian concern.
the arabian people can deal with it themselves , if the west doesnot intervene.
as for serbs , i donot think that those fucked up rapists (excuse my language
but it really hurts as much if i was in bosnia itself) arenot humans. those
surely came from outer space or something. no human can allow himself
to see such attrocities than to participate in.

and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem \?

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why \? because
any system can solve it.
the laws of minister sharon says kick palestineans out of here (all palestine).

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for

all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that
mistake. now that i have straightened that out , i'm eagerly awaiting your
reply.

so you agree that that an israeli solution wouldnot preserve human rights.
(i am understanding this from your first statement in this paragraph).

no , i'm agreeing that to just kick all the palestinians out of israel proper
would probably lead to disaster for both parties. if that 's what you refer
to as the 'israeli solution' then so be it.

ok.

joseph weitz (administrator responsible for jewish colonization)
said it best when writing in his diary in 1940
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both
peoples together in this country.... we shall not achieve our goal

of being an independent people with the arabs in this small country.
the only solution is a palestine , at least western palestine (west of
the jordan river) without arabs.... and there is no other way than
to transfer the arabs from here to the neighbouring countries , to
transfer all of them not one village , not one tribe , should be
left.... only after this transfer will the country be able to
absorb the millions of our own brethren. there is no other way out.
davar , 29 september , 1967
( courtesy of marc afifi)

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both plo covenant and hamas
charter (that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to
a private paper even older \? i'm not going to get into the question if he
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have
their share of fanatics. guess what.. \? those are not the people that will
make any lasting peace in the region. more deleted stuff

exactly , you are right. i guess that the problem is that the israeli goverment
is full with men like joseph weitz.

oh \? have you met with them personally , to read their diaries \? fascinating.
what do you do for a living \?

we and our either refers to zionists or jews (i donot know which).

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the
imperialist israeli system for solving the me problem !

i think that is fair enough .

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction.

above you wrote that you understood what i meant (underlined by )
any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would
resolve it justly.

an unjust solution would be a non solution , per definition , no \?

my definition is the same as yours , but one has to look into the world politics.
in politics , a solution doesnot imply just solution .

you said the following

for all a it holds that a have property b.
there exists an a such that property b does not hold.

thus , either or both statements must be false.

guess where that takes your logic \? to never never land.

you are proving yourself as a . first you understood what i meant , but then
you claim you didnot so to claim a contradiction in my logic.
too bad for you , the master of wisdom.

i was merely pointing out a not so small flaw in your reasoning.
since you claim to be logical i felt it best to point this out
before you started using your statements to prove a point or so.
am i then to assume you are not logical \?

it seems that it was problem in the definition of solution .
i think a solution must be just , because otherwise it would never be lasting.
however , when politicians say a solution , they donot mean a just solution but
just a solution.

the greatest problem of zionism is arab children .
rabbi shoham.

oh , and by the way , let me add that these cute quotes you put at the end are
a real bummer , when i try giving your posts any credit.

why do you feel ashamed by things and facts that you believe in ,
if you were a zionists. if you believe in zionist codes and acts ,
well i feel sorry for you , because the same rabbi shoham had said
yes , zionism is racism .
if you feel ashamed and bothered by the zionist codes , then drop zionism.
if you are not zionist , why are you bothered then. you should join me in
condemning these racist zionist codes and acts.

any quote can be misused , especially when used to stereotype all
individuals by a statement of an individual. if you use the same
methods that you credit 'zionists' with , then where does that place you \?

oh , by the way , i 'd advice you not to assume anything about my 'loyalties'.
i will and am condemning acts i find vile and inhuman , but i 'll try as
long as i can not to assume those acts are by a whole people.
by zionist above do you mean the state of israel , the government of israel ,
the leaders of israel (political and or religious) or the jews in
general \? if you feel the need to condemn , condemn those responsible
instead. how would you feel if we started condemning you personally
based on the bombings in egypt \?

jonas flygare ,


hasan

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject center for anit israel propaganda
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 67
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


the 'center for policy research' writes...

from the israeli press

hadashot , 14 march 1993

the israeli police department announced on the evening of friday ,
march 12 that it is calling upon jewish israeli citizens with
gun permits to carry them at all times so as to contribute to
their security and that of their surroundings .

considering all the murders of innocent israelis at the hands
of arab death merchants , i see nothing wrong with the advice.

ha'aretz , 15 march 1993

yehoshua matza (likud) , chair of the knesset interior committee ,
stated that he intends to demand that the police department make
it clear to the public that anyone who wounds or kills
non jewish terrorists will not be put on trial.

as usual , the bias of the 'center for policy research' echoes
through this newsgroup. here we have an enraged likudnik who
is venting his spleen , and you portray it as if this is going
to become policy. you do n't say what the response to matza 's
suggestion was. do do not mention whether he was refering to
terrorists caught in the act , which could be a clear cut case
of self defence. would you care to elaborate on this , or was
this all you wanted to say on the matter. why do n't you give
up this 'center for policy research' crap , and just post your
biases without trying to legitimize them with a pompous name \?

ha'aretz , 16 march1993

today a private security firm and units from the idf southern
command will begin installation of four magnetic gates in the gaza
strip , as an additional stage in the upgrading of security
measures in the strip.

the gates will aid in the searching of non jewish gaza residents
as they leave for work in israel. they can be used to reveal the
presence of knives , axes , weapons and other sharp objects.

in addition to the gates , which will be operated by a private
civilian company , large quantities of magnetic card reading
devices are being brought to the inspection points , to facilitate
the reading of the magnetic cards these non jewish workers must
carry.

a laudable precaution.

every single thing you post about israel is posted to portray
israel as negatively as you can. deliberate omissions are an
integral part of the shtick. and it 's not only the incidents
that you do not mention , but even the stories you do post are
fraught with omissions , which change the entire meaning. the
absurdity of your respectable name cannot hide your bias.

in your effort to portray israel in an unfavorable light , you
have accomplished nothing , except to prove that a respectable
sounding label like the center for policy research is nothing
but a smoke screen for someone with a heavily biased attitude
against israel and the need to vent it. you

this 'center for policy research' stuff is nonsense.


from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 49

in article 1993apr20.000413.25123@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes
in article 1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr17.185118.10792@ee.rochester.edu , terziogl@ee.rochester.edu (esin terzioglu) writes
in article 1993apr16.195452.21375@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
04 16 93 1045 armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes


ermenistan kasiniyor...

let me translate for everyone else before the public traslation service gets
into it armenia is getting itchy.

esin.


henrik let me clearify mr. turkish

henrik armenia is not getting itchy . she is simply letting the world
henrik know that she will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get
henrik away with their famous tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish
henrik invasion of the greek island of cypress while the world simply watched.


esin terzioglu your ignorance is obvious from your posting.
esin terzioglu 1) cyprus was an independent country with turkish greek
inhabitants (not a greek island like your ignorant
posting claims)
esin terzioglu 2) the name should be cyprus (in english)
esin terzioglu next time read and learn before you post.



aside from spelling , why is that you turks do not want to admit your
past mistakes \? you know turkish invasion of cyprus was a mistake and too
bad that u.n. did not do anything about it. you may ask mistake \?
yes , i would say. why is that the greeks did not invade cyprus \?

my response to the shooting down of a turkish airplane over the armenian
air space was because of the ignorant posting of the person from your
country. turks and azeris consistantly want to drag armenia into the
karabakh conflict with azerbaijan. the karabakhi armenians who have lived
in their homeland for 3000 years (cut off from armenia and given to azeris
by stalin) are the ones directly involved in the conflict. they are defending
themselves against azeri aggression. agression that has no mercy for inocent
people that are costantly shelled with mig 23 's and othe russian aircraft.

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the karabakh
crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will never occur again.


x mailer tmail version 1.15r
from d. c. sessions dcs@witsend.tnet.com
organization nobody but me really
subject rules of engagement (was 18 israelis murdered in march
distribution world
lines 77

in 1993apr8.212737.19245@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu wrote

in article 1993apr8.143232@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes
in article 1993apr6.150829.6425@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes
in article flax.93apr6125933@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes

first , my above statement doesnot say that the existence of israeli citizens
in the wb revoke their right of life but it says the israeli occupation
of the wb revoke the right of life for some most its citizens basically
revokes the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an
undeclared war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate.

i 'd like you to tell me , in your own words who the military are , wrt israel then.
in uniform , or not \? on duty , or off duty \? soldier to be , or not \?
(that is , since it 's compulsory one might regard any israeli as a
legit target using that definition)

in uniform or not \? doesnot make a difference if the person is in army.
on duty , or off duty \? doesnot matter if the army man was on duty or on a
vacation week.
soldier to be , or not \? sure i meant only military men.

just trying to get this clear , so please bear with me. as far as
i can tell , you 're proposing the following rules of engagement
between israel and the palestinean resistance. please feel
revise this preliminary draft as necessary

1) israeli military personnel are fair game at any time , in uniform
or out , on duty or off. in practice , since any male or female
israeli of military age (18 \? ) may be off duty military , all but
young children are acceptable targets. since the existence of
israel constitutes indication of hostile intent , no further
provocation is required.

2) to avoid inpermissable violations of the rights of non combatant
palestineans , israeli forces must not engage palestineans
without positive identification as military personnel , clear
indication of aggressive intent , and a clear field of fire.

a) positive identification may be assured by either checking for
palestinean military uniform , by posession of exclusively
military armament (ie , t78 mbts or mig 29 aircraft) , or
self identification (either verbal or documentary). note
that dual use military civilian weaponry such as hand grenades ,
ak 47 rifles , and rpg launchers do not constitute positive
military identification and require closer inspection such
as document checks.

b) aggressive intent (as distinct from merely 'hostile' intent ,
which is the normal condition) may be assured by not less
than three rounds of incoming fire separated by intervals
of not less than ten seconds between rounds. note that a
single burst of automatic weapon fire counds as one round ,
as does a volley of rocket fire from more than one source.
as noted above , dual use weaponry may not be assumed to
originate from military personnel , and thus do not justify
armed response.

c) a clear field of fire can be guaranteed by making a positive
military identification of all personnel in the target area of
the weapons to be used. note that aggressive intent need not
be proven for all possible targets. thus , if iaf aircraft
are attacked by a sam crew it is not necessary to check the
papers of each crew member so long as none are obviously
civilians (as indicated , for instance , by the posession of
uniquely civilian weaponry such as stones , axes , and molotov
coctails.) since it is often difficult for iaf elements to
land and make the necessary checks , ground forces should
first screen prospective strike areas before agm fire.
for acm purposes , a cockpit to cockpit pass within 5 meters
is usually sufficient for this purpose , but may be repeated
if necessary.

d. c. sessions speaking for myself
note new network address dcs@witsend.tnet.com
author (and everything else ! ) of tmail (dos mail news shell)

from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject brad hernlem vs. principle
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 50
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


in his neverending effort to make sure that we do not forget
what a moron he is , brad hernlem has asked why israel rarely
abides by un security council resolutions. perhaps the list
below might answer the question.


incident security council response

1. hindu moslem clash in india , over 2 , 000 killed , 1990 none
2. gassing to death of over 8 , 000 kurds by none
iraqi air force , 1988 89
3. saudi security forces slaughter none
400 pilgrims in mecca , 1987
4. killing by algerian army of 500 demonstrators , 1988 none
5. intrafada (arabs killing arabs) over 300 killed none
6. 30 , 000 civilians slaughtered by government none
troops in hama , syria , 1982
7. killing of 5 , 000 palestinians by jordanian troops , none
thousands expelled , sept. , 1970
8. 87 moslems killed in egypt , 1981 none
9. 77 killed in egyption bread riots , 1977 none
10. 30 border and rocket attacks against israel by none
the plo in 1989 alone
11. munich , 1972 11 israeli athletes slaughtered none
12. ma'alot , 1974 children killed in plo attack none
13. israel coastal bus attack 34 dead , 82 wounded none
14. syria kills 23 , 000 palestinians , 1976 none
15. lebanon over 150 , 000 dead since 1975 none
16. yemen 13 , 000 killed in two weeks , 1986 none
17. sudan tens of thousands of black slaves , none
civil war toll , 1 million killed , 3 million refugees
18. tienenman square massacre 1989 none
19. rumania , 3 , 000 killed , 1989 none
20. pan am 103 disaster carried out by the p.l.o none
21. northern ireland none
22. cambodia none
23. soviet occupation of afghanistan none
24. american riots at attica , watts , newark , kent state none
25. 1981 israel destroys iraqi reractor , israel condemned
26. 1990 israeli police protect israeli worshipers condemned
against arab mob , 18 anti jewish rioters killed
27. syrian soldiers slaughter christian soldiers none
after they surrender , 1990

it appears that brad hernlem and the united nations security
council have something in common. they both seem unfettered
by the demands of acting on principle.



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject its entire muslim population had been slaughtered by the armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 31

source men are like that by leonard ramsden hartill. the bobbs merrill
company , indianapolis (1926). (305 pages).
(memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)


p. 19 (first paragraph)

the tartar section of the town no longer existed , except as a pile of
ruins. it had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered. the same
fate befell the tartar section of khankandi.

p. 22 (second paragraph)

many of our men had served in the russian army , and were trained soldiers.
we armenians were rich and possessed arms. tartars had never received
military training. they were poor , and possessed few arms beyond knives.
shortly after the killing of the tartars in our village , the revolution
in russia was suppressed.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject how many more muslim people will be slaughtered by 'sdpa' criminals \?
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 257

in article 1993apr18.051439.5942@urartu.sdpa.org hla@urartu.sdpa.org writes

i want this discussion to take place in english , because it is only after

let 's face it , if the words do n't get into your noggin in the first place ,
there 's no hope. now tell us , 'sdpa.org' , a mouthpiece of the fascist x soviet
armenian government what was your role in the murder of orhan gunduz and
kemal arikan \? how many more muslims will be slaughtered by 'sdpa.org' as
publicly declared and filed with the legal authorities \?


...that more people have to die...

sdpa 91@urartu.uucp

yes , i stated this and stand by it.

sdpa 255@urartu.uucp


january 28 , 1982 los angeles
kemal arikan is slaughtered by two armenians while driving to work.

march 22 , 1982 cambridge , massachusetts
prelude to grisly murder. a gift and import shop belonging to
orhan gunduz is blown up. gunduz receives an ultimatum either
he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . he
refuses. responsibility is claimed by jcag and sdpa.

may 4 , 1982 cambridge , massachusetts
orhan gunduz , the turkish honorary consul in boston , would not bow
to the armenian terrorist ultimatum that he give up his title of
honorary consul . now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood.
president reagan orders an all out manhunt to no avail. an eye
witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. he
survives... but falls silent. one of the most revolting triumphs in
the senseless , mindless history of armenian terrorism. such a murder
brings absolutely nothing except an ego boost for the murderer
within the armenian terrorist underworld , which is already wallowing
in self satisfaction.

were you involved in the murder of sarik ariyak \?

december 17 , 1980 sydney
two nazi armenians massacre sarik ariyak and his bodyguard , engin
sever. jcag and sdpa claim responsibility.


source edward k. boghosian , radical group hosts well attended solidarity
meeting , the armenian reporter , may 1 , 1986 , pp. 1 18.

athens , greece an array of representatives of greek political parties ,
including the ruling pasok party , and a host of political groups , both
armenian and non armenian , joined to voice their solidarity with the
armenian people in their pursuit of their cause and activities of a new
armenian political force were voiced here on sunday , april 20 during
the 2nd international meeting of solidarity with the armenian people. and
judging from encouraging messages offered by the representatives of these
political groups and organizations , at least here in greece , the armenian
cause enjoys abundant support from a wide spectrum of the political world.

the international meeting of solidarity was sponsored by the greek branch of
the armenian popular movement , a comparatively new political force headed
by younger generations of armenians , who openly profess their support of the
armed struggle and of the armenian secret army for the liberation of armenia
(asala). the organization has branches in various european and middle eastern
countries and the united states although some of these branches appear to
have gone through a switch of loyalties because of the split within the ranks
of asala...

voicing the support of pasok , the ruling party in greece , to the armenian
people , was mr. charalambidi michalis , a member of the central committee of
the party and the greek member of the permanent people 's tribunal...
explaining the goals and aspirations of the armenian popular movement
was ara sarkisian. significant was the address delivered by mr. bassam
abu salim , on behalf of the popular front for the movement 's continued
support of the armenians' armed struggle in their pursuit of their cause ,
pledging that palestinian operated and run training camps would always be
open to armenian youth who need training for such a struggle. later , mr.
abu salim , answering a question put to him by this writer , affirmed that
his organization had always trained armenian members of asala and that
this policy will continue. the doors of our camps are always open to
armenian freedom fighters , he affirmed.

among the prominent greek politicians who attended the conference was the son
of prime minister papandreou , who himself holds a post in the greek cabinet
two members of the cypriot parliament who had journeyed to athens for the
specific purpose of attending the international gathering representatives of
the christian democratic party , edik center party , two wings of the communist
party , representatives of an assortment of labor unions and trade associations ,
a number of mayors of greek towns and cities two greek members of the
european parliament and other members of the greek parliament were also among
those who participated in the international conference. also on hand to follow
the deliberations was the ambassador of bulgaria in athens.

more than significant was the large number of messages received by the
organizers , including the following palestinian national revolutionary
movement , fatah popular front for the liberation of palestine general
command the central committee of the palestinian national liberation
movement fatah the socialist progressive party of lebanon arab socialist
labor party the kurdistan democratic union of iraq and numerous other
international groups , all noted for their radical stand in the israeli
palestinian conflict.

support from arf rm

among messages received from armenian groups was the armenian revolutionary
federation revolutionary movement , the group that has claimed the abduction
and assassination of key party leaders in lebanon accused of selling out to
foreign interests and powers. the message clearly gave its support to the
armenian popular movement pledging that the revolutionary movement will
continue to reveal the realities , no matter how bitter or tragic they are ,
to expose the anti armenian activities of the leaders of the dashnag bureau.
the message was taken as an indication of the link , loose as it may be , that
exists between the dissident dashnag group and the armenian popular movement ,
open supporters of asala and armed struggle.

the armenian popular movement has set up its headquarters in a suburb of the
greek capital , known as neos kosmos , where there is a large armenian presence.
the headquarters are located in a two story building , which appears to have
turned into a beehive of activity on the part of scores of armenian youth , who
prefer to give their first names only when invited to introduce themselves...

now any comment \?

from vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (vedat dogan)
subject re addressing.....
message id 1993apr8.233029.29094@news.columbia.edu


in article 1993apr7.225058.12073@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes
in article 1993apr7.030636.7473@news.columbia.edu vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
(vedat dogan) wrote in response to article 1993mar31.141308.28476@urartu.
11sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes


( source adventures in the near east , 1918 1922 by a. rawlinson ,
( jonathan cape , 30 bedford square , london , 1934 (first published 1923)
( (287 pages).

dd such a pile of garbage ! first off , the above reference was first published
dd in 1924 not 1923 , and has 353 pages not 287 ! second , upon checking page
dd 178 , we are asked to believe

vd no , mr.davidian ...

vd it was first published in 1923 (i have the book on my desk , now ! )
vd

vd and furthermore , the book i have does not have 353 pages either , as you
vd claimed , mr.davidian..it has 377 pages..any question \? ..

well , it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the
n crap posted by mr. ( !

o boy !

please , can you tell us why those quotes are crap \? ..because you do not
like them ! ! ! ...because they really exist...why \?

as i said in my previous posting , those quotes exactly exist in the source
given by serdar argic ..

you could n't reject it...


in addition , the author 's preface was written on january 15 , 1923 , but the book
was published in 1924.

here we go again..
in the book i have , both the front page and the author 's preface give
the same year 1923 and 15 january , 1923 , respectively !
(anyone can check it at her his library , if not , i can send you the copies of
pages , please ask by sct)


i really do n't care what year it was first published(1923 or 1924)
what i care about is what the book writes about murders , tortures , et..in
the given quotes by serdar argic , and your denial of these quotes..and your
groundless accussations , etc.


...

dd i can provide .gif postings if required to verify my claim !

vd what is new \?

i will post a .gif file , but i am not going go through the effort to show there
is some turkish modified re publication of the book , like last time !


i claim i have a book in my hand published in 1923(first publication)
and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published
in 1934(serdar argic 's reference) has..you could n't reject it..but , now you
are avoiding the real issues by twisting around..

let 's see how you lie ! ..(from 'non existing' quotes to re publication)

first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference..you
called serdar argic a liar ! ..
i said to you , no , mr.davidian , there exactly existed such a quote...
(i even gave the call number , page numbers..you could't reject it.)

and now , you are lying again and talking about modified , re published book
(without any proof how , when , where , by whom , etc..)..
(by the way , how is it possible to re publish the book in 1923 if it was
first published in 1924(your claim).i am sure that you have some 'pretty
well suited theories' , as usual)

and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who
wants to compare the fact and mr.davidian 's lies...i also give the call number
and page numbers again for the library use , which are
949.6 r 198

and the page numbers to verify the quotes 218 and 215




it is not possible that ( 's text has 287 pages , mine has 353 , and yours has
377 !

now , are you claiming that there ca n't be such a reference by saying it is
not possible... ..if not , what is your point \?

differences in the number of pages \?
mine was published in 1923..serdar argic 's was in 1934..
no need to use the same book size and the same letter
charachter in both publications , etc , etc.. does it give you an idea ! !

the issue was not the number of pages the book has..or the year
first published..
and you tried to hide the whole point..
the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about
how moslems are killed , tortured , etc by armenians..and those quotes given
by serdar argic exist ! !
it was the issue , was n't it \?

you were not able to object it...does it bother you anyway \?

you name all these tortures and murders (by armenians) as a crap ..
people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still
has so many craps in the 1993.

any question \?

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject re seventh century a.d. armenian math problems
summary mr. koc wins a free prize !
keywords philosophy , greece , persians , math
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 43

in article 1r6qn1innd0n@flop.engr.orst.edu koc@rize.ece.orst.edu (cetin kaya
koc) responded to article 1993apr22.152937.14766@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.
sdpa.org (david davidian) who wrote

dd problem 1
dd
dd my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the
dd armenians and the persians , prince zaurak kamsarakan performed
dd extraordinary heroic deeds. three times in a single month he attacked the
dd persian troops. the first time , he struck down half of the persian army.
dd the second time , pursuing the persians , he slaughtered one fourth of the
dd soldiers. the third time , he destroyed one eleventh of the persian army.
dd the persians who were still alive , numbering two hundred eighty , fled to
dd nakhichevan. and so , from this remainder , find how many persian soldiers
dd there were before the massacre.

koc answer a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11) 280 a 1760

good for you ! you win the prize a free trip to karabakh as an azeri
soldier ! now , calculate the odds of you coming back after trying to de populate
the area of armenians !

koc corollary armenians strike , slaughter , destroy , and massacre. after
koc all , they are not as innocent as the asala network claims.

fact i did n't notice any mention of turks in shirak , van , or trebizon in
this seventh century story !

fact these places were filled with armenians as of 1915.

fact by the end of 1916 , after the turkish genocide of the armenians , there
were no armenians left in shirak , van , or trebizon only turks and
kurds ! in fact , there were no pontus greeks left alive in trebizon
either !

conclusion numbers do n't lie in either case !



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from tichauer@valpso.hanse.de (manfredo tichauer)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization the private site of manfredo tichauer
lines 83

ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer ) writes

i'm not ignorant of the holocaust and know more
about nazi germany than most people (maybe including you).

you really belong to the 25 30 of ignorants in usa who do n't know what
the holocaust ( shoa should be the real word) was. first you write in

message id 1993apr24.203620.6531@virginia.edu
date sat , 24 apr 1993 20 36 20 gmt

i think the israeli press might be a tad bit biased in
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of goering


and later , as somebody informed you about your gross mistake , you
write in

message id 1993apr25.181351.1373@virginia.edu
date sun , 25 apr 1993 18 13 51 gmt

first let me correct myself in that it was goerbels and

not goering (airforce) who ran the nazi propaganda machine.

instead of joseph goebbels. and you dare to say that you
know more about nazi germany than most people (maybe including us ) \?
i'm sure you learned the history of nazi germany and austria from
your family.

what i resent is ignorant statements that call people
names when they disagree with your position. opposing the
atrocities commited by the israeli governement hardly qualifies
as anti semitism. if you think name calling is a valid form of
argument in intellectual circles , you need to get out more
often.

trying to make comparisons between israels politics and nazi german
austrian politics shows only your degree of ignorance (high) , intellect
(low) , humanity (none) and antisemitism (average). i respect anybody
who dissagrees with me as long as he respects me and discusses in a
civilized manner. i would never say that anybody that critizises israel
and or its politics is an antisemite , except he uses antisemitic
vocabulary terminology demagogy. israel is not a perfect country and
its politicians also commits errors , even some of them are corrupt
(like politicians in any other country) , but they carry a huge burden
to care for the safety of all its citizens , and that is really not an
easy task in a country that is surrounded by enemies who only expect
that israel commits the one big error and wipe the country (and its
jewish citizens plus the so called collaborators , arabs that wanted to
live in peace with their jewish neighbours) of the map. as i said ,
israel is not a perfect country , but it is the only democracy in the
whole middle east and the only country in the world where jews from
everywhere can have a refuge in case of persecutions in the countries
they are living.
our long history has taught us that we cannot rely on non jewish
nations and its governments as soon as there are more or les big
social economical political problems in any country , the first ones
that pay for the broken glasses are the jews , and later the other
minorities of the country.

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii

justifies the crimes commited by the israeli government. any
attempt to call civil liberterians like myself anti semetic is
not appreciated.

this is really outrageous 6.000.000 murdered jews , besides the
thousands who survived the shoa in some way or another , and the rest
of the living ones mourning for all of them ! i do n't know what you
call a civil libertarian (never heard about them) but i know only
one thing if all of them think like you do it , then civil libertarians
is a new denomination for antisemites. may other civil libertarians come
to word to this group so that we can learn if a.beyer and me are right
(that civil libertarians are antisemites) , or that i'm wrong and he is
missusing that word.
btw , i could n't care less for what andi beyer appreciates.


manfredo tichauer m. email tichauer@valpso.hanse.de
opitzstrasse 14 voice ( 49 40) 27.42.27
2000 hamburg 60 germany fax ( 49 40) 270.53.09


from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject car bomb in the west bank
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 34


from israeline 4 16

two arabs killed and eight idf soldiers wounded in west bank car
bomb explosion

israel defense forces radio , galei zahal , reports today that a car
bomb explosion in the west bank today killed two palestinians and
wounded eight idf soldiers. the blast is believed to be the work of
a suicide bomber. radio reports said a car packed with butane gas
exploded between two parked buses , one belonging to the idf and the
other civilian. both busses went up in flames. the blast killed an
arab man who worked at a nearby snack bar in the mehola settlement.
an israel radio report stated that the other man who was killed may
have been the one who set off the bomb. according to officials at
the haemek hospital in afula , the eight idf soldiers injured in the
blast suffered light to moderate injuries.



the arab that was killed was a probably from the mossad so it is not count
as a murder.


naftaly





naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re zionism is racism
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 10

d. c. sessions dcs@witsend.tnet.com writes

so steve lets here , what is zionism \?

assuming that you mean 'hear' , you were n't 'listening' he just
told you , zionism is racism. this is a tautological statement.

i think you are confusing tautological with false and misleading.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis )
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
article i.d. news.c5jowp.kjg
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 58

finaid2@auvm.american.edu writes

mr. tamamidis

before repling your claims , i suggest you be kind to individuals
who are trying to make some points abouts human rights , discriminations ,
and unequal treatment of turkish minority in greece.i want the world
know how bad you treat these people. you will deny anything i say but
it does not make any difrence because i will write things that i saw with
my eyes.you prove yourself prejudice by saying free insurance , school
etc. do you greeks only give these things to turkish minority or
everybody has rights to get them.your words even discriminate
these people. you think that you are giving big favor to these
people by giving these thing that in reality they get nothing.

no. i do not thing we are doing them a favor. i have simply stated that
they are not treated as a second class citizens. that was my point.
i fail to see how my words show discrimination. and what do you mean that
they do not get nothing \? is , for example , helth insurance , food , and tuition
nothing \?

if you do not know unhuman practices that are being conducted
by the government of the greece , i suggest that you investigate
to see the facts. then , we can discuss about the most basic
human rights like fredom of religion , fredom of press of turkish
minority , ethnic cleansing of all turks in greece , fredom of
right to have property without government intervention ,
fredom of right to vote to choose your community leaders ,
how greek government encourages people to destroy
religious places , houses , farms , schools for turkish minority then
forcing them to go to turkey without anything with them.

i'm sorry , but i cannot see any logical order in the above argument.

before i conclude my writing , let me point out how greeks are
treated in turkey. we do not consider them greek minority , instead
we consider a part of our society.

what part exactly is this one \? the people cannot even sell their property
if they want to leave turkey. the patriarch could not get a permision to
renovate some buildings for decades it needed a special agreement between
the two goverments for this. talk about a part of the society \? why has the
size of the greek community reduced to 1 , 500 old people and priests then \?

there is no difference among people in turkey.

yeah , you bet.

all big businesses
belong to greeks in turkey and we are proud to have them.unlike the
greece which tries to destroy turkish minority , we encourage all
minorities in turkey to be a part of turkish society.

you are far off from the reality.

aykut atalay atakan

panos tamamidis

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject conf mideast.levant
nf id n cdp 1483500358 000 1967
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 24 14 55 00 1993
lines 47


from center for policy research cpr
subject conf mideast.levant


rights of children violated by the state of israel (selected
articles of the iv geneva convention of 1949)

article 31 no physical or moral coercion shall be exercised
against protected persons , in particular to obtain information
from them or from third parties.

article 32 the high contracting parties specifically agree that
each of them is prohibited from taking any measure of such a
character as to cause the physical suffering or extermination of
protected persons in their hands. this prohibition applies not
only to murder , torture , corporal punishment (...) but also to any
other measures of brutality whether applied by civilian or
military agents.

article 33 no protected person may be punished for an offence he
or she has not personally committed. collective penalties and
likewise measures of intimidation or of terrorism are prohibited.

article 34 taking of hostages is prohibited.

article 49 individual or mass forcible transfers , as well as
deportations of protected persons from occupied territory to the
territory of the occupying power or to that of any other country ,
occupied or not , are prohibited , regardless of their motive.

article 50 the occupying power shall , with the cooperation of
the national and local authorities , facilitate the proper working
of all institutions devoted to the care and education of
children.

article 53 any destruction by the occupying power of real or
personal property belonging individually or collectively to
private persons , or to the state , or to other public authorities ,
or to social or cooperative organizations , is prohibited , except
where such destruction is rendered absolutely necessary by
military operations.

ps it is obvious that violations of the above articles are also
violations of the international convention of the rights of the
child.


from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re symbiotics idiots antisemitism
organization division of applied sciences , harvard university
lines 27


in article 1483500355@igc.apc.org center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org writes

from center for policy research cpr

zionism and the holocaust
by haim bresheeth

the first point to note regarding the appropriation of the history
of the holocaust by zionist propaganda is that zionism without
anti semitism is impossible. zionism agrees with the basic tenet
of anti semitism , namely that jews cannot live with non jews.

wrong. zionism acknowledges the fact that anti semites
exist , and prevent jews from living in peace. that does not mean we
agree that jews are all greedy , that jews kill christian children ,
commited deicide , or anything else. we acknowledge that there are
morons out there who do believe these things.

adam



adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from perrakis@embl heidelberg.de
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
organization embl , european molecular biology laboratory
lines 76

in article 93105.134708finaid2@auvm.american.edu , finaid2@auvm.american.edu writes
look mr. atakan i have repeated it in the past , and i shall repeat it once
more , that when it comes to how greeks are treating the turks in greece ,
you and your copatriots should simply shut up.

because what you are hearing is simply a form of propaganda from your ethnic
fellows who studied at the greek universities without paying any money for
tuition , food , and helth insurance.

and any high school graduate can put down some simple math and compare the
grouth of the turkish community in greece with the destruction of the greek
minority in turkey.

aykut atalay atakan

panos tamamidis

mr. tamamidis

before repling your claims , i suggest you be kind to individuals
who are trying to make some points abouts human rights , discriminations ,
and unequal treatment of turkish minority in greece.i want the world
know how bad you treat these people. you will deny anything i say but
it does not make any difrence because i will write things that i saw with
my eyes.you prove yourself prejudice by saying free insurance , school
etc. do you greeks only give these things to turkish minority or
everybody has rights to get them.your words even discriminate
these people. you think that you are giving big favor to these
people by giving these thing that in reality they get nothing.
if you do not know unhuman practices that are being conducted
by the government of the greece , i suggest that you investigate
to see the facts. then , we can discuss about the most basic
human rights like fredom of religion ,
if you did not see with your 'eyes' freedom of religion you
must ne at least blind !
fredom of press of turkish
2 weeks ago i read the interview of a turkish journalist in a greek magazine ,
he said nothing about being forbiden to have turkish press in greece !
minority , ethnic cleansing of all turks in greece ,
give as a brake. you call athnic cleansing of apopulation when it doubles \?
freedom of
right to have property without government intervention ,
what do you mean by that \? anyway in greece , as in every country if you want
some property you 'inform' the goverment .
fredom of right to vote to choose your community leaders ,
well well well. when turkish in area of komotini elect 1 out of 3
represenatives of this area to greek parliament , if not freedom what is it \?
3 out of 3 \? maybe there are only turks living there ....
how greek government encourages people to destroy
religious places , houses , farms , schools for turkish minority then
forcing them to go to turkey without anything with them.
i cannot deny that actions of fanatics from both sides were reported.
a minority of greek idiots indeed attack religious places , which
were protected by the greek police. photographs of greek policemen
preventing turks from this non brain minority were all over greek press.
before i conclude my writing , let me point out how greeks are
treated in turkey. we do not consider them greek minority , instead
we consider a part of our society. there is no difference among people in
turkey. we do not state that greek minority go to turkish universities ,
get free insurance , food , and health insurance because these are basic
human needs and they are a part of turkish community. all big businesses
belong to greeks in turkey and we are proud to have them.unlike the
greece which tries to destroy turkish minority , we encourage all
minorities in turkey to be a part of turkish society.


oh no. please do give as a brake !
minorities in turkish treated like that \? your own countrymen die
in the prisons every day bacause of their political beliefs , an this
is reported by turks , and you want us to believe tha turkey is the paradise
of human rights \? business of greeks i turkey \? yes 80 years ago !
you seem to be intelligent , so before presenting turkey as the paradise of
human rights just invastigate this matter a bit more.

aykut atalay atakan


from dzk@cs.brown.edu (danny keren)
subject re desertification of the negev
organization brown university department of computer science
lines 12

this is nonsense. i lived in the negev for many years and i can say
for sure that no beduins were moved or harmed in any way. on the
contrary , their standard of living has climbed sharply many of them
now live in rather nice , permanent houses , and own cars. there are
quite a few beduin students in the ben gurion university. there are
good , friendly relations between them and the rest of the population.

all the beduins i met would be rather surprised to read mr. davidson 's
poster , i have to say.

danny keren.


from francesca m. benson@fourd.com
subject serdar
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 7
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

what an anal retentive you are wimp.


system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry



from hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky)
subject heil hernlem
in reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 12 58 13 gmt
organization dept. of computer science , brown university
lines 24

in article 1993apr14.125813.21737@ncsu.edu hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

lebanese resistance forces detonated a bomb under an israeli occupation
patrol in lebanese territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and
two wounded. in retaliation , israeli and israeli backed forces wounded
8 civilians by bombarding several lebanese villages. ironically , the israeli
government justifies its occupation in lebanon by claiming that it is
necessary to prevent such bombardments of israeli villages ! !

congratulations to the brave men of the lebanese resistance ! with every
israeli son that you place in the grave you are underlining the moral
bankruptcy of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli
government 's policy of reckless disregard for civilian life.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

very nice. three people are murdered , and bradly is overjoyed. when i
hear about deaths in the middle east , be it jewish or arab deaths , i
feel sadness , and only hope that soon this all stops. apparently , my
view point is not acceptable to people like you bradly.

hernlem , you disgust me.

harry.

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re conventional proposales israel palestinians
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 37

in article 2bce6222.24844@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article 2bca3dc0.13224@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

the latest israeli proposal , first proposed in february of 1992 , contains
the following assumptions concerning the nature of any interim status refering to the wb and gaza , the palestinians , implemented by negotiations. it
states that
israel will remain the existing source of authority until final status
is agreed upon
the exercise of powers under the isga will be subject to cooperation and
coordination with israel.
israel will negotiate delegation of powers and responsibilities in the
areas of administration , justice , personnel , agriculture , education ,
business , tourism , labor and social welfare , local police ,
local transportation and communications , municipal affairs and religious
affairs.

the palestinian counterproposal of march 1992
there will be no limitations on its (pisga) powers and responsibilities
except those which derive from its character as an interim arrangement
it will have a strong police force responsible for security and public
order in the opt
it can request the assistance of a un peacekeeping force
disputes with israel over self governing arrangements will be settled by
a committee composed of representatives of the five permanent members of
the un security council , the secretary general (of the un) , the pisga ,
jordan , egypt , syria and israel.

i have read that there will be some concrete proposals concerning creation
of a palestinian police force during the talk 's next stage. does anyone
knows of the details of this idea \? how does it fit with the differing
conceptions listed above \?


tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject sea \? what sea \? we said rivers !
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 27

in article 1993apr25.171003.10694@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu ahmeda@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (ahmed abu abed) writes

i am sick and tired of this 'driving the jews into the sea' sentance
attributed to islamic movements and the plo it simply ca n't be proven
as part of their plan !

ok , i 'll admit it. i ca n't find a quote with my meager online
resources. but i did find this little gem

``when the arabs set off their volcano , there will only be arabs in
this part of the world. our people will continue to fuel the torch
of the revolution with rivers of blood until the whole of the
occupied homeland is liberated...''
yasser arafat , ap , 3 12 79

so , ahmed is right. there was nothing about driving jews into
the sea , just a bit of ethnic cleansing , and a river of blood.

is this an improvement \?

adam


adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject final solution for gaza \?
nf id n cdp 1483500354 000 5791
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 23 15 10 00 1993
lines 126


from center for policy research cpr
subject final solution for gaza \?


final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.
the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

while polish non jews risked their lives to save jews from the
ghetto , no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help
the gazan resistance. the only help given to gazans by israeli
jews , only dozens of people , is humanitarian assistance.

the right of the gazan population to resist occupation is
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to
rise up against its tormentors.

as is known , the israeli regime is considering gazans unworthy of
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are
considered worthy to do the dirty work in israeli hotels , shops
and fields. many gazans are born in towns and villages located in
israel. they may not live there , for these areas are reserved for
the master race.

the nazi regime accorded to the residents of the warsaw ghetto the
right to self administration. they selected jews to pacify the
occupied population and preventing any form of resistance. some
jewish collaborators were killed. israel also wishes to rule over
gaza through arab collaborators.

as israel denies gazans the only two options which are compatible
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish
society does not consider gazans full human beings. this attitude
is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews. the
current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are
consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime mininister
yitzhak rabin that 'gaza sink into the sea'. one is led to ask
oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more sinister
goals towards the gazans \? whether they have some final solution
up their sleeve \?

i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever
they can to help the gazans regain their full human , civil and
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings.

elias davidsson iceland

from elias@ismennt.is fri apr 23 02 30 21 1993 received from
isgate.is by igc.apc.org (4.1 revision 1.77 )
id aa00761 fri , 23 apr 93 02 30 13 pdt received from
rvik.ismennt.is by isgate.is (5.65c8 isnet 14 10 91) fri , 23 apr
1993 09 29 41 gmt received by rvik.ismennt.is
(16.8 isnet 11 02 92) fri , 23 apr 93 09 30 23 gmt from
elias@ismennt.is (elias davidsson) message id
9304230930.aa11852@rvik.ismennt.is subject no subject (file
transmission) to cpr@igc.org date fri , 23 apr 93 9 30 22 gmt
x charset ascii x char esc 29 status ro

final solution for the gaza ghetto \?


while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto , they
repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
attempt to starve the gazans.

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population
density in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks.
the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
gaza , some 700.000 people , by denying them the right to leave the
strip and seek work in israel.

while polish non jews risked their lives to save jews from the
ghetto , no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help
the gazan resistance. the only help given to gazans by israeli
jews , only dozens of people , is humanitarian assistance.

the right of the gazan population to resist occupation is
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to
rise up against its tormentors.

as is known , the israeli regime is considering gazans unworthy of
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are
considered worthy to do the dirty work in israeli hotels , shops
and fields. many gazans are born in towns and villages located in
israel. they may not live there , for these areas are reserved for
the master race.

the nazi regime accorded to the residents of the warsaw ghetto the
right to self administration. they selected jews to pacify the
occupied population and preventing any form of resistance. some
jewish collaborators were killed. israel also wishes to rule over
gaza through arab collaborators.

as israel denies gazans the only two options which are compatible
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish
society does not consider gazans full human beings. this attitude
is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews. the
current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are
consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime mininister
yitzhak rabin that 'gaza sink into the sea'. one is led to ask
oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more sinister
goals towards the gazans \? whether they have some final solution
up their sleeve \?

i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever
they can to help the gazans regain their full human , civil and
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings.

elias davidsson iceland


from bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to bh437292@lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host parry.lance.colostate.edu
organization engineering college , colorado state university
lines 116


i will try to answer some of dorin 's questions , even though they were
not addressed to me specifically , but i feel that i am a bit concerned
by the thread since i am a southern lebanese from a village that is
often on the receiving end of israel 's bombs.
in the first place the death of three soldiers on a patrol in occupied
lebanese terrritory is not an act of terrorism or murder. it is
disingeneous to compare their death to that of athletes in munich
or any other act of terrorism or mrder. this exercise is aimed
solely at diverting the issue and is far from the truth.
it seems to me , dorin , that , you are so remote and ignorant of the problem
on the ground that your comments can only be charactrized as irrelevant ,
and heavily colored by the preconceptions and misinformation.
i will try to paint the most accurate picture i can of
what the situation really is in south lebanon.

in article 1993apr15.152455.14555@unocal.com , stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes

is there any israeli a civilian , in your opinion \?

now , i do not condone myself bombing villages , any kind of villages.
but you claim these are villages with civilians , and iraelis claim they are
camps filled with terrorists. you claim that israelis shell the villages with the
'hope' of finding a terrorist or so. if they kill one , fine , if not , too bad ,
civilians die , right \? i am not so sure.

i am. i was back in my home village this last summer. for your information
we are people , not a bunch of indiscriminate terrorists. most of the
people in my village are regular inhabitants that go about their daily
business , some work in the fields , some own small shops , others are
older men that go to the coffe shop and drink coffee. is that so hard to
imagine \? \? \? \? it is not a terrorist camp as you and the israelis like
to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer
in the streets , women preparing lunch , men playing cards , etc.....
some young men , usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of
the lebanese resistance. even the inhabitants of the village do not
know who these are , they are secretive about it , but most people often
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are
supported financially by iran most of the time. they sneak arms and
ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps
for israeli patrols. every time an israeli soldier is killed or injured
by these traps , israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians. once they
are back they announce that they bombed a terrorist hideout where
an 8 year old girl just happened to be.
we are now accustomed to israeli tactics , and we figure that this is
the israeli way of telling us that if you 're gonna hurt our soldiers
you 're gonna pay the price . we accept this as a price we have to pay
to free our land , israel knows very well that it is not really hurting
the resistance that much militarily with these strikes , but rather
just keeping the pressure on the villagers to demand from their young
men to stop attacking israeli soldiers since these attacks are
taking a heavy toll on the lives of the civilian villagers.
israel 's retalliation policy is cold hearted , but a reality that
we have come to accept and deal with , the lebanese resistance
on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on occupying
israeli soldiers until they withdraw , this is the only real
leverage that they have to force israel to withdraw.
the people of south lebanon are occupied , or shelled by israel on a
regular basis. we do not want to be occupied. if israel insists that
the so called security zone is necessary for the protection of
northern israel , than it will have to pay the price of its occupation
with the blood of its soldiers. if israel is interested in peace ,
than it should withdraw from our land. we are not asking for the
establishment of a lebanese occupied zone in northern israel to protect
our villages that are attacked on a regular basis by israel , so the
best policy seems to be the removal of israeli occupation and the
establishment of peace keeping troops along the border.

i have written before on this very newsgroup , that the only
real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace
settlement whereby israel withdraws to its own borders and
peace keeping troops are stationed along the border to insure
no one on either side of the border is shelled.
this is the only realistic solution , it is time for israel to
realize that the concept of a buffer zone aimed at protecting
its northern cities has failed. in fact it has caused much more
israeli deaths than the occasional shelling of northern israel
would have resulted in.
if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would withdraw
unilaterally from the so called security zone before the conclusion
of the peace talks. such a move would save israeli lives ,
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's
public image abroad and give it an edge in the peace negociations
since israel can rightly claim that it is genuinely interested in
peace and has already offered some important concessions.
along with such a withdrawal israel could demand that hizbollah
be disarmed by the lebanese government and warn that it will not
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a
shelling occurs than it will consider re taking the buffer zone
and will hold the lebanese and syrian government responsible for it.
there seems to be very little incentive for the syrian and lebanese
goovernment to allow hizbollah to bomb israel proper under such
circumstances , and now the lebanese government has proven that it is
capable of controlling and disarming all militias as they did
in all other parts of lebanon.

if you ask me those questions , i will have no problem answering (not with a
question , as you did) no , nobody is qualified candidate for murder , nothing
justifies murder.

i agree , only in the case of the isareli soldiers their killing
cannot be qualified as murder , no matter what you say.

i have the feeling that you may be able yourself to make
similar statements , maybe after eliminating all israelis , jews , \? am i wrong \?

yes , we have no quarrel with jews , or israeli civilians.
the real problem is with occupying israeli soldiers and those brave
israeli pilots that bomb our civilian villages every time an
occupying soldier is attacked.


dorin

basil

from amehdi@src.honeywell.com (hossien amehdi)
subject re reasons was re was go hezbollah ! !
nntp posting host tbilisi.src.honeywell.com
organization honeywell systems research center
lines 13

in article 1993apr15.160224.15940@unocal.com stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru) writes
...
now , about tough talk and arrogance , we are adults , are n't we \? do you listen
to tough talk of american politicians \? or switch the channel \?
...

i guess , i did n't make my point clear. in the case of israel government , it
is not only tough talk for its intimidation policy. after all , not many
people are intimidated just by talking. here how it goes tough talks ,
followed by aggressive actions followed by taking pride of those actions and
bragging about them.



from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re israeli expansion lust
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 13

in article 1993apr14.224726.15612@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes
jake livni writes
sam zbib writes

all deleted...

sam zbib 's posting is so confused and nonsensical as not to warrant a
reasoned response. we 're getting used to this , too.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject re accounts of anti armenian human right violations in azerbaijan 010
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 23

in article 1993apr20.050956.25141@freenet.carleton.ca aa624@freenet.carleton.
ca (suat kiniklioglu) a.k.a. kubilay kultigin writes

kk david

yes \?

kk give it a rest. will you \? \? \?

no.

kk it is increasingly becoming very annoying...

barbarism is rather annoying for you , now is n't it , especially when it comes
from from a country , azerbaijan , that claims turkey as its number one ally ,
protector , and mentor !



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 81
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article 1993apr16.130037.18830@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes

in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

are you suggesting that , when guerillas use the population for cover , israel
should totally back down \? so...the easiest way to get away with attacking
another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the other respects
innocent lives \?

tell me tim , what are these guerillas doing wrong \? assuming that they are using
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country \? if the
buffer zone is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working \? why is it
further neccessary for israeli guns to pound lebanese villages \? why not just
kill those who try to infiltrate the buffer zone \? you see , there is more to
the shelling of the villages.... it is called retaliation... getting back
... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the villages. the least
it shows is a reckless disregard by the israeli government for the lives of
civilians.

if you recall , a subject was raised some weeks ago that touched upon
this. when someone claimed that guerillas were manifestations of
popular sentiment , the topic arose when does a civilian stop
becoming a civilian \? . if he houses and shelters guerillas of
his own free will , aiding them , has he violated his civilian status \?

what \? so the whole bit about attacks on israel from neighboring arab states
can start all over again \? while i also hope for this to happen , it will
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the
responsibility and the duty to stop guerilla attacks on israel from their
soil. they have to prove it (or provide some guaratees ) , there is no way
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of
tolerance towards anti israel guerillas in residence .

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has
no business wasting others' time coming to the peace talks.

but do n't you see that the same statement can be made both ways \?
if lebanon was interested in peace then it should accept the word
of israel that the attacks were the cause for war and disarming the
hizbollah will remove the cause for its continued occupancy. afterall ,
israel has already staged two parts of the withdrawal from areas
it occupied in lebanon during slg.

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in lebanon have been
disarmed. hezbollah remains the only independent militia. hezbollah does
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the idf burned up
sheikh mosavi , his wife , and young son. of course , if israel would withdraw
from lebanon and stop assassinating people and shelling villages they would n't
make the lebanese so mad as to do that. furthermore , with hezbollah
subsequently disarmed , it would not be possible.

that is not exactly true. the hizbollah and their affiliated groups
have made several attempts to infiltrate the border of israel.

it has not. without the support , and active involvement , of syria ,
lebanon would not have been able to accomplish all that has occurred.
once syria leaves who is to say that lebanon will be able to retain
control \? if syria stays thay may be even more dangerous for israel.

tim , when is the last time that you recall any trouble on the syrian border \?
not lately , eh \?

israel knows very well that the syrians are able to restrain all who would use
territory under their control to attack israel. while lebanon would be better
off with syria and israel out of its borders , the presence of syrian troops
in lebanon has meant a sharp decrease in attacks on israeli territory (not on
israeli troops in lebanon , however. please note the distinction) in the
past two years.

true , but the syrians did allow (until at least 1984) guerillas to operate
in the areas that were under their control , provided that those guerillas
were attacking israeli lines.

the problem is that syria is also not as stable a partner for long term
peace as others in the area might be.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject public service translation no.2
summary a call to action
keywords effective greek armenian postings
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 61

subject re netteki butun vatanseverlere duyuru....

in article 1993apr13.090647.2507@freenet.carleton.ca aa624@freenet.carleton.
ca (suat kiniklioglu) a.k.a. kubilay kultigin continues...

kk butun netteki arkadaslara duyuru....
kk
kk (siyasi platformun hangi tarafinda olursaniz olun )
kk
kk bugunlerde bu nette olsun , talk.politics.mideast ve talk.politics.
kk soviet'te olsun olagan dan fazla ve etkin ermeni ve yunan
kk postingleri yazilmaktadir. bu yazilarin cogu guncel karabag
kk kibris ve bosna konularinda yogunlasmaktadir. buradan hareketle
kk hepimizin biraz daha aktif olmasi ve usenmeyip cevap yazmasi
kk oldukca faydali olacaktir.
kk
kk evet , herkesin isi gucu var...akademik yilin yogun bir donemi
kk fakat meydani bos birakmamanin ve ulkemizin cikarlarini ideolojik
kk platformda gozetmenin de sorumlulugu var...
kk
kk yarinlarin cagdas ve guclu turkiyesi'ni hep beraber kurmak umuduyla ,
kk
kk saygilar ,

kk kubilay kultigin

kk vatan sevgisi ruhlari kirden kurtaran en kuvvetli ruzgardir

in translation , as a public service

subject an announcement to all patriots on the net...

an annoncement to all friends on the net...

(regardless of wherever you stand on the political spectrum)

in recent days armenian and greek postings of than the usual in number and
effectiveness are being written both on this net and the talk.politics.
mideast and talk.politics.soviet. most of these writings concentrate on the
subjects of karabagh , cyprus and bosnia. due to this fact , it is quite useful
for us all be more active and not feel reluctant to respond.

yes , everybody has his her occupation...it is a busy period in the academic
year. however , we must have a responsibilty not to leave the forum empty and
watch the interests of our country on the ideological level ...

in the hope of building together a modern and powerful turkey of tomorrrow.

regards ,

kubilay kultigin

the love of the fatherland is the strongest of all winds cleansing filth
off souls



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

subject re if you feed armenians dirt you will bite dust !
from senel@vuse.vanderbilt.edu (hakan)
organization vanderbilt university
summary armenians correcting the geo political record.
nntp posting host snarl02
lines 18

in article 1993apr5.194120.7010@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes

in article 1993apr5.064028.24746@kth.se hilmi er@dsv.su.se (hilmi eren)
writes

david davidian says armenians have nothing to lose ! they lack food , fuel , and
warmth. if you fascists in turkey want to show your teeth , good for you ! turkey
has everything to lose ! you can yell and scream like barking dogs along the

davidian , who are fascists \? armenians in azerbaijan are killing azeri
people , invading azeri soil and they are not fascists , because they
lack food ha \? strange explanation. there is no excuse for this situation.

herkesi fasist diye damgala sonra , kendileri fasistligin alasini yapinca ,
ac kaldilar da , yiyecekleri yok amcasi , bu seferlik affedin de. yurrruuu ,
yuru de plaka numarani alalim......

hakan

from jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni)
subject re legality of the jewish purchase
organization the department of redundancy department
lines 46

in article 1993apr21.181628.23279@news.columbia.edu ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt) writes
in article 1993apr19.214951.19180@bnr.ca zbib@bnr.ca writes

it was shafting on the part of the arab land owners for doing it
without notifying their tenant farmers and for not being responsible
enough to make provisions for them , but rather just leaving
them to their fate.

if a landlord sells an apartment building vacant to another landlord
and fails to notify his tenants , they just might find themselves out
on the street all of a sudden. the seller may be a scoundrel and a
crook but this does n't make the buyer a thief , as israelis are so
often called here on tpm.

it is interesting though that you acknowledge that the
palestinians were shafted. do many israelis or jews share
your opinion \? do you absolve the purchaser from
any ethical commitments just because it was n't written down \?

i do n't know if others share this opinion. it is mine ,
and i'm sure there are some who agree and some who do n't
the way i see it , the fallahin were caught in circumstances
beyond their control , in that since they did n't own the land ,
they did n't have a say. of course , now for the sake of the greater
arab unity the arabs are angry that the land was sold to the jews
(an act that is illegal in jordan) , but when it happened , it was just
business.

the arabs that lived along the coast in western palestine , later to be
called israel , were shafted by their brother arabs just as they 've
been shafted for decades since then by their arab bretheren. somehow ,
though , the arab call has continued to blame israel , not only for the
syrian landowner sell out in western palestine (israel) but even for
the occupation of eastern palestine (jordan) by the hashemites. this
is just more of refusing to take blame for one 's own actions.

infra structure etc...). imho the palestinians have grounds
to contest the legality of the purchase , say in world court.

if your job was eliminated in a corporate takeover , you could probably
go to court , too. you 'd probably lose , though.


jake livni jake@bony1.bony.com ten years from now , george bush will
american occupied new york have replaced jimmy carter as the
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president.

from alaa@peewee.unx.dec.com (alaa zeineldine)
subject re the hamas way of death
organization digital equipment corp.
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
lines 12

tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

while you brought up the separate question of israel 's unjustified
policies and practices , i am still unclear about your reaction to
the practices and polocies reflected in the article above.

tim

not a separate question mr. clock. it is deceiving to judge the
resistance movement out of the context of the occupation.

alaa zeineldine

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject it is sickening to think that the armenians are capable of such...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 329

in article 1993apr9.140123.12253@sol.ctr.columbia.edu halsall@murray.fordham.edu (paul halsall) writes

it 's curious that serdar spend his time attacking greeks and
armenians. who just happen to be historical opponents of turkey. the

because , the x soviet armenian government got away with the genocide
of 2.5 million turkish men , women and children and is enjoying the
fruits of that genocide. and they are doing 'it' again. are you so
blind \?

problem is , everybody arab , greek , bulgar , serb , russian , tartar ,
circassian , persian , kurd is , or has been an opponent. who has been

kurds 'r' us armenians 'r' not.

an ally \? this historic circumstance seems to have taken a certain
toll on serdar perhaps he should be posting to alt.raving.nationalist
rather than soc.history \?

excuse me \?

we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as
ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work
of extermination. our troops surrounded village after village.
little resistance was offered. our artillery knocked the huts
into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable
and inhabitants fled from them into fields , bullets and bayonets
completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border
into turkey. the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole
length of the borderland of russian armenia from nakhitchevan to
akhalkalaki from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain
plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of
tartar villages. they are quiet now , those villages , except for
howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the
scattered bones of the dead.

ohanus appressian
men are like that
p. 202.


a genocide is a deliberate and organized massacre of people in an
attempt to exterminate a race. this is the worst crime in history.
it happened to the turks in eastern anatolia and the armenian
dictatorship. 2.5 million turks and kurds were killed in the worst
ways imaginable. it is sickening to think that the human race is capable
of such actions , but there is no denying the fact that the armenian
genocide of 2.5 million muslims happened.

people of turkiye deeply sympathize with those whose relatives were
killed in the turkish genocide. i understand their anger that there
are those who still deny that the turkish genocide indeed took place ,
despite the fact that the genocide of 2.5 million turks has been
well documented over the past six decades. we cannot reverse
the events of the past , but we can and we must strive to keep the
memory of this tragedy alive on this side of the atlantic , so as
to help prevent a recurrence of the extermination of a people
because of their religion or their race.

source bristol papers , general correspondence container 32 bristol
to bradley letter of september 14 , 1920.

i have it from absolute first hand information that the armenians in
the caucasus attacked tartar (turkish) villages that are utterly
defenseless and bombarded these villages with artillery and they murder
the inhabitants , pillage the village and often burn the village.

lets get somethings straight.

why not \?

1. armenians are no angels , but they were subject to turkish genocide.

and the germans were subject to jewish genocide \? are you for real \?
tell me 'halsall' , were you high on asala sdpa arf forgeries and
fabrications when you wrote that \? where is your non existent list
of scholars. here is mine during the first world war and the ensuing
years 1914 1920 , the armenian dictatorship through a premeditated
and systematic genocide , tried to complete its centuries old policy
of annihilation against the turks and kurds by savagely murdering
2.5 million muslims and deporting the rest from their 1 , 000 year
homeland.

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people.
this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians , government
and international political leaders , such as u.s. ambassador mark
bristol , william langer , ambassador layard , james barton , stanford
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , papazian , nalbandian ,
ohanus appressian , jorge blanco villalta , general nikolayef , general
bolkovitinof , general prjevalski , general odiselidze , meguerditche ,
kazimir , motayef , twerdokhlebof , general hamelin , rawlinson , avetis
aharonian , dr. stephan eshnanie , varandian , general bronsart , arfa ,
dr. hamlin , boghos nubar , sarkis atamian , katchaznouni , rachel
bortnick , halide edip , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul muratoff and many
others.

j. c. hurewitz , professor of government emeritus , former director of
the middle east institute (1971 1984) , columbia university.

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history ,
princeton university.

halil inalcik , university professor of ottoman history member of
the american academy of arts sciences , university of chicago.

peter golden , professor of history , rutgers university , newark.

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at
los angeles.

thomas naff , professor of history director , middle east research
institute , university of pennsylvania.

ronald jennings , associate professor of history asian studies ,
university of illinois.

howard reed , professor of history , university of connecticut.

dankwart rustow , distinguished university professor of political
science , city university graduate school , new york.

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history ,
university of chicago.

john masson smith , jr. , professor of history , university of
california at berkeley.

alan fisher , professor of history , michigan state university.

avigdor levy , professor of history , brandeis university.

andreas g. e. bodrogligetti , professor of history , university of california
at los angeles.

kathleen burrill , associate professor of turkish studies , columbia university.

roderic davison , professor of history , george washington university.

walter denny , professor of history , university of massachusetts.

caesar farah , professor of history , university of minnesota.

tom goodrich , professor of history , indiana university of pennsylvania.

tibor halasi kun , professor emeritus of turkish studies , columbia university.

justin mccarthy , professor of history , university of louisville.

jon mandaville , professor of history , portland state university (oregon).

robert olson , professor of history , university of kentucky.

madeline zilfi , professor of history , university of maryland.

james stewart robinson , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan.

.......so the list goes on and on and on.....

now wait , there is more.

mark alan epstein , 'the ottoman jewish communities and their role
in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , ' klaus schwarz werlag ,
freiburg (1980).

page 19

during the fifteenth century , when the ottomans were struggling to
reestablish themselves in the balkans , there was considerable turmoil
among the jewish communities in central and western europe. even if
the difficulties of the darker centuries immediately preceding the
fourteenth are minimized , it is easy to understand the attraction which
ottoman life , particularly when compared to life in europe , held for the
jews. there is no way to tell how many jews left christendom for the
realm of the rising muslim ottomans , but with each account of persecution
in or expulsion from christian countries it is recorded that some jews
fled to ottoman territory. the regularity of these reports suggests that
the ottomans were considered reasonably tolerant protectors and that
there was a regular trickle of jewish families moving southward and
eastward from western and central europe. (...) it is evident that the
effects of plague , late crusades , and the general intolerance and
persecution of jews in christian europe resulted in the redirection
of the whole focus of jewish life which , for more than two centuries ,
was to be oriented toward muslim east.


page 21

in the second quarter of the fifteenth century the foremost official
in the edirne jewish community was rabbi yitzhak sarfati the ashkenazi
chief rabbi of the city. he was the most important rabbi in the city and
the author of an important letter which tells us something of the situation
of the edirne jewry in the fifteenth century. sarfati himself was from
christian europe and supposedly wrote this letter at the behest of two
recent arrivals from there , who , upon seeing the prosperity and freedom
of the ottoman jews , prevailed upon him to write their european
coreligionists apprising them of the situation and urging them to migrate.
this remarkable letter advised its recipients not only of the pleasant
conditions in the ottoman domains , but described as well the ease of
travel to palestine and the holy places , an attraction to those who
would make a pilgrimage or choose to be buried there. ( )


page 41

...the impression gained from the hebrew sources is that the jews were
firmly aware of the community of interests which existed between them
and the ottomans , especially in comparison to relations with the christians
of europe.

confirmation of the commonality of interests between muslims and jews is
also indicated by the fact that european christians perceived the jews
as allies of islam and were well aware of muslim jewish cooperation.
certainly the activity of important jewish financiers and politicians
representing the ottoman government abroad did not pass unnoticed. european
sources are the basis for much of our knowledge of their careers. in addition
it appears that christian pirates plundered ''turks and jews , '' their
sworn enemies , and that europeans considered the jews to be agents who
regularly reported to the ottomans.

there are well known examples of overt jewish support for the ottomans
in the struggle against european powers. the two best known instances
of jewish support for the campaigning ottomans are the frequently cited
instances of the jewish contributions to the conquests of buda , in the
early sixteenth century , and of rhodes. we also have reports of sympathy
for the ottomans during the siege of chios. an unpublished ottoman
document shows dramatically the mutual interests which existed in some
greek towns...

page 43

it is clear that throughout the sixteenth century it was a generally
accepted fact that the interests of jews and muslims coincided frequently ,
and all parties involved , jews , muslims , and christians , were aware of
the situation.


page 46

...it seems that the relations between greeks and jews were not
particularly cordial. the two groups had little in common , few common
interests , and perceived no common philosophical or religious tradition
which could serve as the basis for cooperation , rather than enmity. if
there was any identifiable bond of good will which existed between
religious communities in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , it was
that between muslims and jews , neither of whom had much in common with
the orthodox.

page 46

the general impression of muslim jewish relations in the ottoman context
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries is one of community of
interests. from the earliest times the ottomans seem to have welcomed
jews to their territory and to have found in the communities already
existing in places which they conquered a cooperative element. the jewish
response to this tolerance was a steady flow of jews from christian
countries to ottoman domains.

page 151

from the period before 1453 we have only a few indications that the
ottoman jewish relationship was well on the course of amity which would
characterize it for years afterward , but the liberality of the ottomans ,
in contrast to the intolerance of the byzantines , and the protection and
the security which the ottomans offered , in comparison to conditions
elsewhere , leave little doupt that even then both the ottomans and the
jews recognized their mutual interests...

page 161

it is impossible to say how fundamental the jews were in the success
of the ottomans in rebuilding istanbul or in ottoman mercantile success
in the sixteenth century. that they played an important role in both
cannot be doupted. it is also unclear whether they were important enough
to say that the ottomans would not have experienced their great success
without the jews and that no other group could have been found to serve
the ottomans as well as did the jews. it is , however , unmistakably clear
that there are few parallels in world history to this remarkable
partnership between jews and the non jewish society in which they lived.
we must conclude that the ottomans could probably not achieved their
success without a group performing certain tasks for them as well as the
jews did. certainly for the jews of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
the ottoman empire was a most remarkable and salubrious home.


( ) a version of rabbi sarfati 's tzarfati letter is given by prof.shaw

page 32

your cries and sobs reached us. we have been told of all the troubles
and persecutions which you have to suffer in the german lands....i hear
the lamentation of my brethren...the barbarous and cruel nation ruthlessly
oppresses the faithful children of the chosen people...the priests and
prelates of rome have risen. they wish to root out the memory of jacob
and erase the name of israel. they always devise new persecutions. they
wish to bring you to the stake...listen my brethren , to the counsel i will
give you. i too was born in germany and studied torah with the german
rabbis. i was driven out of my native country and came to the turkish land ,
which is blessed by god and filled with all good things. here i found rest
and happiness turkey can also become for you the land of peace...if you
who live in germany knew even a tenth of what god has blessed us with
in this land , you would not consider any difficulties you would set out
to come to us...here in the land of the turks we have nothing to complain
of. we possess great fortunes much gold and silver in our hands. we are
not oppressed with heavy taxes , and our commerce is free and unhindered.
rich are the fruits of the earth. everything is cheap , and every one of us
lives in peace and freedom. here the jew is not compelled to wear a yellow
hat as a badge of shame , as is the case in germany , where even wealth and
great fortune are a curse for a jew because he therewith arouses jealousy
among the christians and they devise all kinds of slander against him
to rob him of his gold. arise my brethren , gird up your loins , collect
your forces , and come to us. here you will be free of your enemies , here
you will find rest... 13

13 israel zinberg , a history of jewish literature. vol.v. the jewish
center of culture in the ottoman empire (hebrew union college press ,
ktav publishers , new york , 1974).

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 16
reply to cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


tsiel writes

if indeed israeli soldiers killed a hamas mujahid with an anti tank missile
then i'm almost sure that the terrorist zionists would not have been able
to cut up a body which was probably desintegrated by the missile.

maybe the missile did n't hit directly such that his body
gets desintegrated. of course , destroying 10 houses to
kill someone is not a surgical operation , or is it \?



cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu
(
h a m z a ) foo i.e. most foo

from mucit@cs.rochester.edu (bulent murtezaoglu)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
article i.d. vein.mucit.93apr15173530
1993apr14.064421.27655@usage.csd.unsw.oz.au
93104.141046finaid5@auvm.american.edu c5i1b6.hiv@news.cso.uiuc.edu
1993apr14.211615@iastate.edu c5if8u.3ky@news.cso.uiuc.edu
1993apr15.092101@iastate.edu c5jh
organization computer science department , university of rochester
lines 27
in reply to ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 19 16 16 gmt
nntp posting host vein.cs.rochester.edu

in article c5jhj4.f4j@news.cso.uiuc.edu ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis ) writes
stuff deleted
i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

i thought it was a smart move to receive more money from greek tourists.
i bet that this week there should be about 200 , 000 tourists from greece
in turkey. each one will leave at least 1 , 000 so go and figure what this
means to your economy. if you had kept the visa requirement , how many
greeks would bother to visit turkey \?

smart indeed. if what you 're saying is true , greeks who visit are happy ,
the turkish merchants are happy who is harmed \? no one. so not only was
it a smart move , it was also a good move for it adds to the happiness of
200.000 greeks per week and however many turkish merchants they interact with.
one simple move in the paperwork arena lotsa happy people of both
nationalities. just and observation.

cheers ,

bm

stuff deleted

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject given the massacre of the muslim population of karabag by armenians...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
lines 124

in article 1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes

let me clearify mr. turkish
armenia is not getting itchy . she is simply letting the world know that
she will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous
tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of
cypress while the world simply watched.

and the 'turkish karabag' is next. as for 'cyprus' , in 1974 , turkiye
stepped into cyprus to preserve the lives of the turkish population
there. this is nothing but a simple historical fact. unfortunately ,
the intervention was too late at least for some of the victims. mass
graves containing numerous bodies of women and children already showed
what fate had been planned for a peaceful minority.

the problems in cyprus have their origin in decades of
oppression of the turkish population by the greek cypriot
officials and their violation of the co founder status of
the turks set out in the constitution. the coup d'etat
engineered by greece in 1974 to execute a final solution
to the turkish problem was the savage blow that invoked
turkiye 's intervention. turkiye intervened reluctantly and
only as a last resort after exhausting all other avenues
consulting with britain and greece as the other two signatories
to the treaty to protect the integrity of cyprus. there simply
was not any expansionist motivation in the turkish action at
all. this is in dramatic contrast to the greek motivation which
was openly expansionist , stated as 'enosis , ' union with greece.
since the creation of independent cyprus in 1960 , the turkish
population , although smaller , legally had status as the co founder
of the republic with the greek population.

the greek cypriots , with the support of 'enosis' minded
greeks in the mainland , have consistently ignored that
status and portrayed the island as a greek island with
a minority population of turks. the turks of cyprus are
not a minority in a greek republic and they found the
only way they could show that was to assert their
autonomy in a separate republic.

turkiye is not satisfied with the status quo. she would
rather not be involved with the island. but , given the
dismal record of brutal greek oppression of the turkish
population in cyprus , she simply cannot leave the fate
of the island 's turks in the hands of the greeks until
the turkish side is satisfied with whatever accord
the two communities finally reach to guarantee that
history will not repeat itself to rob turkish cypriots
of their rights , liberties and their very lives.


source 'cyprus the tale of an island , ' a. h. rizvi , p. 42

21 12 1963 throughout cyprus
following the greek cypriot premeditated onslaught of 21 december ,
1963 , the turkish sectors all over cyprus were completely besieged
by greeks all telephonic , telegraphic and postal communications
between these sectors were cut off and the turkish cypriot
community 's contact with each other and with the outside world
was thus prevented.

21 12 63 31 12 63 turkish quarter of nicosia and suburbs
greek cypriot armed elements broke into hundreds of turkish
homes and fired at the unarmed occupants with automatic
weapons killing at random many turks , including women , children
and elderly persons (51 turks were killed and 82 wounded). they
also carried away as hostages more than 700 turks , including
women and children , whom they forced to walk bare footed and
in night dresses across rough fields and river beds.

21 12 63 12 12 64 throughout cyprus
the greek cypriot administration deprived turkish cypriots
including ministers , mps , and turkish members of the public
services of the republic , of their right to freedom of movement.

in his report no. s 6102 of 12 december , 1964 to the security
council , the un secretary general stated in this respect the
following

restrictions on the free movement of civilians have been one of
the major features of the situation in cyprus since the early
stages of the disturbances , these restrictions have inflicted
considerable hardship on the population , especially the turkish
cypriot community , and have kept tension high.

25 9 1964 31 3 1968 throughout cyprus

supply of petrol was completely denied to the turkish sections.

makarios addresses un security council on 19 july 1974
after being ousted by the greek junta coup

in the beginning i wish to express my sincere thanks to all the
members of the security council for the great interest they have
shown in the critical situation which has been created in cyprus
after the coup organized by the military regime in greece and
carried out by the greek army officers who were serving in the
national guard and were commanding it.

..

13 3 1975 on the road travelling to the south to the freedom of
the north

a turkish woman was seriously wounded and her four month old
baby was riddled with bullets from an automatic weapon fired by
a greek cypriot mobile patrol which had ambushed the car in which
the mother and her baby were travelling to the turkish region.
the baby died in her mother 's arms.

this wanton murder of a four month old baby , which shocked foreign
observers as much as the turkish community , was not committed by
irresponsible persons , but by members of the greek cypriot security
forces. according to the mother 's statement the greek police patrol
had chased their car and deliberately fired upon it.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)

from flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare)
subject re 18 israelis murdered in march
organization dept. of control , teknikum , uppsala
lines 184
flax.93apr4151411@frej.teknikum.uu.se
1993apr5.125419.8157@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host frej.teknikum.uu.se
in reply to hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu 's message of mon , 5 apr 93 12 54 19 gmt

in article 1993apr5.125419.8157@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes


after a small refresh hasan got on the track again.

in article flax.93apr4151411@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes

in article 1993apr3.182738.17587@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

in article flax.93apr3142133@frej.teknikum.uu.se , flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare) writes

i get the impression hasan realized he goofed and is now
trying to drop the thread. let him. it might save some
miniscule portion of his sorry face.

not really. since i am a logical person who likes furthering himself
from any name calling , i started trashing any article that contains
such abuses without responding to , and sometimes not even reading articles
written by those who acquired such bad habits from bad company !

ah , but in my followup on the subject (which you , by the way , never bothered
responding to..) there was no name calling. hence the assumption.
do you feel more up to it now , so that we might have an answer \?
or , to refresh your memory , does the human right issue in the area
apply to palestinians only \? also , do you claim there is such a thing as
forfeiting a human right \? if that 's possible , then explain to the rest of
us how there can exist any such thing \?

use your logic , and convince us ! this is your golden chance !

jonas flygare ,


well , ok. let 's see what master of wisdom , mr. jonas flygare ,
wrote that can be wisdomely responded to

are you calling names , or giving me a title \? if the first , read your
paragraph above , if not i accept the title , in order to let you get into the
um , well , debate again.


master of wisdom writes in 1993mar31.101957@frej.teknikum.uu.se

hasan

flax

hasan

in case you didnot know , palestineans were there for 18 months.
and they are coming back
when you agree to give palestineans their human rights.

afterall , human rights arenot negotiable.

correct me if i'm wrong , but is n't the right to one 's life also
a 'human right' \? \? or does it only apply to palestinians \?

no. it is everybody 's right. however , when a killer kills , then he is giving
up willingly or unwillingly his life 's right to the society.
the society represented by the goverment would exercise its duty by
depriving the killer off his life 's right.

so then it 's all right for israel to kill the people who kill israelis \?
the old 'eye for an eye' thinking \? funny , i thought modern legal systems
were made to counter exactly that.

so what do you expect me to tell you to tell you , master of wsidom ,


if you insist on giving me names titles i did not ask for you could at
least spell them correctly. sigh.

when you are intentionally neglecting the most important fact that
the whole israeli presence in the occupied territories is illegitimate ,
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on
the ground of occupied territories.

no , i am not neglecting that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance
of israeli citicens in the wb or in gaza invalidates those individuals right
to live , a (as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have
not adressed my question if the israelis also have human rights.

what do you expect me to tell you , master of wisdom , when i did explain my
point in the post , that you responded to . the point is that since israel
is occupying then it is automatically depriving itself from some of its rights
to the occupied palestineans , which is exactly similar the automatic
deprivation of a killer from his right of life to the society.

if a state can deprive all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all \?

in conjugtion with the above , when a group of people occupies others
territories and rule them by force , then this group would be willingly or
unwillingly deprived from some of its rights.

such as the right to live \? that 's nice. the swedish government is a group
of people that rule me by force. does that give me the right to kill
them \?

do you consider yourself that you have posed a worthy question here \?

worthy or not , i was just applying your logic to a related problem.
am i to assume you admit it would n't hold \?

what kind of rights and how much would be deprived is another issue \?
the answer is to be found in a certain system such as international law ,
us law , israeli law , ...

and now it 's very convenient to start using the legal system to prove a
point.. excuse me while i throw up.

ok , master of wisdom is throwing up.
you people stay away from the screen while he is doing it !

oh did you too watch that comedy where they pipe water through the telephone \?
i 'll let you in on a secret... it 's not for real.. take my word for it.

it seems that the us law represented by us state dept in this case
is looking to the other way around when violence occurs in occupied territories.
anyway , as for hamas , then obviously they turned to the islamic system.

and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem \?

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why \? because
any system can solve it.
the laws of minister sharon says kick palestineans out of here (all palestine).

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for
all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that
mistake. now that i have straightened that out , i'm eagerly awaiting your
reply.

joseph weitz (administrator responsible for jewish colonization)
said it best when writing in his diary in 1940
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both
peoples together in this country.... we shall not achieve our goal

of being an independent people with the arabs in this small country.
the only solution is a palestine , at least western palestine (west of
the jordan river) without arabs.... and there is no other way than
to transfer the arabs from here to the neighbouring countries , to
transfer all of them not one village , not one tribe , should be
left.... only after this transfer will the country be able to
absorb the millions of our own brethren. there is no other way out.
davar , 29 september , 1967
( courtesy of marc afifi)

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both plo covenant and hamas
charter (that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to
a private paper even older \? i'm not going to get into the question if he
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have
their share of fanatics. guess what.. \? those are not the people that will
make any lasting peace in the region. ever. it 's those who are willing to
make a tabula rasa and start over , and willing to give in order to get
something back.


we and our either refers to zionists or jews (i donot know which).

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the
imperialist israeli system for solving the me problem !

i think that is fair enough .

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction.
guess where that takes your logic \? to never never land.


the greatest problem of zionism is arab children .
rabbi shoham.

oh , and by the way , let me add that these cute quotes you put at the end are
a real bummer , when i try giving your posts any credit.



jonas flygare , wherever you go , there you are
v ktargatan 32 f 621
754 22 uppsala , sweden

x mailer tmail version 1.17r
from d. c. sessions dcs@witsend.tnet.com
organization nobody but me really
subject re was go hezbollah !
distribution world
lines 61

in 1993apr16.130037.18830@ncsu.edu , hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) wrote
in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

it is not a terrorist camp as you and the israelis like
to view the villages they are small communities with kids playing soccer
in the streets , women preparing lunch , men playing cards , etc.....
some young men , usually aged between 17 to 30 years are members of
the lebanese resistance. even the inhabitants of the village do not
know who these are , they are secretive about it , but most people often
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are
supported financially by iran most of the time. they sneak arms and
ammunitions into the occupied zone where they set up booby traps
for israeli patrols. every time an israeli soldier is killed or injured
by these traps , israel retalliates by indiscriminately bombing villages
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians.

this a tried and true method utilized by guerilla and terrorists groups
to conduct operations in the midst of the local populace , thus forcing the
opposing state to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or ,
in order to avoid the deaths of civilians , abandon the search. certainly the
people who use the population for cover are also to blaim for dragging the
innocent civilians into harm 's way.

are you suggesting that , when guerillas use the population for cover , israel
should totally back down \? so...the easiest way to get away with attacking
another is to use an innocent as a shield and hope that the other respects
innocent lives \?

tell me tim , what are these guerillas doing wrong \? assuming that they are using
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country \? if the
buffer zone is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working \? why is it
further neccessary for israeli guns to pound lebanese villages \? why not just
kill those who try to infiltrate the buffer zone \? you see , there is more to
the shelling of the villages.... it is called retaliation... getting back
... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the villages. the least
it shows is a reckless disregard by the israeli government for the lives of
civilians.

please clarify your standards for rules of engagement. as i
understand it , israelis are at all times and under all
circumstances fair targets. their opponents are legitimate
targets only when mirandized , or some such \?

i'm sure that this makes perfect sense if you grant a priori
that israelis are the black hats , and that therefore killing
them is automatically a good thing (go hezbollah ! ). the
corollary is that the hezbollah are the white hats , and that
whatever they do is a good thing , and the israelis only prove
themselves to be bad guys by attacking them.

this sounds suspiciously like a hockey fan i know , who cheers
when one of the players on his team uses his stick to permanently
rearrange an opponent 's face , and curses the ref for penalizing
his side. of course , when it 's different when the roles are
reversed.

d. c. sessions speaking for myself
note new network address dcs@witsend.tnet.com
author (and everything else ! ) of tmail (dos mail news shell)

from arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee)
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton
organization johns hopkins university cs dept.
lines 66

in article 22apr199300374349@vxcrna.cern.ch casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe) writes
i must say i was appalled by the american jewish council 's open letter.
america is not the world 's policeman. we cannot and should not take it upon
ourselves to solve the problems of the entire world. america 's young men and
women should not be sent to yugoslavia , period. if people feel strongly
enough , let them go as individuals to fight alongside the butchers of their
choice.
we have a volunteer army. the argument you gave only applies if we have a
draft.
huh \?

sorry , i misread your remark about young men and women. (though i am now
unsure what that sentence does mean.)

furthermore , people do not become butchers by being ethnic
cleansed . or do you automatically call them butchers because they are muslim \?
i am disappointed in your logic , especially coming from a stalwart of
sci.skeptic.

you implied that anyone who wants to send troops to bosnia wants to do so to
help the butchers of their choice . since the primary targets of help are
muslim victims of ethnic cleansing , you imply that such muslim victims are
butchers.

1) people become butchers by butchering. there have been atrocities on all
sides.

this implies both sides are equal. true , it may sometimes be difficult or
impossible to determine which side is the victim , but that does not mean that
victims do not exist. would you , in wwii have said that there were atrocities
on the sides of both the jews and the germans \?

these people have been butchering each other for centuries. when one
side wins and gets what it wants , it will stop.

yes , but both sides want different things. the muslims chiefly want to not
be ethnic cleansed . the serbians want to ethnic cleanse the muslims. it
is indeed true that each side will stop when it gets what it wants , but the
things that the two sides want are not equivalent.

2) quite an impressive leap of reasoning to assume that i am so racist as to
call someone a butcher because they are muslim. in fact , i think on the
contrary , the media fixation on this war , as opposed to the dozens upon dozens
of civil wars which have been fought in the recent past is because these are
white people , in europe. when atrocities occur in the third world , there is
not as much news coverage , and not nearly the same level of outrage.

i recall , before we did anything for somalia , (apparent) left wingers saying
that the reason everyone was more willing to send troops to bosnia than to
somalia was because the somalis are third worlders who americans consider
unworthy of help. they suddenly shut up when the us decided to send troops to
the opposite place than that predicted by the theory.

for that matter , this theory of yours suggests that americans should want to
help the serbs. after all , they 're christian , and the muslims are not. if
the desire to intervene in bosnia is based on racism against people that are
less like us , why does everyone want to help the side that is less like us \?
especially if both of the sides are equal as you seem to think \?

on the first day after christmas my truelove served to me... leftover turkey !
on the second day after christmas my truelove served to me... turkey casserole
that she made from leftover turkey.
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming turkey wings ! ...
pizza hut commercial (and m tlu a gic bait)

ken arromdee (arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu)

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
organization division of applied sciences , harvard university
lines 35

organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
keywords

in article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu writes
what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of
the muslim a s well as jewish religion , among others.

israel has a right to keep jerusalem for many reasons. they
include the fact that the majority of the citizens are israeli , the
fact that israel maintains religious freedom for all people , and the
historical connection of judaism to jerusalem.

when jerusalem was devided by a jordanian invasion in 1948 ,
the cease fire agreement included the right of individuals to visit
religious shrines. this cease fire agreement was violated by jordan ,
who did not allow jews to visit holy sites under their control. the
jordanians also bulldozed every synagoge in the city. they turned a
jewish cemetary into a hotel , and used the gravestones in their
latrines.

israel has allowed individuals of all religions into
jerusalem , protected holy sites , and demonstrated its fitness to
control the city.

also , i should point out that islam is not centered in
jerusalem , but has holy sites there. the home of islam is mecca ,
where all muslims should make a pilgramage (the hajj). unlike israeli
jerusalem , jews and christians are not allowed in saudi mecca.

adam

adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from adam@endor.uucp (adam shostack)
subject re was go hezbollah !
organization aiken computation lab , harvard university
lines 57

in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

most of brads post deleted.

we have come to accept and deal with , the lebanese resistance
on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on occupying
israeli soldiers until they withdraw , this is the only real
leverage that they have to force israel to withdraw.

tell me , do these young men also attack syrian troops \?


with the blood of its soldiers. if israel is interested in peace ,
than it should withdraw from our land.

there must be a guarantee of peace before this happens. it
seems that many of these lebanese youth are unable to restrain
themselves from violence , and unable to to realize that their actions
prolong israels stay in south lebanon.

if the lebanese army was able to maintain the peace , then
israel would not have to be there. until it is , israel prefers that
its soldiers die rather than its children.


if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would withdraw
unilaterally from the so called security zone before the conclusion
of the peace talks. such a move would save israeli lives ,
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's
public image abroad and give it an edge in the peace negociations
since israel can rightly claim that it is genuinely interested in
peace and has already offered some important concessions.

israel should withdraw from lebanon when a peace treaty is
signed. not a day before. withdraw because of casualties would tell
the lebanese people that all they need to do to push israel around is
kill a few soldiers. its not gonna happen.

along with such a withdrawal israel could demand that hizbollah
be disarmed by the lebanese government and warn that it will not
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a
shelling occurs than it will consider re taking the buffer zone
and will hold the lebanese and syrian government responsible for it.


why should israel not demand this while holding the buffer
zone \? it seems to me that the better bargaining position is while
holding your neighbors land. if lebanon were willing to agree to
those conditions , israel would quite probably have left already.
unfortunately , it does n't seem that the lebanese can disarm the
hizbolah , and maintain the peace.

adam
adam shostack adam@das.harvard.edu

if we had a budget big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure
would n't waste them on members of congress... john perry barlow

from stssdxb@st.unocal.com (dorin baru)
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders
organization unocal corporation
lines 38


ilyess bdira writes


the islamic world dreams of being the whole planet , but not by kicking
the current inhabitant out , we rather deam of the day everybody converts.
if jews had the same dream , i would not feel threatened a bit.


so i should be very comfortable that 500 , 000 , 000 people want to convert me to
islam. or , to convert me to anything.

there are many types of violence , physical murder is only one.

'trying' to convert is an insult. it 's like trying to tell me that me and or
my god my lack of god are just crap , that i need a new , 'converted' one.

this does not apply for muslims only , of course. same for jews and for some
friendly , nicely dressed neighbours who show on sunday with empty speaches
and cheap booklets about some church ....

and when the objective is (i think , however that you are wrong) to convert
everybody , it 's just a matter of time when violence will occur.


are n't we able to learn anything from thouthands of years of 'conversion related
violence' \?

why not let 'the other , more inferiour' people live as they wish and take care
your business \? . you do assume that they are inferiour (or their beliefs are)
as long as you want to change their thinking.



dorin




from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject and azeri survivors were killed by a shot to the back of the head.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 24

12 12 armenian atrocities

moscow (ap) azerbaijani forces on saturday retook
three villages seized by armenians and discovered 16 bodies
of executed civilians , azerbaijani reports said.
the azerbaijani fighters found 16 bodies of civilians ,
including those of a child and two elderly women who were
shot point blank , and survivors were killed by a shot to
the back of the head , said a ministry statement , carried by
the azerbaijani azerinform and turan news agencies and the
itar tass news service.
everywhere armenian occupants were , they left tens of
corpses of civilians shot to death point blank and
mutilated , the...

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)


from alaa@peewee.unx.dec.com (alaa zeineldine)
subject re the hamas way of death
organization digital equipment corp.
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3
lines 28

nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer) writes

the hamas way of death

(following is a transcript of a recruitment and training
videotape made last summer by the qassam battalions , the military

as opposed to israel 's many ways of death. using bombers and artillery
against lebanese towns and villages. using fire arms and lethal
variants of tear gas and rubber coated bullets against stone
throwers. using tanks and anti tank missiles against homes after a 5
minute evacuation warning. using shin bit 's reasonable physical
pressure in interrogation. and more. not counting of course past
practices such as the bombardment of beirut in 1982 , the bombing of the
egyptian school of bahr el bakar and the abu za'bal factory in 1978 ,
the downing of the libyan airliner full of egyptian passengers near
the same time. overseeing the maronite massacre in sabra and shatilla.
that is of course besides numerous massacres by irgun and other gangs
during the british mandate period.

ironically the same op ed page in the nyt times from which the naftaly
copied this article was running another article next to it by a.m.
rosenthall blaming bosnian muslims for their own genocide by effectively
saying that it is stupid to seek independence if independence will bring
your people slaughter. but what else would one expect from mr. rosenthall
who never wasted a chance to bash arabs or muslims.

alaa zeineldine

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re was go hezbollah ! !
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article c5i7j7.f7a@eis.calstate.edu , mafifi@eis.calstate.edu (marc a afifi) writes

do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the
nazi occupying forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the
hostile occupiers in wwii.

actually , this is incorrect. french resistance may have played some
part in hindering the german war effort , however the crucial role was
supplied on d day.

diplomacy has not worked with israel and the
lebanese people are tired of being occupied ! they are now turning to the
only option they see as viable. (do n't forget that it worked in driving
out the us)

interesting statement. especially when you consider that lebanon
had claimed to have made progress in the peace talks , as well as
israel. of course , one of the prime obstacles to israel 's complete
withdrawal is the lack of governmental control that can be applied
to the area as well as the large presence of syrian forces which
have not been asked to withdraw as well.



shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
nntp posting host herky.cs.uiowa.edu
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa
lines 63

from article 1993apr15.092101@iastate.edu , by tankut@iastate.edu (sabri t atan)
well , panos , mr. tamamidis \? , the way you put it it is only the turks
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
believe for somebody trying to be objective.
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides.
what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway \?
do you think it was your right to be there \?

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor until 1923.
someone had to protect them. if not us who \? \?

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
was a positive attempt to make the relations better.

compromise on what , the invasion of cyprus , the involment of turkey in
greek politics , the refusal of turkey to accept 12 miles of territorial
waters as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of
konstantinople , the ownership of the islands in the greek lake , sorry , aegean.

there are some things on which there can not be a compromise.


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are educated
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person
because i am from turkey. politics is not my business , and it is
not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals
why the hatred \?

any person who supports the policies of the turkish goverment directly or
indirecly is a bad person.
it is not your nationality that makes you bad , it is your support of the
actions of your goverment that make you bad .
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish goverment and
as a such you must pay the price.

so that makes me think that there is some kind of
brainwashing going on in greece. after all why would an educated person
treat every person from a nation the same way \? can you tell me about your
history books and things you learn about greek turkish
encounters during your schooling.
take it easy !


tankut atan
tankut@iastate.edu

achtung , baby !

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks. just talk to
greeks , arabs , slavs , kurds and all other people who had the luck to be under
turkish occupation.
they will talk to you about murders , rapes , distruction.

you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about them from
people who experienced first hand turkish friendliness.

napoleon

from francesca m. benson@fourd.com
subject argic
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 7
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

i have one word for you loser ! ! ! !


system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject letter to president , members of congress , newspapers , tv stations...
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
news software fsuucp 1.2 r4
lines 111







today marks the 78th anniversary of the armenian genocide of
2.5 million turks and kurds in eastern anatolia and x soviet
armenia. the following letter , which represents a small portion
of the full text , along with more than 200 pages of historical
documents , scholarly sources , eyewitness accounts and photographs ,
was sent to president bill clinton , members of congress , editors ,
program directors and columnists of major newspapers , journals and
radio tv stations for the 78th anniversary of the armenian genocide
of 2.5 million muslim people. on april 23 of every year , the people
of turkiye remember their dead. they grieve for lost family and the
lost homes of their grandfathers. this year the turkish nation is
mourning and praying again for her fallen heroes who gave their
lives generously and with altruism , so that the future generations
may live on that anointed soil of the turkish land happily and
prosperously.

letter

during the years of world war i , the x soviet armenian government
has planned and perpetrated the 'genocide' of the muslim people , which
not only took the lives of 2.5 million muslim people , but was also the
method used to empty the turkish homeland of its inhabitants. to this day ,
turkish historic lands remain occupied by the x soviet armenia. in order
to cover up the fact of its usurpation of the historic turkish homeland ,
which is the crux of turkish political demands , fascist x soviet armenia
continues its anti turkish policy in the following ways

1. x soviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide
in order to shift international public opinion away from its political
responsibility.

2. x soviet armenia , employing asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism
triangle , attempts to call into question the veracity of the turkish
genocide.

3. x soviet armenia has also implemented state sponsored terrorism through
the asala sdpa arf terrorism and revisionism triangle in an attempt to
silence the turkish people 's vehement demands and protests.

4. using all its human , financial , and governmental resources , x soviet
armenia and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through
terrorism , bribery and other subversive methods , non turkish supporters
of the turkish cause , be they political , governmental and humanitarian.

using all the aforementioned methods , the x soviet armenian government
is attempting to neutralize the international diplomatic community from
making the turkish case a contemporary issue.

yet despite the efforts of the x soviet armenian government and its
terrorist and revisionist organizations , in the last decades , thanks
to the struggle of those whose closest ones have been systematically
exterminated by the armenians , the international wall of silence on
this issue has begun to collapse , and consequently a number of
governments and organizations have become supportive of the recognition
of the turkish genocide.

with the full knowledge that the struggle for the turkish territorial
demands are still in their initial stages , the turkish and kurdish people
will unflaggingly continue in this sacred struggle , therefore the victims
of the turkish genocide demand

1. that the x soviet armenian government , as the heirs of the armenian
dictatorship , recognize the turkish genocide

2. that x soviet armenia return the historic homeland to the turkish and
kurdish people

3. that the x soviet armenian government make material reparations for
their heinous and unspeakable crime to the victims of the turkish genocide

4. that all world governments , and especially the united states , officially
recognize the turkish genocide and turkish territorial rights and refuse
to succumb to all armenian political pressure

5. that the u.s. government free itself from the friendly position it
has adopted towards its unreliable ally , x soviet armenia , and officially
recognize the historical fact of the turkish genocide as well as be
supportive of the pursuit of turkish territorial demands

6. that the x soviet republics officially recognize the historical fact
of the turkish genocide and include the cold blooded extermination of
2.5 million muslim people in their history books.

the awareness of the turkish people of the necessity of solidarity in the
efforts to pursue the turkish cause is seen by the victims of the first
genocide of the 20th century as a positive step. furthermore , a new
generation has risen equipped with a deep sense of commitment , politically
mature and conscious , who determinedly pursue the turkish cause , through
all necessary means , ranging from the political and diplomatic to the
armed struggle. therefore , the victims of the turkish genocide call upon
all muslims in the united states and canada to participate vigorously in
the political , cultural and religious activities of the 78th anniversary
of the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslim people.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re israel 's expansion ii
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 20

in article 93111.225707pp3903a@auvm.american.edu paul h. pimentel pp3903a@auvm.american.edu writes
what gives isreal the right to keep jeruseleum \? it is the home of the muslim a
s well as jewish religion , among others.heck , nobody ever mentions what yitza
k shamir did forty orfifty yearsago which is terrorize westerners much in the
way abdul nidal does today.seems isrealis are nowhere above arabs , so theref
ore they have a right to jerusaleum as much as isreal does.

if ownership were rightly based on worthiness there would n't be any owners.
what is your point \?

as i understand it , israel 's claim on jerusalem is based on 1) possession ,
and 2) the absolutely central (not second , not third) role it plays in jewish
identity.




tim clock ph.d. graduate student
tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu department of politics and society
we have met the tel (714)8565361 fax (714)8568441

from cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
subject re israeli terrorism
reply to cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu (hamaza h. salah)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 30
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , ai843@yfn.ysu.edu (ishaq s. azzam) says


in a previous article , bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman) says


how many of you readers know anything about jews living in the
arab countries \? how many of you know if jews still live in these
countries \? how many of you know what the circumstances of arabic
jews leaving their homelands were \? just curious.




i thought there are no jews live in arab countries , did n't hey move
all to palestine \? only the happy jews did not move ! !

would you tell me which arab country is prohipiting the jews from
migrating to palestine \?

the last arab country was syria. but not all of them
migrated due to the jewish state economical and
securital dilemma !



cl056@cleveland.freenet.edu
(
h a m z a ) foo i.e. most foo

from ab4z@virginia.edu ( andi beyer )
subject re freedom in u.s.a.
organization university of virginia
lines 23

jaa12@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu writes
dear mr. beyer

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom
of racism and violent deragatory.

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial
distinction.

in fact , if a speach was not offensive to some , its
protection under freedom of speach laws would be useless. it is
speach that some find questionable that must be protected , be
it religiously blasphemous or inherently racist. it is only
through civilized discourse and not scare tactics that one can
enlighten those that one perceives to be ignorant. that is the
idea behind freedom of expression.
what you find offensive might be perceived as truth by
some and what they might find offensive might be your belief.
it is only through free exchange of ideas (and insults as the
case seems to be with this channel) that one can change
another 's erring ways.that is why jefferson said that here
we are not afraid to tolerate error so long as reason is left to
combat it .

from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject re nazi eugenic theories circulated by
nf id r 1993apr19.223054.10273@cirrus.co 779683862 cdp 1483500351 000 2238
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 21 04 44 00 1993
lines 42


in my postings i have made a proposal for comments and discussion.
those who do n't want to discuss its merits and drawbacks are not forced to
do so.

however i would make anybody who incites others to harm me or harass
in a personal manner , legally responsible for their deeds. i cannot
accept and will not accept threats to my personal integrity and i
urge anybody who opposes terror to refrain from direct or indriect
threats.

ps my proposal has nothing to do with nazi eugenics. it has to do with
the search for peace which would enable justice. i do n't consider that
justice is done , when non jews who fled or were expelled in 1948 1967
are not permitted to return to their homeland. this can at best be called
pragmatism , a nice word for legitimizing the rule of the strong. it can
never be called justice. and peace without justice will never be peace.
it is my conviction that the situation in which a state , through the
law , attempts to discourage mixed marriages (as israel does) , is not
normal. such a state resembles more nazi germany and south africa than
western democracies , such as the united states , in which jews are free to
marry whom they wish and do so in the thousands. my proposal may have
drawbacks but it is meant to force anybody to anything , just to
compensate for a certain time mixed couples for the hardships tehy
endure in a society which disapproves of intermarriage.when the day
will come and israel will become a truly civil and decmoractic society ,
in which the state is not concerned with the religious or ethnic
affiliation of its constituency , such a fund would not be needed any
more. i do n't mind if jews wish to marry jews and keep their
traditions , why not \? but this is not the affairs of a state. western
democracy clearly separates these domains and i am certain that
most
american jews enjoy this fact and would not love to live in a state termed
christian state and to have their green cards stamped with a mark jew.

i would ask those who are genuinely interested in an exchange of views
and personal experiencces to refrain from emotional , infantile
outbursts which might leed readers to infer that jews who respect
judaism are uncivilized. such behaviour is not good for judaism.

elias


from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject muslims were one by one cruelly bayonetted to death by armenians.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 93

in article 1993apr15.132954.4396@news.columbia.edu lasner@watsun.cc.columbia.edu (charles lasner) writes

how dare you presume that he even has a right to go around a newsgroup
with a desire to convince others of any external position he has.

they are news because they are the exceptions. and the 'islamic holocaust'
is much the topic of the day. the historical evidence proves that during
the period of 1914 to 1920 , the armenian government ordered , incited ,
assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people
because of race , religion and national origin. armenians perpetrated acts
of sabotage , destroyed telephone cables , blew up bridges , blocked passes ,
set up ambushes , attacked security stations and small turkish outposts
behind the ottoman army lines on the one hand , and on the other ruthlessly
attacked turkish and kurdish villages , slaughtering the turkish population
indiscriminately , women , children , old and young alike. innocent
muslims were one by one cruelly bayonetted to death , or massacred with
axes and swords , or else shut up in mosques or in schools and then burnt
alive as can be seen below.

widespread armenian massacres of innocent muslims took place in regions
of van , kars , sivas , erzurum , bitlis , erzincan , mus , diyarbakir and
maras. the ottoman army , while fighting to prevent the russian invasion ,
also had to deal with armenian genocide squads who cowardly hit from
behind. the armenian genocide of the muslims spread to all parts of
eastern anatolia. starting from late 1914 , armenians committed
widespread massacres and genocide in eastern anatolia , because the arena
was left to the armenians. almost every turkish town and village from
erzincan up to azerbaidjan suffered large scale massacres and genocide
by armenians and the turkish genocide has been documented by armenian ,
russian , american , british , ottoman , german , austrian and french
journalists and officers who observed the first genocide of this century
committed by the blood thirsty armenian genocide squads.

the ottoman army , liberating trabzon , bayburt , erzincan , erzurum ,
kars and other regions from the russians , saw that the cities and their
villages had been destroyed and burnt , people slaughtered , massacred.
the massacres conducted by armenians , which became a black stain for
humanity , shocked and disgusted even the russian , british , german ,
austrian , french and american authorities.

almost every ottoman document is related to armenian massacres and
cruelties. the inhuman treatment , cruelties , atrocities , genocide by
armenian genocide squads perpetrated against innocent moslem turkish
and kurdish people , are sufficiently reflected in historical documents.
even today over seventy five years later , the terrifying screams of
the victims of these cruelties can be heard.


source documents volume i (1919).
document no 76 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 109 , drawer
no 3 , file no 346 , section no 427(1385) , contents no 3 , 52 53.
(to lt. colonel seyfi , general headquarters , second section ,
istanbul dr. stephan eshnanie)

'neues wiener tagblatt' vienna , 'pester lloyd' 'local anzliger' berlin ,
'algemeen handelsblat' amsterdam , 'vakit' istanbul.

i have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of russians and
armenians from turkish territories through armenia. although two months
have elapsed since the clearing of the territories of armenian gangs , i
have been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the armenians at
almost every step. all the villages from trabzon to erzincan and from
erzincan to erzurum are destroyed. corpses of turks brutally and cruelly
slain are everywhere. according to accounts by those who were able to
save their lives by escaping to mountains , the first horrible and fearful
events begun when the russian forces evacuated the places which were then
taken over by armenian gangs. the russians usually treated the people
well , but the people feared the intervention of the armenians. once these
places had been taken over by the armenians , however , the massacres begun.
they clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called the
armenian and kurdish land from the turks and thus , solve the nationality
problem. today i had the opportunity to meet austrian and german soldiers
who had escaped from russian prison camps and come from kars and
alexander paul (gumru leninakan)...russian officers tried to save the
turks and there were clashes between russian officers and armenian gangs.
i am now in erzurum , and what i see is terrible. almost the whole city is
destroyed. the smell of the corpses still fills the air. although there are
speculations that armenian gangs murdered austrian and german prisoners as
well , i could not get the supporting evidence in this regard , but there is
proof of murdering of turkish prisoners of war.

dr. stephan eshnanie

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem)
organization ncsu chem eng
lines 36


in article 93y04m18d459@witsend.uucp , d. c. sessions dcs@witsend.tnet.com writes

please clarify your standards for rules of engagement. as i
understand it , israelis are at all times and under all
circumstances fair targets. their opponents are legitimate
targets only when mirandized , or some such \?

i'm sure that this makes perfect sense if you grant a priori
that israelis are the black hats , and that therefore killing
them is automatically a good thing (go hezbollah ! ). the
corollary is that the hezbollah are the white hats , and that
whatever they do is a good thing , and the israelis only prove
themselves to be bad guys by attacking them.

this sounds suspiciously like a hockey fan i know , who cheers
when one of the players on his team uses his stick to permanently
rearrange an opponent 's face , and curses the ref for penalizing
his side. of course , when it 's different when the roles are
reversed.

d. c. sessions

well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli
patrol inside lebanese territory while i was condemning the retaliatory
shelling of lebanese villages by israeli and israeli backed forces. my team ,
you see , was playing fair while the opposing team was rearranging the
faces of the spectators in my team 's viewing stands , so to speak.

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on
in lebanon and try to see through the propaganda. there are no a priori
black and white hats but one sure wonders how the idf can bombard villages in
retaliation to pin point attacks on its soldiers in lebanon and then call the
lebanese terrorists.

brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)

from nstramer@supergas.dazixco.ingr.com (naftaly stramer)
subject re no free man propaganda machine freeman , with blood greetings from israel
nntp posting host supergas
reply to nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com
organization intergraph electronics
lines 31


in article 1qev18innnk7@early bird.think.com , shaig@think.com (shai guday) writes
in article 1993apr13.142902.14479@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu , hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

as for israelis , menahim begal begin and yitzhak shakh shamir were leaders

cute , real cute. now can you please stop being childish and get on
with the issues \?

of many of these gangs that massacred palestineans and became the
heros of israel and its prime ministers. oh sorry i forgot ben gurion ,
too. i hope he is enjoying his coffin . now , if israelis donot support
(which i doubt) the oppression and killing from 1930 's now ,

you probably mean the mass murders of jews in the west bank between 1936 1939.



hasan

shai guday


naftaly



naftaly stramer intergraph electronics
internet nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com 6101 lookout road , suite a
voice (303)581 2370 fax (303)581 9972 boulder , co 80301
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can.

from karage@scus1.ctstateu.edu (angelos karageorgiou greek and macedon the only combination)
subject re turkey cyprus bosnia serbia greece (armenia azeris)
nntp posting host scsu1.ctstateu.edu
organization southern connecticut state university , new haven
lines 35


ok. my aykut. , what about the busload of greek turists that was
torched , and all the the people in the buis died. happened oh , about 5
years ago in instanbul.
what about the greeks in the islands of imbros and tenedos , they
are not allowed to have churches any more , instead momama turkey has
turned the church into a warehouse , i got a picture too.
what about the pontian greeks of trapezounta and sampsounta ,
what you now call trabzon and sampson , they spoke a 2 thousand year alod
language , are there any left that still speek or were they islamicised \?
before we start another flamefest , and before you start quoting
argic all over again , or was it somebody else \? , please think. i know it
is a hard thing to do for somebody not equipped , but try nevertheless.
if turks in greece were so badly mistreated how come they
elected two , m not one but two , representatives in the greek government \?
how come they have free(absolutely free) hospitalization and education \?
do the turks in turkey have so much \? if they do then you have every right
to shout , untill then you can also move to greece and enjoy those
privileges. but i forget , for you do study in a foreign university ,
some poor shod is tiling the earth with his own sweat.
btw is aziz nessin still writing poetry \? i 'd like to read some
of his new stuff. also who was the guy that wrote on the mountains of
tayros. \? please respond kindly to the last two questions , i am
interested in finding more books from these two people.



yeian kai eytyxeian the opinions expressed above are nobody else 's but
angelos karageorgiou mine , mine , miiinne , miiinneeee , aaaarrgghhhh..( ((
live long prosper no carrier

any and all mail sent to me , can and will be used in any manner
whatsoever. i may repost or publicise parts of messages or whole
messages. if you disagree , please exercise your freedom of speech
and do n't send me anything.

from francesca m. benson@fourd.com
subject serdar
organization 4th dimension bbs
lines 5
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

you are such a loser ! ! ! !

system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry


reply to dcs@witsend.tnet.com
from d. c. sessions dcs@witsend.tnet.com
organization nobody but me really
x newsposter tmail version 1.20r
subject re zionism is racism
distribution world
lines 23

in 1993apr21.104330.16704@ifi.uio.no , michaelp@ifi.uio.no (michael schalom preminger) wrote

in article 20apr93.23565659.0109@vm1.mcgill.ca , b8ha000 b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca writes
in re syria 's expansion , the author writes that the un thought
zionism was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct
the first time , zionism is racism and thankfully , the mcgill daily
(the student newspaper at mcgill) was proud enough to print an article
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail.

was the article about zionism \? or about something else. the majority
of people i heard emitting this ignorant statement , do not really
know what zionism is. they have just associated it with what they think
they know about the political situation in the middle east.

so steve lets here , what is zionism \?

assuming that you mean 'hear' , you were n't 'listening' he just
told you , zionism is racism. this is a tautological statement.

d. c. sessions speaking for myself
note new network address dcs@witsend.tnet.com
author (and everything else ! ) of tmail (dos mail news shell)

from jar2e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (virginia 's gentleman)
subject re israeli terrorism
organization university of virginia
lines 12

would it be asking too much for you to document these allegations of
israel used to arrest and kill neutral reporters \? i think you confuse
israel with other nations of that geographical region to which the notion
of a free , unmonitored by the government , press corps would be a joke.

as for the notion that israel threatens the human rights of palestinians by
sealing off the gaza strip , get real. when the palestinian on palestinian
civil war stops and all palestinians can behave like mature human beings ,
israel will talk concessions on both sides for peace. not before.




from flax@frej.teknikum.uu.se (jonas flygare)
subject re 18 israelis murdered in march
organization dept. of control , teknikum , uppsala
lines 195
flax.93apr5224449@frej.teknikum.uu.se
1993apr5.221759.28472@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host frej.teknikum.uu.se
in reply to hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu 's message of mon , 5 apr 93 22 17 59 gmt

in article 1993apr5.221759.28472@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu writes

stuff deleted
i wrote
are you calling names , or giving me a title \? if the first , read your
paragraph above , if not i accept the title , in order to let you get into the
um , well , debate again.

hasan replies
i didnot know that master of wisdom can be name clling too ,
unless you consider yourself deserve less !

unless you are referring to someone else , you have in fact given me a name
i did not ask for , hence the term 'name calling'.

hasan writes
so what do you expect me to tell you to tell you , master of wsidom ,


i replied
if you insist on giving me names titles i did not ask for you could at
least spell them correctly. sigh.

hasan gloats
that was only to confuse you ! (ha ha ha hey )

hell bent on retarding into childhood , no \?

when you are intentionally neglecting the most important fact that
the whole israeli presence in the occupied territories is illegitimate ,
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on
the ground of occupied territories.

no , i am not neglecting that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance
of israeli citicens in the wb or in gaza invalidates those individuals
right
are you trying to retaliate and confuse me here.

no , i really do try to spell correctly , and i apologize if i did confuse you.
i will try not to repeat that.

to live , a (as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have
not adressed my question if the israelis also have human rights.


first , my above statement doesnot say that the existence of israeli citizens
in the wb revoke their right of life but it says the israeli occupation
of the wb revoke the right of life for some most its citizens basically
revokes the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an
undeclared war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate.

ok , let me re phrase the question. i have repeatedly asked you if the
israelis have less human rights than the palestinians , and if so , why.
from your posting (where you did not directly adress my question) i inferred
that you thought so. together with the above statement i then assumed that the
reason was the actions of the state of israel. re your statement of
occupation i 'd like you to define the term , so i do n't have to repeat this
'drag the answer out of hasan' procedure more than neccesary.

secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but they ask their goverment to
protect it by withdrawing from the occupied terretories , not by further oppressing
palestinean human rights.

i'm sorry , but the above sentence does not make sense. please rephrase it.


if a state can deprive all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all \?


because not all states are like israel , as oppressive , as ignorant , or as tyrant.

oh , ok. so how about the human rights of the syrians , iraqis and others \?
does the name of hama sound familiar \? or how about the kurds in iraq and
turkey \?
how about the same in sweden (ok , maybe a bit farfetched..) the russians in
the baltic states or the moslem in the old ussr and yugoslavia \?
do the serbs have any human rights remainaing , according to you \?


and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem \?

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why \? because
any system can solve it.
the laws of minister sharon says kick palestineans out of here (all palestine).

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for

all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that
mistake. now that i have straightened that out , i'm eagerly awaiting your
reply.

so you agree that that an israeli solution wouldnot preserve human rights.
(i am understanding this from your first statement in this paragraph).

no , i'm agreeing that to just kick all the palestinians out of israel proper
would probably lead to disaster for both parties. if that 's what you refer
to as the 'israeli solution' then so be it.

joseph weitz (administrator responsible for jewish colonization)
said it best when writing in his diary in 1940
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both
peoples together in this country.... we shall not achieve our goal

of being an independent people with the arabs in this small country.
the only solution is a palestine , at least western palestine (west of
the jordan river) without arabs.... and there is no other way than
to transfer the arabs from here to the neighbouring countries , to
transfer all of them not one village , not one tribe , should be
left.... only after this transfer will the country be able to
absorb the millions of our own brethren. there is no other way out.
davar , 29 september , 1967
( courtesy of marc afifi)

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both plo covenant and hamas
charter (that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to
a private paper even older \? i'm not going to get into the question if he
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have
their share of fanatics. guess what.. \? those are not the people that will
make any lasting peace in the region. more deleted stuff

exactly , you are right. i guess that the problem is that the israeli goverment is full with men like joseph weitz.

oh \? have you met with them personally , to read their diaries \? fascinating.
what do you do for a living \?

we and our either refers to zionists or jews (i donot know which).

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the
imperialist israeli system for solving the me problem !

i think that is fair enough .

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction.

above you wrote that you understood what i meant (underlined by )
any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would
resolve it justly.

an unjust solution would be a non solution , per definition , no \?
you said the following

for all a it holds that a have property b.
there exists an a such that property b does not hold.

thus , either or both statements must be false.

guess where that takes your logic \? to never never land.

you are proving yourself as a . first you understood what i meant , but then
you claim you didnot so to claim a contradiction in my logic.
too bad for you , the master of wisdom.

i was merely pointing out a not so small flaw in your reasoning.
since you claim to be logical i felt it best to point this out
before you started using your statements to prove a point or so.
am i then to assume you are not logical \?

the greatest problem of zionism is arab children .
rabbi shoham.

oh , and by the way , let me add that these cute quotes you put at the end are
a real bummer , when i try giving your posts any credit.

why do you feel ashamed by things and facts that you believe in ,
if you were a zionists. if you believe in zionist codes and acts ,
well i feel sorry for you , because the same rabbi shoham had said
yes , zionism is racism .
if you feel ashamed and bothered by the zionist codes , then drop zionism.
if you are not zionist , why are you bothered then. you should join me in
condemning these racist zionist codes and acts.

any quote can be misused , especially when used to stereotype all
individuals by a statement of an individual. if you use the same
methods that you credit 'zionists' with , then where does that place you \?

oh , by the way , i 'd advice you not to assume anything about my 'loyalties'.
i will and am condemning acts i find vile and inhuman , but i 'll try as
long as i can not to assume those acts are by a whole people.
by zionist above do you mean the state of israel , the government of israel ,
the leaders of israel (political and or religious) or the jews in
general \? if you feel the need to condemn , condemn those responsible
instead. how would you feel if we started condemning you personally
based on the bombings in egypt \?




jonas flygare , wherever you go , there you are
v ktargatan 32 f 621
754 22 uppsala , sweden

from arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee)
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton
organization johns hopkins university cs dept.
lines 46

in article 22apr199307534304@vxcrna.cern.ch casper@vxcrna.cern.ch (casper , davi. ppe) writes
i said the fixation on bosnia is due to it being in a european country ,
rather than the third world
i recall , before we did anything for somalia , (apparent) left wingers saying
that the reason everyone was more willing to send troops to bosnia than to
somalia was because the somalis are third worlders who americans consider
unworthy of help. they suddenly shut up when the us decided to send troops to
the opposite place than that predicted by the theory.
i am a staunch republican , btw. the irony of arguing against military
intervention with arguments based on vietnam has not escaped me. i was opposed
to us intervention in somalia for the same reasons , although clearly it was
not nearly as risky.

based on the same reasons \? you mean you were opposed to us intervention in
somalia because since somalia is a european country instead of the third world ,
the desire to help somalia is racist \? i do n't think this same reason applies
to somalia at all.

the whole point is that somalia is a third world country , and we were more
willing to send troops there than to bosnia exactly the opposite of what
the fixation on european countries theory would predict. (similarly , the
desire to help muslims being fought by christians is also exactly the opposite
of what that theory predicts.)

for that matter , this theory of yours suggests that americans should want to
help the serbs. after all , they 're christian , and the muslims are not. if
the desire to intervene in bosnia is based on racism against people that are
less like us , why does everyone want to help the side that is less like us \?
especially if both of the sides are equal as you seem to think \?
well , one thing you have to remember is , the press likes a good story. good
for business , do n't you know. and btw , not everyone wants to help the
side that is less like us.

i'm referring to people who want to help at all , of course. you do n't see
people sending out press releases help bosnian serbs with ethnic cleansing !
the muslim presence in the balkans should be eliminated now ! (well , except
for some serbs , but i admit that the desire of serbs in america to help the
serbian side probably is because those are people more like them.)

on the first day after christmas my truelove served to me... leftover turkey !
on the second day after christmas my truelove served to me... turkey casserole
that she made from leftover turkey.
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming turkey wings ! ...
pizza hut commercial (and m tlu a gic bait)

ken arromdee (arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu)

from shaig@think.com (shai guday)
subject re fundamentalism again.
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host composer.think.com

in article khan0095.734814178@nova , khan0095@nova.gmi.edu (mohammad razi khan) writes
one of my biggest complaints about using the word fundamentalist
is that (at least in the u.s.a.) people speak of muslime
fundamentalists muslim
but nobody defines what a jewish or christan fundamentalist is.
i wonder what an equal definition would be..
any takers..

well , i would go as far as saying that naturei karta are definitely
jewish fundamentalists. other ultra orthodox jewish groups might very
well be , though i am hesitant of making such a broad generalization.


shai guday stealth bombers ,
os software engineer
thinking machines corp. the winged ninjas of the skies.
cambridge , ma

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject armenian admission to the crime of turkish genocide.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 34

source men are like that by leonard ramsden hartill. the bobbs merrill
company , indianapolis (1926). (305 pages).
(memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5
million muslim people)


p. 19 (first paragraph)

the tartar section of the town no longer existed , except as a pile of
ruins. it had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered. the same
fate befell the tartar section of khankandi.

p. 130 (third paragraph)

the city was a scene of confusion and terror. during the early days of
the war , when the russian troops invaded turkey , large numbers of the
turkish population abandoned their homes and fled before the russian
advance.

p. 181 (first paragraph)

the tartar villages were in ruins.


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re thousands of armenians were serving the german army and waffen ss.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
lines 460

in article 1993apr19.010955.1@eagle.wesleyan.edu kmagnacca@eagle.wesleyan.edu writes

too bad. in fact , by 1942 , nazi armenians in europe had established
a vast network of pro german collaborators , that extended over two
continents.

before you go calling the kettle black , keep in mind that the
turkish government was a strong supporter of nazi germany and
played a vital role in supplying it with oil until the allies
invaded iran. complaining about armenian complicity with the
nazis does little good when turkey played a much bigger role.

tell me , 'kmagnacca' , were you high on 'arromdian of asala sdpa arf'
when you wrote that \? humane behavior and tolerance of turks was a
legend even 500 years ago when they accepted tens of thousands of
jews from spain who were fleeing from the spanish inquisition. again ,
many jewish families escaping from nazi armenians and hitler 's nazi
germany took refugee in turkiye during the 1940 's. turkish people
have unselfishly given home , protection , and freedom to the jews over
the centuries , including to thousands and thousands of them during
the second world war. get a life or a cup of turkish coffee.

history of the jews in the islamic countries , chapters in parts i and ii ,
jarusalem , zalman shazar center for jewish history , 1986.

baron , salo w. , a social and religious history of the jews , new york ,
columbia university press , vols. iii , v , xviii.

benardete , mair jose , hispanic culture and character of the sephardic
jews , new york , sepher hermon press , 2nd corrected edition , 1982 (original
publication 1953).

lewis , bernard , eds. , christians and jews in the ottoman empire , new york ,
holmes meier , 1982 , vol. i , the central lands.

la turquie dan les archives des grand orient de france les loges ... ,
in jean louis bacque graumont and paul dumont , eds. , economie et societes
dans l'empire ottoman , paris , centre national de la reserche scientifique ,
1983.

inalcik , halil , turkish jewish relations in the ottoman empire , 1982.

sevilla sharon , moshe , turkiye yahudileri , tarihsel bakis , jerusalem , the
hebrew university , 1982.

source john dewey the new republic , vol. 40 , nov. 12 , 1928 , pp. 268 9.

happy the minority jews which has had no christian nation to protect it.
and one recalls that the jews took up their abode in 'fanatic' turkey
when they were expelled from europe , especially spain , by saintly christians ,
and they have lived here for centuries in at least as much tranquility and
liberty as their fellow turkish subjects , all being exposed alike to the
rapacity of their common rulers. to one brought up , as most americans have
been , in the gladstonian and foreign missionary tradition , the condition of
the jews in turkey is almost a mathematical demonstration that religious
differences have had an influence in the tragedy of turkey only as they
were combined with aspirations for a political separation which every
nation in the world would have treated as treasonable. one readily
reaches the conclusion that the jews in turkey were fortunate...

he also stated that

they armenians traitorously turned turkish cities over to the russian
invader that they boasted of having raised an army of one hundred and
fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at least
a hundred turkish villages and exterminated their population.


turkey and the holocaust

an interview with stanford j. shaw (history) , who recently
completed two books the jews of the ottoman empire and the
turkish republic , and turkey and the holocaust turkey 's role in
rescuing turkish and european jewry from nazi persecution ,
1933 45. shaw chairs the undergraduate interdepartmental degree
program in near eastern studies and has organized the program for
the study of ottoman and turkish jewry. he is affiliated with the
g. e. von grunebaum center for near eastern studies.

editor how did you come to write these two books on turkey and
european and turkish jews \?

shaw basically , i'm an ottoman historian , but i'm also jewish.
i 've spent twenty five years studying ottoman history , and as
time went along , whenever i found materials on the ottoman jews ,
i collected them. but i never did anything with them until a
couple of years ago , when i suddenly realized that 1992 was the
500th anniversary of the jews being expelled from spain and
coming to turkey. then the sephardic temple down on wilshire
avenue invited me to give a series of three lectures on ottoman
jewry. these lectures were greatly appreciated , and i became
motivated to undertake further research to develop a book , the
jews of the ottoman empire and the turkish) republic. this book
is quite different from the works of most jewish historians , who
tend to look at the jews in any country more from the viewpoint
of the jews and the jewish community , and rely mainly on jewish
sources. i view my subject as an ottoman historian , and i
approach the jews of the ottoman empire largely from the point of
view of ottoman society , using largely ottoman sources. after i
finished this book and sent it to the press , i came across
additional documents relating to turkish jews during world war
ii. in the completed book , i had said that turkey had done a good
deal to rescue the jews during world war ii , but i did not
actually have many details. then i found a batch of documents in
the foreign ministry archive relating to actions taken by turkish
diplomats to help the jews before and during the holocaust. it
was too late to add this new information to the book in press , so
i decided to write a second book. i conducted further research ,
mainly in the archives of the foreign ministry in ankara and the
turkish embassy and consulate in paris. the result was the second
book , turkey and the holocaust , which details how turkey helped
rescue jews from the nazis.

how exactly did they do this \?

the story takes place over a number of years. the book presents
the material in three parts , first of which deals with the period
before the holocaust. when the nazis came to power in germany in
1933 , they immediately started dismissing jews and anti nazi
germans from universities , hospitals , scientific institutes , and
the like. turkey at that moment was just beginning the process of
reforming its universities , and it saw in these jews , who were
being fired from their positions in germany , a good source of new
talent to help modernize the turkish universities. within three
months after the nazis started dismissing these jews , turkey
arranged to take many of them in. they were brought to turkey and
were given appointments as professors in the turkish
universities , as heads of scientific institutes , and as medical
personnel in hospitals. about 300 to 500 major jewish professors
came to turkey in the 1930s. ernst reuter , a german political
scientist , spent the war years teaching political science in
turkey. after world war ii , he was mayor of berlin during the
berlin airlift. fritz neimark , a major german jewish economist ,
came to turkey and helped establish a modern school of economics
in istanbul. a man named reichenbach , who was rescued from the
nazis by turkey and spent the war years in turkey , eventually
came to ucla , where he became a professor of philosophy. other
german jewish emigres engaged in cultural activities in turkey.
one such was karl ebert , who had been a leading theatrical
producer in berlin until he was expelled by the nazis. he went to
turkey , where he organized the turkish national theater and the
turkish national opera company in ankara , with the help of paul
hindemuth. so the first section of the book covers this first
phase , when jews were being persecuted in germany and rescued by
turkey. oddly enough , the german emigres , when they were in
turkey , did not seem to think too badly of germany. they regarded
themselves more as germans than jews , and they did not join in
the anti nazi activities of the local turkish jewish community. i
even found letters from the nazi representatives to turkey
praising these german jewish refugees for their work in promoting
the idea of german culture. even though these people had been
persecuted by the nazis and rescued by the turks , they shared the
nazis' feelings of aryan racial superiority over the turks. the
second part of the book deals with the holocaust , which began in
1940 when the nazis occupied france. in europe at that time , and
especially in france , there were about 20 , 000 turkish jews. they
had migrated to europe for various reasons from about the turn of
the century onward. most of them had settled in europe during the
turkish war for independence after world war i , when greece was
threatening to overrun turkey. the greeks had persecuted the jews
throughout the nineteenth century , and the jews feared what might
happen to them if the greeks took over in turkey. many jews fled
to france during the 1920s and 1930s. many also abandoned their
turkish citizenship and became french citizens. suddenly the
nazis invaded france in 1940 and started introducing all sorts of
anti jewish laws. the turkish jews soon found that it was not
worth very much to be a french jew , but that it was worth a lot
to be a turkish jew.

how so \?

turkey remained neutral through most of world war ii. it retained
its embassies and consulates in all the nazi occupied countries
until it finally entered the war on the side of the allies at the
end of 1944. during the war , therefore , turkey was in a position
to defend its citizens against anti jewish measures , and the
actions that turkish diplomats took form the second chapter of
the book. turkish diplomats who were stationed in france in
particular intervened to protect jews of turkish citizenship from
the nazis. for those turkish jews who had retained their turkish
citizenship , there was generally no problem. if they were
arrested and sent to a concentration camp , the turkish diplomats
would communicate with the commanders of the camp and other
officials and say in effect these people are turkish citizens.
you ca n't do this to them. and the turkish jews would be
released. if their businesses were confiscated , the turkish
diplomats would protest and the businesses would be restored.

the nazis in general wanted to keep the friendship of turkey.
they hoped to be able to use turkey as a gateway for an invasion
of the middle east , and they also wanted to obtain chromium and
manganese from turkey. in order to keep turkish friendship , they
usually accepted these interventions on behalf of turkish jews.
the turkish diplomats sometimes went to the concentration camps
to secure the release of turkish jews. at times they even boarded
trains hauling turkish jews to auschwitz for extermination and
succeeded in getting them off the train. most of the foreign jews
were sent to a concentration camp at a place called drancy in
paris , and that 's where most of the intercession by turkish
consuls took place.

the greater problem came with the turkish jews who had abandoned
their turkish citizenship and had become french citizens. the
consuls could n't declare that these people were turkish citizens
because they were not. my book includes photographs of jews
lining up in front of the turkish consulate , either to get
passports to return to turkey or to get a restoration of their
turkish citizenship. this was a bureaucratic matter , so
processing the application would take some time. in the meantime
it was a real emergency , because the nazis would arrest jews on
the streets for almost nothing. the nazis would even arrest them
if they had radios or telephones in their apartments , because
radios and telephones were forbidden to jews. to take care of
these former turkish jews , the turkish diplomats invented a
document called gayri muntazem vatandash , or irregular fellow
citizen. the document said in effect this person is a former
turkish citizen who has applied for the restoration of his
turkish citizenship. in the meantime we would appreciate it if
you would treat him as if he were a turkish citizen. the
diplomats wrote the document in turkish and put their seals on
it. since the nazis could not read turkish , on the whole they
accepted these papers as certificates of citizenship. by this
means , the turkish diplomats were able to rescue many jews who
had relinquished their turkish citizenship.

actually the nazis were of two minds about the turkish defense of
jews. on the one hand the nazi foreign ministry , which wanted to
retain the friendship of turkey , was in favor of accepting these
interventions. on the other hand , himmler and eichmann wanted all
jews exterminated. at times himmler and eichmann were able to
prevail and some of the turkish jews were sent off to auschwitz
before the turkish consuls could do anything.

do you have statistics on how many turkish jews were rescued \?

there were about 20 , 000 turkish jews in europe before world war
ii , about 10 , 000 of whom were living in france. most of the
information in this section of the book relates to the situation
in france. i have published the letters that the turkish consuls
sent to the nazi officials and the letters that came back in
reply. generally the nazis said that if the turkish consul would
present documents certifying that arrested individuals are
turkish citizens , and promise to send them out of france , the
nazis would release them from the concentration camp. the turkish
consuls also organized special trains to take turkish jews from
nazi occupied territory back to turkey. these trains ran
regularly in 1943 and 1944. the nazis gave the turkish jews visas
so they could pass out of nazi territory , but the trains were
often held up by the nazi influenced governments of eastern
europe croatia , serbia , and bulgaria because these
governments really did n't want the jews to escape. as a result of
the turkish consuls' efforts , about 3 , 000 to 4 , 000 of the turkish
jews in france were saved. another 3 , 000 were sent off to
auschwitz , where most of them died. the remaining 3 , 000 either
escaped across the border into spain or fled to the area of
southern france occupied by the italians , who treated jews much
better than the nazis did. at the end of 1943 , however , italy
fell out of the war , and that was the end for those jews as well.
incidentally , the turkish diplomats in nazi occupied greece also
worked to rescue jews in that country.

the second part of your book then deals with turkish diplomats
acting to rescue jews of turkish citizenship or turkish origin
from nazi persecution.

yes , and there is an aside i might add here in their
interventions on behalf of turkish jews , the turks cited their
treaty with germany which stated that turkish citizens in german
territory would be treated the same as german citizens in turkey.
on that basis the turks maintained that the nazis could not
discriminate against turkish citizens who are jews. the nazis
claimed (and the vichy government agreed) that they were not
discriminating because they were treating all jews equally.
turkey protested , saying , you are dividing our citizens
according to religion , but the turkish constitution requires that
all citizens be treated equally , regardless of religion.
therefore , you cannot single out turkish jews. american consuls
in paris , by contrast , accepted the nazi argument and told
american jews who were being persecuted by the nazis that they
could n't do anything about it , because the american jews were
being treated the same as other jews. the third part of the book
takes place in turkey , which was the principal center during the
holocaust for activities aimed at the rescue of eastern european
jews. the kwish agency , an organization established by jews in
palestine to help resettle jews to palestine , set up an office in
istanbul in 1940 under the leadership of chaim barlas. other
jewish organizations in palestine , especially the kibbutzes , also
sent representatives to istanbul to set up headquarters. these
groups first tried to contact jews in eastern europe to find out
what was happening. today we know about the holocaust , but at
that time people did n't know what was going on. they did n't
imagine the nazis could do the things they were doing. and so the
first step was to get information , and the turkish government let
them use the turkish mails to send letters to their relatives and
friends in eastern europe. the jewish organizations found out
what was happening when they received replies. later on when the
nazis began to intercept such letters , the jews received
assistance also from the vatican nuncio , angelo roncali , who
served as the vatican representative in istanbul from 1935 to
1944 and later became pope john xxiii. as the vatican
representative during the war , he used the facilities of the
catholic church to supplement what the turkish government was
doing to assist jewish agencies in contacting jews in eastern
europe. with the cooperation of the turkish government , these
agencies then sent hard currency , food , clothing , and even
railroad and steamship tickets to jews in czechoslovakia ,
bulgaria , romania , and hungary. they were n't able to help much in
poland because by then the nazis had wiped out almost all the
polish jews. whenever possible the rescue agencies arranged for
the jews to get out of eastern europe either by train through the
so called orient express route to istanbul , or by boat through
the black sea to istanbul.

turkey was not eager for all these refugees to remain within its
borders during the war , because it was being blockaded and was
suffering terrible shortages of food and clothing. the
government , therefore , facilitated the movement of the
non turkish jewish refugees from turkey to palestine , either by
the taurus express railroad through the mountains to syria and
palestine , or by small boats across the eastern mediterranean
from southern turkey to palestine. these efforts were bitterly
opposed not only by the nazis , but also by the british , who did
not want any more jewish immigration to palestine because they
feared it would hurt their relations with the arabs. the british
constantly pressured the turkish government to stop this traffic
and send those jews back. in a few cases the turkish government ,
yielding to british pressure , did send the boats back. for
example , in one incident , the steamship struma , with some 700
jewish refugees from romania , was sent back by the turkish
government as a result of the intervention of the british
ambassador. when that ship was sunk by a soviet submarine , all
were lost except one person. nevertheless , all told , the turkish
government allowed no fewer than 100 , 000 eastern european jews to
pass through turkish territory and move on to palestine during
the second world war. the turkish authorities also provided these
refugees with facilities and money , and gave them permission to
send money and food out of the country.

many of these jews who passed through turkey may still be
living in israel.

yes , and their children. but let 's return for a moment to the
first group , the turkish jews who came from europe. they did not
go on to palestine they stayed in turkey. it was the
non turkish , eastern european jews who passed through turkey en
route to palestine. their story is very interesting.

and you have rescued it from obscurity.

many studies have been made of the holocaust , but most of them do
not focus on the eastern european or middle eastern jews. most of
the scholarship has centered on the western european jews , of
whom 6 million were massacred by the nazis. my study deals with a
much smaller number of people. i have tried to round out the
picture , and i hope my book will persuade other scholars to
undertake further investigations in the history of eastern jews.

when it comes to numbers , the german jews were also relatively
small in number. most of the millions slain were polish jews. the
rescue of 100 , 000 eastern european jews may not seem so
significant compared with the total of 6 million who were
murdered , but it meant a lot to those who were saved.

about three fourths of the book consists of documents
translations of many documents. they are included because the
story is not well known. not only are people in the west unaware
of the courageous actions of the turkish diplomats even the
people of turkey did not know the story. i felt that they would
not fully understand this remarkable achievement unless they
could see the documents.

what languages are used in the documents \?

most of them are in turkish or french some are in hebrew. there
is a great deal of material in hebrew about the organization of
the boats going to palestine , the passengers , and so on , but i
did not go into those details extensively. i describe mostly what
turkey did , so most of my documents are in turkish or french. a
few documents are in english. the jewish groups in istanbul did
not necessarily cooperate with one another to rescue jews in
fact , they often fought with one another. they took turns trying
to get the turkish government to deport rival groups. for
example , some of the kibbutz groups felt that the jewish agency
was run by western european jews who were interested only in
helping western european jews. finally , in 1944 , president
roosevelt sent a personal representative , ira hirschman , who had
been an executive of bloomingdale 's department store in new york
city , and hirschman managed to reconcile their differences. the
documents related to his mission are in english.

i also obtained many documents from serge klarsfeld , a holocaust
historian in france , who mainly worked on the french jews. (his
father was killed by the nazis.) he gave me materials he had
gathered in the german archives on the turkish jews , so i did n't
personally consult the german archives. i believe that much more
can be learned from the german archives , and i hope someone
someday will make the effort.

this new book fits in well with your teaching , does n't it \?

right. i'm giving a course on the history of the jews of the
ottoman empire. i first gave the course two years ago. in
addition to research , writing , and teaching , i 've been actively
involved in the commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the
coming of the jews to the ottoman empire. among other things , i
helped organize a large international conference on the subject
which was held in istanbul in 1992.

now that your books are finished and the conference has taken
place , what do you plan to do next \?

i'm working on two new books. one is a history of the turkish war
for independence , which took place after world war i , during the
years 1918 to 1923. the turks warded off the efforts of the
victorious european powers to occupy turkey and end its
independence. the second book is a study of sultan abdul hamid
ii , the last major sultan , who ruled from 1876 to 1909. he was an
important modernizer in his own way , although he also suppressed
all sorts of political movements.

stanford j. shaw received a b.a. in history and an m.a. in
british history. he then shifted to near eastern history , earning
a second m.a. and a ph.d. at princeton. as a doctoral candidate
at princeton , he spent two years abroad , studying at the school
of oriental and african studies , university of london the
university of cairo , the american university at cairo , and the
university of istanbul. he taught at harvard before coming to
ucla in 1966. his postdoctoral research has been supported by the
john simon guggenheim foundation , the american research institute
in turkey , the social science research council , the national
endowment for the humanities , the fulbright program , and isop. he
has received honorary degrees from harvard university and
bosporus university , bebek , istanbul , turkey , and medals of honor
for lifetime contributions to the fields of islamic and turkish
studies from the center for research in islamic history , art , and
culture in istanbul and from the american friends of turkey in
washington , d.c. in addition to undertaking many professional
service activities and public lectures in both the united states
and turkey , shaw has also produced eight books and one edited
volume. his history of the ottoman empire and modem turkey (2
vols.) has been published in many editions (six editions or
reprints from 1977 1991) , and translated into turkish (1983 ,
1991) and french (1984). his book the jews of the ottoman empire
and the turkish republic (macmillan , london , and new york
university press , 1992) will be published in turkish translation
by the turkish historical society , istanbul. his turkey and the
holocaust turkey 's role in rescuing turkish and european jewry
from nazi persecution , 1933 1945 will be published by macmillan
publishers , london , and new york university press in 1993. a
pamphlet summarizing the book was published in ankara , turkey , in
1992.

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)

from bh437292@longs.lance.colostate.edu (basil hamdan)
subject re was go hezbollah !
reply to bh437292@lance.colostate.edu
nntp posting host parry.lance.colostate.edu
organization engineering college , colorado state university
lines 13

in article 2bce0918.6105@news.service.uci.edu , tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes
in article apr15.175334.72079@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes

.....

your view of this entire matter is far too serenely one sided and
selectively naive.

oooh... now that hurts. i will not suffer you through more naive
and one sided views of mine. please skip my articles in the future
oh wise tim , and have a good day.

basil

from dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian)
subject re killer
organization s.d.p.a. center for regional studies
lines 95

in article 1993apr21.032746.10820@doug.cae.wisc.edu yamen@cae.wisc.edu
(soner yamen) responded to article 1r20kr m9q@nic.umass.edu burak@ucsvax.
ucs.umass.edu (afs) who wrote

afs just a quick comment
afs
afs armenians killed turks turks killed armenians.
afs
afs simple as that. can anybody deny these facts \?

jews killed germans in wwii germans killed jews in wwii , but there was
quite a difference in these two statements , regardless of what nazi
revisionists say !

sy my grand parents were living partly in todays armenia and partly in
sy todays georgia. there were villages , kurd turk (different turkic groups)
sy georgian (muslim christian) armenian and farsi... very near to eachother.
sy the people living there were aware of their differences. they were
sy different people. for example , my grandfather would not have been happy
sy if his doughter had willed to marry an armenian guy. but that did not
sy mean that they were willing to kill eachother. no ! they were neighbors.

ok.

sy armenians killed turks. which armenians \? their neoghbors \? as far as my
sy grandparents are concerned , the armenians attacked first but these
sy armenians were not their neighbors. they came from other places. maybe
sy first they had a training at some place. they were taught to kill people ,
sy to hate turks kurds \? it seems so...

there is certainly a difference between the planned extermination of the
armenians of eastern turkey beginning in 1915 , with that of the armeno
georgian conflicts of late 1918 ! the argument is not whether armenians ever
killed in their collective existence , but rather the wholesale destruction of
anatolian armenians under orders of the turkish government. an armenian
georgian dispute over the disposition of akhalkalak , lori , and pambak after
the turkish third army evacuated the region , cannot be equated with the
extermination of anatolian armenians. many armenians and georgians died
in this area in the scramble to re occupy these lands and the lack of
preparation for the winter months. this is not the same as the turkish
genocide of the armenians nearly four years earlier , hundreds of kilometers
away !

sy anyway , but after they killed raped ... turks and other muslim people
sy around , people assumed that 'armenians killed us , raped our women' ,
sy not a particular group of people trained in some camps , maybe backed
sy by some powerful states... after that step , you cannot explain these
sy people not to hate all armenians.

i do n't follow , perhaps the next paragraph will shed some light.

sy so what am i trying to point out \? first , at least for that region ,
sy you cannot blame turks kurds etc since it was a self defense situation.
sy most of the armenians , i think , are not to blame either. but since some
sy people started that fire , it is not easy to undo it. there are facts.
sy people cannot trust eachother easily. it is very difficult to establish
sy a good relation based on mutual respect and trust between nations with
sy different ethnic cultural religious backgrounds but it is unfortunately
sy very easy to start a fire !

again , the fighting between armenians and georgians in 1918 19 had little to
do with the destruction of the armenians in turkey. it is interesting that
the georgian leaders of the transcaucasian federation (armenia , azerbaijan ,
and georgia) made special deals with turkish generals not to pass through
tiflis on their way to baku , in return for georgians not helping the armenians
militarily. of course , as turkish troops marched across what was left of
caucasian armenia , many armenians went north and such population movement
caused problems with the locals. this is in no comparison with events 4 years
earlier in eastern anatolia. my father 's mother 's family escaped cemiskezek
erzinka erzerum nakhitchevan tiflis constantinople
massachusetts.

sy my grandparents were not bloodthirsty people. we did not experience
sy what they had to endure... they had to leave their lands , there were
sy ladies , old ladies , all of her children killed while she forced to
sy witness ! young women put dirt at their face to make themselves
sy unattractive ! i do n't want to go into any graphic detail.

my grandmother 's brother was forced to dress up as a kurdish women , and paste
potato skins on his face to look ugly. the turks would kill any armenian
young man on sight in dersim. because their family was rather influential ,
local kurds helped them escape before it was too late. this is why i am alive
today.

sy you may think that my sources are biased. they were biased in some sense.
sy they experienced their own pain , of course. that is the way it is. but
sy as i said they were living in peace with their neighbors before. why
sy should they become enemies \?



david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org how do we explain turkish troops on
s.d.p.a. center for regional studies the armenian border , when we ca n't
p.o. box 382761 even explain 1915 \?
cambridge , ma 02238 turkish mp , march 1992

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject a moment of silence for the perpetrators of the turkish genocide \?
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 115

in article 48299@sdcc12.ucsd.edu ma170saj@sdcc14.ucsd.edu (system operator) writes

april 24th is approaching , and armenians around the world
are getting ready to remember the massacres of their family members

celebrating in joy the cold blooded genocide of 2.5 million muslim
people by your criminal grandparents between 1914 and 1920 \? did you
think that you could cover up the genocide perpetrated by your fascist
grandparents against my grandparents in 1914 \? you 've never heard of
'april 23rd' \?


in soviet armenia today there no longer exists a single turkish soul.
it is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial
life support system of an imagined 'ethnic purity' that some of us
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats
in this alien land.
(sahak melkonian 1920 preserving the armenian purity )


during the first world war and the ensuing years 1914 1920 ,
the armenian dictatorship through a premeditated and systematic
genocide , tried to complete its centuries old policy of
annihilation against the turks and kurds by savagely murdering
2.5 million muslims and deporting the rest from their 1 , 000 year
homeland.

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people.
this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians , government
and international political leaders , such as u.s. ambassador mark
bristol , william langer , ambassador layard , james barton , stanford
shaw , arthur chester , john dewey , robert dunn , papazian , nalbandian ,
ohanus appressian , jorge blanco villalta , general nikolayef , general
bolkovitinof , general prjevalski , general odiselidze , meguerditche ,
kazimir , motayef , twerdokhlebof , general hamelin , rawlinson , avetis
aharonian , dr. stephan eshnanie , varandian , general bronsart , arfa ,
dr. hamlin , boghos nubar , sarkis atamian , katchaznouni , rachel
bortnick , halide edip , mccarthy , w. b. allen , paul muratoff and many
others.

j. c. hurewitz , professor of government emeritus , former director of
the middle east institute (1971 1984) , columbia university.

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history ,
princeton university.

halil inalcik , university professor of ottoman history member of
the american academy of arts sciences , university of chicago.

peter golden , professor of history , rutgers university , newark.

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at
los angeles.

thomas naff , professor of history director , middle east research
institute , university of pennsylvania.

ronald jennings , associate professor of history asian studies ,
university of illinois.

howard reed , professor of history , university of connecticut.

dankwart rustow , distinguished university professor of political
science , city university graduate school , new york.

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history ,
university of chicago.

john masson smith , jr. , professor of history , university of
california at berkeley.

alan fisher , professor of history , michigan state university.

avigdor levy , professor of history , brandeis university.

andreas g. e. bodrogligetti , professor of history , university of california
at los angeles.

kathleen burrill , associate professor of turkish studies , columbia university.

roderic davison , professor of history , george washington university.

walter denny , professor of history , university of massachusetts.

caesar farah , professor of history , university of minnesota.

tom goodrich , professor of history , indiana university of pennsylvania.

tibor halasi kun , professor emeritus of turkish studies , columbia university.

justin mccarthy , professor of history , university of louisville.

jon mandaville , professor of history , portland state university (oregon).

robert olson , professor of history , university of kentucky.

madeline zilfi , professor of history , university of maryland.

james stewart robinson , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan.

.......so the list goes on and on and on.....


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject symbiotics zionism antisemitism
nf id n cdp 1483500355 000 10647
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 23 15 14 00 1993
lines 197


from center for policy research cpr
subject symbiotics zionism antisemitism


zionism and the holocaust
by haim bresheeth

the first point to note regarding the appropriation of the history
of the holocaust by zionist propaganda is that zionism without
anti semitism is impossible. zionism agrees with the basic tenet
of anti semitism , namely that jews cannot live with non jews.

the history and roots of the holocaust go back a long way. while
the industru of death and destruction did not operate before 1942 ,
its roots were firmly placed in the 19th century. jewish
aspirations for emancipation emerged out of the national struggles
in europe. when the hopes for liberation through
bourgeois democratic change were dashed , other alternatives for
improving the lot of the jews of europe achieved prominence.

the socialist bund , a mass movement with enormous following , had
to contend with opposition from a new and small , almost
insignificant opponent , the political zionists. in outline these
two offered diametrically opposed options for jews in europe.
while the bund was suggesting joining forces with the rest of
europe 's workers , the zionists were proposing a new programme
aimed at ridding europe of its jews by setting up some form of a
jewish state.

historically , nothing is inevitable , all depends on the balance of
forces involved in the struggle. history can be seen as an option
tree every time a certain option is chosen , other routes become
barred. because of that choice , movement backwards to the point
before that choice was made is impossible. while zionism as an
option was taken by many young jews , it remained a minority
position until the first days of the 3rd reich. the zionist
federation of germany (zvfd) , an organisation representing a tiny
minority of german jews , was selected by the nazis as the body to
represent the jews of the reich. its was the only flag of an
interantional organisation allowed to fly in berlin , and this was
the only international organisation allowed to operate during this
period. from a marginal position , the leaders of the zionist
federation were propelled to a prominence and centrality that
surprised even them. all of a sudden they attained political
power , power based not on representation , but from being selected
as the choice of the nazi regime for dealing with the the 'jewish
problem'. their position in negotiating with the nazis agreements
that affected the lives of many tens of thousands of the jews in
germany transformed them from a utopian , marginal organisation in
germany (and some other countries in europe) into a real option to
be considered by german jews.

the best example of this was the 'transfer agreement' of 1934.
immediately after the nazi takeover in 1933 , jews all over the
world supported or were organising a world wide boycott of german
goods. this campaign hurt the nazi regime and the german
authorities searched frantically for a way disabling the boycott.
it was clear that if jews and jewish organisations were to pull
out , the campaign would collapse.

this problem was solved by the zvfd. a letter sent to the nazi
party as early as 21. june 1933 , outlined the degree of agreement
that existed between the two organisations on the question of
race , nation , and the nature of the 'jewish problem' , and it
offered to collaborate with the new regime

the realisation of zionism could only be hurt by resentment of
jews abroad against the german development. boycott propaganda
such as is currently being carried out against germany in many
ways is in essence unzionist , because zionism wants not to do
battle but to convince and build.

in their eagerness to gain credence and the backing of the new
regime , the zionist organisation managed to undermine the boycott.
the main public act was the signature of the transfer agreement
with the nazi authorities during the zionist congress of 1934. in
essence , the agreement was designed to get germany 's jews out of
the country and into mandate palestine. it provided a possibility
for jews to take a sizeable part of their property out of the
country , through a transfer of german goods to palestine. this
right was denied to jews leaving to any other destination. the
zionist organisation was the acting agent , through its financial
organisations. this agreement operated on a number of fronts
'helping' jews to leave the country , breaking the ring of the
boycott , exporting german goods in large quantities to palestine ,
and last but not least , enabling the regime to be seen as humane
and reasonable even towards its avowed enemies , the jews. after
all , they argued , the jews do not belong in europe and now the
jews come and agree with them.

after news of the agreement broke , the boycott was doomed. if the
zionist organization found it possible and necessary to deal with
the nazis , and import their goods , who could argue for a boycott \?
this was not the first time that the interests of both movements
were presented to the german public as complementary. baron von
mildenstein , the first head of the jewish department of the ss ,
later followed by eichmann , was invited to travel to palestine.
this he did in early 1933 , in the company of a zionist leader ,
kurt tuchler. having spent six months in palestine , he wrote a
series of favourable articles in der sturmer describing the 'new
jew' of zionism , a jew nazis could accept and understand.

this little known episode established quite clearly the
relationship during the early days of nazism , between the new
regime and the zvfd , a relationship that was echoed later in a
number of key instances , even after the nature of the final
solution became clear. in many cases this meant a silencing of
reports about the horrors of the exterminations. a book
concentrating on this aspect of the zionist reaction to the
holocaust is post ugandan zionism in the crucible of the
holocaust , by s. b. beth zvi.

in the case of the kastner episode , around which jim allen 's play
perdition is based , even the normal excuse of lack of knowledge of
the real nature of events does not exist. it occured near the end
of the war. the ussr had advanced almost up to germany. italy and
the african bases had been lost. the nazis were on the run , with a
number of key countries , such as rumania , leaving the axis. a
second front was a matter of months away , as the western allies
prepared their forces. in the midst of all this we find eichmann ,
the master bureaucrat of industrial murder , setting up his hz in
occupied budapest , after the german takeover of the country in
april 1944. his first act was to have a conference with the jewish
leadership , and to appoint zionist federation members , headed by
kastner as the agent and clearing house for all jews and their
relationship with the ss and the nazr authorities. why they did
this is not difficult to see. as opposed to poland , where its
three and a half million jews lived in ghettoes and were visibly
different from the rest of the polish population , the hungarian
jews were an integrated part of the community. the middle class
was mainly jewish , the jews were mainly middle class. they enjoyed
freedom of travel , served in the hungarian (fascist) army in
fronline units , as officers and soldiers , their names were
hungarian how was eichmann to find them if they were to be
exterminated \? the task was not easy , there were a million jews in
hungary , most of them resident , the rest being refugees from other
countries. many had heard about the fate of jews elsewhere , and
were unlikely to believe any statements by nazi officials.

like elsewhere , the only people who had the information and the
ear of the frightened jewish population were the judenrat. in this
case the judenrat comprsied mainly the zionist federation members.
without their help the ss , with 19 officers and less than 90 men ,
plus a few hundred hungarian police , could not have collected and
controlled a million jews , when they did not even know their
whereabouts. kastner and the others were left under no illusions.
eichmann told joel brand , one of the members of kastner 's
committee , that he intended to send all hungary 's jews to
auschwitz , before he even started the expulsions ! he told them
clearly that all these jews will die , 12 , 000 a day , unless certain
conditions were met.

the committee faced a simple choice to tell the jews of hungary
about their fate , (with neutral rumania , where many could escape ,
being in most cases a few hours away) or to collaborate with the
nazis by assisting in the concentration process. what would not
have been believed when coming from the ss , sounded quite
plausible when coming from the mouths of the zionist leadership.
thus it is , that most of the hungarian jews went quietly to their
death , assured by their leadership that they were to be sent to
work camps.

to be sure , there are thirty pieces of silver in this narrative of
destruction the trains of 'prominents' which eichmann promised to
kastner a promise he kept to the last detail. for eichmann it
was a bargain allowing 1 , 680 jews to survive , as the price paid
for the silent collaboration over the death of almost a million
jews.

there was no way in which the jews of hungary could even be
located , not to say murdered , without the full collaboration of
kastner and his few friends. no doubt the ss would hunt a few jews
here and there , but the scale of the operation would have been
miniscule compared to the half million who died in auschwitz.

it is important to realise that kastner was not an aberration ,
like say rumkovsky in lodz. kastner acted as a result of his
strongly held zionist convictions. his actions were a logical
outcome of earlier positions. this is instanced when he exposed to
the gestapo the existence of a british cell of saboteurs , palgi
and senesh , and persuaded them to give themselves up , so as not to
disrupt his operations. at no point during his trial or elsewhere ,
did kastner deny that he knew exactly what was to happen to those
jews.

to conclude , the role played by zionists in this period , was
connected to another role they could , and should have played , that
of alarming the whole world to what was happening in europe. they
had the information , but politically it was contrary to their
priorities. the priorities were , and still are , quite simple all
that furthers the zionist enterprise in palestine is followed ,
whatever the price. the lives of individuals , jews and non jews ,
are secondary. if this process requires dealing with fascists ,
nazis and other assorted dictatorial regimes across the world , so
be it.


from ohayon@jcpltyo.jcpl.co.jp (tsiel ohayon)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization james capel pacific limited , tokyo japan
lines 33

in article c5ut1s.3xa@bony1.bony.com jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni) writes
in article 1r3n8d 4m5@techbook.techbook.com dan gannon writes

dg the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
dg by theodore j. o'keefe
dg hard by the washington monument , within clear view of the jefferson
dg memorial , an easy stroll down the mall to the majestic lincoln memorial ,
dg has arisen , on some of the most hallowed territory of the united states of
dg america , a costly and dangerous mistake. on ground where no monument yet
dg marks countless sacrifices and unheralded achievements of americans of all
dg races and creeds in the building and defense of this nation , sits today a
dg massive and costly edifice , devoted above all to a contentious and false
dg version of the ordeal in europe during world war ii , of non american
dg members of a minority , sectarian group. now , in the deceptive guise of
dg tolerance , the united states holocaust memorial museum begins a propaganda
dg campaign , financed through the unwitting largess of the american taxpayer ,
dg in the interests of israel and its adherents in america.

jake after reading the first paragraph , a quick scan confirmed my first
jake impression this is a bunch of revisionist and anti semitic hogwash.

jake , i'm really disappointed in you. it took you a whole paragraph
to see that it was bunch of revisionist and anti semitic hogwash . )

the article title the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and
dangerous mistake should have been enough ! )

tsiel

8 8
tsiel ohayon@jcpl.co.jp if you do not receive this e mail , please let me
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible.
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing.

from as.vxf@forsythe.stanford.edu (vic filler)
subject re deir yassin
organization stanford university
lines 56
nntp posting host morrow.stanford.edu

in article 1993apr19.204243.19392@cs.rit.edu ,
bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay) writes

i have previously posted quotations by irgun participants that
totally destroys begin 's whitewash. i have no particular desire
to post it yet again.

brendan.
(normally bdm@cs.anu.edu.au)


you apparently think you are some sort of one man judge and jury who
can declare total victory and then sit back and enjoy the
applause. but you 've picked the wrong topic if you think a few
rigged quotations can sustain the legend and lie of the deir
yassin massacre.

you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical methodology.
at the most basic level , you should know that there is a big
difference between weighing evidence fairly and merely finding
quotations that support your preset opinions.

if you have studied the history of israel at all you must know that
many of the sources of your quotations have an axe to grind , and
therefore you must be very careful about whom you quote. for
example , meir pa'il , whom you cite , was indeed a general , a scholar ,
and a war hero. but that does n't mean everything that comes out of
his mouth is gold. in fact (and here your lack of experience
shows) , pa'il is such a fanatic , embittered leftist that much of his
anti israel blathering (forget about anti irgun blathering) would be
considered something like treason in non israel contexts. but of
course you do n't consider this at all when you find a juicy
quotation that you can use to attack israel.

benny morris (of hashomer hatzair) represents himself as a scholar
when he rehashes the old attacks on the irgun. do n't be fooled.
it 's just the old zionist ideological catfight , surfacing as an
attack on the (then ) likud government. if you will look closely at
the section on deir yassin in his book on the war of independence ,
you will see his indictment to be pure hot air. and this is the
best he can do after decades of digging for any sort of damning
evidence. unfortunately for him , because his book parades itself as
scholarly , he is forced to put footnotes. so you can clearly see
that his deir yassin account is based on nothing.

the deir yassin massacre never took place as the propagandists
tell it , any more than the sabra and shatila massacres. do you get
the feeling people like to blame the jews for massacres , even if
they have to make them up \? it must sound spicy. even some jews
like to do it , for reasons of their own.

please , do n't confuse any of you deir yassin massacre stuff
with facts or scholarship. you should stick to begin 's version
unless you find something serious to contradict it.

vic

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject 'sdpa' has made armenian synonymous with idiot or criminal nazi .
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 208

in article 1993apr19.000246.11186@urartu.sdpa.org hla@urartu.sdpa.org writes

in your (and mutlu argic cosar 's and thousands of others like you)

'sdpa.org' criminals nazis in action. your fascist government got away with
the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men , women and children and is enjoying
the fruits of that genocide. and your criminal organization will not get away
with the genocide 's cover up. in june 1915 , a major uprising took place in
sebinkarahisar under the leadership of the famous nazi boyadjian. the moslem
districts were burnt down. hundreds of soldiers and gendarmerie were killed
and hundreds of civilians also perished.

armenians first of all occupied the talori region , which included
the villages of siner , simai , gulli guzat , ahi , hedenk , sinank ,
ekind , effard , musson , etek , akcesser. leaving their wives ,
children and property in these inaccessible spots , the armenians
joined forces with other armed bands coming from the silvan
districts in the plain of mus , after which the whole body of
3000 men gathered in the andok mt. five or six hundred wished
to surround mus , and started off by attacking the delican tribe to
the south of the city. they slaughtered a number of the tribe and
seized their goods. the religious beliefs of the muslims who fell
into their hands were derided and disparaged , and the muslims
themselves murdered in the most frightful manner. the rebels
also attacked the regular troops in the vicinity of mus , but the
large numbers of the regular forces prevented them from
occupying the city.

the rebels joined the bandits in the andok mts. , carrying out
the most frightful massacres and looting among the tribes of the
neighbourhood. they burned omer agha 's nephew alive. they
raped a number of turkish women at a spot three or four hours'
distance from gulli guzat and then strangled them.

at the beginning of august the rebels attacked the faninar ,
bekiran and badikan tribes , perpetrating equally horrible
atrocities. the rebels in the villages of yermut and ealigernuk in
the nahiye of cinan in the kaza of cal attacked the kurds in the
neighbourhood , as well as the villages of kaisser and catcat.

towards the end of august , the armenians attacked the
kurds in the vicinity of mus and burned down three or four
villages , including gulli guzat. as for the 3000 rebels in talori ,
they continued to spread death and destruction among the
muslims and other christian communities , refusing to lay down
their arms.

source uras , esat the armenians in history. documentary publications
(istanbul) , 1988.

p. 954.

in his speech given at the sivas congress , mustafa kemal once again drew
a picture of the country under occupation

in the east , the armenians are making preparations for advancing to the
river halys (kizilirmak) , and have already started a policy of massacring
the moslem population.


pp. 966 967.

the situation of the southern provinces of turkey after the signing of the
mudros armistice is described by ataturk in his speech

the armenians in the south , armed by foreign troops and encouraged by the
protection they enjoyed , molested the mohammedans of their district. they
pursued a relentless policy of murder and extinction everywhere. this was
responsible for the tragic incident at maras....the armenians had completely
destroyed an old mohammedan town like maras by their artillery and
machine gun fire.

they killed thousands of innocent and defenceless women and children. the
armenians were the instigators of the atrocities , which were unique in
history.


source documents volume i (1919).
document no 15 , archive no 1 2 , cabin no 113 , drawer
no 3 , file no 520 , section no 2024 , contents no 11 1 11 3.
(19 feb 330 '4 march 1915' , district governor kemal)

list of male inhabitants of mergehu village murdered or annihilated
with the utmost savagery by armenians

names method of annihilation

haci ibrahim , son of abdi bullets and bayonet
abdi , son of haci ibrahim bullets and bayonet
reso , son of abdi beaten and cut into pieces
sado , son of omer beaten and cut into pieces
aso , son of reso beaten and cut into pieces
kulu , son of canko stabbed in the eye with a bayonet
musa , son of canko bayonet in his eye
emin , son of molla hamit bayonet in his eye
molla abdullah , son of hamit bayonet in his eye
ibo , son of haci bayonet in his eye
sado , son of haci bayonet in his eye
abdullah , son of canko slaughtered
ibo , son of ahmet abdomen ripped open
ismail , son of ibo burnt in fire
musto , son of ozu bullets
mahmut , son of seyyo slaughtered
kocak , son of birro bullets
musto , son of husnu bullets
uso , son of alo bullets
maksut , son of peri bullets
haci , son of peri bullets
mehmet , son of hasanali bayonet
ibo , son of hasanali bayonet
abdo , son of mehmed bayonet
molla suleyman burnt in oven
mazgi , son of abdullah stabbed in abdomen by bayonet
sulis , son of hasan bullets
mahmo , son of mehmet stabbed with a dagger
murat , son of hasan stabbed with a dagger
uso , son of avci blinded with a bayonet
lesko , son of mehmet stabbed with a dagger
abdullah , son of kasim bullets
coban abdullah bullets
seymo , son of mumin bullets
muammer , son of reso bullets
paso , son of merzi bullets
gulu , son of bitor bullets
murat , son of yusuf bullets and bayonet
cedo , son of haci ibrahim bullets and bayonet
faki mehmet bullets and bayonet
silo , son of abdulcebbar bullets and bayonet


list of massacred females from the same village

kasi , daughter of huso and
wife of haci ibrahim bullets
fati , daughter of isa ,
wife of aduz bullets
zeresan , daughter of amat ,
wife of reso bayonet
gullu , daughter of iyso cutting off her breasts
sulnu , daughter of sulo , ripping open her abdomen and burning
wife of ibo her baby in oven
fatma , daughter of ibo slaughtered and burnt in oven
fidan hatun burnt in oven
gulfizar , daughter of hacihan ,
wife of musto slaughtered
rahime , daughter of mehmet ,
wife of halil bullets
binefs , daughter of haci kerim ,
wife of suleyman burnt in oven
mahiye , daughter of ali ,
wife of sivno slaughtered
hati , daughter of haci ,
wife of ahmet slaughtered
hacer , daughter of meho bullet and bayonet


list of females of the same village raped and murdered

nadire , daughter of haci , wife of suvis
hani , daughter of kulu , wife of zerko
zaliha , daughter of telli , wife of silo
arap , daughter of sami , wife of hilo

wounded males and females of the same village

(a long list)

list of massacred males and females at istuci village

mikail , son of alo bullets
musto , son of ismail bullets
dervis , son of maksut bullets
ali , son of nimet bayonet
esat , son of kelo bayonet and bullets
isa , son of nebi bayonet and bullets
cevher , son of gani beaten by rifle butt
ziro , daughter of hasan died from injuries
hazal , daughter of ali ,
wife of acem died from injuries
hamsa , daughter of huseyin ,
wife of huseyin died from injuries


list of raped women at istuci village in life

sabo , daughter of maho virgin
miri , other daughter of maho virgin
emine , daughter of meho , wife
of sofi salih
sahap , daughter of ali , wife
of nevruz
gullu , daughter of mahi virgin


list of persons attacked by armenian gangs

(a long list)

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from center for policy research cpr@igc.apc.org
subject re rejoinder. questions to israelis
nf id r cdp 1483500352 cdp 1483500353 000 3689
nf from cdp.uucp ! cpr apr 22 17 31 00 1993
lines 83


from center for policy research cpr
subject rejoinder. questions to israelis


dear josh

i appreciate the fact that you sought to answer my questions.

having said that , i am not totally happy with your answers.

1. you did not fully answer my question whether israeli id cards
identify the holders as jews or arabs. you imply that u.s.
citizens must identify themselves by race. is that true \? or are
just trying to mislead the reader \? do you know of any democratic
country where people are asked to reveal their ethnical or
religious identity to any public official who so requests \?

2. the answer to the second question is evasive. there are all
kinds of maps issued. they are not equivalent to state policy.
you did not respond to my question.

3. your answer to the third question (israeli nuclear arsenal) is
interesting. you say that israeli 'probably' stocks nuclear
weapons. what evidence have you for maintaining that \?

4. my fourth question was answered by someone else who posted a
ma'ariv article documenting such cases. i did not ask about cases
like vanunu (everybody knew he was tried and imprisoned) but about
those about whom nobody even knows that they have been tried and
imprisoned.

5. thanks for clarifying the question concerning the legal status
of the inhabitants of the occupied territories. from it i
understand that there are two sets of laws in these ares , one for
the occupier (civil law) and one for the occupied (military law).
the law allows israeli arabs to settle in hebron , it seems. if so ,
why does n't it allow hebron arabs to settle in israel \?

6. your answer to the question concerning rights to return
conflicts with what i was told , namely that hundreds of thousands
of non jews who left for some reason or other the area under
israel control during the war of 1947 8 , were prevented from
returning for the sole reason they were not jews. jews who also
left , for example to europe , to avoid the clashes , were allowed to
return. how can you justify such discrimination , if this is true \?
is the mere fact of a person leaving area of combat to seek refuge
somewhere else a reason for stripping him of his right to live in
his homeland \?

7. somebody answered my 7.question regarding y. rabin signing an
order for ethnical cleansing in 1948. according to that
information , y. rabin signed the order for the expulsion of all
inhabitants of lydda and ramleh , about 50 , 000 people. these
expulsions were helped by massacres of civilians and other
atrocities which remind bosnia. i was referred to a book by
israeli journalist benny goodman called the origin of the
palestinian refugee problem , published by cambridge university
press. is this book available in your library \?

8. you maintain that there are some israeli arabs living in
israeli kibbutzim. i wonder how many and where. there is very
little evidence available about that. as much as i know , many
arabs are working for kibbutzim , even for many years , but are
not accepted as members. could it be that kibbutzim do not want
arabs \?

9. my question about the lack of civil marriage in israel was
whether it is true that the israeli legislator intended to
discourage intermarriage. you did not address this question but
evaded it by saying that the 'entire religious establishment wants
to keep it what way'. i am certain that if only religious
communities in the u.s. would be asked , they would gladly abolish
civil marriage so that people would depend upon rabbis and priests
to officiate marriages. but israel has always been ruled by a
secular majority. your answer is not satisfactory.


i would be glad to have some more input from you after these
comments.

elias


from bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman)
subject re ten questions about israel
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 8
nntp posting host slc8.ins.cwru.edu


why does the center for policy research pose such unbelievably
stupid and loaded questions to this newsgroup. what are you \? a
think tank , or a fish tank \? every time i start to believe i have
seen the outer boundaries of your stupidity , you come up with one
step beyond. when will it end , man \? can you actually have brain
enough to dress and feed yourself each morning \?


from tsif@ellis.uchicago.edu (michael tsifansky)
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 yr old child \?
reply to tsif@midway.uchicago.edu
organization university of chicago
lines 30

in article hm.93apr12204254@dooley.cs.brown.edu hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes

steel@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (nick steel) writes
q how many occupying israeli soldiers (terrorists) does it
take to kill a 5 year old native child \?

a four

two fasten his arms , one shoots in the face ,
and one writes up a false report.



can nick steel provide documentation for this alleged incident \?

probably not he 's just singing someone else 's opera. he 's good , too perhaps he should get the best supporting singer...

i can give you a q a account that is well documented (just go back and reread some of the articles that appeared after this joke )

q how many antisemites does it take to come up with another anti israeli
provocation on the net \?

a just one. he 'll fabricate a lie , and many more will applaud

i would much prefer if mr. steel would refrain from this kind of jokes in the
future. they 're not just offensive. they also have a very negative effect on
the state of things between jews and arabs. so thanks for nothing , clown !

mike.


from iacovou@gurney.cs.umn.edu (neophytos iacovou)
subject re what you should know about the serbian greek connection....
nntp posting host gurney.cs.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 26

in 1993apr13.070905.26124@freenet.carleton.ca aa624@freenet.carleton.ca (suat kiniklioglu) writes

first of all i have to reiterate that your terminology in describing
the events of 1974 are extremely misleading . cyprus is not occupied
by turkish forces it was invited by turkish cypriots and intervened

oh....i see...i did n't realize this...

i think that perhaps you should print flyers on this topic , and your
reasons for thinking the way you do. you should then distribute them
amongst the world 's population. you see , i do n't think there are many
people who are aware of this fact. thank you for telling us the truth.

btw i would start by sending your flyers to each of the un officials.
also , after you have distributed your flyers you might consider
hiding. you see , i think that once more people read what you think
they will have to lock you up in a mental institute and do n't think
they will ever let you out.

it is a strange strange world you live in. i feel sorry for you.



neophytos iacovou
university of minnesota email iacovou@cs.umn.edu
computer science department ... ! rutgers ! umn cs ! iacovou

from hamid@mcrcim.mcgill.edu (hamid reza mohammadi daniali)
subject re clinton 's views on jerusalem
originator hamid@celeborn.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
nntp posting host celeborn.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 23


in article 1993apr16.121356.28417@porthos.cc.bellcore.com , bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin) writes
i recently read that during bill clinton 's campaign , he stated
that if elected he would immediately recognize jerusalem as
israel 's capital. according to the article , mr. clinton
reaffirmed this after winning the presidency. however ,
during recent talks with president mubarak , secretary of
state christopher stated that the status of jerusalem
will be a final matter of discussion between the parties .

now i do n't want to start a big discussion over the status
of jerusalem. all i want to know is if anyone can
authenticate mr. clinton 's statements with dates , places , etc.


this would be one of the results of u.s. backed peace ! ! ! ! ! ! process.

hamid

thank you.

ben.

from tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock)
subject re go hizbollah ii !
nntp posting host orion.oac.uci.edu
organization university of california , irvine
lines 26

in article apr26.175327.86241@yuma.acns.colostate.edu bh437292@lance.colostate.edu writes
in article 1993apr24.202201.1@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu , ifaz706@utxvms.cc.utexas.edu (noam tractinsky) writes
paraphrasing a bit , with every rocket that
the hizbollah fires on the galilee , they justify israel 's
holding to the security zone.

noam



i only want to say that i agree with noam on this point
and i hope that all sides stop targeting civilians.

basil

absolutely. i'm sure that civilians on both sides would be pleased
if the fighters (military , guerilla , whatever) would just take their
argument elsewhere , find an unpopulated area somewhere , and slug it out.
at that point , we will all breath a sigh of relief and cheer for
our side in the struggle.


tim clock ph.d. graduate student
uci tel 714 , 8565361 department of politics and society
fax 714 , 8568441 university of california irvine
home tel 714 , 8563446 irvine , ca 92717

from msilverm@nyx.cs.du.edu (mike silverman)
subject re clinton 's views on jerusalem
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci.
lines 23

bf3833@pyuxe.cc.bellcore.com (feigenbaum , benjamin) writes

i recently read that during bill clinton 's campaign , he stated
that if elected he would immediately recognize jerusalem as
israel 's capital. according to the article , mr. clinton
reaffirmed this after winning the presidency. however ,
during recent talks with president mubarak , secretary of
state christopher stated that the status of jerusalem
will be a final matter of discussion between the parties .

now i do n't want to start a big discussion over the status
of jerusalem. all i want to know is if anyone can
authenticate mr. clinton 's statements with dates , places , etc.

from a recent interview in middle east insight magazine ,
clinton said that he supports moving the us embassy to
jerusalem , but would not do so at this time because it
would interrupt the peace talks.


msilverm@nyx.cs.du.edu go cubs ! ! !

one likes to believe in the freedom of baseball geddy lee

from astein@nysernet.org (alan stein)
subject re legality of the jewish purchase
organization nysernet , inc.
lines 7

while one may question the motives of the arabs who sold land to jews ,
often while publicly criticizing the sale of land to jews , it was the
jews and not the arabs who were taken advantage of , as the prices the
jews paid for barren land was many times the price fertile land was
being sold for in the united states at the same time.

alan h. stein astein@israel.nysernet.org

from bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay)
subject re deir yassin
nntp posting host darch
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny
lines 103

in article 1r94f9 ge3@morrow.stanford.edu as.vxf@forsythe.stanford.edu (vic filler) writes
in article 1993apr19.204243.19392@cs.rit.edu ,
bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay) writes

i have previously posted quotations by irgun participants that
totally destroys begin 's whitewash. i have no particular desire
to post it yet again.

brendan.
(normally bdm@cs.anu.edu.au)

you apparently think you are some sort of one man judge and jury who

so what are you \?

can declare total victory and then sit back and enjoy the
applause. but you 've picked the wrong topic if you think a few
rigged quotations can sustain the legend and lie of the deir
yassin massacre.

i do n't think that , you are just making noise.

you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical methodology.

that 's true. i try to learn from people who know more than me ,
not from useless farts.

at the most basic level , you should know that there is a big
difference between weighing evidence fairly and merely finding
quotations that support your preset opinions.

of course , i have said that more times in this group than
anyone else , i 'd think.

if you have studied the history of israel at all you must know that
many of the sources of your quotations have an axe to grind , and
therefore you must be very careful about whom you quote. for

quite true , that 's why i am so careful in selecting quotes.

example , meir pa'il , whom you cite , was indeed a general , a scholar ,
and a war hero. but that does n't mean everything that comes out of
his mouth is gold. in fact (and here your lack of experience
shows) , pa'il is such a fanatic , embittered leftist that much of his

oh bullshit. fanatic my bum. prove your blah or cork it.

anti israel blathering (forget about anti irgun blathering) would be
considered something like treason in non israel contexts. but of
course you do n't consider this at all when you find a juicy
quotation that you can use to attack israel.

how would you know what i consider \? read my mind \?

benny morris (of hashomer hatzair) represents himself as a scholar
when he rehashes the old attacks on the irgun. do n't be fooled.
it 's just the old zionist ideological catfight , surfacing as an
attack on the (then ) likud government. if you will look closely at
the section on deir yassin in his book on the war of independence ,
you will see his indictment to be pure hot air. and this is the
best he can do after decades of digging for any sort of damning
evidence. unfortunately for him , because his book parades itself as
scholarly , he is forced to put footnotes. so you can clearly see
that his deir yassin account is based on nothing.

i looked very closely at a large number of sources. you have no
idea what you are talking about.

the deir yassin massacre never took place as the propagandists
tell it , any more than the sabra and shatila massacres. do you get

that 's true about the accounts of both irgun and arab propagandists.
like begin , for example.

the feeling people like to blame the jews for massacres , even if

no , i never got that feeling. i got rather opposite feelings
about people like you , though.

they have to make them up \? it must sound spicy. even some jews
like to do it , for reasons of their own.

honesty \? perhaps you would explain the testimony from members
of the irgun , to be found in their own handwriting in the
irgun archives in tel aviv , that the wounded arabs were killed ,
that a group of 80 prisoners was massacred , that lehi proposed
exterminating everybody at the pre raid meeting. exactly what
reasons can you propose that this testimony should be rejected
in favour of begin 's \?

please , do n't confuse any of you deir yassin massacre stuff
with facts or scholarship. you should stick to begin 's version
unless you find something serious to contradict it.

this is very funny. you carried on about unsupported evidence ,
propagandists , axes to grind , and you end up telling us to stick
to the account of the leader of the alleged killers. you are
obviously a hopeless case , as everyone can plainly see.

vic

brendan.


from henrik@quayle.kpc.com
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization none
lines 100

in article mucit.93apr20144400@vein.cs.rochester.edu , mucit@cs.rochester.edu (bulent murtezaoglu) writes
in article 1993apr20.164517.20876@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
stuff deleted

henrik country. turks and azeris consistantly want to drag armenia into the
henrik karabakh conflict with azerbaijan.

bm gimme a break. capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. it
bm seems to me that short sighted armenians are escalating the hostilities

again , armenians in karabakh are simply defending themselves. what do
want them to do. lay down their arms and let azeris walk all over them.

bm while hoping that turkey will stay out. stop and think for a moment ,
bm will you \? armenia does n't need anyone to drag her into the conflict , it
bm is a part of it.

armenians knew from the begining that turks were fully engaged
training azeris militarily to fight against karabakhi armenians.

henrik the karabakhi armenians who have lived in their homeland for 3000
henrik years (cut off from armenia and given to azeris by stalin) are the
henrik ones directly involved in the conflict. they are defending
henrik themselves against azeri aggression.

bm huh \? you did n't expect azeri 's to be friendly to forces fighting with them
bm within their borders \?

well , history is sad. remember , those are relocated azeris into
the armenian land of karabakh by the stalin regime.

henrik at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that turkey stay out of the
henrik karabakh crisis so that the repeat of the cyprus invasion will never
henrik occur again.

bm you 're not playing with a full deck , are you \? where would turkey invade \?

it is not up to me to speculate but i am sure turkey would have stepped
into armenia if she could.

bm are you throwing the cyprus buzzword around with s.c.g. in the header
bm in hopes that the greek netters will jump the gun \?

absolutely not ! i am merely trying to emphasize that in many
cases , history repeats itself.

bm yes indeed turkey has the military prowess to intervene , what she wishes
bm she had , however , is the diplomatic power to stop the hostilities and bring
bm the parties to the negotiating table. that 's hard to do when armenians
bm are attacking azeri towns.

so , let me understand in plain words what you are saying turkey
wants a peaceful end to this conflict. not ! !

i will believe it when i see it.

now , as far as attacking , what do you do when you see a gun pointing
to your head \? do you sit there and watch or defend yoursef(fat chance) \?
do you remember what azeris did to the armenians in baku \? all the
barberian acts especially against mothers and their children. i mean
burning people alive !

bm armenian leaders are lacking the statesmanship to recognize the
bm futility of armed conflict and convince their nation that a compromise that
bm leads to stability is much better than a military faits accomplis that 's
bm going to cause incessant skirmishes.

armenians in karabakh want peace and their own republic. they are
not asking much. they simply want to get back what was taken away
from them and given to azeris by stalin.

bm think of 10 or 20 years down the line both of the newly independent
bm countries need to develop economically and neither one is going to wipe
bm the other out. these people will be neighbors , would it not be better
bm to keep the bad blood between them minimal \?

do n't get me wrong. i also want peaceful solution to the
conflict. but until azeris realize that , the armenians in
karabakh will defend themselves against aggresion.

bm if you belong to the armenian diaspora , keep in mind that what strikes
bm your fancy on the map is costing the local armenians dearly in terms of
bm their blood and future.

again , you are taking different turns. armenia has no intension
to grab any land from azerbaijan. the armenians in karabakh
are simply defending themselves until a solution is set.

bm it 's easy to be comfortable abroad and propagandize
bm craziness to have your feelings about turks tickled. the armenians
bm in armenia and n k will be there , with the same people you seem to hate
bm as their neighbors , for maybe 3000 years more. the sooner there 's peace in
bm the region the better it is for them and everyone else. i 'd push for
bm compromise if i were you instead of hitting the caps lock and spreading
bm inflammatory half truths.

it is not up to me to decide the peace initiative. i am absolutely
for it. but , in the meantime , if you do not take care of yourself ,
you will be wiped out. such as the case in the era of 1915 20 of
the armenian massacres.

from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 19
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

in article c5ut1s.3xa@bony1.bony.com jake@bony1.bony.com (jake livni) writes
through private contributions on federal land . your hate mongering
article is devoid of current and historical fact , intellectual content
and social value. down the toilet it goes.....


and we all know what an unbiased source the nyt is when it comes to things
concerning israel.

neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to
recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax exmpt. in
otherwords , american taxpayers put up at least 30 of the money. and
finalyy , how does federal land mitigate the offensiveness of this alien
monument dedicated to perpetuating pitty and the continual flow of tax money
to a foreign entity \?

that federal land and tax money could have been used to commerate
americans or better yet , to house homeless americans.


from iacovou@thufir.cs.umn.edu (neophytos iacovou)
subject re if you feed armenians dirt you will bite dust !
nntp posting host thufir.cs.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 34

in 1993apr5.194120.7010@urartu.sdpa.org dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes

david davidian says turkish officials came to armenia last september and
armenia given assurances the armenian nuclear plant would stay shut. turkey
promised armenia electricity , and in the middle of december 1992 , turkey said
sorry we were only joking. armenia froze this past winter 30 , 000 armenians
lost their lives. turkey claims it allowed humanitarian aid to enter armenia
through its border with turkey. what did turkey do , it replaced the high
quality grain from europe with crap from turkey , mixed in dirt , and let that
garbage through to armenia 30 , 000 armenians lost their lives !

this is the latest from upi

foreign ministry spokesman ferhat ataman told journalists turkey was
closing its air space to all flights to and from armenia and would
prevent humanitarian aid from reaching the republic overland across
turkish territory.


historically even the most uncivilized of peoples have exhibited
signs of compassion by allowing humanitarian aid to reach civilian
populations. even the nazis did this much.

it seems as though from now on turkey will publicly pronounce
themselves 'hypocrites' should they choose to continue their
condemnation of the serbians.





neophytos iacovou
university of minnesota email iacovou@cs.umn.edu
computer science department ... ! rutgers ! umn cs ! iacovou

from arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling)
subject re the u.s. holocaust memorial museum a costly and dangerous mistake
organization mcsnet contributor , chicago , il
lines 26
nntp posting host localhost.mcs.com

in article c5wpad.74k@specialix.com jim@specialix.com (jim maurer) writes
arf@genesis.mcs.com (jack schmidling) writes



recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax exmpt. in

the donations are tax deductible like any donations to a non profit
organization. i 've donated money to a group restoring streetcars
and it was tax deductible. why do n't you contribute to a group
helping the homeless if you so concerned \?

i do (did) contribute to the arf mortgage fund but when interest
rates plumetted , i just paid it off.

the problem is , i could n't convince congress to move my home to
a nicer location on federal land.

btw , even though the building is alleged to be funded by tax exempt
private funds , the maintainence and operating costs will be borne by
taxpayers forever.

would anyone like to guess how much that will come to and tell us why
this point is never mentioned \?

js

from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re xsoviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 174

in article 2bd220b1.22816@news.service.uci.edu tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes

i sure hope so. because , the unspeakable crimes of the armenians must
be righted. armenian invaders burned and sacked the fatherland of

no ! no ! no no no no no. it is not justifiable to right wrongs of
previous years.

well , there is a bit such as the german reparations to the jewish
survivors of the holocaust. certainly , as such an event goes further
into the past , reparations become less realistic.

i was convinced that no one could have a more warped sense of the
world. they were 'our' grandparents who were cold bloodedly exterminated
by the armenians between 1914 and 1920 , not yours. and you can always
participate in 'the turkish genocide day' along with millions of turkish
and kurdish people on april 23 , 1993 in the united states and canada.

...on this occasion , we once again reiterate the unquestioned
justice of the restitution of turkish and kurdish rights and...

we demand that the x soviet armenian government admit its
responsibility for the turkish and kurdish genocide , render
reparations to the muslim people , and return the land to its
rightful owners. the recognition of the genocide has become an
issue which cannot be delayed further , and it is imperative that
artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed.

we believe the time has come to demand from the the united states
that it formally recognizes the turkish and kurdish genocide , adopts
the principles of our demands and refuses to accede to armenian pressures
to the contrary.

as taxpayers of the united states , we express our vehement
protest to the present u.s. government policy of continued
coddling , protection and unqualified assistance towards x soviet
armenia.

we also demand that the united states return to the policies
advocated by u.s. ambassador bristol and other enlightened statesmen ,
who have undertaken a just , human and benevolent attitude towards
the rights of the muslim people and the just resolution of their case.

our territorial demands are strictly aimed at x soviet armenia 's.


and in article 2bac262d.25249@news.service.uci.edu , you have blatantly
lied

the goltz article was not published in the sunday times magazine
on march 1 , 1992 , but in the guardian sunday section.

well , still anxiously awaiting...

cis commander pulls troops out of karabagh

elif kaban , a reuter correspondent in agdam , reported that after a battle
on wednesday , azeris were burying scores of people who died when armenians
overran the town of khojaly , the second biggest azeri settlement in the
area. 'the world is turning its back on what 's happening here. we are dying
and you are just watching , ' one mourner shouted at a group of journalists.
helen womack
the independent , 2 29 92

armenian soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families

the attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending the
women and children. they then turned their guns on the terrified refugees.
the few survivors later described what happened 'that 's when the real
slaughter began , ' said azer hajiev , one of the three soldiers to survive.
'the armenians just shot and shot. and they came in and started carving
up people with their bayonets and knives.' a 45 year old man who had been
shot in the back said ' we were walking through the brush. then they opened
up on us and people were falling all around. my wife fell , then my child.
thomas goltz
sunday times , 3 1 92

armenian raid leaves azeris dead or fleeing

...about 1 , 000 of khojaly 's 10 , 000 people were killed in tuesdays attack.
azerbaijani television showed truckloads of corpses being evacuated from
the khocaly area.
brian killen (reuters)
the washington times , 3 2 92

atrocity reports horrify azerbaijan

azeri officials who returned from the seen to this town about nine miles
away brought back three dead children , the backs of their heads blown off...
'women and children had been scalped , ' said assad faradzev , an aide to
karabagh 's azeri governor. azeri television showed pictures of one
truckload of bodies brought to the azeri town of agdam , some with their
faces apparently scratched with knives or their eyes gouged out.
brian killen (reuters)
the washington times , 3 3 92

massacre by armenians being reported

the republic of armenia reiterated denials that its militants had
killed 1 , 000 azeris ... but dozens of bodies scattered over the
area lent credence to azerbaijani reports of a massacre.
(reuters)
the new york times , 3 3 92

killings rife in nagorno karabagh , moldova

journalists in the area reported seeing dozens of corpses , including some
of the civilians , and azerbaijani officials said armenians began shooting
at them when they sought to recover the bodies.
fred hiatt
the washington post , 3 3 92

bodies mark site of karabagh massacre

a local truce was enforced to allow the azerbaijanis to collect their dead
and any refugees still hiding in the hills and forest. all are the bodies
of ordinary people , dressed in the poor , ugly clorhing of workers. of the 31
we saw only one policeman and two apparent national volunteers were wearing
uniform. all the rest were civilians , including eight women and three small
children. two groups , apparently families , had fallen together , the children
cradled in the women 's arms. several of them , including one small girl , had
terrible head injuries only her face was left. survivors have told how they
saw armenians shooting them point blank as they lay on the ground.
anatol lieven
the times (london) , 3 3 92

karabagh survivors flee to mountains

geyush gassanov , the deputy mayor of khocaly , said that armenian troops
surrounded the town after 7 pm on tuesday. they were accompanied by six
or seven light tanks and armoured carriers. 'we thought they would just
bombard the village , as they had in the past , and then retreat. but they
attacked , and our defence force could n't do anything against their tanks.'
other survivors described how they had been fired on repeatedly on their
way through the mountains to safety. 'for two days we crawled most of the
way to avoid gunfire , ' sukru aslanov said. his daughter was killed in the
battle for khodjaly , and his brother and son died on the road.
anatol lieven
the times (london) , 3 3 92

corpses litter hills in karabagh

as we swooped low over the snow covered hills of nagorno karabagh we saw
the scattered corpses. apparently , the refugees had been shot down as
they ran...suddenly there was a thump... our azerbaijani helicopter had
been fired on from an armenian anti aircraft post...
anatol lieven
the times (london) , 3 4 92

police in western azerbaijan said they had recovered the bodies of
120 azerbaijanis killed as they fled an armenian assault in the
disputed enclave of nagorno karabagh and said they were blocked from
recovering more bodies.
the wall street journal , 3 4 92

exiting troops attacked in nagorno karabagh

withdrawal halted armenians blamed...
more video footage and reports from khocaly paint a grim picture of
widespread civilian deaths and mutilation...
one woman 's feet appeared to have been bound...
paul quinn judge
the boston globe , 3 4 92

serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from b8ha b8ha@musicb.mcgill.ca
subject re jews islam dr. frankenstien
lines 99
nntp posting host vm1.mcgill.ca
organization mcgill university

some of your article was cut off on the right margin , but i will try
and answer from what i can read.

in article c5ssqe.dps@odin.corp.sgi.com kaveh@gate koi.corp.sgi.com (kaveh smith ) writes
i have found jewish people very imagentative and creative. jewish religion was the foundation for christianity and
islam. in other words judaism has fathered both religions. now islam has turned against its father i may say.
it is ironic that after communizem threat is almost gone , religion wars are going to be on the raise.
i thought the idea of believing on one god , was to unite all man kind. how come both jews and islam which believe
on the same god , the god of ebrahim are killing each other \? is this like dr. frankenstien 's story \?
how are you going to stop this from happening \? how are you going to deal with so many muslims. nuking them
would distroy the whole world \? would god get mad , since you have killed his followers , you believe on the same
god , same heaven and the same hell after all \? what is the peacefull way of ending this saga \?

judaism did not father islam. we had many of the same prophets , but
judaism ignores prophets later prophets including jesus christ (who
christians and muslims believe in) and mohammed. the idea of believing
in one god should unite all peoples. however , note that christianity
and islam reflect the fact that there are people with different views
and the rights of non christians and non muslims are stated in each
religion.


man kind needs religion , since it sets up the rules and the regulations which keeps the society in a healthy state.
a religion is mostly a sets of rules which people have experienced and know it works for the society.
the praying , keeps the sole healthy and meditates it. god does not care for man kinds pray , but man kind hopes
that god will help him when he prays.
religion works mostly on the moral issues and trys to put away the materialistic things in the life. but the
religious leaders need to make a living through religion \? so they may corrupt it , or turn it to their own way to
make their living. i.e muslims have to pay 20 percent of their income to the mullahs. i guess the rabie gets his
cut too !

we are supposed to pay 6 of our income after all necessities are
paid. please note that this 6 is on a personal basis if you are
poor , there is no need to pay (quite the contrary , this money most
often goes to the poor in each in country and to the poor muslims
around the world). also , this money is not required in the human
sense (i.e. a muslim never knocks at your door to ask for money
and nobody makes a list at the mosque to make sure you have paid
(and we surely do n't pass money baskets around during our prayer
services)).

is in it that religion should be such that everybody on planet earth respects each other , be good toward each other
helps one another , respect the mother nature. is in that heaven and hell are created on earth through the acts
that we take today \? is in it that within every man there is good and bad , he could choose either one , then he will
see the outcome of his choice. how can we prevent man kind from going crazy over religion. how can we stop
another religious killing field , under poor gods name \? what are your thoughts \? do you think man kind would
to come its senses , before it is too late \?


p.s. on the side

do you think that moses saw the god on mount sina \? why would god go to top of the mountain \? he created
the earth , he could have been anywhere \? why on top the mountain \? was it because people thought to see god
you have to reach to the skies heavens \? why god kept coming back to middle east \? was it because they created
god through their imagination \? is that why jewish people were told by god , they were the chosen ones \?

god 's presence is certainly on earth , but since god is everywhere ,
god may show signs of existence in other places as well. we can not
say for sure where god has shown signs of his existence and where
he has not .

profit mohammad was married to khadijeh. she was a jewish. she taught him how to trade. she probably taught
him about judaism. quran is mostly copy right of taurah (sp \? old testement). do you think god wrote quran \?
makeh was a trade city before islam. do you think it was made to be the center of islamic world because mohammad
wanted to expand his trade business \? is that why god has put his house in there \?

the qur'an is not a copyright of the taurah. muslims believe that
the taurah , the bible , and the qur'an originally contained much the same
message , thus the many similiarities. however , the taurah and the
bible have been 'translated' into other languages which has changed
their meaning over time (a translation also reflects some of the
personal views of the translator(s). the qur'an still exists in the
same language that it was revealed in arabic. therefore , we know
that mankind has not changed its meaning. it is truly what was revealed
to mohammed at that time. there are many scientific facts which
were not discovered by traditional scientific methods until much later
such as the development of the baby in the mother 's womb.


i think this religious stuff has gone too far. all man kind are going to hurt from it if they do not wise up.
look at david koresh , how that turned out \? i am afraid in the bigger scale , the jews and the muslims will
have the same ending ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

only god knows for sure how it will turn out. i hope it wo n't , but if
that happens , it was the will of god.

religion is needed in the sense to keep people in harmony and keep them doing good things , rather than
plotting each others distruction. there is one earth , one life and one god. let 's all man kind be good toward
each other.

god help us all.
peace
.
.
please send this mail to me again so i can read the rest of what
you said. and yes , may god help us all.

steve


from oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin)
subject re armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 28

in article 1993apr20.214322.8698@kpc.com henrik@quayle.kpc.com writes
in article 1993apr20.131336@iastate.edu , oyalcin@iastate.edu (onur yalcin) writes
oy ... deleted ...
oy
oy if you are really interested , i can provide you with a number of references
oy on the issue. just send me email for that.

you think i am that stupid to ask you for references ! not !
i have many greek friends that i could ask for the info if i
needed. i have already read many articles and do not need
your help. boy , how generous ! !


there is a very narrow margin of stupidity between accepting my references and
those of the greeks , and you just said you 'd rather do the latter ! that 's fine
with me. i was sincere in my offer , but this saves me the effort. it does n't
take a half brained man to go to any library and check out a bunch of sources
of decent objectivity. just ask a good friend for help. ! )


stay on these roads ,

onur yalcin

onur yalcin
oyalcin@iastate.edu

un punto in piu`

from ebrahim@ee.umanitoba.ca (mohamad ebrahimi)
subject pbs frontline iran and the bomb
nntp posting host ic17.ee.umanitoba.ca
organization elect comp engineering , u of manitoba , winnipeg , manitoba , canada
lines 75


i would like to share with netters a few points i picked up from the pbs
frontline program regarding iran 's nuclear activities , aired on tuesday
april 13. for the sake of brevity , i 'll present them in some separate
points.

1 as many other western programs , this program was laid on a bed of
misinformation throughout the program , to maximize the effect of the
program on the viewer. some of the misinformations were as follows

it was alleged that late imam khomeini objected to shah 's technological
advancements as anti islamic , but now things have changed and the proof of
change is that some iranian merchants are now selling personal computers. !
these are the most ridiculous lies , one can make about the objectives
of the islamic revolution in toppling the shah and state of the technology
in iran after revolution.

iran was equally accused of using chemical weapons against iraqi aggressors
while there has never been any proof in this regard , and nobody has seen
iraqi soldiers or civilians injured by iranian chemical weapons , in
contrary to what the whole world has seen about iranian soldiers and
civilians , injured by iraqi chemical weapons.

while the number of martyrs during the sacred defense against iraqi
aggression has been officially announced to be about 117 , 000 and even most
radical counter revolutionary groups claim that iran and iraq had a total
of one million dead , this program claims that iran alone has one million
dead left from the war.

the translation of iranian officials' talks are not 100 true. for
example when iranian head of atomic energy says that it hurts me to
see that iran is the subject of these unfriendly propaganda. the
translator says it hurts to see that iran is doing unfriendly
research. !

2 almost all alleged devices or material bought or planned to be bought
by iranians were of countless dual usage , while the program tries to
undermine their non military uses , without any reference to iran 's
big population and its inevitable need to other sources of energy in
near future and its current deficit in electrical power.

3 the whole program is trying to show the sharif university of
technology as a nuclear research center , while even the cameramen of the
program know well that in a country like iran without a so tightly closed
society no one can make a nuclear bomb in a university ! taking in account
the scientific advancement of sharif u. in engineering fields and its
potential role in improvement of iran 's industries and eventually the
lives of people , it is obvious that they are persuading other countries
to prevent them from further helping this university or other ones
in scientific and industrial efforts.

4 a key point in program 's justifications is trying to disvalidate as
much as possible all efforts done by iaea in their numerous visits from
iran 's different sites. they say we are not sure if the places visited
by iaea are the real ones or not ! , or we can not rely on iaea 's
reports and observation , because they failed to see iraq 's nuclear
activities before as if they did n't know that iraq was trying to build
nuclear weapons !

5 as an extremely personal opinion , the most disgusting aspect of the
program was the arrogance of the member of us senate foreign affairs ,
william triplet , in his way of talking , as if he was the god talking
from the absolute knowledge !

i hope all iranians be aware of the gradual buildup against their
country in western media , and i hope iranian authorities continue to
their wise and calculated approach with regard to international affairs
and peaceful coexistence with friendly nations.


mohammad


international atomic energy agency


from pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
subject re argic
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
reply to pgf5@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (peter garfiel freeman)
organization columbia university
lines 13

in article dj80734@pro angmar.alfalfa.com cosmo@pro angmar.alfalfa.com (frank benson) writes
you definetly are in need of a shrink , loser !


hey cheesedicks , stop sending messages to a guy who 's not going to
read them. and who cares anyway \?








from sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
subject re armenians will not get away with the genocide of azeri people.
reply to sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
distribution world
lines 47

in article c5yxle.4ov@cbfsb.cb.att.com enis@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (enis.surensoy) writes

from article 9304202021@zuma.uucp , by sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic)
armenians will not get away with the genocide of 204 , 000 azeri people.

on the contrary , armenians will get away with the genocide of
204 , 000 azeri people.

armenians already got away with raping , torturing , and massacering
millions of innocent moslem peoples of eastern anatolia.

not this time , enis. furthermore , a new generation has risen equipped
with a deep sense of commitment , politically mature and conscious , who
determinedly pursue the turkish cause , through all necessary means ,
ranging from the political and diplomatic to the armed struggle. in
other words , what we have is a demand from the fascist government of
x soviet armenia to redress the wrongs that were done against our
people.


the crime of systematic cleansing by mass killing and extermination
of the muslim population in the soviet republic of armenia , karabag ,
bosnia and herzegovina is an 'islamic holocaust' comparable to the
extermination of 2.5 million muslims by the armenian government
during the wwi and of over 6 million european jews during the wwii.
(tovfik kasimov azeri leader september 25 , 1992)


today 's ethnic cleansing policies by the serbian dictatorship against
croatians and muslims of yugoslavia , as well as the soviet republic
of armenia 's against the muslim population of neighboring azerbaijan ,
are really no different in their aspirations than the genocide
perpetrated by the armenian government 78 years ago against the
turkish and kurdish muslims and sephardic jews living in these
lands. (cebbar leygara kurdish leader october 13 , 1992)


serdar argic

'we closed the roads and mountain passes that
might serve as ways of escape for the turks
and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
(ohanus appressian 1919)
'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists
a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian 1920)



from nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson)
subject re remember those names come election time.
nntp posting host c.ch.apollo.hp.com
organization hewlett packard corporation , chelmsford , ma
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government
lines 39

in article c5ztet.dwz.1@cs.cmu.edu anwar @cs.cmu.edu (anwar mohammed) writes
in article c5u4qi.mz4@apollo.hp.com nelson p@apollo.hp.com (peter nelson) writes

btw , with bosnia 's large moslem population , why have nations like
turkey , saudi arabia , syria , egypt , and others with either money
or strong military forces not spoken out more forcibly or offered
to help out bosnia \?

obviously , you really do n't know.

they have spoken out (cf sec'y of state christopher 's recent trip to the me) ,

note the clause more forcibly , above. my point is that they have
made a few pro forma , perfunctory remarks , and sent in a few c 130 's and
so forth , but it 's clearly not something they 're losing much sleep over.
they 're just going through the motions , while moslems are being ethnically
cleansed out of what used to be yugoslavia. the us has been speaking
out far more loudly than the moslem nations in the un and other world
forums.


besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , liberia , angola , or
(it appears with the khmer rouge 's new campaign) cambodia. non whites
do n't count \?

hmm...some might say kuwaitis are non white. ooops , i forgot , kuwaitis are
oil rich , loaded with petro dollars , etc so they do n't count.

precisely. humanitarian concerns were not the primary justification
for us involvement in the gulf oil and geopolitics were. if the
the kuwaitis did n't have oil (and assuming iraq still saw fit to
invade them) i doubt you would have seen operation desert storm.


peter
